Refhtide eden ae
Tae

Pose
i.
ba

anys
ms

A

| ANNUAL REPORT
BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
_ OF THE INSTITUTION

—

FOR THE Ga
ie

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

Ey dt ee Ee

OF THE

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

a

AS SO)

Nig ys

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE,
13892.
FIFTY-SECOND CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION.

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That there be printed
of the reports of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum for the year
ending June 30, 1891, in two octavo volumes, 10,000 extra copies; of which 1,000 copies
shall be for the use of the Senate, 2,000 copies for the use of the House of Represent-
atives, 5,000 copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution, and 2,000 copies for the
use of the National Museum.

II
REPORT

OF THE

Geo NATIONAL MUSHUM,

UNDER THE DIRECTION OF

THE SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION,

FOR THE

WEAR BENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

REPORT OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

SUBJECTS.

I. Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
in charge of the National Museum, upon the condition and
progress of the Museum.

Il. Reports of the Curators.
III. Papers illustrative of the collections in the U.S. National Museum.
IV. Bibliography.

V. List of accessions.
U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM,
UNDER DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 1, 1891.
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the U.S. National Museum and upon the work accom.
plished in its various departments during the fiscal year ending June
30, 1891.

Very respectfully,
G. BROWN GOODE,

estat Secretary, in charge of U. S. National Meceui

Mr. 8S. P. LANGLEY,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
vil
CONT tans:

Page
RS IE Cu eae ees se ters ieee tt ea MM ne RR Vs nt Sp he Ss emg Vv
AK ie eMiP me OusRANG MICE TAM tetra ne iaye eel cle ayia Sa ee Re AO See 20m ed eae VII
(GOINFEEIN IS Bere ap Seta era came A «ins ne See ie Ronee reer oa Me Se Ne wee, hte Ix
NTS TO Ree Te OS RFCAUET ONS ators ete: erehslae ears, xt oveter al oiere rnc ten Sau s ie ws Saba vaya xe, 2 weepet ant Se XIII

SECTION I.—REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY IN CHARGE OF THE NATIONAL

MUSEUM.

AL GenendlCOMsid Caton Seana ees isiice= saat 5 Sane ee alae etpaeiniata reer ate 3
ibe _-Orcanizavlonandiscopelor une MiIseuiMp eee 26s 25 ese ee le ee eee aes ae 0
Pincip AesouncesroO Labbe collections! ==a sss sana ae eee eae 8
Cr SPEClaletoples:Olsthesyeal ence c Secce = cotisicn ep cewews - eosin eee eta ce cine 9
Increase in the collections during the decade 1881-1891 ....-.----.-.-- 9
increasenmrcley Mus ume lb rar ygeras ear roe sere ae Seta cert raere 9
Imcreaseduedition of Museum rep Obs) se. ses ace ei ee eee 9
Wi SIOTS Es or, toe oe ecient wee aeiee selva ls sos wes Ha H es pisieme seen ease 9
Musenmeap propriahions tor 1 Sol 92) soe cece on ss soe eae 9
RroposcdeadditionaleMiise unas puoi dimig se =e eee eee ee 10
Castiotestatnie, of Iolbertya. oc.o2 s.aece sci s-o aee le ee hacia cise See anaes 10
PREG aeUCETe Mem OUM ( -aa mae tee. o2 2 n= Sates an oe ee es eee 10
MhenCaproncollectionpeces. = sae aeee e ane eae ala ere mt eee ee 10
Types of the Owen collection of fossils. ...-.-...-.-----..----.-.-..- 11
Meetings of associations in Washington during the year. -.-.---.------- 11

Participation of the Smithsonian Institution in the World’s Colum-
bianpE position: <5.5-.25¢gssh~c.6-ks.- eee ea ere eae 12
Ratenticentenmialycele brablonis.= = see set Se ele = eee i= a 13
Boardions 2cocrap hic MamMese sas |e ei tate © eigeicten ea oie tea) 13
WIGWRONGGAY 3280 cooaboccoopees doce cass eset on berets Seenue tanahesecasece 14
i whercondim On of thercollections) a= eee cet a see oe eta oo yar aes = 4
@ensustotathercollectionse en —sece eee ase acer aie ie icles 15-17
anal omer enubles. Mo meee ae toca ohne ee ose hem Serie. See ee 18
Development and arrangement of the exhibition series -...---------- 19
TE — Tilt Wineetinn RUBUD Sos. sees Seek chee seh tbo gecn se senueeuo ado ceo aan enosec 20
SNReISClEMiMNC saline sem semets ocean ces aoa es ees Sais erates ee 20
List of curators, assistant curators, and aids ........--..---.-------- 21
Tie CIGTTIMAMNSNGYEUENIT Goes cans cone eoceeapeeere ueeo esos doaecdsuceene 21
List of the officers and employés of the National Museum, June 30, 1891. 22
F.—Review of work in the scientific departments --------------------------- 25
Divasionvofeamthnopology os...) se === se oe oi | a = ani aim 25
ivasion Gla7O0logy- 2--- see =e = / = aici isg @ A <2 miei ee ee 28
Dingsiomot patanygee i soos] ss- so 52-242 ens eee ees see 38.
Diyisiom Of pealory 2. 5.--22- 55-2 2222 ~~ 4 - +2 52-2 225 0 eee an ae 34
x CONTENTS

Page.

G—Rheview. of the administrative; work ; 2.0.5.4. -5- os.-2 22 see ee eee 35

Repistrationvand storage. 22 22. <- ve actos sa eees Sasa ore 35
Geographical statement of the distribution of specimens during the

NCE Bee ea eee ee enn Se Mee oe Gon GShomUp eos basccos 35

PN GARY oo Sat ao cio eee See Cee ee 42
Specimens sent to the Museum for examination and report during the

WCE) Capac teers Ao eiC SoCs Ones Soa e epee Or oamert Ome sda oksaSc Ss 43

Horelonvexchan'tesiaiss 22 sass < ssc see aoe oe Oe eee eee aCe ener 55

Jeol DY DICE ko) 1 eee Seer ton Sods ocer Goodies SeanCosuesoa Sec 59

WAISIEORS® J sit S20 eo aa Saye ee a re ate ee 64

Mecturesiand meeving sok SOCleulesie-) essen se oe eee oe eee eee 65

Students \..2. «22. ee-cs pease em ones eee ee eee cone eee eee 66
Special researches by curators and others (including list of papers

published in the reports of the Museum, 1884-1890, inclusive)... -.- 67

inance; property, supplies) and accounts: --s2 2252. ee eee aoe eee 68

CWorrespondencevand reports: a= sees- ee eee See eee eee eee ee 73

Preparation; ofdabelss maces ge ee eae Ne ee ee este 75

Buildings and labor: Police and public comfort ...-..........-.-..--- 75

The workof the: Museum preparators :--2%-. 2/225 <=... ee 76

Raxidlermists 2203 220. ies ke Oe ee ee 76

Osteolovical preparaton ees sos he ene ate eee eee eee ae

Photoprapnenein 85s 25 soso cee tet aoe eree ia: Gee ae ee ae

WD rattSMenys sec sce felch. ate eae eit eee are ents eee 78

WOLOTISU Se oo toes aaoek se iatoe steele Se eee Cee Eee ee eae eee ee 78

FRAC COSBIONIAR ete fa aes ot Sige ee Sina ates Stare eit ae Oe Eee ee eee eee 79

Statement of the most important contributions of the year...--..._-- 79
Geographical review of the more important accessions during the

VOUMi oss siec.cis eae ee Sem ote esas one eee aie NACE eee nee Sree ees 82

Number of accessions annually since 1881.......-.-..:--.-.-.-------- 105
I.—Codperation of the Departments and Bureaus of the Government during

phe earl SOW. 322.2 tie 2). coe eels ce See patio ae ee eee ae 105

Department of State 2232. ..452- ae eis see ee ree aie eee ee ee eee 106

Ereasury (Department. 7/2 ets, acces ke Sete Same fo. ces ete eee 107

Wiar Deparntmentrandéthe: Awmiyes see ssm es eee eee ae eee 107

Navy Departmentiand> the Navy. .22 2-0. 2-2 <a oe eee 109

Departmentiof the Wntertor. 2 cst oe sareee eo ieee oe ee eee eee 110

DepartmentiotAericulittune sss -eeee see eee eee ae pea eee 1i4

United tStatessish Commission sssesere= sees sees eee eee eee 116

Bureaw of WuhmolO py cress cc sc tere Ase ietoeaterote sean) a ee 117
J.—Review of the results of the codperation of the Government Departments

and Bureaus during the decade ending June 30, 1891 ._...........-.-..- ALG

Keb x plorations:c. <2 eee ena eae eee ees Sauce. tks Hee ee 127

Collectors’ -outhits 22 sac cnc.c2 cisccin a civies cpaaloeeie sin cot) oo clos ee eee 130

SECTION IJ.—REPORTS OF THE CURATORS.

BIG HIVOLOP i= 2 chains - "sl ac aoc Sas Zckme seen coon Cees Me aene ee eh ee ceria eee 135

AMenean aboriginal pottery, <.-- ose soe aese peacoat ener ae lace eee 145

Orientaltantiquities’s=. 2:.5..632% 5 he ees nee eee EEE ae eee eee 147

Historical) collections: -2. 2c. $2.5 see. coe coe ee tee ee ee eae eee 149

Graphic/arts:. 2.25 as s-S2 2 ses Sauls Seeks Soke e eee eee ae ee eS eee 159

Transportation and engineering. 35-25. see ee ase eee ee eee ee eee 163

LOS 10 Gta ao SOOO AS tee HOE Meroe errs Woo cb ona Seon e ser Came madaaso Saes 171

Materia: Medica: 252252 scd.ca5) S252. scc 5 SORE De oes Se eo nee as ine Seeger 179
CONTENTS. XI

Page,
PBECHISeOMMe authTO POLO y. (With Plil) Jos. 5.cc~s sao accas be eet vee nes obactcees 183
WIGNER NS Cae SSeS ae Ses ae eS aes Seat re eaten en a are 199
PEST Seer ese eee ty ie hn he yon ees hl Sens, | Pe LD. gate widen abies 207
Esmee ae ea ber eiser te Et a Rr Ste on a aoc cise els cs tele rce 213
hepilessandehbatrachtansen--ss-cae0 5 (tae scas. Sos 2 ooo oss ese Ss a asset as eee 215
TETRIS 86 Soe Bee Sale beste io ct eek eee ae See AN sea 219
Welie Dale mOSSUS esate Sone eit SN Sals wie te oe ens ee ee oc ee Soe Ses 223
Moliisksr@unekicdin oa@ eno Zoe tOSsils)) asm oe eee es cee nae Seen nee 225
VVSTEXOUIS) 25 Go es Gees ns nS ne 231
VCMT OMIMVELUC DEALOS se cence ee eine ae eet ce Sita oe Oe ten screens An aang eon 235
COMP ATALI SLAM A TOMNY pcan ooo scinie cise ec aeynicye. cine cerewie mic ere eines Dae ee Seis cee ee 243
Invertebrate fossils:
EAPC O ZOU Ceara ot Neat erel ate ears isda s Sts lesan s eR aie oe mics ee oe Ree, ee ane sete 245
INIGSOZOLCRee et a east scien ee Pokal eb Gulae Sue Ns sa lyse pee ee wee 249
OAM gees sees a2) e wlimpeise ecseicie oe see G ass e ose saeco ere seises 251
HO SSID AMOS am aerate tae a, slate ala Sees Scie ore = apenas sy staeiage ioe ote ievaeeeyeT eres 255
[Milne all Saeco a eee ee ee ae SS eres wt cielo a ae aw se ee ee ee 259
CL TIDE caret ean Ree See Ss aie ie Oe Sen eee Pe ae tee Paes eR 261

SECTION IIJ.—PAPERS DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE U. S.
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

1. The Genesis of the National Museum. By G. Brown Goode ......-.......- 273
2. Ethnological Collections in the U. 8. National Museum from Kilima-Njaro,
WAS Geauinl Cae ars Vo Te mV\in dey ACh) Oitbeem (EMO Sse] —24)) eee eres area 381
3. The Bernadou, Allen, and Jouy Korean Collections in the U. 8. National
Musenm. = bya alter Hough). (bss 1i—xcx x)= eee eee 429
4. Shinto, or the Mythology of the Japanese. By Romyn Hitchcock ...--.- 489
5. The Ancient Burial Mounds of Japan. By Romyn Hitchcock. (Pls.
SNORENGDIM Te NUT) seater ea Sacet ee eee hs So ee GS ee eee 511

6. Some Ancient Relics in Japan. By Romyn Hitchcock. (Pls. Lx1v-Lxvn). 525
7. Prehistoric Naval Architecture of the North of Europe. By George H.

lex (ells IQ wiob oon, dite Ai bi RE aos a ee cote esos 527
8. First draft of a System of Classification for the World’s Columbian Ex-
DOG, AvaCe Isr an COO ash cos eeaadenco cole Seuo BOUSEaEOoE 649

SECTION IV.—BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE FISCAL
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

Peuplications, of hep Museum: ssc ce ose He eee omic a eee eee eee ae 739
II. Papers by officers of the National Museum, and other investigators, whose
writings are based directly or indirectly on Museum material ..---- 740

SECTION V.—LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE
FiscaL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

LL TINE Oil 2G ECS GIT SSS Cee eee Rc oh at ae ee ea 767
Mn tlexaeat DP velocalliby ae aap es net. oie ee ye Se Ae oe woe te etee 815
Index B—By departments in the National Museum ..--....--...--------- 827

CCREETVETIOTE TROYES Bes eee TN ES ci Ns ae im pe a ae eet I $39
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

PLATES.

Page.

Pl. I. Plan of arrangement of exhibition cases in the Department of Prehistoric Anthro-
MOLO Lee eiaeie = sass Sasa snisaisinise[aiahor eS Sadie the sowie = alae Sepsis min ee pins are Roe eee aes Bae 187
Il. View of Seoul, the capital of Korea. (From photograph in National Museum)..... 430
ILI. Two views of a Korean village near Fusan. (From photographin National Museum) 430
IV. Korean farmers’ houses. (From photograph in National Museum).-.-.......-..-.--- 430
V. Old Korean farmer. (From photograph in National Museum) ...-...---.....------.- 430
VI. Korean boy peddlers and group of boys (From photograph in National Museum)... 432
VII. Korean tub-mender and candy-seller. (From photograph in National Museum)..--. 432
VIII. Korean students and gentlemen. (From photograph in National Museum) ..-....-- 432
IX. Korean servants. (From photograph in National Museum)..-....--..---.-.-.--..-.. 434
X. Korean serving woman in the palace. (From photograph in National Museum).-.-. 434
XI. Korean lady. (From photograph in National Museum)..-...-...-.--..-..-.--.------ 434
Nee KCOTeAnG POLLO yO f Ghe) MOL Ww POL1Od cose uncer alan elaine seyaiaeencisee Sa seie eee eeee 436
ROM ROT EAMpNOd SLM) POULSLY pee anata eeie maleime cine nisin ers slcioei=ininsiecis ala seiner) Jee eisisoae seme erence 438
Neves coneanicabineban dow iitin odessa. esc aecennc im. ossaiseis sss nieee sels esteise neiemene cee 440
XS 7p OLGA CAD ING bese iia sialon aerate 5 sto Sctelatahw sya em ate. drss eid Ae a eiaisim dele ecto meiele scene ae le aes 442
PNGVEl POT EANLS LONG! COOKIN PS SVCSSO lS oe sere a eatasia = ein aisles es nie sictniciae e's ule oe eee ee eesene 444
NOVA Korean! domesticvappllancess.. oe oe ae iets se wins ww aise siecle so eee eoeenseecies es eccdene ee 446
XVIII. Korean mourning headdresses and farmer's hat ...--- Se AB OHO REE EE RAR Ree Ga aHeen Ase 452
EXGeNemMOLe Any aS ASN OCS WObCe s = ns seca sata cesta = law nie Se sisisenic se eee Ene ee eae 452
PROXG ee OLEATE OOUMVORL pric salen = sae elaa eee ace miote A cmislesseivin st cm ae eee ee eeier ance 452
pRe Ne ee KOneannto DACCOMDONOS seem. easel elie ole o> Scene eins ier eisinicisie ie eels ee ee ogee eee 464
ReXCheKoreaniniaid and embroidered. pillowrends\.------- ss. aes eee eee see nen eee 466
PREXS TIA KOTGAT ED LIM LIN PDL OC Kemet oem nas Seem eleineeleiyae see foin eines one eee teen ee eee 476
Reve Orca ames Ors icil land CHANCE) esac lo ere sara) scis sicietnls = isin ciaeso ace misicle se eke eee eels 478
PREXS VI OFC ATI ALS e ees elas aie saad lateee ae sire ot fete ciara eros Sn winls  AASncree eal wears oe sooo 2D
PRONG VA em OL EAT Il CME Cs tee ssiein sisiote cles tera Moeeie eS iesincieie Senior shag aieniow seeaee sss Aenea tos 479
XXVII. Korean guidepost. (From a sketch from nature by P. L. Jouy) -..-.-.------.--.--- 479
2OOWIID GS VAST GRE he nO disad oa beso base Hapens Se aeeeesaead et cq sedoee Ab onae cosas See SSAc 480
PRENSIOXE ROL EAM ALTO WS ANG QUAY OL me cptace on ene soe eee mao csein ee eins Sais eneige sar eae cise mae Sys 480
NOI TREN ENO RLEN Bo pcos Sag HO Sere AE SESE SSS r aC ARAn BESEAB Ace SeRncac Dade reCL Cet Eoeaa some 482
PRONSNS KOLA oul ANG ACCOULTEM Nts. 2 some mess se a elsiois lees eesisis se lees nie eerie en aiclae oie 482
ROXeXeMCKOTeAN OX platOLy, Olen ge nee ey cle sae rain oes cian einleajoreieae ele saia meses me ssl 485
proxexellee Caves inna WAC hie semi ech ase e apsiniarn aielstcisioen cise clacietiesiem toneeee mae ceninecwismiss cece 512
EXE Caveshowine remains Of Stone COMM. ers a2) nc oe eee ses sels sec eeee eae eee 512
PRORONGV oe SHONG COMM SUL DD OMMIOI T= 3 /sets- Se cele soe eae set cae ace ec aise enee/coincie ness 514
XeXe RAV le MIS Aaa Old MUM RENN Oks. sam seme ieee eens cieawiecsieninicsecsmeeseeee ces ségnoCOSSe Se 514

XXXVII. Fig. 1. A double mound. (From a Japanese sketch.)

2. Ground plan of adouble mound. (From a Japanese sketch.)
3. Terraced mound, seventh century. (From a Japanese sketch.)

aCylindens a (hromaapanese sketch) yess sa sce = scos se teeaecaeose sce cee cone 514
ORGIES OLN Im bOKUY DENN) 2 acecine 2 Soa scarce cia abesehieteldard dos Wee aiclsciscoadereis eleleiee 514
RONGXC RGU IM DL Usineare NianaIRONAD Gee mencrene coemas esate eens oe ee cee ike Use aces smear 516
Xe MUMS Of) jIMENETINO eee ox Sele aoa ne eels Sane Soe e ceces Baeues ceeeaeeceeee 516

Pxeli lem Ga leLowcumMull ipsa epee eae aia a re Ine hg naan ye ee ka |. si bmaNs oats acim eae 516
XS Mounds Kod ZU ke sa CL LONN SatOW) iss 22 Naas ss oaaane eae Sacha on aes eames eee ene 516
XLUI. Cylinders, rings, etc. (From Satow)......... AO HOOS DOC ADEA ROSE On Oe as Kislasalese etree 517
XIV

XLIV.
XLV.
XLVI.
XLVII.
XLVUHTI.
XLIX.
L.

LI.

LIT.
LILI.
LIV.
Tai
LVI.

LVII.
LVIII.
LIX.
LX.
LXI.
LXII.
LXIII.
LXIV.
LXV.
LXVI.
LXVII.
LXVIII.

LXIX.

LXxX.

LXXI.

LXXII.

LX XIII.

LXXIV.

LXXV.

LXXVI.

LXXVII.

LXXVIII.

LX XIX.
LXXX.

LXXXI.

LXXXII.

LXXXIII.
LXXXIV.

Fig.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Cylindersit ath, Ronabebeaccssen acne csos seals cinemas asisisie cio ceteee seeieee eee
Tombof ShotokusMai shies cesses eerie ose te ae eect eens eee eens eee
Chambered mounds. View from the mound of Ojin Tenno ......................---
Chambered mounds near Hatori-pawa.....--.-....-.----.-..--- aistatlereiati = Sine erate ene
Entrances to chambered mounds near Hatori-gawa.-..-..........-.--.------.2..------
Rocksiof. chamber exposede si cc ae oe se seis sos wise teil ge eerie ere ere
Rocks' of chamber exposed... .: - 22. 22e-. sg2ce tease = ees ae epee ae eee
Mound with a divided chamber......-............--.- wnteiem Sic aaieieiaieeets Sao eee eee

Wnigue:formrof, dolmen: =. 2-3 2)cte n= ete = sens eee ee eee eee ee ee ee ee
Interior of dolmen. (Preceding plate)... -.- win Sina ble ehsheys ot a ]e-cleleye stele SSR eee ree oe
Stone: coffin in itsichamberso. <2. o-cemese enone se sae erie eee ee cise Doser eee meee eee
Fig. 1. Stone coffin. (From a Japanese sketch.)

2. Clay coffin. (From a Japanese sketch.)

3, 4. Usuchi Ninpio- 7 \(Eromsagiapanese sketch)=-- eco sce een = eeeeeeeee
Clay coffin. ((Erovincelot setts) ease. en eee eae eee ane ee ee ee
Glayscofing W(Erovincesotesentsu) paca se a2 sess eee eee Snes e n
Burial pottery). 5 .2s/scienec eee eo -Seinetes 2 ose seal etea- eee oe eRe ee eee eee Serer
eA) {OORT 26 p65 ceusoe oSohcome anetse dost Esobesse Hans mais Snare le aie al ace vera tae seers
MsuchiGNineio= “(ELOMMS Aton) essere = ems es oer mre Silo a eee ets eee
MsuchiNingio: (Gowland icallection))ssense-oee===2 =e e2 ee aes eee eee
TsuchiiNingio. \@iromrVions siebold) sas: ss 22s ses senicie ae eine ae see
Stone figures from Yamato: 2225.0 - cos. - seaacetcas cecee ein Nene ose eae
Stone|ficuresifrom) Wamato. (Another view) ----- =e. e aoe eee = eee eee
AMICIOM LT; StONC | PAG OWS ee satse = eee acto eee ae ee eee ool eee ee eee ee eee
Ancient cave, with remains of a stone pagoda ...-....--....----.--.--2---------+-e-
Boat found at Brigg, Lincolnshire, England. (Copied from ‘‘London Illustrated

IK yas? Mule eh EE lo eat ok son oeads sean sane sonbe ere pbeoseeD sosouseteacdateescesence
Boat found at Brigg, Lincolnshire, England. (Reproduced from Mr. James Thropp’s
Ts Heit MPR Ae) Mee poo sensdeoe sedes Honds aso se oobose no oedacoseososaontoesdoesace-
Raft found near Brigg, Lincolnshire, England. (Copied from report of Mr. James
AUSTHI] I} ¢)) Sosa onpeeoo toseacssSna score onacaqddeed Soon aSaascnosaaeobsSaessSsegssag5%
Boat found in Loch Arthur, Scotland. (Photographed from a sketch made on the
spot by Prof. Geikie, director of the geological survey of Scotland)......-.--. nate as
Rock carving at Mokleryd, Torhamn parish, Blekinge, Sweden. (Copy of Pl. XV,
J.J. A. Worsaae: ‘‘Zur Alterthumskunde des Nordens,’’ Leipzig, 1847)-.....-....
Boat-shaped graves at Erwahlen, Courland, Russia. (Reproduced from C. Gre-
Wank: Dieisteinschitte vonyMtis¢ hing )jecmacemncee seer sie aise sie eee eee
Boat found in Nydam Moss, Slesvick, Germany. (Copied from C. Engelhardt:
“Denmark in the Harhy inoniAren) a= aso ee eee an =a eee
Fir boat found in Nydam Moss, Slesvick, Germany. (Copied from C. Engelhardt:
“sDenmarkin) the Harhy iron Age; p36) s-s.. = ee eine eee = eae ae eee
Boat found at Snape, England. (Copied from Proceedings of Society of Antiqua-
Ties Of Wondon, Second ‘Series; -VOl.s2 5p. Lil) =a. ete rea a elelnteiate ee ere
Ancient ship found in parish of Tune, Norway. (Copied from G. Gade: The Ancient
Vessel found’ at Lume; 1872)e cei. cece seten = foci mig feces eee si OE Oe ee Eee ee

The Gokstad ship. (Copied from R. Werner: ‘‘Das Seewesen der Germanischen
Vorzeit.’’ In Westermann’s Ilustrirte Monatshefte, October, 1882)......-....---
The Gokstadiship:sView:of stem -\c< c. s25 Semescc es oom eee = mee tees eee eee
‘Lhe Gokstadiship:Vilewsots tents: 0 so eee eee eee esis] seer cee eee
The Gokstad ship: Position in the grounds of the Royal University at Christiania,
Worway.------ 2 siete aie se ere cia Piste re SIE Sint wre ate alchalors = eres MONDO la teke (oan ee en

The Gokstad ship: Central longitudinal and transverse sections. (From Nicolaysen:

Hangskibet fra -Gokstad)steeo22 22 = ses ceeiisscco oe se oe oo See eee eee eee eee
The Gokstad ship. (Photograph of model in National Museum)...-....--.--.------
The Brésen boat. (Reproduced from Leipzig ‘‘Tllustrirte Zeitung,’’ 1874)..---...-.

TEXT FIGURES.

. Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. (From photograph in U.S. National Museum)
Chaga men. (From photograph in U.S. National Museum) -..------.-.-----------
Chaga woman. (From photograph in U. 8. National Museum) -....-.-.--.---.---
Mork OriwalGapsaeeaeansee == a- sobs dtes5.0 cele win siAmse sis os Sesion ce oecha= Se eee
SN Wiarrionis) hea@dress-hatcciemacce reo onc-eer eae eee eee ree wa disi ee eeeeeeeee
. House in Marang. (From photograph in @&. 8S. National Museum) ..-.. --..-------
. Method of house-building, Moshi. (From photograph in U.S. National Museum)
. Hut in Machame. (From photograph in U. S. National Museum) ........... eiafetate

or oO
a )
bo bo

oo
bo b
to

bo
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XV

Page
Fig. 9. Gate and hedge in Machame. (From RES weraae in U.S. National Museum)..... 394
10. Dead elephant. (From photograph in U. S. National Menon) Bat Neat Tonle eye series 395

11. House of Miliari, Sultan of Marang. (From photograph in U.S. National Mu-

GIN aro adn Sob Soet Hee OO! A CES SSkS ose O oe Oado SDE TS COCEee Pen CMe OenaarE 39-
iB, TNAOR TIE = 6 a cnisnonbhaonsoosbaee 6 >So ce ee ane cb Sb buco UO SD CE CHnS Hoe soLsonEDb ose sense 400
1. Gave NIN, 2. 6 Seo Sada Be sb0m one Bote dod odgd SU CONSEUS Bde Se ogo SOOSHAdoenY Scams « 408
14. Coiled basket... ..-. nig CE gSedSamSe'lc Noon got bcs deae nagumieoutebEempaEbaSnoSsORGoncee 410
es Wagan Wardell ote scseSsebeoqecseesoc cassees He cnesene Ub es so ceHops cust cabot suaesoone 412
1G WY COGIELA EO Ss ose sale «Saokoos Gopea ben aacpenaocmoseeadon SASspEASEOspEancasees 413
Mi OOd en toOoadisny (MODE) ib aeceece we Soe site = esi se ocean worn ole sisancis separates aieeteeraya 413
ASeeViOOd en GisShee = -ssec6 ss ecee a - = AS Soc Ee MOMS CORDA Oo hoe noone ace abeacenOseaoe 414
TO MBVVZOOG Grins Neesesttore ce Crore oe eae ines Seine nce Ric a ORS RIS Else eich eee eee 414
20. Wooden cup for dipping hace Jaen Bb os Sosecesurgsuescecoseae CoB SOs SRonnbanDe cont coe 415
PART OVS UL OK Siam ea ties ce ease foto ao = Ser eie Iara sta rcie Sa, o- wieinieies neta dns sense» dels sactn eee eee 417
DP MENTO DIS ULC Keren Beco Me eax tet Pate cictare care istats, hat cheke, ayare MNase cla ols OASIS melo alse ctenle are heeie 420
DS PROD SUCH 2 Hiei ipso ees cia sin Salen afew! a ns ais = inc Se 2 aoa sie aia creyelecissiacs cteage als sie ere 420
2h, Arnie ann GmaidiN 7G) Dc caosisosooqesss Hacts5n Bos nc SS! sa euen aaeeeeysebesosees sascoser= 421
25. Prow of Brigg boat. (Drawing furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull,

Iona} NNGD)- ca ncc sobeae sosbes cecoes sconcor aor tS see neee enobassbadeboosascecnocess 538
26. Cavity in prow. (Drawing furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull, England). 538
27. Bowsprit (?) of Brigg boat. (From report of Mr. James Thropp) .....--.----.---- 538
28. Overhanging counter. (Drawing furnished by Mr. Stevenson)..-........---.-..-- 539
29. Face of stern in Brigg boat. (From report of Mr. James Thropp) ------. .------- 539
30. Stern of Brigg boat. (Drawing furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull,

IDWS) oe ans cosas cone vbege ces aseassenos ob cOsoe soesads cone cosdbenouncsooeseeds 540
slessternspoard.. (Hromireport.of Mr) James) Chropp)\--42=- ser eee eee eee eee 540
32. Groove for stern board. (From report of Mr. James Thropp)..-----.------------- 540

33,34. Transverse bars in Brigg boat. (Drawings furnished by Mr. William Stevenson,
OH) STNG TENG) ede sbesc a seecmoee cence toes OSS a— es ope See cosa es Br eccosrsdase 540
35, 36, 37. Prehistoric repair in Brigg boat. (Drawings furnished by Mr. William Steven-

Son wo tea En Ol ANG) Mee ae corse oe enaiaeesis toeieiciee Soci Sa ce eee mee aarse merase 541
souocanonrot poat anaup lank: Way =~ a= sss 52c css das ease tassel sso seem eneee 542,
Bea mO CRON Ob Nal traces ce eee sao sels selena cae cies Aon te sieves ciclo imei snes Sa 543
40. Runic stone found at Tjangvide, Gotland, Sweden. (neon Dn Chaillu: Land of

tie Mirani pn G SUM) ater water a= siete oes ai aainocie siness stv ciaie atcic sclera Dowie Sele eae as aee 556

> 41. Nest of gold boats found at Nors, Denmark. (From ‘‘ Votiv-fund fra Sten-og-

Bronzealdern, '’ in Aarboger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historic, 1886) ...-...- 557

42-45. Cinerary urns from boat-shaped grave in Courland, Russia. (Copied from C.

Grewingk: ‘‘ Die Steinschiffe von Musching,” ete., in Verh. gel. Est. Ges.)-..-. 560
46. Boat-shaped grave at Neu Karrishof, Livonia, Russia .........-..--------..-..--- 561
di -wboat-shaped rave at, MaaroWivonia, Russiaas--- 1-5 os 2 one. c2- an oaelSe ics anise 561
48. Boat-shaped grave at Wielemi, Livonia, Russia..--.........-..--.-----+-+-------- 561
49. ‘‘Slaweek ship,’ Estonia, Russia. (Copied from Graf. C. Sievers: ‘‘Archiolo-

gische Untersuchungen,” in Verh. gel. Est. Ges.)........-...-....-.------------ 562

50,51. Fibule from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh.

OLSEN bs GOS el SSeS Cer NOLL) Pee cee ral ae wines ersicleree nrc tape eerste alee reve ie a apereinis 563

52-54. Fibula from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh.
Tae) Lad Brey ns CB ets 3 kehct si 826 [3G 0 Bl oho ei ae poe te tn tote er See ee one ee 564
55-58. Fibula from cinerarium at Tiursel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh.

POlEStIGES= 41 OSs sO NL) = icgeisaerst ore ce. = fee cibininn se tee nt,s «tenis woes ce 565
59. Breastpin from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Rus<ia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in

Wanhs CelmbOst Ges SSS bask lM) Briere sates as So tere e tystare te ce ee sare See ere ele See ae 565

60-62. Ornaments from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in

\VGTH DE re LI DEA TC cacisy, thelels) Sth OG UE Des $e Ss cenr SeSrueRcSee.csoRe adele SA neconesee 566

63-69. Ornaments from cinerarium at Tirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in
Merherelabisty Gos: masse O excl) Sree ae marries eieaieiisceet © aieinnie net 567
70-74. Arm rings or necklaces from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. ene.
winpiene VierhacelHsts Gest; 1686, Bd. XML) so. sees ces sears ceeinicls te ccjeieie oem == 568
75,76. Clasps from cinerarium at Tirsel, Russia. (Copied from C.Grewingk, in Verh.
aM JORG (Ee. WERE dott SOON gs cess ote ase smc anes cadeacuasorensuacgacenaessoRe 568
77-80. Spirals from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh.
(ee) bd DIS to Gretshy ERE 2BgD-0 00 Oho Soakea sense eee oe esos ee eeE aon eriones=cocaa en cnorc 569
81, 82. Nippers from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh.

gel. Est. Ges., 1888, Bd. XTIED) ......--.. 2.2222 - 2-2 on 2 - ee een nee =s 570
XVI

103.

104, 105.
106.
107.
108.
109.

110.
1 De

116.
117.

118,119.

120.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Page,

3. Buckle from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh.

PERVD TAKE Gishy WUSEH EH SUE ODO) 58 <5 Ae eae ae Cote Sone ne aoe aa obeoseee seeesocs

. Belt fastenings from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C. Grewingk,

Hore Adele pale Iya Crss, alelelas det RORO NOs 8 o es Saeed ob eae seep ogueaerdaesaces

. Lance point and knives from cinerarium at Tiirsel, Russia. (Copied from C.

Grewingk in’ Verh. cel st. (Ges. 1888, de sxoll) oe oe cea tele epe nee iia

. ‘Nydam moss boat.” (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘Denmark in the Early Tron

LMG) We eoe sao dana b000de seo CbSor Son oUcs aS Se Roc BSS SOSE GE SE So sbasessbasmesepesnaes

: Keel plank of Nydam boat. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the Early

TroneAige)i ea Soin ieee s cia eieteie stele Sele sioeints Sele ess Sisk elena ene oe ete ie alin

. Rivets of Nydam boat. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the Early Iron

i CTTNE eh Eee Reta thee RL DI MME LNG AGS Mime FS mi ee

. Connection of prows with keel. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the

JOR WAG? GRY AERTS Son eased danced odes sapabo ssa psocmocuodaacas as osOrIgogaasaenS -

3. Clamps on planks. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘Denmark in the Early Iron

. Connection between ribs and planks. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in

UWA) JORIS Woke AWE oc aonb ooaaocn ct so scercasonecrusdoce sccdcsnressreragssesese<

. Internal view of stem. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the Early Iron

IN Wa cg no sa Se DOOC TAO T SO He DE oe Sendo ode aseSs ono gReoIonosSaqsseso20eHss9eC

. Rowlock of Nydam boat. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘Denmark in the Early

MronWA 6) oops eee ceo ac esi Soe cee ee Sen ee mee ies Sie em ORern eset eine eee sera

. Rudder of Nydam boat. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the Early Iron

Thwarts in Nydam boat. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘Denmark in the Early
liroy nl) Aly") Sosc Shoo casas nea scsseadds oc sno sone cases te oSconasOS JOS Seess S30daE se 52°
Thwart supports. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘Denmark in the Early Iron
INGO) \ 55 Se Sane Se Sano oe ano eae HoT Ob ad Sao Une Eben ooO Dobe see sagSacnaaesodomcesosse
Fixed oar clamp in Nydam boat. (Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the
IDA eR NRG) e556 nos Soaoseaned = scan cooase nono doagu Sade see GaacosasEoccs
Carved tiller. (Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad”’).--.....-
Carved dish. (Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad”’)......-.---
Carved oar handle. (Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad”’).-.-
Carved implement. (Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad”’)....
Carved heads on tent posts. (Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘Langskibet fra
Gokstad oy isas setae ssecevecaseb scene asa oc Sooesela secs mscientae 6 at pees EL Eee

2. Side helm on baptismal font in church of Léderup, Scania, Sweden. (From Du

Chaillu, “he wVaking Ase! vols UI ips 157, ako O56) meer oe eee alee eee

3. Side helm on ship in stone wall at church of Skrébelef, Denmark. (From Du

Chaillu, “The Viking Age,” vol. II, p. 141) Fig: 914)=..... <- < diz Seniors picts ees

. Side helm in a ship on a stone in Alsn6é Parish, Upiand, Sweden. (From Du

Chailluy > TheliVaking Ace: voles ps 142 eh on Oo) etcetera tea ee erate ee

. Side helm in ship on Bayeux Tapestry. (From Edward J. Lowell, ‘‘The Bayeux

Tapestry,. Im) scribner’s) Masazine.~ March el SRil) =. s-ee=linsieise las ere omelette
Rudder of Gokstad ship. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘Langskibet fra Gokstad”’;-
Rudder of Nydam boat. (From C. Engelhardt, ‘‘Denmark in the Early Iron

AGO") jooemsscbn Miacams cache Soe catios ama nRaO AS aree Oecies cee aie s,s cee ee eee eee
Urns from boat found at Sone. England. (From paper by 8S. Davidson, in Proc.

Soc. Antiq:.., London; ‘vol: Tl) j23 s20/5 & ece seis teense let ee ee eee et eae
Starboard gunwale of Storhaugen ship. (From .A. Lorange, ‘‘Storhaugen tra

Karmen” in Bergens Museum, Alarsber 1887)ies-. ae eee eee eee eee eee

121. Fastening of planks. (From <A. Lorange, ‘‘ Nyt Skibsfund fra Vikingetiden,”
888) csc naieie - ceiecie wins nln esse Selecn See SC RRISE EEE EEC e = Sone ES ee eee ae ere

122. Carved clamp. (From A. eee “Nyt Skibsfund fra Vikingetiden,” 1888). -.-
123. Gangway. (From A. Lorange, ‘‘ Nyt Skibsfund fra Vikingetiden,” 1888) .......-.
124-127. Tools found in Storhaugen ship. (From A. Lorange, ‘‘Nyt Skibsfund fra Vik-

ingetiden;?*-1888) /....- 2. Sosc2k a Sa Ee eee eee ee eee eee

8. Construction of Tune ship. (From G. Gade, ‘‘The ancient vessel found at Tune,”

NP) ee ae ner Ae Saer coca dae sorb node Suea oC Adu csoccceds =

. Connection between keel and stems. (From G. Gade, ‘‘ The ancient vessel found.

atebunes 1872) 0-2 sc0.4 ne canon Onno ee EE oe CRE ee ee winiaiStalacelestee eee ;

. Rib of Tune ship. (From G. Gade, ‘The ancient vessel fouud at Tune,’ 1872)...

614
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XVII

Page.
Fig. 131. Fastening of planks toribs. (From G. Gade, ‘‘Theancient vessel found at Tune,” ~
SNEERD) sae eh a Ne Og cade a ae A ee OO Re MEG 614
132. Building of a ship. (From Edward J. Lowell, ‘‘The Bayeux Tapestry,” in
SCHIDReM Ne aP azine war CH er Og) tetas earn mee csietale ci) ePelo cers ese sean siataaiee 615
133. Oarlock. (Drawing from model in U.S. National Museum) ....................-. 616

134. Rudder of Tune ship. (From G. Gade, ‘‘The ancient vessel found at Tune,’ 1872). 616
135. Mast block of Tune ship. (From G. Gade, ‘‘The ancient vessel found at Tune,”

1S) ae eS nse IEE rk toe at Woe te hn eae SM ORR AEN BP Ca 617
136. The king’s mound. (From J.S. White, ‘‘ The Viking Ship,” Seribner’s Magazine,
VOM PME SINION 0) sete ces ne ce reins meee nse melon sect cle tara ee asus oseeemeene 619
137. The excavated ship. (From R. Werner, ‘‘Das Seewesen der germanischen Vor-
zeit.” Westermann’s Illustrirte M onatshefte, vol. LITT. October, 1882) ...-...-- 620
158, 139. Fastening of planks. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad,” 1882)... 622
140. Cross-pieces to strengthen bulwark. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gok-
STAM Boe) sate arin males iota ines es ciciotcle oi MBps a ccle = NO Serra | nie arate mio ne erniaiaas ateeustle 622
141. Oar posts of Gokstad ship. (From Rk. Werner, ‘‘Das Seewesen der germanischen

Vorzeit.’”’ Westermann’s Illustrirte Monatshefte, October, 1882) ............-- 62

142. Rudder of Gokstad ship. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘Langskibet fra Gokstad”).... 62:
143. Tiller of the Gokstad ship. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘Langskibet fra Gokstad”).. 62:

144.145. Fastening of rudder to ship’s side. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gok-

RATE Ui) ee OS: Roe ace RODS SAGE RAT Pree eee anbeIdcao bo ppeGoLoCEn can GoSEban= 624

146. Tent supports of Gokstad ship. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gok-
SUB) aeece GaSe era Ben SS aoe SS e Hes POR OU CBRE SS OS ELnC bod SIGae Doerr En ACer= eciset. (025

147. Rowlock on boat found in Gokstad ship. (From N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra
OLS URC y) Serre ee rie ere ee ere ey CS ar SAM re ak a ny Ce ok oe Se ee Soe 628)

148. The Gloppen boat. (From Gabriel Gustofson, ‘‘En Baadgraayv fra Vikingeti-
CaM EOF oes Rasta eS IN co SRR Se re aE eh rg See ec De EI ge oP” Ale Ne eA 629
149. Séndmo6re boat. (Drawing made from model in U.S. National Museum) .....--. 630

150. Plan of a projected “Twenty seater.” (Copied from N. E. Tuxen, ‘‘ De nordiske
Mao kan Gia) eee ease setae Sere tens oe eae aie ee carte ciate Ja ea mac cls eieneialstemare wo 644

151. Plan of a projected “Thirty seater.’ (Copied from N. E. Tuxen, ‘De nordiske
SAM SED ) creciaieteene fa ei = iotere Sretelers a slate miata sivas halamie Si Sdints cieve se wale,ca sini Jlrateee sists 645

DIAGRAMS.

Diagram 1. Section of upright alcove case in Department of Prehistoric Anthropology, showing
arrangement of shelves without interference of view. ....-...-----.--------------- 193
2. Bent wire bracket used in Department of Geology for exhibiting rock specimens... — 266
3. Plan showing arrang ement of cases in west-south range, 1890-91.......---..--.----- 269

St QU, 1a Be
SECTION I.

Reels Omke
UPON THE

CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891,

BY

G. BROWN GOODE,

ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, IN CHARGE
OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

it 1

sm 91, pr 2
i Gig Sil Sak @ aS Ge &

UPON

THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

BY

G. BROWN GOODE,
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of U, S. National Museum.

A.—_GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

Before entering upon a detailed statement of the operations of the
Museum during the period covered by this Report, it is perhaps not
undesirable to brietly outline its history, organization, and aims, in order
that the true relationships of the work now to be reported upon, as the
outgrowth of the activities of other years, may be comprehended.

The Smithsonian Institution was established by act of Congress in
1846. One of the provisions of the act was that ‘all objects of art and
of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history,
plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens” belonging to the
United States should be placed in the custody of the Institution, to be ar-
ranged and classified so as to be available for students. It was also pro-
vided that a miscellaneous collection of objects known as *‘ the National
Cabinet of Curiosities,” which had accumulated in the Patent Office,
should be transferred to the Institution.* A beginning was thus made
for the National Museum, which, however, was not recognized ofticially
under that designation until a later date. The various steps which
resulted in the formation of the National Museum are pointed out at
some length in a paper printed in Section 11 of this Report, and en-
titled “The Genesis of the National Museum.”

The Institution from its foundation fostered explorations, and its
Museum was enriched by the numerous ethnological and natural history
objects brought home by the explorers. Many gifts were received from
private sources, and objects of various kinds were deposited in the
Museum for safe-keeping.

At the time of the establishment of the Institution numerous impor-
tant naval expeditions and surveys of the public domain had recently
been, or were being, organized by the Government, and during their

_ * This collection was not accepted by and transferred tothe Institution until 1858,

3
4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

progress very extensive collections of natural history and other objects
were made. Important collections from foreign countries were made
by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, Perry’s Japan Expedition, and nu-
merous other naval expeditions, while the naturalists attached to the
Pacific Railroad Survey, the Mexican Boundary Survey, and other sur-
veys under the Engineer Corps of the Army, brought together great
collections of objects Ulustrating the natural resources and ethnology
of the United States.

At a somewhat later period, when the geological surveys of the Terri-
tories were organized, large additional collections were formed.

A new source of increment was opened by the investigation of the
Fish Commission into the aquatic fauna of the continent.

At the close of the Centennial Exhibition in 1876 the exhibits of the
United States Government, as well as those of numerous foreign gov-
ernments and of private exhibitors, came into the possession of the Na-
tional Museum.

Since 1876, though the growth of the Museum has been much more
rapid, no single source of increment has predominated. The complexity
of the collections, however, has been greatly increased. The collections
are now more than sixteen times as large as in 1882, which was the
first year of systematic work in the new Museum building.

Among the principal sources of miscellaneous increase since the Cen-
tennial Exhibition may be mentioned the Fisheries Exhibitions of Ber-
lin and London, the New Orleans Cotton Centennial Exposition in 1884
and 1885, and the Cincinnati Exposition in 1887. A large amount of
material has also been derived through exchange with museums and
individuals at home and abroad.

With the acquisitions from the Centennial Exhibition a new epoch
began in the history of the Museum. The storage rooms and exhibition
halls of the Smithsonian building were overflowing with the accumula-
tions of thirty years, and the small number of persons employed in ear-
ing for them were overburdened and unable to keep abreast with the
necessary work. Furthermore, as already stated, the complexity of the
collections had very largely increased, necessitating a new and broader
classification. The growth of the country in wealth and culture led to
the establishment of many local museums, and the educational influences
flowing from these and from the Centennial Exhibition caused a demand
for better systems of installation and explanation of the collections.

On account of these circumstances an appeal was made to Congress
for a new building for the National Museum and for increased appro-
priations for its maintenance. A new building was provided for in
1879 and a complete reor -anization of the Museum was undertaken
two years later.

By law theSecretary of the Smithsonian Institution is ex officio director
of the Museum, He is empowered to employ suitable assistants for
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5

carrying on the work of the Museum, for whose action he is responsible
to the Regents of the Institution. For many years the work was car-
ried on by Prof. Baird with no more than two or three assistants. The
Museum was not formally divided into departments. When the reor-
ganization was made, the diversity of the collections made it necessary
to institute numerous departments, each of which was placed in charge
of a curator. The number of curators changes with the changing ne-
cessities of the Museum. At present the scientific staff is composed of
the assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution in charge of the
National Museum, and thirty-two curators and acting curators, twenty-
two of whom receive no salary from the Museum. ‘There are also eleven
administrative departments. (A list of the scientific departments and
of the officers in charge of them is given on page 21.)

Three factors at least are necessary for the proper administration of
a large museum, <A philosophical classification must be adopted, sutti-
ciently comprehensive and elastic to facilitate the distribution of the
objects in the collections. A staff of assistants must be employed, com-
petent to make the proper classification of the objects placed in their
care, and to prevent their deterioration. A system of installation and
arrangement must be devised, which will permit a satisfactory examina-
tion of the collections by students and others.

The matter of classification has engaged the thought of the officers
of the Museum for many years. The chief difficulties are encountered
in the classification of those collections which illustrate the history of
human culture, on account of the intricacy of the subject and its
manifold aspects and relationships. Some remarks on this branch of
classification, which can not be repeated in this outline, will be found
in the report for the year 1884. In the zodlogical, botanical, and geo-
logical departinents, which form a considerable portion of the Museum,
a satisfactory classification is more easily determined upon on account of
the labors of systematic naturalists, running back for two centuries.

In the arrangement and installation of the collections the interests of
three classes of persons have to be kept in view—those engaged in
independent researches, students in colleges and schools, and casual
visitors. So far as the investigator is concerned, it is only necessary
that the objects in a Museum should be preserved in good condition
and so arranged as to be available for study. The college student
demands something more. To be of the highest service to him, objects
must be arranged in series, without duplication, each showing the va-
rious phases of some one subject or the development of an idea or the
modifications of a type of structure; and must, furthermore, be labeled
in such a manner that the reason for their exhibition is unmistakable.
He must, in other words, have presented to him a variety of object-
lessons. The casual visitors, who in point of numbers exceed the
other classes, make quite different demands. They do not come to a
Museum to study in detail any single group of objects, but from intelli-
6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

gent curiosity to see the wonders of nature, the masterpieces of art,
and those things which illustrate in the most striking manner the his-
tory and progress of civilization. They demand that the collections
shall be conveniently and attractively arranged and provided with
brief and legible labels. An attempt is made in the National Museum
to meet the demands of all these classes. Large numbers of specimens,
in addition to those in the exhibition cases, are preserved for use in
researches, and these are frequently loaned for study, or (in the zodlogi-
val departments) are given freely to investigators for dissection and
other similar purposes. As far as possible, educational series of objects
similar to those in the Museum are made up from the duplicate speci-
mens 2nd distributed to educational institutions throughout the coun-
try. In this way the advantages of the Museum are extended to many
who have never been within its walls. (A statement of the distribu

tions during the year will be found on page 35.)

In the matter of cases and appliances the Museum maxes use of
those forms which experience at home and the study of the museums
of Europe have demonstrated to be the best. Many forms of cases
which have been designed or perfected by the officers of the National
Museum are in use in other museums both in the United States and
elsewhere.

The importance of labels is fully understood by the officers of the
Museum, and much time is spent every year if their preparation. The
Museum enjoys the advantage of having printed labels in place of writ-
ten ones. Their legibility and attractiveness is thus greatly increased.

Every museum has its special characteristics growing out of its form
of organization, its location, scope, and financial and other resources.
The character of the National Museum is fundamentally affected by its
connection with the Smithsonian Institution, its dependence upon Con-
gress for appropriations annually, and the necessity under existing
laws of its caring for all collections belonging to the Government.

Of the connection of the Museum with the Smithsonian Institution
nothing but good can be said. It should be borne in mind that it is in
part a Smithsonian Museum, since, especially in its earlier history, the
Justitution expended considerable sums of money in aiding explorations
with the distinct purpose of increasing the collections in certain diree-
tions. It has had in addition, for nearly half a century, the use of the
larger portion of the Smithsonian building, and what is of paramount
importance, the guidance and influence of the officers of the Institution,
and the very valuable assistance of its numerous correspondents.

The necessity of depending on appropriations made annually, while
unavoidable under our system of government, is not without serious
drawbacks. It renders difficult or impossible the carrying out of many
far-reaching plans for the symmetrical growth of the Museum, and places
it at a disadvantage with endowed museums under private auspices,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. H

The necessity of caring for Government collections of many kinds
gives, as already stated, a very wide scope to the Museum, and im-
presses upon it characteristics scarcely to be found in any other similar
organization. What is here brought together in two buildings has its
counterpart in England, Germany, France, and other European coun-
tries in groups of museums, each with a limited and well-defined scope.

It is unnecessary to enter a plea for the right of a national museum
to exist. Its establishment is not forced upon the country. It grows
up unsolicited as a consequence of the activities of an enlightened Goy-
ernment. Through a thousand channels materials for the formation of
a museum come into the possession of the Government. It can not be
questioned that it is in every way most desirable that these should be
brought together in one place, where they can be classified and ar-

ranged for examination and study. A museum formed in this manner,

however, suffers sooner or later from the immense accumulation of
objects of the same kind in certain directions and from deficiencies in
others. It has been so in the case of the National Museum. At the
outset no addition was unwelcome, and the expectation that all impor-
tant deficiencies would be supplied might properly be indulged in. As
the years have passed, however, it has become more and more appar-
ent that many of these deficiencies would only be made good by the
purchase of the necessary objects, and the importance of increased ap-
propriations for the purchase of collections and single objects to com-
plete the various series in the Museum is very strongly felt.

In its present condition the Museum may be likened to a book from
which pages here and there have been omitted, so that the narrative is
disjointed and incomplete. There are instances in this country in
which more money is expended for the improvement of private muse-
ums than is expended for the National Museum. In certain museums
of Europe more money is expended annually in purchases than is rep-
sented by the entire appropriations for the National Museum. The
officers of the Museum have repeatedly suffered the chagrin of being
compelled to refuse the offer of specimens necessary to complete the
collections, and to see them pass into the hands of private institutions
in this country or the government museums in Europe,

B.—ORGANIZATION AND SCOPE OF THE MUSEUM.

The National Museum is under the direction of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, which is governed by an establishment consisting of the
President of the United States and his Cabinet, the Commissioner of
Patents, and the Board of Regents, which latter is composed of the
Vice-President, Chief Justice of the United States, three members of
the Senate, three members of the House of Representatives, and six
other citizens not members of Congress, two of whom are residents of
the city of Washington,
8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to whom is intrusted
the actual management of its affairs, is by law the ‘¢keeper of the col-
> The seientifie staff at the present time, as already stated, is
composed of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Lnstitution in
charge of the National Museum and thirty-two curators and acting

fections.’

curators, twenty-two of whom receive no salary from the Museum
appropriation. ‘Phere are also eleven administrative departments.

PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF THE COLLECTIONS.

The collections of the Museum are made up, in large part, of the fol-
lowing materials:

(1) The natural history and anthropological collections, accumulated
since 1850 by the efforts of the officers and correspondents of the
Smithsonian Institution.

(2) The collection of the Wilkes exploring expedition, the Perry ex-
pedition to Japan, and other naval expeditions.

(3) The collections of the scientific officers of the Pacifie Railroad
survey, the Mexican boundary survey, and of the surveys carried on
by the Engineer Corps of the Army.

(4) The collections of the United States geological surveys under the
direction of the United States geologists, Hayden, King, and Powell.

(5) The collections of the U.S. Fish Commission.

(6) The gifts by foreign governments to the Museum, or to the Presi-

dent or other publie officers of the United States who are forbidden by
law to retain such gifts in their private possession.
(7) The collections made by the United States to illustrate the ani-
mal and mineral resources, the fisheries, and the ethnology of the na-
tive races of the country on the occasion of the International Exhibi-
tion at Philadelphia in 1876; the fishery collections displayed by the
United States at the International Fisheries Exhibition at Berlin in
1880 and at London in 1885, and the collections obtained from various
local expositions; as, for instance, the New Orleans Cotton Centennial
Exposition, in 1884 and 1885, and the Cincinnati Exposition, in 1887.

(8) The collections given by the governments of the several foreign
nations, thirty in number, which participated in the exhibition at
Philadelphia in 1876.

(9) The industrial collections given by numerous manufacturing and
commercial houses of Kurope and America at the time of the Phila-
delphia exhibition and subsequently.

(10) The material received, in exchange for duplicate specimens, from
the museums in Europe and America at the tune of the Philadelphia
exhibition and subsequently.

(11) Collections received as gifts, deposits, or in exchange, from in-
dividuals, numbering usually from 1,000 to 1,500 each year.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. y

C.—SPECIAL TOPICS OF THE YEAR.
INCREASE IN THE COLLECTIONS DURING THE DECADE 1881-1891.

At the close of 1881 a census of the collections was taken, resulting
in the preparation of a table, published in subsequent reports, which
eave 193,362 as the approximate total number of specimens of all kinds
at that time entered in the catalogue books of the several departments
of the Museum. The census for the year ending June 30, 1891, places
the total number of specimeus of all kinds at 5,028,714, showing an in-
crease of about nineteen-fold during the decade. It must, however,
he stated that a large proportion of the material catalogued in 1884
and in later years, had been in the custody of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for several years, but had remained in storage on account of there
being no opportunity to have it classified and entered in the catalogue
hooks. In this way the immense increase in the totals for 1584 as com-
pared with those for 1882 may be partly accounted for,

There still remains in the basement of the Smithsonian building and
in the old Armory building a considerable amount of material, consist-
ing largely of gifts from foreign governments and contributions from
expositions, which has not yet been brought under control, owing to
lack of space and other necessary facilities.

INCREASE IN THE MUSEUM LIBRARY.

The number of publications added to the Museum Library during the
year was 12,854, including 922 books of more than 100 pages, 2,492
pamphlets, 9,280 parts of serials, and 160 charts.

INCREASED EDITION OF MUSEUM REPORTS.

In place of 16,000 extra copies, the Fifty-first Congress has ordered
that 19,000 copies of reports of the Museum be printed. This will
allow 3,000 copies to be set apart for distribution by the Museum to its
contributors and correspondents.

VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the Museum building during the year end-
ing June 30, 1891, was 286,426, and during the same period 111,669 per-
sons visited the Smithsonian Institution. The total number of visitors
since 1881 (during the last decade) to the Museum building is 2,398,575,
and to the Smithsonian Institution 1,081,681.

MUSEUM APPROPRIATIONS FOR 1891-92.

RIESeLu MONO COMECTIONS: emtine ak eer ele cent cert es ee eee #145, 000
RENT SSAC EtERGUbe Nts nee ee ets 8 te re eee ery ee Se ee See 25, 000
HAGAN UM yeet eeasicepe pacts eset isa se Sea elon oe Rae nie ele eee 8S 15, 000
Heating and lighting ...---. TA Sok SUE he Be Coe eee eee eee ee nee ea 12, 000
Panchane GHG apron colecnony © 995. .2202 S204 Ja tase ee. tee 2s 10, 000
Ee HAMM GOINelem Ese eR ane ka: aie eee 2o.. Ut Ne 2 cet 5, 000
mimumeiasence secre ia Ree! Hk lS ye, Pelee iss ss3 tte. 1, 000
PtSi CM UGE et ne eas aise coco eR a dni) sei. nop eet Steals see 500

TROD ona eecekate SOnO se BORD Soe te ieee eee iene ete 213, 500
10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
PROPOSED ADDITIONAL MUSEUM BUILDING.

On January 9, 1891, the bill providing for a new Museum building
was favorably reported from the House Committee on Public Buildings
and Grounds, but failed of passage.

CAST OF STATUE OF LIBERTY.

Through the coéperation of the Architect of the Capitol, Hon. Ed-
ward Clark, the original full-size plaster model of Thomas Crawtord’s
statue of liberty was transferred from the crypt in the Capitol to the
Museum. The bronze was cast by Clark Mills, at his foundry, near
Bladensburg, Md., in 1860, and is 19 feet 5 inches in height. This
model had been stored in a cellar room of the Capitol, and had unfor-
tunately been broken into fragments, when the work of transferring it
to the Museum was undertaken by Theodore A. Mills, an employé of
the Museumn.*

THE DAGUERRE MEMORIAL.

On August 15, 1890, a bronze statute of Daguerre was unveiled in
the rotunda of the National Museum building, by the Secretary of the
Interior. This monument, in honor of Louis Jacques Mandé Daguerre,
was presented by the Photographers’ Association of America, which
was holding its annual meeting in Washington at that time. Daguerre,
in cobperation with Joseph Nicéphore Niepce, invented and perfected
the daguerreotype, the announcement of which was made at the session
of the French Academy of Sciences, in 1839. The monument is 11
feet in height, and is made of bronze and granite. It represents Fame
fastening a garland around the head of Daguerre. The garland also
encircles the globe, thus typifying the universal benefit of his inven-
tion. The monument is the work of Jonathan Scott Hartley.

THE CAPRON COLLECTION.

This colleetion, consisting of gold lacquers, bronzes, porcelains, cary-
ine’s in ivory and wood, and many other works of art, was obtained by
the late Gen. Horace Capron while United States minister to Japan. A
bill for its purchase was introduced into the Senate on March 1, 1888 (Iif-
tieth Congress, first session), by Senator Daniel W. Voorhees, and passed
the Senate on March 31. On August 8 of the same year Mr. O'Neill, of

*The following order, issued by Hon. John B. Floyd, Secretary of War, May 24,
1860, may be of interest in this connection:

“The proposed statue of Freedom, modeled by Crawford, for the dome of the
Capitol, will be cast by Clark Mills at his foundry near Bladensburg under the di-
rection of Capt. William B. Franklin of the Topographical Engineers in charge of
the Capitol Extension. Mr. Mills will be paid for his services and for the rent of his
foundry at the rate of $400 per month from the commencement to the termination of
the work. The materiais, fuel, labor, and everything necessary for the casting of
the figure will be supplied by the Government.”
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Le

Pennsylvania, from the Committee on the Library, submitted a report
stating that, in the opinion of the committee, the collection should be
purchased by the Government and placed in the National Museum.
This bill did not pass the House. It was again introduced into the
Senate on December 4, 1889, by Senator Voorhees, and passed the Sen-
ate on March 29, 1890. It was also reported a second time from the
House Committee on the Library, on May 19, 1890, but failed to pass.
In the sundry civil bill for the year ending June 30, 1892, an appropri-
ation of $10,000 was made for the purchase of this collection.

The lacquered objects are the most valuable in the collection, par-
ticularly the four specimens which bear the crest of one of the families
of the Shoguns. The bronzes are forty-six in number, and in addition
there are two objects in silver bronze and one in gold bronze, represent-
ing birds and flowers. The ivory carvings are thirty-seven in number.
There is also included a collection of sixty-three Japanese coins. thirtv-
five of which are of gold.

When Gen. Capron returned to the United States, he generously
placed these treasures in the custody of the Smithsonian Institution,
where they were exhibited. After his death, in 1885, Mrs. Capron
signified her desire to allow the collection to remain in the Institution.
It has always attracted a great deal of attention from visitors of all
classes, and its acquisition by the Government of the United States is
a source of congratulation.

TYPES OF THE OWEN COLLECTION OF FOSSILS.

The Owen type specimens of fossils, mentioned on page 759 of the
reportot the National Musem for 1888 as having been “ presented ” tothe
Museum by the Indiana State University through the courtesy of the
university, will be retained in the National Museum as a “deposit”
subject to the order of the board of trustees of the university. These
specimens have been described and illustrated in Government publica-
tions.

MEETINGS OF ASSOCIATIONS IN WASHINGTCN DURING THE YEAR,

Washington has during recent years been selected as the place for
holding meetings of a large number of national and international socie-
ties of all kinds. Each year has seen an increase in this respect, and
the matter has now become of such importance (not so much, how-
ever, on account of the number as of the character of the societies)
that it seems proper to make mention of it in a report which is intended
to contain in a general way a reference to all efforts to develop and
encourage research, both from a scientific, economic, and a literary
point of view. There is probably no place in the country better suited
for such meetings. The seat of government and center of political
activity has become accustomed to receiving and entertaining organi-
zations.
12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

During the last fiscal year numerous learned bodies met in various
halls in this city. The many attractions of the capital, the opportunity
of easy access to public record offices and the Congressional Library,
the general interest of the Government buildings, combine to make
Washington a favored city for such purpose. During the last fiseal
year the tollowing organizations, among others, held their meetings
here:

Photographers’ Association 22-6... 2520 se. se seen = aioe eee eee Aug. 11.
Association of Official Aoricultunall/Chemists 222222255222. ees oases Aug. 28-30
Convention ofmAmericanarchilbects: =o 4-9-2. sane a oeee eee eee eee eee Oct, 22-24.
Convention ofinonyandssteelamentaes. se oe seer eee er eee eeeee Oct. 25.
American, Ornithologists MMO = se sec am seeeile inte ise eee eee Nov. 18-20.
ATMeRIcanun CONOM[CEASSOCLAGION cssemr cies eee Sane eeee senate eee Dee. 30.
AMERICAN LK OLeSornys ASSO CGIMULOM! 2222 oe sae cee eae aes ete ete erat eee eee Dee. 30.
AMericanvHistoriedl ASSO ClablONtaee se ee sees Seo ee see eee eee eee eee eee Dee. 30.
National Dairy and Food Commissioners’ Association .......-...--------. Jan.14, 15.
National American Woman’s Suffrage Association .............----.-...- Feb. 16.
The National Mary Washington Memorial Association ...-......-....---- Feb. 25:
Triennial meeting of the Woman’s National Council -.-.....-.-....-..---- Feb. 25.
Southern Paritt Assoctationss:../2 sss 2 losses 2s eke sees ceased e eee eee Mar. 25.
American Association of Inventors and Manufacturers .....--...--...---- Apr. 8-10.
National MA adlemayyotiS GlemGES koe ates crete ete eae ta eed Apr. 21-24.
Association of Medical Superintendents of American Institutions for the

IAS BING ie wets aise ie cies ee, etaie SS ds Clee stele ee hee ee aa ere ee Apr. 29.
AmenlcanwAcademy on, Meticiiel. asa see sae eee eres a eee ener eee May 2-4.
Conterences of/State Boardsiot Health 222 3e2 ee ese ee eee eee eee May 2-4.
Anvenicany Pisheries Asso CiatlOn. = eens cee ete oe see ae eee May 27, 28.
National GeooraphicalsSociety 225.2025 sn% ssp 2 ce ere fe os os) Sein ieee eee eee

PARTICIPATION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IN THE WORLD'S
COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION.

Mention was made in the last report of the provision by Congress for
holding an Exposition in the city of Chicago in 1893 for the purpose of
celebrating the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America
by Christopher Columbus. Dr. G. Brown Goode, assistant secretary,
in charge of the National Museum, was appointed by the President the
representative of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum
upon the Government Board of Managers and Control. Dr. Goode was
invited by the Government Commission to prepare for its use a prelimi-
nary plan of classification for the Exhibition. This was done, and in
September, 1890, a “draft of a system of classification” was presented
to the Committee on Classification. It formed the basis of the classifi-
cation subsequently adopted, although modified of course by the neces-
sities of the case and the peculiar views of the executive heads of the
various departments of the Exhibition. This classification has never
been published, although a small edition was printed for the use ot the
committees. It was, however, never made accessible for general use.
It was published under the following title: “First Draft of a System
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13

of Classification for the World’s Columbian Exposition.” In the prep-
aration of this classification an exhaustive study was made of all classi-
fications which had been published in connection with previous exhibi-
tions. Since up to the present time no attempt has been made to pre-
pare a scheme so generally comprehensive, it is reproduced in the Ap-
pendix (Section 11) to this report, in the hope that it may be useful to
persons who are engaged in exhibition or museum administration.

During the latter part of the year the Treasury Department decided
that the sum of between $30,000 and $40,000 was available for expeudi-
ture in connection with the preparation of the Government exhibits.
This sum was divided among the executive departments, ineluding
the Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum, and the Fish Com-
mission; the Smithsonian Institution, including the National Museum
and the Bureau of Ethnology, receiving about $6,000, As soon as this
money became available, several of the curators in the National
Museum commenced work upon the special exhibits of their depart-
ments, and a force of taxidermists and mechanics was engaged. Mr.
Rh. Edward Earll was appointed chief special agent in April, and
will act as the executive officer under the direction of the representa-
tive of the Smithsonian Institution.

PATENT CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.

The celebration of the beginning of the second century of the American
patent system by a Congress of American Inventors and Manufacturers
was held on April 8,9, and 10, 1891. A committee of citizens of Wash-
ington was appointed to carry out the details. Mr. J. E. Watkins,
curator of the section of transportation, was appointed secretary. The
ceremonies consisted of a series of meetings at which addresses relating
to the history and influence of invention were delivered by prominent
statesmen, inventors, political economists, and engineers, During the
meetings a loan collection was installed in the lecture hall of the Na-
tional Museum, where machines of antique design, models, and early
patents were inspected and studied. In this collection were patents
signed by Washington, Madison, and Monroe, the first two talking-
machines, an antique electrical railway constructed in 1837, the original
Morse telegraph instruments, the first photographic camera made in
the United States, the original typewriting machine from which the
perfected Remington typewriter was constructed, early forms of sew-
ing machines, besides other curious and useful devices, many of which
have been donated to the Museum, and are now on exhibition. Prof.
Otis T. Mason, curator of ethnology, read a paper before the congress,
entitled ‘* The Birth of Invention.”

BOARD ON GEOGRAPHIC NAMES.

Prof. Otis T. Mason, curator of ethnology in the National Museum,
Was appointed by the President of the United States a member of the
14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Board of Geographic Names. The decisions of this Board in regard to
the spelling and pronunciation of geographical names will be accepted
as final.

NECROLOGY.

Mention should be made of the death of Mr. William Wesley, of
London, on April 17, 1891. For nearly thirty years he was identified
with the Smithsonian Institution as its agent in the transmission of
books and other material, through the Bureau of International Ex-
changes.

D.—THE CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS.

It is evident, from a perusal of the reports of the curators, that
special effort has been been made during the year to bring the collec-
tions into as satisfactory a condition as possible. The lack of space for
the installation of additional specimens in most of the departments
renders further development, so far as the exhibition series are con-
cerned, impracticable.

A large proportion of the accessions is reserved for the duplicate
and study series, and the increase during the year, including the spec-
imens intended for exhibition, is indicated in the following table:

No. of || No. of

Departments. speci- |; Departments. speci-
mens. |) mens.
“Arts and industries: | Reptiles and batrachians -....----.-.::.- 885

Materia medica-....... seers essere 168 | WiSh@S': -. en adstaj-ce eee oeecree eee eee 4, 737

Amma products: see ccine cee le eee 45 | Vertebrate fossils... .00 epee ees eeereee 9

Domestic animals (for mounting). ---- 31 || Mollusks (including cenozoic fossils)....)| 5,000

Historical collection, coins, medals, [PINS CCHS team aise esas ere ey BAG gt 12, 000

PApPeLMONEY, Cle apere ease cee ae 3, 000 | Marine invertebrates <2. sc sss=- ss eee 6, 750

Musical instruments.....-...--..-.... | 95 || Comparative anatomy :

Transportation and engineering. ----- 222 | Mammals (skulls and skeletons - - - J

Modern porcelain, porcelain and | Birds:chstr 2522 82S PS Sete eee ee 655

Ibron Zea ek senate ere aes. Se 12 || Reptiles and batrachians ..-.......- {

Physical apparatus «cee == emi = | 10 | Invertebrate fossils:

(TAP NIC ALtSi ceo -- ce cic seas ssfonas 374 | PaleoZ0iC). 2 ences aces ae eee 615
hinol ogy s aes ae tec ec eset See 1,800 || Mesozoie’ 282 221212: Sea | 8,449
American aboriginal pottery .--.....-.--. 1 (219) | MBlossil planitisy: <es4s¢--- 21 eee | 178
Oxientaliantiquities):<sc5-~5-<.- c= cee | 2 |\ Recent: plants. <0. (-.:+-.- ease eee 40, 963
Prehistoric anthropology ..-..--.---..--.| 4, 084 | Minerals 2.25. 6222 osc ee eee eee Le
Mammal (skins and alcoholics) ----...---- 465" || Geology; scete sles ascii cee cael ae eres 31, 400
erases ae Cina ta! Rat 85 La 2, 382 || “33, 610
Bindsverrsjand Nests:2-- 22-2 Je 2- 226 onc 925 || |

Jn order to present a basis for comparison in the matter of the growth
of the collections during previous years and in 1891, the following table
is presented, showing the annual increase since 1881;
15

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

“STOTJOOTION [VOTAOJSTY OT} UL papnypouT oq 69 AayzroIOy 2

“O68 LE UL 9peul OSVILOUL Jo OVBUITISS ON y

“OUSOTVILO OY} UO opLut U99q oAvY AvoA OY} SuLanp poato%.l [VIWo}VUL JO Sotajue ON

-Ayao spooy £

*popnypour jou soqvordndg @

*s[to puv ‘squemsrd ‘syured Surpnpouy p
*[RIIEYLUL SROTTWIOM Jo uote

-O1 OY} 0} SUMO ‘ERgT LOZ poyVUMTso ULY SSoT AOU ST TOL9eT[09 oY] UT SuoTIIOedS Jo JoquINE [v}0} OTF ‘iveX oy} SulMp poatoood uoeg oavy suomitoeds oz gnoqe YSnoyIpLy 2
“[RILOJLUL SSa[TIIOM Jo uoToofed 9t[y 0} ENP ST Yor ‘ASani[eyom pue Asopoyyty, Jo guow4aedop oyy FO sMOr}0eT[09 9YY UL osvodoop yuowndde

oq) Aq pourejdxe st sty, ‘0681 10F PUL BSI OF STRIO} VYY Jo Uostuvduos vB WOIAZ siveddy uvyy 10}VeI5 ST 06,-688T IveA 94) SuUTLAMp SMOTZO9T[OO BY UL oSvoTONT [VNJOV OT, @

: "GQRT JO JIVY ISA AOZ Voyey WOIWdOT[OD 9YY JO SNSUGD ON D

16 99 ae ace ee aoa | (a ese kel ees oye iol (ee aia ie Sta oe be cin amas a (ieee Gai meets wi Td tere Alt ene Te a agg © er Meet Gerace oa aie nies 3 S[RUILUR OTZS9ULOT,
amt jam tl ne Oe | Megas Te ances Be iui
3 L612 |e SUINS PUR S[IQ
SL £93 1634 Tea 8 Tea 0&% | +------snqravdde Teorskyg
ee 7, Sah eee a sete | OOS 006 00g | OOS Sa i=, lca ae SUSE ees ma aka] Ae ae oa [So = ie ee ete -----  AToTTVX) UIIVD CU: s
L6T L61 601 oor 4 00L LLa | “---s-sodp pue squreg
FFL ‘S GELS 110 LOS | 8&4‘ SLE 'S lipase sig SOA a? RI Bs a {eee sazmoig pure ‘urepeodod ‘Kraqjod woepopy
CFS | LPP LOP LGF LI¥ | 00F P | | > --""SPUOUINIJSUL [BOISN TAL
Se ae Brig ante mate re f | 200 1 Bs eae Roce se ee eee “>> ojo ‘Couour saded ‘spepaua ‘sut0g
| 200 ‘T Vanpabar gies oe sll Sea aia cor lige seo Go| ae nce ornare 7=- >> SOTfod [BOTIOISIY
009 009 ¥ 009 4 SORSRSAEOET Ss oJ SOCHC RNS ONGoRe asnoom SOROS SO Kays) | | AINQIOPMPOAR [BAL NT
GLP 'T 096 ‘T PRR EOR OGREES 3 lpi tr eri pana aS 1 ee ae oa oa eS ie act aa CRORES lear O ee OG ele o red aa pe eer oe Sureousue pue woyrztodsuvay,
FL6 009. tert cccetr cc feee rere t rec fec ene Ssditie | Sass teegde oe | aee setae ss Regee Hee cc Peotone ate ger on he Ogee sqae ordre.
F66 ‘% 6FG 8F6 G28 ‘78 | cen ‘2 | 000°L \aSapatiens = Dag cemn es, I Sepseeeae Go oe syonpoad jeuTay
080 ‘OL 080 ‘OL 840 ‘018 810 ‘018 018 ‘6.2 Ogee MES ae cere ene one steele 2S See SeoGe ss > SA SOUOU STE
886 ‘8 883 ‘6 Bea's FFL 64 £90 ‘6 | 000% (eeepc er a iw a Aa lies Ties die ge ae  k e e soyxaT,
TIt'T t'T 16 11g 6 228 2 | Re ‘L \weTp | ---- spoogy
£86 ‘9 G16 ¢9 | ct6‘s GOL "e 0e8 “F Gtr? 000 ‘F he para e: nee yaa ag ace “=> ROTpaUl BIIOIL AL

:SOLSNpUL pur syry

“T6.-068T “06.-6881 9 “68-8881 “88, -L881 “18,-988T "98,-C881 v F881 “S881 | “G88T ‘quourredap Jo ove Ny

“TSS IOUS $U0YIA2}09 AY} UWL asvaLoU poORUUD Buoys 31qVL :
REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

16

“ERRT JO JTRY 4SAY oJ WoyLy Worjoe][Oo 9q Jo sTsTIAD O)

FIL ‘8306 FOI “G68 *G Pro ‘r98'% =| EGF ‘e08'e | «GEE ‘999 2 | #6 ‘Oar @ | 009 ‘ZLF‘T EFT £96 BOGLEGT) lines scan ahaa SoS eS Goce [e101

So Scorer agonal Epeeseamrap ---- | Tey wu | Ace BES See SRP + | Ce Re cease gyn a
rai y6 2 pOleaey § | 940 cg Gif T¢ 000 “6%? | 000 ‘8F | 000 ‘OF COOH UES neil] 32 SS > ORES ie ames ees eer A aniese onneneee pue Soe
0 | 000 ‘22 00 ‘Zz | 00G “169 L¥9 ‘0G | 000 ‘ST 006 ‘ZI CONG RET oa a IS Se Og ioe ADojoas yeatsAyd pue ASopoyywy
983 ‘FF TOT ‘Le 069 ‘1 | 968 ‘Ta | 109 ‘8T 10F ‘ST | 019 ‘9T agit = [Peoseces picialel fois == aier= info shen steicinis Sie sinisin(che ci sea aa S[BIsUlyy
L19 ‘08 $99 ‘6e £ : 000 ‘Reo | 000 ‘ee 2 000 ‘08 AES Us Gal a ee ae arrig che sees ec agence cere saarees syuryd yuaoey
$89 ‘OT | L0¢ ‘OT 000 ‘OL | C9F 8 | 6b Le | 166 ‘L 4 IRQs oleracea ae ie sa ai a aaa LE syueyd [ESso7
| (SYSnT[OUL ILA pepnyouy) latte eg oom erie ee aS S[ISSoy 9IOZOTIAD)
¥GL '6L g08 ‘TL G36 ‘OL GL ‘OL | cP ‘69 | 000 “00T Hoes Cale aee ow lesen cigar ane nian SO AIEGL 2 cere tak a ge atniig eal S[ISSOJ DLOZOSATL
016 “G6 GSE 6 679 ‘F8 | 16% F8 | 28 ‘08 | 000 “GL 000 ‘0% [ae cei ne we San Samar = ea S[ISSOJ OLOZO9TR A,

186 ‘ZI 9ze ‘ZI g92 ‘IT goo ‘TT @z0 ‘119 orz‘or. § | 0008 aay ence el SO Sate hae eee er LCHELLY

| U| FI? | 089 't | cera ber ee oo ey teh aoe cog. A50[00380
| | | :AuLojVUB oATZVIvd TOD
OGL ‘929 000 ‘0zS 000 “OSF 9 | 000 ‘ose 2 000 ‘002 4 28 FTL | TREC UES cgfite <S Semaine a etter men Sayed a WOAUT OULIE VT
000 ‘0E9 000 ‘819 000 ‘Egg a | 000 ‘00¢ 9 OOOSTCT wea) +|bstccate macnn | 000 ill ie a ea Passe x Renee RE Se ea Te Gao mae syoosuT
006 ‘9LF 00S ‘TLF | 000 "Ge 000 ‘09F 4 000 ‘00F lies gee PEABO E SS ong Snot p Rais ho te cena a eS "eis SHSUTOWL
16S ZIG¢@ ee aera | RS ES SN Ng eg a ad fn ed lief ooh beet |i, eee pe FS en ta a nen eae SR STISSOJ 97B.1Q9}.10 A
B1é ‘Ler GLE ‘GST 098 “LOT | 0S6 ‘TOT | 000 “00T | 000 ‘GL 000 ‘89 000 “<9 000 “0¢ este ae SHES SER 20 See oa as SOUSTaT
GE6 “62 0&0 ‘6z GOP 8% | p99 ‘12 FS ‘LZ | FFE ‘co G6F ‘66 \ieetagcoera abies |e gaseeccnen cas. aw eRe sae ke suerypousjeq pur spyder
991 ‘Ze FZ ‘TS | SLT 0S | sg0 ‘0g ELT 8h £91 ‘FF 10 ‘OF Sacaspeibte ||pecenceniees (pare Se AES FE peas Sjsou pur 8959 Spiig
‘109 ‘29 | 616 ‘09 PL6 LS | #8F ‘9c 186 ‘FE | S¥6 ‘cc | ogs ‘0g | 9FG LF iatomag feet Bess oe ap eee eee 00° Spal
108 6 9£8 ‘8 G26 8 | 890 ‘8 | 1182 TSF ‘2 | 69'S | 026 'F 099 ‘F AeA ee (SO}LOHOOIN PUM: ST Fate) :8 EEREURSIN.
TOL ‘LET | 119 ‘2a GLP ‘OTL 19 ‘801 629 ‘TOT PIs ‘G9 | Bae ‘St | Ter ‘OF BIg ‘ce tens ae Sar ope Sasa ~~~ ASojodoryz UE d1104sTY OL
L8¥ '€ cer ‘s OG Biased eg aaa e S . sarqmbryue [ey deo
88F ‘0S 692 ‘62 BBE ‘8% Bl ‘LG 9 zzo'9z9 ~—s:| 000 ‘ez | 000 ‘ZI lee fee San raga as fake Geng oa Auayjod [BULstA0qe UROToULY
0£9 ‘OTS 068 ‘80g Ze ‘90S FOF ‘SOS | POL ‘cos 000‘00¢9 000 “00% Fee et eee as Se oe aa ey ui aig ts Sea vores ss KSoTOUTIA

25 as == E ¢ ree aes || = 5 | eee aa SS
| | |
“16.0681 “06.6881 2 “68,8881 "88.-L88T “L8.-988T "98.-G8819 | — “FR8I | ‘eesti! ‘quetayiedep Jo oue Ny
|

“pentIywo7—JSSJ aaUis 8u0yoaz}00 ay} UL aspauoUr ponuUD fiuiMoYs 21qDL
14

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY,

YIvg_ [eaSolooz [emoye Ny IY] OF paaiaysuvsly, w,
S980 9[GRI JO SIO MVIP OY} UI Tostavdmi09 pay Apngs 1oy AVAP PIIOZS [C1I94CUL yeorqdvaSoajed jo Ayarypo ysisttoo suempoeds 999 ‘9T JWOQL YGBT LOF 12309 049 FO
‘papNOUl SI S9T188 9}VoT[Anp pur 9Asosa.a OY} UT SUdUITDEds BT} JO eyvUIT]Sa OM YeYyy Jory oNy Aq (Z) pw ‘MOLoeTT0o ayy WoT SHOTMFOIdS Jo SpuRSNoTy [V1OAOS JO wotwefod oy Aq (7) ~
IOF POJUNOIOV ST GRST LOF [v}0} poyenntyso ayy Jo yaeo Jed gg uULYY s1otM jo esvordep yuourddv ayy, “Asopoos jo JuouTjzedep JopuN “Gggy 19G0}9O UT POUT UIOD SMOROsT[O) 7 é
*‘Sollos OAdaSoI UY ¥
INYNOMSy jo weupiedaq oy} Ysno0.19 WNtIvgsoY [LMOT{LN 9G} OF pappL [VI0jVM OpNpoUT Jou seop pue “MNeSsnyY Iq} YSuosyy poatoovoa stourroeds 03 ATO soyeped sry, F
THOMA [OD 8, PABA “JOLT JO oAIsNp XG 2
“syueid yue001 PUB TIssoy Y
‘STISSsoO] OlOzouWD Surpnyouy L
“SoLtgao onsopeyry
“06,-688T ced 09 SatmMp paatoooa SvM JOquINT siqy Aq poyMasarded WOTZDeT[09 om} FO MoTy1od TTeUIS B ATUC 2
‘s]SsoU SUIpNpouy p
‘poywmMyss 9
‘TeIAAVUM SS9TGIAOM JO Torjoefar OY 09 oONp st Wor ‘ASainqLjom puw ASopoyyy, Jo puouysedap aq} Jo SuOTZOaT[OO aq UL sSvedoap yuommdde
ey} Aq poureydxo SI SINT, ‘068T 1OF pu GRBT IOJ S[vj04 oy} Jo Wostaediuoo v Woy suvodde uLYy I9{Vads ST 06-6881 Leas 9YY SUTANpP SUOLoe]][O0 9} UL asvatoNT [enor oT, |

sm 91, pr2

i
18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CATALOGUE ENTRIES.

The number of catalogue entries made in the books of the several
departments during the year amounts to 21,942. Under one entry may
be mentioned one specimen, or a large number of specimens, if from
the same locality or of the same species. The following table shows
the number of entries made in each department during the year:

Departments. Po ate | Departments, apoenneal
s ———_— =| =})\—— ee ——— | =
Arts and Industries; Reptiles and hatrachians ---.......-. | 908
Materia medical... ~~ 2. .2-2s-.cm-.- | 168%) | MENS HOS = aceon ee een eee 1, 542
PAMIIMAll prod IChs)-en\sea~ ~ -- 45 || Vertebrate tossils=5---2- 52 224- = +e 458
Domestic animals (for mounting) -| 97 || Mollusks (including cenezoic fossils) - 5, 605
Historical collections, coins, IG ht eaeaacoscaaangde + sasacsoccacons | 174
medals, paper money, ete ..-...-. 56 || Marine invertebrates ...,............ 1, 239
Musical instruments -...-......... 95 || Comparative anatomy :
Transportation and engineering . . 122 Mammals (skulls and skeletons) -
Modern pottery, porcelain, and BING See se ee ee eee | 655
IDTONZES hens soccer ware eterno Se 12 || Reptiles and batrachians -.....-
Physical apparatus -.....-..-...., 10) #Raleozoic fossils 2 -e-c-e eee 205
Graphiotarteg----5 es 2 soe see | 126i MECSOZO1C TOSSIIS eee) aes aeee sees 1, 488
LAWTON 7 socce Steam oct Soroesceenentes 175045! MOssil plan 08 yee arene eee eee 40
American aboriginal pottery -.-...... 33 ||| Recent plants 5,222: 222. = s=ceel= 2 =cee 44
Prehistoric anthropology ..-.....,..-. | GEES Ill WhinGnPioc sos hoonbocseccdssoece RASA A 1,131
Mammals, skins, and alcoholics ..-.---- 465 | Geology <..-n.ars eee iee- eo ee eee 873
TEnGS) Jo SAS teen ece ne ee cence mee 2, 382 | Mota tc oe ee 94 949
Birds’ eggs and nests -.--.-----.------ 332 |

It may perhaps interest those who are watching the growth of the
national collections, to observe the figures in the following table, which
show the number of entries made in the catalogue books of the several
departments during the decade now completed, and also during the
previous decade—that is, before the occupancy of the Museum build-
ing.

Number of entries made in the catalogue books of the National Museum during the decades
1871 to 1880 and 1881 to 1890, respectively.

wear: Veanenics CES: | cae cane

(pete eames | B,04I ISB: oak eases | 24, 470 |

1892 aie oo ee otha | CHEE yg | tcp ieee sensor | 26, 588 |
Te (dette see sae So 1070S TGRs 2. ewer ae 28, 590
i Seeger 10,332 '}| 188i: 220 See 28, 195
IS7b: e.cec se cssece| 12578 || SRE << ae eee 26, 796
TST ON a ence | + 195,675 | 186652 se coe eee 52, 116
I Stee ae ee | 119398) ||1887ee eee eee 36, 695
iA Cees eee 9, 978" || 1888 cscece eee 26, 891
iG ck eee ae Jit, 552)|||) 1S80 been nee eeeee 23, 442
igaere seh 5 sec. || 04586 ||| 18008 -2 -e eee 28, 293
| Motale cs. 118, 226 Putalicce ees 332, 076

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY 19

DEVELOPMENT AND ARRANGEMENT OF THE EXHIBITION SERIES.

The growth of the exhibition series in the various departments of the
Museum has been greatly retarded on account of the crowded condition
of the Museum building.

In the Section of Graphic Arts the labeling of specimens on exhibi
tion has been continued and the cataloguing of the Osborne collection
completed. In theSection of Transportation and Engineering an attempt
has been made to secure a series of objects Ulustrating the birth and
development of the mechanical arts, with special reference to the evo-
lution of the epoch-making inventions. The labeling and cataloguing
of specimens in the exhibition series has been completed. The study
and exhibition series have been increased by a collection of engravings,
prints, photographs, and drawings of locomotives, cars, bridges, and
other railroad apparatus and appliances. In order to provide room for
the display of valuable objects acquired during the year, it was found
necessary to rearrange the entire exhibition series, and many objects
were installed on the tops of cases, or on brackets, with a view to
greater economy of space. Considerable progress was made in the
Department of Ethnology in connection with the installation of the
series of bows, arrows, and shields. An exhibition series of time-
keeping apparatus has been commenced, and a card-catalogue of the
ethnological series was begun. <A series of type portraits of man-
kind, 33 in number, was prepared by Mr. A. Zeno Shindler. A series
of fire-making implements was arranged by Mr. Walter Hough. Prepa-
rations were commenced at the close of the fiscal year for an ethnologi-
val exhibit at the World’s Fair. In the Department of Prehistoric
Anthropology the collections have been rearranged according to local-
ity, necessitating a change in the location of the cases and a rearrange-
ment of the material in the trays. Six months were required for the
completion of this work. The preparations for an exhibition of mam-
mals at the World’s Fair have somewhat retarded progress in the in-
stallation and arrangement of the exhibition series. In the Department
of Birds five exhibition cases were filled with specimens, properly ar-
ranged and labeled, and a large portion of the study collection of
American Passeres and Picariv was entirely rearranged. The installa-
tion of the collection of reptiles and batrachians in jars was continued
during the year, and the reserve series of North American batrachians
was arranged in systematic order. The space assigned to the Depart-
ment of Vertebrate Fossils is greatly overcrowded, thus preventing a
complete arrangement of the study and exhibition series, a large
amount of unclassified material being in storage. The Department of
Mollusks has shown considerable activity in the development of its
exhibition series during the year. The Lea collections have been
placed in permanent shape. The Naiades have been placed on exhibi-
tion in new cases, The reserve collection in the Department of Insects
20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

has steadily increased, and the exhibition series is now arranged in
permanent shape. Additional accommodations have been provided for
the Department of Marine Invertebrates, whereby space is provided for
seven additional unit cases. The development of the exhibition series
will be deferred until the west hall is again ready for occupation. In
the Department of Comparative Anatomy the work of labeling the
series has been commenced and a tentative plan for a synoptic exhibi-
tion series has been arranged. The honorary curator of Paleozoic
fossils, Mr. C. D. Walcott, finds it very difficult to handle the large
amount of material received, owing to the limited laboratory room, and
over 50 boxes of material have been placed in storage in order to ob-
tain room for the collections desired for immediate study. The collec-
tion of mesozoic fossils, under the charge of Dr. C. A. White, have
been rearranged in cases, and are now in much better condition for
examination and study than before. The collection of fossil plants,
under the supervision of Prof. Lester F. Ward, honorary curator, has
been rearranged geographically during the year, and the series of cre-
taceous and tertiary specimens have been catalogued. In the Mineral
Department a nearly complete rearrangement of the systematic series
was carried out during the year by Mr. Wm.5S. Yeates, under the direc-
tion of Prof. F. W. Clarke, honorary curator. A new case was built
across the east end of the west-south range, affording to the Depart-
ment of Geology accommodations for the collection of structural color
and the specific gravity series, as well as for the larger collections in
historical geology.

K.—THE MUSEUM STAFF.
THE SCIENTIFIC STAFF.

The personnel of the scientific departments of the Museum has un-
dergone but little change during the last fiscal year.

Capt. J. W. Collins, who has been in charge of the section of naval
architecture for several years, has recently been appointed honorary
curator of the section of fisheries.

Mr. J. B. Hatcher was temporarily appointed in December as an as-
sistant to Prof. O. C. Marsh, honorary curator of the department of
vertebrate fossils, for the purpose of arranging and classifying the
collection which has now been transferred to the Museum.

Mr. Frederick C. Test, a graduate of Indiana State University, was
appointed an aid in November, 1890, to assist Dr. Stejneger, in the de-
partment of reptiles and batrachians.

There are now thirty-three organized departments and sections in the
Museum under the care of curators, including honorary and acting
Curators, and assistant cuyators,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 21
LIST OF CURATORS, ASSISTAN'L GURA'TORS, AND AIDS:

Arts and Industries: Dr. G. Brown Goops, Honorary Curator.
Materia Medica: Dr. JAMES M. Friint, U.S. Navy, Honorary Curator:
Animal Products: Mr. R. Epwarp EaARLi, Acting Curator.
Naval Architecture: Capt. J. W. Couns, U.S. Fish Commission, Honorary
Curator.
Fisheries: Capt. J. W. CoLuins, U.S. Fish Commission, Honorary Curator.
Foods: Prof. W.O. Arwarer, Department of Agriculture, Honorary Curator.
Historical Collections, Coins and Medals: Mr. A. Howarp Ciark, Curator.
Transportation and Engineering: Mr. J. E. WATKINS, Curator.
Oriental Antiquities: Prof. PAuL Haurr, Johns Hopkins University, Honorary
Curator; Dr. Cyrus ADLER, Johns Hopkins University, Assistant Curator.
Graphic Arts: Mr. S. R. Kornier, Boston Museum of Fine Arts, Acting
Curator.
Forestry: Dr. B. E. FeErNow, Department of Agriculture, Honorary Curator.
Physical Apparatus: Mr. W. C. WinLock, Honorary Curator.
Ethnology: Prof. Orrs T. Mason, Curator; Mr. WALTER HovuGu, Assistant.
American Prehistoric Pottery: Mr. Wititiam H. Houmes, Bureau of Ethnology,
Honorary Curator.
Prehistoric Anthropology: Dr. THOMAS WILSON, Curator; Mr. E. P. UpHam, As-
sistant.
Mammals: Mr. FREDERICK W. TRuE, Curator.
Birds: Mr. Ropert RipGway, Curator.
Birds’ Eggs: Capt. C. E. BENpiRE, U. 8. Army, Honorary Curator.
Reptiles and Batrachians: Dr. LEONARD STEJNEGER, Curator.
Fishes: Dr. TARLETON H. Bran, U. 8. Fish Commission, Honorary Curator; Mr.
Barton A. BEAN, Assistant Curator.
Vertebrate Fossils: Prof.O.C. Marsnu, Yale College, Honorary Curator; Mr. Frep-
ERIC A. Lucas, Assistant Curator.
Mollusks: Mr. WittiAM H. Dati, U.S. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator; Dr.
R. E. C. StEARNS, Adjunct Curator.
Insects: Prof. C. V. Rinby, Department of Agriculture, Honorary Curator; Mr.
Martin L. LINELL, Aid.
Marine Invertebrates: Mr. RicHarp Ratrupsun, U.§. Fish Commission, Honorary
Curator; Mr. JAMES E. Benepict, Assistant Curator.
Comparative Anatomy: Dr. FRANK Baker, Honorary Curator; Mr. Freperic A,
Lucas, Assistant Curator.
Invertebrate Fossils:
Paleozoic: Mr. C. D. Waxcort?, U.S. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator.
Mesozoic: Dr. C. A. WuiTtr, U. 8. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator.
Cenozoic: Mr. WitttAm H. Dat, U.S. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator.
Fossil Plants: Mr. Lester F. Warp, U. 8. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator;
Mr. F. H. KNOwLTon, Honorary Assistant Curator.
Botany: Dr. GrorGr Vasry, Botanist of the Department of Agriculture, Hon-
orary Curator.
Minerals: Prof. F. W. CLarke, Chief Chemist, U. 8. Geological Survey, Honorary
Curator; Mr. WILLIAM S. YEATES, Assistant Curator.
Geology: Mr. GEorGE P. MERRILL, Curator; Mr. W. H. Newnan, Aid.

THE ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.

No changes in the administrative departments have been made dur-
ing the year. In the office of the assistant secretary, Mr. Rk. E. Harll,
has been engaged on special duty connected with the Smithsonian ex-
hibit for the World’s Fair,
22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The department of accounts and supplies is still under the charge of
Mr. W. V. Cox, chief clerk. A statement of the work of this depart-
ment will be foiind on page 68.

The division of correspondence and reports is under the charge of
Mr, R. I. Geare. <A brief statement relating to the work of this depart-
ment will be found on page 73.

Mr. 8. C. Brown, registrar, is in charge of registration and storage.
A report of his work will be found on page 35.

Mr. A. Howard Clark has continued his work as editor of “ Pro-
eeedings” and “Bulletin” of the Museum. He also has charge of the
preparation and printing of labels.

The Museum library is under the care of Mr. John Murdoch. A
detailed statement of its operations for the year wlll be found on
page 42. ’

The superintendent of the Museum, Mr. Henry Horan, with Mr.
Charles A. Stetiart as assistant superintendent, continues in charge of
the mechanics and laborers of the Museum. On page 75 may be found
4 statement of the principal items of work performed by the force of
mechanies and laborers.

LIST OF THE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYES OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM,
JUNE 30, 1891.
SCIENTIFIC STAFF,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
S. P. LANGLEY.
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of U. S. National Museum,

G. BROWN GOODR.

Curators. Honorary Curators—Continued,
Frederick W. True. B. E. Fernow.
Robert Ridgway. Paul Haupt.
O, T. Mason. W. H. Holmes.
G. P. Merrill. ©. C. Marsh.
Thomas Wilson, Richard Rathbun.
A. Howard Clark. C. V. Riley.
Leonhard Stejneger, R. E. C. Stearns.
S. R. Koehler. George Vasey.
C. D. Walcott.

Honorary Curators. 1 Rward
W.O. Atwater. C. A. White.
Frank Baker. W.C. Winlock.
naar 3endire, U.S. A. sa
F. W. Clarke. Frederic A. Lucas.
J. W. Collins. J. KE. Benedict. *
W.H. Dall. W.S. Yeates.
Dr. J. M. Flint, U.S. N. B. A. Bean,

* Temporary.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT

Aids.

H. Gibb.*

O. A. Peterson, *
M.L. Linell.
Walter Hough.
P. LL. Jowy.

Chief Clerk.
Winv,. Cox.
Chiefs of Divisions.
Randolph I. Geare,

S. C. Brown.
A. Howard Clark.

Engineer of Property.
J. E. Watkins.
Disbursing Clerk.
W. W. Karr.
Finance Clerk.
W.H. Kimball.
Department Clerk.
J.M. Noah.
Assistant Librarian.
N. P. Scudder.
Property Clerk.
J.S. Goldsmith.
Storekeeper.
E.R. Todd.
Document Clerk.
A. R. Sheriff.
Clerks.

E. P. Upham.

C.H. James.

W. H. Newhall.
T.R. Turnbull.

A. F. Adams.

Mrs. H. W. Burnside.
K. E. Whiting.

Miss L., B. Gallaher.
Miss M. L. Stone.
Miss M. J. Rathbun.
Miss Edith Perry. *

CLERICAL STAFF,

* Temporary.

SECRETARY.

Aids—Continued.

C. T. Simpson,
B,C. Test, *

Th. Holm.*
Oscar Hinrichs. *
A. H. Brown.

Clerks—Continued,
Miss N. H. Smith. *
J. L. Willige. *

Miss M. FE. de Ronceray.

Miss 8S. E. Latham.
Miss S.S. Atkinson.
M.S. Diggs.

W.J. Rhees.

J.S. Sessford.

Miss L. D. Tabler.
Miss M. C. Dyer.*

Draftsmen.

W.H. Chandlee.
W. H. Burger. *

Copyists,

Miss K. A. Gallaher.
Thomas Marron.

H. B. Stimpson.
Miss E. M. Marbury.
Lorraine Tracy. ”*
Miss C. Rosenbusch.
Mrs. E. C. Montis.*
Mrs. F. E. Malone. *
Miss C. L. Hurlbut.*
Miss Carrie Cornell. *
S. H. Bond.

Miss N. C. Beard.

H. N. Spottswood. *

Miss Alice Macfarland, *

Miss M. A, Yeatman.*
Photographer.
T. W. Smillie.
Artist.

A. Zeno Shindler.

Taxidermists.

Joseph Palmer.
J. W. Sceollick.
Henry Marshall.
A. H. Forney.

N. R. Wood.*

23
al

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Preparators,
J.C. Proctor.
T. W. Sweeny.
C. R. Luscombe. *
G:C; Neale:
Superintendent,

Henry Horan.

Assistant Stperintendent.

€. A. Steuart:

Engineer:
J. H. Parkhurst.

Carpenters and Cabinetmakers.

R. L. Reed.
Henry Bushing, *
W. H. Haney. *
ReWickeyanie

C. B. Nichols. *

I. N. Bayne. *

T. P. Deery. *
William Duffy. *
EK. G. Harbour. *
KE, Thornburg, *

Painters.
C. A. D. Woltz.
Watchmen.
W. M. Ashley.
A. Skinner,
James Gant.
W. H. Brelsford.
J. H. Brown. *
hi A. Calvert.
J. J. Desmond.
Peter Dunne.
G. W. Field.
C. H. Holmead.
J. E. Hoover.
Jeo. eloran:
KF. D. Queen.
W. W. Wallingsford.
. W. Westfall.
J. F. Wilson. *
G. W. Woltz.
J. F. Gatton. *
M. B. Pollock. *

—

Firemen.
W. E. Beagle.
B. W. Burdine.
J. W. H. Wood.

* Temporary.

Skilled Laborers.

R. D. Graham.

G. C. McClain. *
F. I. Offutt.
Mark Mayforth. *
A. B. Thorn.
Joseph Berres. *
Peter Burger. *
W. B. Cooper.
He Co Valores

Laborers.

John Cahill.

W. F. Bannister.
William Chase.

Re Hall:

John Laws. 1

B. L. Phillips.
Charles Scott.
George White.
Patriek Ford.

1s SM Poel ep erer Sh

H. E. Harris.
Benjamin Buckner, *
Thornton Dean. *
Isaac Lyles. *
George F. Redman.
T. W. Reese, *
Oliver Roan, *
Fyederick Williams. *
Je Meee sim ethan:

Messengers.

Paul Brockett.
David Twine.
C. 8. Wright.
C. W. Diggs.

AY. (Co lavinie. *
G. C. Moore:

J. HE. Wingate. *

Attendants.

Mrs. M. A. Piper.
Mrs. Harriet Wassem.

Cleaners.

Mrs. Anastasia Coyle.
Mrs. A. V. Hess.

Mrs. M. J. Gregory.
Miss Kate Posey,
Mrs. S. E. Frankland. *

Mrs. Kate Hammersley. ~
7 er Ue

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 2h

f.— REVIEW OF WORK IN THE SCIENTIFIC DEPARTMENTS.

DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY:
ETHNOLOGY.

Progress in this department during the year nas been very satisfae-
tory, under the guidance of Prof. Otis T. Mason, curator. Lieut. T.
Dix Bolles, U.S. Navy, was detailed for duty at the museum for five
months, and rendered material aid in arranging and cataloguing speci-
mens from Oceanica. Valuable additions to the collection from Ocean-
ica were sent by Admiral Kimberly and Lieut. Safford, U. S. Navy.
A card-catalogue of the large collections of religious objects, secured
iniong the pueblos of the southwest by the Bureau of Ethnology, was
completed during the year. These collections were labeled by Mrs.
Tilly E. Stevenson, and are probably the largest and most complete of
any relating to the subject of Pueblo religion. The “artillery” of the
American aborigines has been worked up during the year, the linguis-
tie stocks of the aborigines have been fully studied out, and the loca-
tion of each tribe marked upon a map. An exhibition series of time-
keeping apparatus has been commenced, and a complete card-catalogue
of the ethnological series was continued during the year. Monographic
catalogues, based on the plan of those published by the South Kensing-
ton Museum, have also been commenced.

The curator has devoted considerable time to preliminary work in
connection with an ethnological exhibit at the World’s Columbian Ex-
position. It is proposed to illustrate in an effective manner the aborig-
inal lite of North America at the time the natives were first visited by
the white people, and before they were influenced by contact with our
civilization. The number of specimens added to the collection during
the year is 1,800. In the catalogue of the department 1,504 entries
have been made.

PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY.

The most important work of the year reported by the curator, Dr,
Thomas Wilson, has been the reclassification and rearrangement of the
entire collection according to locality. Special researches in many di-
rections have been prosecuted, including the following subjects: Cop-
per implements, jade implements, arrow-heads, casts and models of the
Aztee and Maya antiquities. Several important accessions have been
received during the year, and are referred to elsewhere in this report.
The number of specimens received during the year was 5,504. In the
catalogue 954 entries have been made.

GRAPHIC ARTS,

In the section of graphic arts the accessions, while not as numerous
as in previous years, have been quite as important. Among the most
valuable gifts is a series of specimens fully illustrating the photographic
26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

processes invented by Mr. J. W. Osborne; a collection of Japanese
color-prints and illustrated books, received from Mr. T. Tokuno, Tokio,
Japan; and an impression from a heliogravure plate made by Nice-
phon Niepee in 1824. Among the gifts to the collection were also
artists’ tools and material from FP. W. Devoe & Co., New York, and Mr.
J. M. Falconer, Brooklyn, N. Y. During the year the cataloguing of
the Osborne collection was completed.

The number of catalogue entries made during the year was 1,326, the
total number of specimens received being about 1,500, embracing 952
specimens in the Osborne collection received several years ago. The
entries representing entirely new material are 374 in number. The
Bibliography (Section Tv) contains notices of the papers, published by
Mr. Koehler during the year.

FORESTRY.

Dr. B. E. Fernow, honorary curator, reports that the forestry collee-
tions are being gradually increased by gifts. A systematic display of
the more important lumber trees by means of maps, showing their dis-
tribution, photographs of typical trees, and photomicrographs of the
structure of the wood, has been begun. ‘The most valuable accession
during the year was a very complete collection of the woods of the Ar-
gentine Republic, donated by the Museo de Productos Argentinos at
Buenos Ayres.

AMERICAN PREHISTORIC POTTERY.

Mr. W. H. Holmes, of the U.S. Geological Survey, is in charge of
this department. The most important accession during the year was a
collection of pottery fragments transmitted by the Bureau of Ethnology.
The. researches conducted by the curator relate mainly to collections
made by the Bureau of Ethnology during the past few years in the
Mississippi Valley and along the Alantic Coast. They will be embodied
in a forthcoming volume of ‘“ Contributions.” References are made in
the Bibliography (Section tv) to papers published by the curator dur-
ing the year, relating to excavations in an ancient soapstone quarry
in the District of Columbia and to the Thruston Tablet. The catalogue
entries for the year were 820 in number.

PHYSICAL APPARATUS.

The nucleus of the collection of physical apparatus consists chiefly
of pieces procured by Prof. Henry for researches in electricity and
sound. This collection is in charge of Mr. W. C. Winlock, honorary
curator. The principal accession is a collection of ancient watch-
movements obtained by Mr. S. P. Langley, secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, during a visit to London and Parisin the summer of 1890,
A collection of old surveying instruments was received from the sur-
veyor-general of Florida through the General Land Office of the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Dial

Department of the Interior. These instruments are supposed to haye
been used in laying the boundary line between Florida and Georgia in
1795,

HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS.

Mr. A. Howard Clark is in charge of these collections. The most
important accessions during the year are the original plaster model of
the Statue of Liberty from which was cast the bronze statue surmount-
ing the doine of the Capitol, and a large collection of personal papers
and relics of George Washington, including the original will of John
Washington. Several historical objects have been submitted for an
expression of opinion as to their historical and intrinsic value.

COLLECTION OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.

The work of mounting typical specimens of domestic animals has .
been continued by Mr. Nelson R. Wood, 69 specimens being mounted
during the year. Nearly all the specimens were difficult subjects, re-
quiring a great deal of time for their preparation. At the close of the
year covered by this report, 44 specimens of thoroughbred domestic
pigeons and fowls had been collected.

TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING.

These collections, under the custody of Mr. J. EK. Watkins, curator,
have been materially increased during the year, many valuable acces-
sions having been received. The collection of electrical apparatus has
been enriched by the receipt from Miss Mary Henry of the original
electro-magnetic engine designed by Prof. Joseph Henry. This machine
is one of the earliest applications of magneto-electricity to the produe-
tion of power. Prof. Henry described its action as “reciprocating motion
produced by magnetic attraction and repulsion.” Several drawings
and lithographs of the original telegraph instrument invented by Mr.
Alfred Vail were deposited by his widow, together with two letters,
describing Mr. Vail’s relations with Prof. Morse and the operations of
the first practical electro-magnetic telegraph machine. The Hinds
Ketcham Company of Brooklyn, N. Y., deposited a collection of in-
candescent lamps, switches, and other electric-light apparatus. One of
the original cylinders of the ‘‘Stourbridge Lion” has been deposited
in the Museum, by Lindsay and Early, of Carbondale, Pa.

The ceremonies attending the celebration of the beginning of the
second century of the American patent system were held in Washing-
ton, on the 8th, 9th, and 10th of April, 1891. Mr. Watkins was ap-
pointed secretary of the organization and devoted considerable time to
the work of the Congress. During the Patent Centennial a loan col-
lection was installed in the Museum embracing machines of antique
design, models, and early patents. Many of the objects forming this
collection have found a permanent place in the Museum collections,
28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The study and exhibition series have also been increased by a large
collection of engravings, prints, photographs, and drawings of locomo-
tives, cars, and track-standards, bridges, and many original rail-sec-
tions, deposited by Mr, Watkins,

MATERIA MEDICA,

Dr. James N. Flint, U.S. Navy, honorary curator, reports that the
work of arranging, installing and providing the specimens with de-
scriptive labels, has been systematically continued. With the exception
of the collection of medicines of the North American Indians and Chi-
nese and Japanese drugs, every specimen now has a printed descriptive
label. There were 168 specimens received during the year, principally
donations from Messrs Powers & Weightman, Philadelphia, and Parke,
Davis & Co., of Detroit. Novel and interesting additions were made
to the botanical illustrations, consisting of herbarium specimens of in-
digenous medical plants, not otherwise illustrated. These were pre-
pared by Mr. Theodore Holm, of the Museum staff.

DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY.
MAMMALS,

Mr. Frederick W. True, curator, reports a gratifying inerease in the
number of valuable mammals from foreign countries. New storage-
eases for the reserve series of alcoholics and small skins have been con-
structed. Dr. W. L. Abbott presented 76 mammals, collected by him in
Africa. Among American mammals the most interesting accession of
the year was a male walrus from Walrus Island, Bering Sea, obtained
by Capt. W. ©. Coulson, of the U. S. Revenue Marine Service. <A large
sea-lion and numerous specimens of fur-seals, marmots, shrews, and
Arctic foxes were obtained during the expeditions of Messrs. H. W.
Elliott and William Palmer (of the Museum staff) from the Pribyloyv
Islands. Thirty-two specimens were transferred to the Museum from
the Zodlogical Park during the year, including «a Rocky Mountain sheep,
a bison, black bear and ocelot.

Mr. P.L. Jouy, of the Museum staff, made collections of small mam-
mals in the Roan Mountain region of North Carolina and in southern
Arizona. Several groups of mammals have been placed in the exhibi-
tion hall during the year, the most conspicuous being a group of Kast
African Guereza monkeys, constructed from skins collected by Dr. W.
L. Abbott in the region of Kilima-Njaro, Africa; a group of Borneo
gibbons has been prepared, and is now awaiting the construction of a
suitable exhibition case. The reconstruction of the south entrance of
the Museum building as a storage room and laboratory was completed
in September, 1890. Preparations for an exhibit of mammals at the

-World’s Columbian Exposition were begun in March. The force of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. a0

taxidermists was increased and a special workshop was fitted up for

their use. Mr. William Palmer has been appointed chief taxidermist.
The mammal collections are, on the whole, in a good state of preserva-

tion. The number of specimens received during the year was 465,

BIRDS.

The increase in the collections in this departnent during the year
has been most gratifying. The Eighth Congress of the American Orni-
thologists’ Union was held in Washington in November, 1890. The
office of the curator of birds—Mr. Robert Ridgway—was used as the
headquarters for the members and the meeting-place of several com-
inittees, especially that on species and subspecies. Plans and esti-
mates for an exhibit of birds at the World’s Columbian Exposition were
prepared and subinitted by the curator.

The total number of specimens added to the collection during the
year was 2,478, and of catalogue entries, 2,383,

Mr. H. Nehrling, of Wisconsin, has published the first part of his
work on ** North American Birds,” many of the illustrations being taken
from plates in the reports of the National Museum.

BIRDS’ EGGS.

The collection of bids’ eggs and nests remains in the custody of
Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army, honorary curator. Among the
more important accessions during the year is an interesting collection
of eggs and nests, the gift of Mr. R. MacFarlane, of the Hudson Bay
Company. The number of eggs of North American birds in the col-
lection is now 45,031, and of foreign birds, 4,561. The number of nests
in the reserve and exhibition series is 2,574, making a total of 52,166
specimens of eggs and nests in the collection.

REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS.

The year covered by this report is reported by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger,
curator, aS one of unusual activity. The principal accessions received
were a collection of reptiles made by Mr. P. L. Jouy, the study of which
will probably result in greatly increasing and correcting existing knowl-
edge of the herpetology of the southwestern border; a valuable collec-
tion of reptiles from Idaho contributed by Dr. ©. Hart Merriam, of the
Department of Agriculture. Of the exotic collections none exceed in
importance those received trom Dr. W. L. Abbott, and collected by him
in the Seychelles, Madagascar, and Kilima-Njaro region, Mast Africa.
In addition to his other duties, the curator has assumed the editorship
of the supplement to the ‘“Nomenclator Zodlogicus.” The titles of
papers published during the year by Dr. Stejneger will be found in the

sibhiography (Section rv, of the report).

During the year 908 specimens have been added to the collection,
30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
FISHES.

Dr. Tarleton H. Bean is still the honorary curator of this department,
with Mr. Barton A. Bean as assistant. The number of specimens re-
ceived during the year is 4,737, Prominent among them is a collection
of deep-sea fishes from the Mediterranean Sea, received from the Mu-
seum of Natural History in Paris, France. The U.S. Fish Commission
has transmitted a collection of fresh-water fishes from Arkansas, Ala-
bama, Georgia, Colorado, and Utah, made by Profs. David 8S. Jordan,
S. E. Meek, C. H. Bollman, and Bert Fessler; a collection containing
16 new species obtained by the steamer Albatross from the Pacific
coast; a collection made by the Albatross in 1887-1888 at Bahia, Pata-
gonia, and the Straits of Magellan, and a collection from Chesapeake
Bay made by Messrs. Barton A. Bean and P. Seal.

VERTEBRATE FOSSILS.

This department is in charge of Prof. O. C. Marsh, honorary curator,
and Mr. Frederic A. Lucas, assistant curator. Few accessions were
received during the year. Twenty-seven specimens were mounted for
exhibition. The large and valuable series of western fossils received
from Prof. O. ©. Marshis being arranged and classified. The collection
now embraces 1,080 specimens, many of them being of great value. A
large amount of unclassified material is still in storage.

MOLLUSKS (INCLUDING TERTIARY FOSSILS).

Mr. William H. Dall, of the U. 8S. Geological Survey, is still in charge
of this department, and is assisted in the scientific work by Dr. R. E.
C. Stearns, as adjunct curator, and by Mr. Gilbert D. Harris and Mr.
Frank Burns, of the U.S. Geological Survey. The general operations
of this department have been confined to the determining, labeling,
assorting, and registration of specimens, and to the preparation of
special reports on collections received from the U.S. Fish Commission,
the Navy Department, the Revenue Marine Service, the Department of
Agriculture, and from special expeditions. The collection of mollusks
in the National Maseum now ranks among the most important in the
world, especially by reason of the scientific data associated with the
material and the thorough system of registration and identification
which has been applied to the specimens. Mr. Dall has been largely
engaged in preparing a general report on the Neocene formations of the
United States. Dr. Stearns has devoted much of his time to an investi-
gation of the mollusks of the Galapagos Islands, and the manuscriptis
nearly ready for publication.

The amount of material received during the year is considerably
greater and more valuable than during last year. An interesting col-
lection of marine shells from Caracas, was presented by Mr. R. L. Bartle-
man, of the United States legation in Venezuela, The Department of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 31

Agriculture sent land and fresh-water shells gathered by its agents in
Arizona. The U.S, Fish Commission contributed several collections
from the Pacific coast and from the coast of Labrador.

During the year the entire Lea collection has been registered. The
bibliographical notices under the names Dall, Simpson, and Stearns
(see Section Iv) will indicate the extent and character of the researches
made in this department during the year.

About 5,000 specimens were received during the year, making a total
of about 465,500 specimens now in the collection. The catalogue entries
for the year were 5,764 in number.

INSECTS.

Twelve thousand specimens have been added to the collection during
the year. The routine work has been confined to the making up of
collections for exchange, the naming of specimens for collections, and
the arranging of all the collections in permanent shape. The North
American Myriapoda have been rearranged. This collection includes
the Bollman collection, which was purchased by the Museum last
year, and which ranks as the largest in existence. It contains 160
named species, arranged in 325 alcoholic vials. Among the important
accessions of the year are: A collection representing about 63 species
of insects of various orders, collected in Angola and St. Thomas, Africa,
and presented by Mr. Heli Chatelain, of Washington, D. C.; a large
collection of African insects, collected and presented by Dr. W. L.
Abbott, Philadelphia, Pa.; 425 specimens of Lepidoptera and 2,400
specimens of Coleoptera collected in California and Washington by Mr.
A. Koebele, and received from the Department of Agriculture; 1,100
specimens, representing 240 species of North American Microlepidop-
tera, also transmitted by the Department of Agriculture. The number
of catalogue entries for the year was 174. The collections are in a
very satisfactory condition.

MARINE INVERTEBRATES.

Favorable progress is reported in the work of this department by the
honorary curator, Mr. Richard Rathbun. The construction of a new
roof over the west hall of the Smithsonian Institution has necessitated
the temporary removal of the greater part of the collection stored there.
The number of specimens has been considerably increased by additions
from various sources, The work of the department has been actively
carried on by Mr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator, and Miss M.
J. Rathbun. Mr. Benedict accompanied the U. S. Fish Commission
steamer Fish Hawk for three months, while making surveys of oyster-
beds in Long Island Sound and on the coast of North Carolina. The
number of accessions recorded was 32, embracing 6,750 specimens.
The contributions made by the Fish Commission included 56 species
of Brachyurans and Anomourans, dredged by the Fish Commission
32 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

steamer Albatross, chiefly in the Pacific Ocean; a collection of Brachy-
urans, obtained by the U.S. Fish Commission schooner Grampus, from
the Gulf of Mexico; a large series of specimens of the genus Panopeus.
Large and valuable collections were also received from the British
Museum, London; the Imperial Museum of Natural History, Berlin;
the Royal Zodlogical Museum, Copenhagen; Dr. EH. A. Andrews, of
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.; and Prof. H. A. Ward,
Rochester, N. Y. Several sets of duplicate specimens for exchange
and for distribution to educational establishments were prepared and
sent out. Mr. Benedict, assisted by Miss Rathbun, has continued his
studies upon the Brachyurans and Anomourans, This collection is one
of the largest and mostimportant of the kind that has ever been brought
together. It represents all parts of the world, and is especially rich in
forms from the coasts of the United States.

COMPARATIVE ANATOMY.

The curatorship of this department has been transferred to Dr. Frank
Baker, who, owing to the duties of his position as acting manager
of the National Zodlogical Park, is at present unable to devote any
time to its work. The management of the affairs of the department
has therefore devolved upon Mr. Frederic A. Lucas, assistant cura-
tor. A considerable portion of his time has been devoted to the
preparation of a plan for a synoptic exhibition series of invertebrates.
The mounting and installation of specimens has also been pushed for-
ward. He has made a study of the osteology of the family Paride and
some of its allies. Mr. Lucas has also studied the osteological and other
anatomical characters of the Trochilida, and the results are incorporated
with the paper on Humming birds, prepared by Mr. Ridgway, curator
of birds, and published in the Museum report for 1890.*

The most important accessions during the year were a small collec-
tion of North Bornean birds, and a collection of birds from the Pribylov
Islands.

During the year 655 specimens were added to the collection.

FOSSILS (PALEOZOIC).

From the report of Mr. C. D. Walcott, honorary curator, the year’s
work shows much progress, both in the development of the collection
and the installation and labeling of specimens. A large amount of ma-
terial has been received from the U. S. Geological Survey. Two im-
portant accessions were obtained during the year from the Geological
Survey of Sweden, and from Mr. Thomas Ruddy, of Wales. The latter
collection is from the Bala series of rocks. The number of entries dur-
ing the year was 215, comprising 615 specimens. Notices of the papers
published during the year by the curator and others attached to this
department, and based upon Museum material, will be found in the Bib-
lography (Section ry).

* Pages 253-3838.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39
INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (MESOZOIC).

Dr. C. A. White, of the U. 8. Geological Survey, is still in charge of
this department as honorary curator. His connection with the Survey
renders it impossible for him to devote much of his time to Museum
work. The collection of this department is steadily increasing, and
is now in better condition for examination and study than hitherto.
It has not yet been found practicable to separate the specimens into
reserve, duplicate, and exhibition series.

During the year, 1488 entries, embracing 8,449 specimens, have been
made in the catalogue.

DIVISION OF BOTANY.
FOSSIL PLANTS.

Prof. Lester F. Ward, of the U.S. Geological Survey, continues to
act as honorary curator of this department. He states that the work
of the year has been chiefly confined to the imstallation and care of
specimens, the collection being now in excellent condition for study.
The most important accessions are a collection of Dakota plants, sent
by Prof. F. H. Snow, of the University of Kansas, and the collection
given by Capt. Charles E. Bendire, comprising 700 specimens. Mr,
David White, assistant, has been engaged in work on the carbonifer-
ous plant collections and in preparing a_ bibliography of paleo-
botany. Myr. Charles 8. Prosser has devoted his time largely to the
preparation of a paleo-botanical species index. Mr. F. H. Knowlton,
assistant curator, made collections of fossil wood and plant-remains in
the Gallatin Valley, Montana. He has also continued his studies on
fossil wood, and has in preparation a paper on paleozoic woods.. Prof.
William M. Fontaine, of the University of Virginia, has completed his
studies of the Potomac flora.

RECENT PLANTS.

There has been considerable growth in this department during the
year, the number of mounted sheets added to the National Herbarium
being 50 per cent more than during last year. Dr. George Vasey,
Botanist of the Department of Agriculture, continues his valuable
services as honorary curator of the National Herbarium. Dr. Vasey has
been assisted by Mr. Fred. Coville, who has made many valuable col-
lections in the field, and has also materially aided in the work of arrang-
ing and classifying specimens. The accessions received during the year
number 622, including a most valuable collection of 10,000 specimens
gathered by Edward Palmer in western Mexico, from the States of
Sonora and Colima; a collection of 1,740 specimens from the Death
Valley region of California, from Arizona, and Nevada, obtained by
Mr. Coville and Mr. Frank Funston; a large collection of mosses and

sm 91, PT 2——3
34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891

hepatic, numbering over 2,000 specimens, from Dr. L. M. Under-
wood, and a collection of 2,318 plants from Minnesota, transmitted by
Dr. G. H. Sandberg. The total number of plants received during the
year from all sources was 40,963. This number, added to 39,654, which
represents the total number of specimens received in the Museum up
to June 50, 1890, gives the total number of plants now in the National
Museum. The number of specimens mounted and added to the collec-
tions during the year is 8,945, and the number of specimens distributed
8,059. A list of the botanical papers published by the curator and by
other collaborators will be found in Section Tv of this report.

DIVISION OF GEOLOGY.
MINERALS.

The growth of this department, under the honorary curatorship of
Prof. F. W. Clarke, chief chemist of the U.S. Geological Survey, has
been satisfactory, although no very large additions were made to the
collections. The routine work of cataloguing and labeling specimens
occupied much of the time of the assistant curator, Mr. W. 8. Yeates.
A nearly complete rearrangement of the systematic exhibition series was
carried out. Only three accessions of great importance have been re-
ceived, namely, 171 Russian minerals presented by Mrs. Mary I. Stroud;
53 Freiberg minerals received in exchange from the Royal Saxon Mining
School; and a superb series of specimens from the Broken Hill mines,
in Australia, given by Mr. Walter J. Koehler, and embracing speci-
mens of native copper, native silver, cerussite, cerargyrite, dyscrasite,
and chrysocolla. The gem collection of the late Prof. Joseph Leidy,
containing about 400 cut stones, was purchased for use in connection
with the proposed exhibit of the Museum at the World’s Columbian
Exposition. The number of entries made during the year was 1,132,
including 7,515 specimens.

GEOLOGY.

Work in the department of geology has been largely confined to the
economic section, and a rearrangement and classification of the material.
The contributions of Mr. J. H. Huntington, Hyde Park, Mass.; Mr. F. W.
Crosby, Washington, and Mr. J. P. Iddings, U. S. Geological Survey, were
among the most important of those received during the year. A large lot
of onyx inarble from the newly discovered deposit near Prescott, Ariz.,
was received from Mr. William O’Neil.

A special feature of the work of this department consists in the
identification of specimens sent for examination and report, no less than
132 lots of specimens having been assigned to this department for this
purpose during the year.

A change in the method of installation was effected during the year
by the introduction of bent-wire brackets, the specimens being inclined
at an angle of 60 or 80 degrees,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 35

Owing to the pressure of routine work no special researches have
been undertaken by the curator. References to the papers published
during the year relating to this department will be found in Section
Iv of this report. The collections have been frequently consulted by
students, and in certain instances material was lent for study.

G.—REVIEW OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE WORK.
REGISTRATION AND STORAGE.

The registrar, Mr. S. C. Brown, has submitted a carefully prepared
report of the work accomplished in this department. The total number
of incoming packages of all kinds during the year is 33,686, constitut-
ing 2,841 entries on the transportation record of incoming packages.
Of this number 572 contained specimens for the National Museum, the
remainder being intended for the Institution, the Bureau of Interna-
tional Exchanges, the National Zodlogical Park, and the National Mu-
seum. Therecord of outgoing packages for the year bas taken up 1,025
entries, embracing 1,967 packages of various kinds. The accession
record for the year shows 1,187 entries, in addition to 452 lots of speci-
mens transmitted forexamination and report. The index to the lists of
Specimens sent for ‘examination and report,” and the ‘+ department”
index to the accession list in Section V of this report, show the dispo-
sition of the accessions among the departments of the Museum.

The distribution of ethnological, geological, zodlogical, and other edu-
cational institutions has been continued as far as practicable, and 130
educational establishments at home and abroad have been supplied
with duplicates from the collections. Numerous exchanges of speci-
mens have been completed. Many applications for mineral and geo-
logical specimens still remain unfilled. Duplicate collections of birds’
skins, fishes, and rocks are now being prepared for distribution.

The following statement indicates by geographical arrangement the
recipients of the duplicate specimens and the character of the material
distributed.

GEOGRAPHICAL STATEMENT OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS DURING THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.
FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
AFRICA.
J. H. Brady, Cape Town: Insects (208 specimens) in exchange. (D.* 6632.)
AUSTRALIA.

Auckland Museum, Auckland, New Zealand: Minerals (71 specimens); mammals
(16 specimens) ; reptiles (14 specimens); birds’ skins (10 specimens) in exchange.

(D. 6600. )

*“T)” refers to the distribution record kept in the registrar’s office,
36 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales: Skin and skull of Antilocapra
americana; skull of Bison americanus, and dried skin of Lepidosteus osseus for ex-
change. (D. 6450.)

AUSTRIA.

Natural History Museum, Vienna: Duplicate marine invertebrates (set 6, London
series). (D. 6367.)

CANADA.

University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Brunswick: Stone implements (26
specimens); fragments of pottery (6 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6900.)

CENTRAL AMERICA.

National Museum, San José, Costa Rica: Birds’ skins (30 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6706.)

ENGLAND.

Henry Balfour, Oxford: Fire-drills (8 models); blow-gun, model of fire-drill, and
pottery lamp in exchange. (D. 6366.) (D. 6639.) 5 pieces of Pueblo Indian pot-
tery in exchange. (D. 6691.)

Prof. George S. Brady, Sunderland: Echinoderms and corals (39 specimens) in ex-
change. (D. 6714.)

British Museum, London: Duplicate marine invertebrates (set 1, London series) ;
ethnological material (one box and 75 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6368.) (D.
6441.) (D. 6638.)

Isaac Earnshaw, Oldham: Fossil plants (22 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6725.)

Hugh Fulton, London: Voluta stearnsii (4 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6667.)

Edward Lovett, Croydon: Ethnological material (1 box) for exchange. (D. 6442.)

Mason Scientific College, Birmingham: Graptolites forexchange. (D. 6440.)

Royal Gardens, Kew: Ethnological material (11 specimens) for exchange. (D. 6640.)

FRANCE.

Museum at Chalon-sur-Saéne: Stone implements (56 specimens); fragments of pot-
tery (50 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6621.)

Museum of Natural History, Paris: Skeleton of Bison americanus and 4 birds’ skele-
tons in exchange. (D. 6679.)

GERMANY.

R. Forrer, Strassburg: Specimen of textile from a grave. Gift. (D. 6533.)

Prof. P. Groth, Munich: Rocks (4 specimens in exchange). (D. 6407.)

Royal Saxon Mining Academy, Freiburg, Saxony: Minerals (47 specimens) for ex-
change. (D. 6423.)

B. Sturtz, Bonn, Prussia: Rocks (93 specimens); rocks (175 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6490.) (D. 6738.)

University of Munich, Munich, Bavaria: Minerals (2 specimens) in exchange. (D.
6776.)

Dr. H. Von Ihering, Hamburg: American Unios (186 specimens) in exchange. (D.
6778. )

Zodlogical Museum; Berlin: Echinoderms (158 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6617.)

ITALY.

H. J. Johnston-Lavis, Naples: Rocks (64 specimens); minerals (18 specimens) in ex-
change. (D.6612.) (D. 6625.)
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37
RUSSIA.

A. Lésch, St. Petersburg: Specimen of platiniferous polydimite in exchange. (D.
6422.)

= SWEDEN.

Prof. T. M. Fries, Upsala: Dried plants (800 specimens) in exchange. (1D. 6487.)
Royal Swedish Academy, Stockholm: Dried ferns from the United States and Costa
Rica (100 species) in exchange. (D. 6505.)

UNITED STATHEHS.

ALABAMA. Blount College, Blountsville: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 97).
Gift. (D. 6745.)
Jetterson Academy, Jefferson: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 73). Gift.
(D. 6461.)
ARKANSAS. Charles F. Brown, Hot Springs: Amazonstone (200 specimens) for ex-
change. (D. 6568.)
CALIFORNIA. Charles R. Orcutt, San Diego: Reptiles (2 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6526.)
Connecticut. High School, Stamford: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 75).
Gift. (D. 6476.)
Oliver T. Hyde, Ellington: Minerals (20 specimens). Gift. (D. 6733.)
Prof. William North Rice, Middletown: Rocks (5 specimens) in exchange. (D.
6771.)
Yale College Museum, New Haven: Minerals (8 specimens). Gift. (D. 6408.)
District oF CoLuMBIA. Prof. Cleveland Abbe, Washington: Slab of crocidolite
quartz from South Africa, in exchange. (D. 6708.)
Catholic University, Washington: Cast of Assyrian obelisk, in exchange. (D.
6488. )
Chevalier Schmit Von Tavera, Austria-Hungary Legation, Washington: Cat-
linite pipe. Gift. (6482.)
Mount Vernon Seminary, Washington: Duplicate marine invertebrates (series
Iv, set 173, and special set as a gift). (D. 6475.)
National Zodlogical Park, Washington: Living snake (Accession 23337). Gift.
(D. 6369.)
I. C. Russell, Washington: Specimen of thinolite. Gift. (D. 6519.)
Mrs. H. B. Waleott, Washington: Zuni pottery (4 specimens) in exchange. (D.
6575. )
Washington High School, Washington: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 85).
Gift. (D. 6584.)
ILtinois. Kenwood Physical Observatory, Chicago: Fragments of five meteorites.
Gift. (CD. 6530.)
Prof. J. A. Udden, Rock Island: Voleanic dust (6 samples) in exchange. (D.
6694, )
INDIANA. Charles. S$. Beachler, Crawfordsville: Echinoderms (97 specimens) in ex-
change. (D. 6607.)
High School, Winamac: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 88). Gift. (D.
6622.)
Indiana Normal University, Evansville: Duplicate collection of minerals (set
(2D)s “(Gnittirs (AD), @elsisy))
John W. Spencer, Paxton: Duplicate set of marine invertebrates (special set) in
exchange. (D. 6402.)
38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Jowa. Hambure Public Schools, Hambure: Duplicate collection of minerals (set
81). Gift. (D. 6570.)
Parsons College, Fairfield: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 91). Gift. (D.
6629. )
Saint Mary’s Academy, McGregor: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 69).
Gift. (D. 6483.)
Kansas. Hartford School, Hartford: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 74).
Gift. (D. 6463.)
Hiawatha Academy, Hiawatha: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 92). Gift.
(D. 6364.)
Louistana. W. HH. Jack, Baton Rouge: Specimen of gold on schist for exchange.
(D. 6541.)
Gustave Kohn, New Orleans: Salamanders (4 specimens); salamanders (2 speci-
mens) in exchange. (D. 6605). (D. 6650.) (D. 6729.)
The Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge: Duplicate marine invertebrates
(series Iv, set 177). Gift. (D. 6589).
Maine. High School, Bridgton: Duplicate collection of marine invertebrates (series
Iv, set 174). Gift. (D.6477.)
Loren B. Merrill, Paris: Specimen of silver-lead ore; rocks and ores (11 speci-
mens) in exchange. (D.6507.) (D. 6611.)
L. H. Merrill, Orono: Specimen of phonolite in exchange. (1D. 6540.)
MARYLAND. Baltimore City College, Baltimore: Duplicate collection of minerals
(set 79). Gift. (D.6495.)
Baltimore Manual Training School, Baltimore: Duplicate collection of minerals
(set 56). Gift. (D. 6373.)
Loyola College, Baltimore: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 87). Gift.
(D. 6597. )
Frank T. Redwood, Baltimore: Ethnological material (2 specimens); execu-
tioner’s knife from Africa in exchange. (D. 6464.) (D. 6497.)
Massacuuserts. William Brewster, Cambridge: Birds’ skins (17specimens). Gift,
(DP651'7;)
Charles B. Cory, Boston: Birds’ skins (17 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6518.)
Harvard University, Cambridge: Cast of the Grand Rapids meteorite. Gift.
(D. 6712.)
High School, Springfield: Duplicate collection of marine invertebrates (series
rv, set 179). Gift. (D.6727.)
Peabody Academy of Science, Salem: Specimen of Japanese screen in exchange.
(D. 6732.)
MicuicaNn. Albion College, Albion: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 57). Gift:
(D. 6376. )
Battle Creek College, Battle Creek: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 61).
Gift. (D. 6388.)
Detroit College, Detroit: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 62). Gift. (D.
6390. )
Kalamazoo College, Kalamazoo: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 76). Gift.
(D. 6383.)
Parke, Davis & Co., Detroit: Casts of Easter Island tablets in exchange. (D.
6740. )
MINNESOTA. Moorhead Normal School, Moorhead: Duplicate collection of minerals
(set 66). Gift. (D. 6401.)
Missouri. Maryville Seminary, Maryville: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 95).
Gift. . (D. 6724.)
Missouri Valley College, Marshall: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 80), and
collection of marine invertebrates (series Iv, set 175). Gift. (D. 6547.)
Missouri Wesleyan Institute, Cameron: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 68).
Gift. (D. 6482.)
ier as

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39

Montana. Johan B, Koch, Bozeman: Arrow and spear-points (50 specimens) in ex-
change. (D. 6496.)

NEBRASKA. Chatauqua Museum, Long Pine: Duplicate collection of minerals (set
65). Gift. (D. 6400.)

Nebraska Wesleyan University, Lincoln: Duplicate collection of minerals (set
60). Gift. (D. 6387.)

The High School, Beatrice: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 90). Gift.
(D. 6628. )

New Hampsuire. Dartmouth College, Hanover: Lay figure in exchange. (D.6767.)

New Jersey. R.T. Tracy, Camden: Porcelain clays (10 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6696.)

New York. American Museum of Natural History, New York City: Four skins and
skull of Tamias; birds’ skins (26 specimens) in exchange; Crinoids (4 species).
Gift. (D.6395.) (D.6524.) D.6713.)

Hon. E. G. Blackford, New York City: Framed photograph of American bison.
Gift. (D. 6374.)

Brockport State Normal School, Brockport: Duplicate collection of minerals
(set 70). Gift. (D. 6454.)

Brooklyn Institute, Brooklyn: Specimen of Pentacrinus decorus. Gift. (D. 6565.)

Brooklyn Training School, Brooklyn: Duplicate collection of marine inverte-
brates (series Iv, set 172). Gift. (D. 6416.)

Brooklyn, Pratt Institute: Collection of photographs. Gift. (D. 6789.)

Columbia College, New York City: Photo-mechanical process work (86 specimens)
in exchange. (D, 6506.) Duplicate collection of marine invertebrates (series
Iv, set 176). Gift. (D. 6548.)

George L. English & Co., New York City: Minerals (box) inexchange. (D.6779.

J. Scott Hartley, New York City: 12 casts of Indian heads in exchange. (D. 6535.

Homer Academy, Homer: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 82). Gift. (1D. 6577.

F. Insch, New York City: Specimen of bowstring hemp: Pita (2 specimens) ; anc
flax (3 specimens); in exchange. (D. 64388.)

New York State Museum, Albany: Ornamental stones (7 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6521.)

Charles Palm, New York City: Dry specimens of coleoptera in exchange. (D.
6546. )

Phelps Union School, Phelps: Duplicate collection of minerais (set 63). Gift.
(D. 6396.)

Rochester Free Academy, Rochester: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 67).
Gift. (D. 6481.)

Rochester, Henry A. Ward: Specimen of breastbone of Rhyntina, restored (gift) 5
large specimen of sponge collected off Cape Hatteras (exchange). (D. 6601.)
(D. 6552.)

Rushville Union School, Rushville: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 64).
Cate CD 6397.)

St. John’s Rectory, Syracuse: Minerals (27 specimens). Gift. (D. 6561.)

M. F. Savage, New York City: Fijian club and Sandwich Island Fly-flapper in
exchange. (D. 6493.)

School of Mines, Columbia College, New York city: Dumortierite in quartz (8
specimens) for exchange. (D. 6516.)

Skaneateles Free Library, Skaneateles: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 84).
Gift. (D. 6579.)

State Normal and Training School, Cortland: Duplicate collection of minerals
(set 83). Gift. (D. 6578.)

Staten Island Academy and Latin School, Stapleton: Duplicate collection of
minerals (set 86). Gift. (D. 6596.)

The Franciscan Convent, Syracuse: Minerals (28 specimens). Gift. (D. 6580.)

The Francis Hatch Library, Cortland: Minerals (28specimens). Gift. (D. 6581.)

)
)
)
l
40 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

New York. Rev. H. H. Thomas, Dansville: Minerals (50 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6514.)
Union Free School, Canandaigua: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 58).
Gift. (D. 6378.)
Onto. W.S. Burt, Youngstown: Arrow and spear-points (50 specimens)in exchange.
(D. 6499.) 4
W.H. McGinnis Youngstown: Arrow-points (5 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6720.) .
Oberlin College, Oberlin: Specimen of bird skin in exchange. (D. 6458).
Ohio State University, Columbus: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 77).
Gift. (D. 6439.)
PENNSYLVANIA. Oscar A. Burdats, Philadelphia: Specimen of Lancelet (Amphiorus
lanceolatus). Gift. (D. 6512.)
Pennsylvania State College, State College: Duplicate marine and fresh-water
fishes (90 species), and duplicate set of minerals (set 89). Gift. (D. 6627.)
W. W. Rockhill, Philadelphia: Ethnological material (3 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6766.)
Dr. C. M. Stubbs, Wakefield: Arrow and spear-heads (50 specimens) in exchange.
(D. 6606. )
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 59).
Gift. (D. 6386.)
Warren Public Academy, Warren: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 98).
Gift. (D. 6751.)
SouTH CAROLINA. Prof. H. A. Green, Chester: Minerals and ores (14 specimens) in
exchange. (D. 6662.)
TENNESSER. Ridgedale Public School, Ridgedale: Duplicate collection of minerals
(set 94). Gift. (D. 6652.)
TExas. Fort Worth University, Fort Worth: Duplicate collection of minerals (set
72). Gift. (D. 6456.)
WesT VirGinta. Allegany Collegiate Institute, Alderson: Duplicate collection of
minerals (set 78). Gift. (D. 6491.)
WISCONSIN. William H. Hobbs, Madison: Rocks (44 specimens) in exchange. (D. 6471.)
High School Museum, Sparta: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 96). Gift.
(D. 6781.)
State Normal School, Milwaukee: Duplicate marine invertebrates (series Iv, set
IZiS)o. (Ep dirs (ID, (etlejaul,))
University of Wisconsin, Madison: Minerals (71 specimens) as exchange. (D. 6515.)
WyomiInG. Wyoming University, Laramie: Duplicate collection of minerals (set
93).  Gitt. (D> 6637.)

The following table shows the number of specimens distributed from

the various departinents in the Museum during the year ending June 30,
1891:

Department. Neserimnenee | Department. roach :
Eee = ee ee

ehysicalapparatUs\ss 2-5 eee se eee 20 | Fishes) 2:scisvecasoesseec eee eee eee 90
Graphicsartss: e252 6 teers aon eee 86 | Miolhasiis) . a8: 2: eae eo eee eee 190
Ein OLOpee es ee Ss sos es asta ee 198; || "insecte!* oe ss 2, 144
JEU y ons 4.5 ee ao Boe os eee esate aaae 9 || Marine invertebrates .-...-../-...--. 1, 700
Prehistoric anthropology ---...-....... 293 || Fossil plants) «0. 3-2 8es eee eee sere 8, 059
Wiehe tOl eee sabe San Soe Bee ncaa 21 | Minerals sev) 426g aeanenae aceon eras: 493
IBird 8 ee Asse ee ee ae ee eae sete 163: || ‘Geology s.c=-5 tossee oe cee anece ae 459
iBinds’eogs and mests4=- a5 40-42-22 0-)c- 2 | Total 5c Rae ee ae 43. 875
Reptiles and batrachians ...-.-.-.-..- 14 1

* Of this number 1,239 were sent to specialists for study.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Al

In the report for last year (1889-90) a tabulated statement, similar in
character to the preceding table, was inadvertently omitted, and is
therefore inserted in this place : j

No. of No. of
: specimens. || sake : specimens
Department. distributed | Department. aastabaked

1889-’90, | 1889-"90.
Oriental antiquities ...-.....--.:.---- O3h | SMSOCUSN asa a. mets ses e Sue sees seer 295
PRT TIO O Sy eerie a ee taeioe 2 ot ote: 340 | Marine invertebrates --.-----.----.-- 690
PP OUUOI Vases Seetsa ee = aie ata 22am =n Op lePalezoicfOssils!>-o5 a ssee2 = =2-42 42 12
Prehistoric anthropology ---.-.--..--- 50 | MGSOZ0ICHOSSIS\ =o aesee ses ee eseees 13
Minin alsin tastes cet ne hs aon eecenb plantse sa:.c54- se/40 cae nek eee. 7, 951
BIE OS rete) elas ecee = Scns Sots eS uiaa in | 589 | IVI ERS Hea ice foe = Seer see 4, 430
Reptiles and batrachians......--..... SHC COLOD er aise oa 5a ee re coe 200

j > Oe a  -
USSU C38 se aan Resear See o cate ee Sif Re als Metis fe 14, 874
GU tis Kanes tae So. Os Seca emcee 104 ||

The registrar has completed an alphabetical index of the distribu-
tions since 1874, which includes more than 6,700 shipments. A card
catalogue, arranged by names of recipients, has also been prepared,
showing the distributions of specimens made to each museum, college
or individual. This catalogue is very useful, showing at a glance the
relations of this kind which have existed between the National Museum
and the establishments referred to on the cards. The file containing
the papers relating to the distribution of specimens has been amplified
and improved, and is now in excellent condition for reference.

It may be interesting to compare the total amount of distributions
made during the decade ending in 1880 with the total for the decade
completed last year. These figures are given in the following table,
showing an inerease of about 60 per cent in favor of the more recent
decade:

Total numbers of specimens distributed during the decades 1871 to 1SSO and 1881 to 1890,
respectively.

DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATES.

Sie ee
_—_ eae I Year: ea
|
NUS Aa iytaes Seine MOIS O) || MORI ees 4 ee 13, 293
If ae 3 ee ER aa ONSSO NSO ueme et oie ae | 12. 391
TOTS e eee th ie AAS. IS RLON SCS essa sete 16, 270
|g: ¢ Seer oe SenarGnSRls...7. 80.) oF 21, 084
| 1875 " S80 Meta a eas 15. 000
ISTO er eres a Stall NSS62 2432 es oe 23, 987
CV oe es See 9, 754 | INES eS A a 11, 000
USTSese tae oe GrAapOn el S88o rs 7s ase ne 29, 408
TO Were NOGEH MeIBBO Cat fe ak. ee) 11, 382
TCT, Scaee eet HANGTORIE S90 see se see ose 14, 874
| Total .=2ehe =: 109, 296 Motallesnss | 168, 689

increasing pressure of routine work in the scientifie departments and to the inability of the curators
to complete the separation of the duplicates for distribution.
42 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
LIBRARY.

Mr. John Murdoch, librarian, furnishes the following information re-
garding the operations of the library during the year:

The total number of publications added to the library during the year
was 12,854 (922 volumes of more than 100 pages, 2,492 pamphlets, 9,280
parts of regular serials, and 160 charts). Of these, 424 volumes, 883
pamphlets, and 6,413 parts of serials were retained for the use of the
Museum from the accessions of the Smithsonian Institution. The re-
mainder were obtained by gift, exchange, and purchase.

The largest gift to the library during the year was from the Rey. John
Croumbie Brown, of Haddington, Scotland, and consisted of the pro-
fessional library of his late brother, Dr. Samuel Brown. Dr. Brown,
who has been called “ the last of the alchemists,” was born in Scotland
in 1817. He devoted himself at an early age to the study of chemistry.
His attention was especially attracted to the ultimate problems of the
science, and he became persuaded that the elements usually regarded
as chemically simple and primary were transmutable into each other.
He was a poet and essayist as well as a chemist, but his time was chiefly
spent in his laboratory, and at the time of his death, in 1856, he believed
that he was very near to the point of demonstrating the great funda-
mental theory, in which his own faith had never wavered. His library,
consisting of 150 volumes and 8 pamphlets, contains many rare and

valuable old works on chemistry aud physics, and will be kept by itself
in the hbrary under the name of the “ Samuel Brown Collection.”

An important donation was received from Dr. Charles A. White,
U.S. Geological Survey, honorary curator of the section of mesozoic
fossils, consisting of 106 volumes, 82 parts, 50 pamphlets, and 5 maps.

The work of entering and cataloguing the Rau Memorial Library has
at last been completed. This collection, as finally catalogued, com-
prises 1,609 titles.

An excellent beginning has been made on the much-needed subject
catalogue. This now consists of 1,858 cards, arranged according to the
decimal classification in general use among libraries.

Three new sectional libraries have been added to the list during the
year, hamely: Aéronautices (authorized by order of the secretary, June
19), in charge of Mr. G. E. Curtis; astronomy, in charge of Mr. W. C.
Winlock; and reptiles and batrachians, in charge of Dr. Leonhard
Stejneger.

The number of books assigned to the sectional libraries is as follows:

Administration.—205 volumes. 6 parts, 58 pamphlets, and 1 chart.

Aéronautics.—(Now being organized. )

Astronomy.—9 volumes, 580 parts, 3 pamphlets.

Birds.—534 volumes, 252 parts, 49 pamphlets, 5 charts.

Editor.—628 volumes, 538 parts, 46 pamphlets.

Hihnology.—o47 volumes, 201 parts, 16 pamphlets, and 1 chart.

Fishes.

Geology.—522 volumes, 547 parts, 365 pamphlets, and 48 charts.

87 volumes, 24 parts, 8 pamphlets.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43

Insects.—430 volumes, 907 parts, 217 pamphlets.

Mammatls.—204 volumes, 310 pamphlets.

Marine Invertebrates.—7 volumes, 44 pamphlets, 118 charts.

Materia medica.—223 volumes, 215 parts, 18 pamphlets.

Mesozoic fossils.—31 volumes, 2 pamphlets.

Mineralogy, 4.—183 volumes, 418 parts, 8 pamphlets.

Mineralogy, B.—74 volumes, 69 pamphlets, 1 sheet.

Mollusks and Cenozoic fossils.—105 volumes, 274 parts, 93 pamphlets.

Oriental archwology.—190 volumes, 398 parts, 112 pamphlets.

Plants, recent and fossil.—331 volumes, 1,437 parts, 261 pamphlets.

Prehistoric anthropology.—b62 volumes, 80 parts, and 24 pamphlets, in addition to
the Rau Memorial Library of 1,609 titles.

Reptiles and batrachians.—9 volumes, 51 parts, 1 pamphlet. (Partly organized.)

Transportation and engineering.—s4 volumes, 438 parts, 4 pamphlets.

It was hoped that Congress would provide for binding the accumulated
books belonging to the Museum library, but the appropriation asked
for was not granted. The usual application was therefore made to Mr.
Spofford, Librarian of Congress, for an order to bind some of the books
belonging to the Smithsonian deposit now in use at the Museum, and
Mr. Spofford with his usual kindness at once furnished an order for
binding 300 volumes. By taking advantage of a time of the year when
work at the Government bindery was least pressing, it was possible to
have these books away from the library a comparatively short time only.

Mr. N. P. Scudder has made great improvement in the condition of
the crowded periodical room. The construction of 480 feet of shelving
has enabled him to arrange the books in much more accessible shape,
and also to adopt something in the way of a classification, making the
finding of periodicals much more convenient than formerly. Never-
theless, the rate of growth of the library is so large that the value of
this additional shelf-room is almost neutralized by the greater number
of accessions during the year.

SPECIMENS SENT TO THE MUSEUM FOR EXAMINATION AND REPORT*
DURING THE YEAR.

A large number of specimens are received every year for examination
and report. A record is kept of each package, and when the specimens
are considered worthy of addition to the Museum collections, they are so
recorded and given an accession number. About 450 lots (797-1247)
have been received for examination and report during the fiscal year
covered by this report. The specimens are examined by the curator in
charge of the department to which they relate, and he submits a state-
ment regarding them, which is forwarded to the sender, or used in pre-
paring areply. A list is given below:

ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, Philadelphia, Pa.: Two specimens of snakes.
(Returned.) 1242 (v1).

- * The first number in the items included in this list relates to the record of spec-

imens sent for examination and report. The number in parentheses relates to the ree-

ord of permanent accessions. The third, in roman, and also in parentheses, relates

to the department in the Museum to which the specimen was referred.

¢

44 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ApDAms, C, F., Champaign, Il.: Group of shrikes. (Purchased.) 885 (23622) (v, A).
ALDERSON, W. J., Hartmonsville, W. Va.: Specimen of impure limestone. 1107

(Cavin):
ALEXANDRIA FERTILIZER COMPANY, Alexandria, Va.: Specimen of mineral, 989
(XVI).

ALLAN, JAMES M., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen of mineral. 909 (xyt).

ALLEN, H. C., Buckley, Wash.: Specimen of ore from Stark Mine. 1031 (xvm).

ALPINE PLASTER AND CEMENT COMPANY, Los Angeles, Cal.: Samples of calcareous
sand. 921 (XVI). °

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL History, New York, N. Y.: Two skins of Ammo-
dramus sandwichensis alaudinus, from British Colombia. (Returned.) 868 (Vv, A);
eleven specimens of Humming birds sent for identification. (Returned.) 944
Gv AS)

ANGEL, L. C., Ridge Spring, S.C.: Two specimens of minerals from South Carolina.
Os (Exava):

ANTHONY, A. W., San Diego, Cal.: Six specimens, representing five species, of birds
from Lower California, California, and Oregon. (Returned.) 861 (v, A); five
specimens of an unnamed form of Junco, from Mount Wilson, Los Angeles County,
Cal. (Returned.) 912 (v,A); specimens of Passerculus. (Returned.) 945
(CVinrAD):

ANTHONY, T. O. T., Norborne, Mo.: Specimen of insect. 1245 (x).

APPLETON, JOHN W. M., Salt Sulphur Springs, W. Va.: Specimens of mineral. 963
(SVD): ;

ATKINSON, Hon. G. W. (See under P. V. Reynolds and J. 8S. Wilson.)

AUSTIN, GEORGE, Nashville, Kans.: Specimen of moth. 1177 (x).

Backus, E., Mexico, Mexico: Specimen of mineral. 1226 (xvt).

BaastTer, C. b., Vineland, N. J.: Specimen of insect which injures cabbages in Flor-
ida, W75 (x).

BaILey, THOMAS P., Springfield, Mo.: Specimens of minerals. 896, 925 (xv1I).

Baker, M. A., Weston, Oregon: Specimen taken from a well, about 30 feet deep, near
Weston. 913 (xvi).

BaLpwin, H. O., New Waterford, Ohio. Insect. 1216 (x).

Bai, WILBER W., La Salle, Ill. Specimens of fibers of burdock. 819 (1).

BALLARD, LEwiIs, Lindside W. Va.: Specimens of ores. 1221 (xvit).

Banta, W. H., Valparaiso, Ind.: Stone relics. 1096 (11).

BarBERr, A. W., Tallahassee, Fla.: Specimen of supposed lava from Wakulla Vol-
eano. 798 (XVII).

BARKER, JOHN W., Washington, D. C.: Specimens of granite. 824 (XVII). :

BaRNarD, G. W., Phenix, Ariz.: Fossil teeth and lower jaw sent for determination
of species. 852 (XII).

BARNETT, W. J. B., Nogales, Ariz., specimen of Hawk-moth. 1247 (x).

BARRINGTON, W. A., Tooele City, Utah. Specimen of rock from Utah. 1024 (xvi1).

BEALE, E. F., Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass. Specimens of wild flowers from Cali-
fornia. (Returned.) 836 (xv).

BECKER BROTHERS, Baltimore, Md. Specimen of rock from Blue Ridge Mountain,
near Harpers Ferry. 960 (xvi).

BEDICKIAN, 8. V., Washington, Pa. Old coin from Asia Minor sent for identification.
(Returned). 1116 (1). ;

BENNETT, RICHARD, Eureka Springs, Ark. Specimen of ore from Arkansas. 1065
(Xvi). ;

BisHop, ALEXANDER, Teges, Ky. Through the Department of State, specimens of
ore. 1041 (xvit).

Bisnop, W. L., Kentville, Nova Scotia. Twenty-nine eggs of Dendragapus canadensis.
(Thirteen eggs purchased, and the others returned.) 895 (23558) (v, B).

BoGan, CHARLES, Jamestown, Cal. Chrysalis of insects. 1214 (x).

BonbD, WARREN R., Custer, 8S. Dak. Two specimens of ores. 1123 (XVII).
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45

BOERNSTEIN, HENRY N., Washington, D.C. Three specimens of fossil mollusks from -
the Mokkatam quarries, Egypt; fossil crustacean from the same locality; shell
of supposed oyster from the Libyan Desert, Egypt; 8 specimens of fossilized
wood from the petrified forest (?) of Egypt; supposed shell from the Libyan
Desert; 2 specimens of the Mediterranean sea-fish, representing the superior and
inferior maxillaries; two scarabs from the site of ancient Memphis, with hiero-
glyphics on the under side; Egyptian antique (blue glaze), representing a
mummy, 44 inches in height; Egyptian antique (black glaze), representing a
mummy, 43 inches in height, and a Roman (?) bronze coin found in Egypt. (Re-
turned.) 1000 (15 I, A; VII; 1x). ;

Bonney, Dr. A. F., Defiance, Iowa: Piece of ivory (?) found in a bed of gravel-
drift in Monona County, Iowa. 1063 (x11).

Borurr, G. J., Rhodelia, Tenn.: Specimen of ore from Tennessee. 915 (Xvit).

BortsrorpD, Z. E., Nordmont, Pa.: Specimen of insect from Pennsylvania. 1089 (x).

Bourtanp, Dr. A. M., Van Buren, Ark.: Two specimens of minerals. 817 (Xv).

Bowman, N. W., Massanetta Springs, Va.: Specimen of mineral. 825 (xvt).

Bow tes, Rev. A. C., Abington, Mass.: Specimen of insect. 859 (xX).

Brapvpy, E. L., Mitchell, Ga.: Indian pipe. Purchased. 943 (23824) (111).

BRADEN, I., Phebe, Tenn.: Specimen of ore. 1203 (xvit).

Britts, J. H., Clinton, Mo.: Fossil plants. 1121 (xrv).

Brock, HERBERT E., Mason City, Iowa: Fossils. 1119 (xu, a).

Brooks, ERVIN, Crown Point Center, N. Y.: Specimen of ore sent for chemical analy-
sis. (Returned.) 1002 (xvitr).

Bruce, E.C., Winchester, Va.: Specimen of chert from the summit of the limestone
ridge adjoining Winchester. 902 (xvi).

BRYANT, WALTER E., San Francisco, Cal.: Mounted specimen of Humming bird.
SEW Al @ ee: @

BuckMAN, C. T., West Liberty, lowa: Two specimens of moths. 1232 (x).

Burcu, CHARLES E. 8., Wenatchee, Wash.: Specimen of ores from Washington.
976 (XVII).

BourGt Broruers, Rochester, N. Y.: Relief map of Palestine. (Returned.) 1190
(24475). (II, A).

Burk, FRANK, Eureka, Utah: Specimen of mineral. 1145 (xvt).

Busy, W. R., Lake City, Fla: Specimen of mineral from Columbia County. 892
(XVI).

But Ler, Prof. A. W., Brookville, Ind.: Carboniferous fossils from New Mexico. 1178
(escliiicwAy) =

CAMERON, MILES T., Flagstaff, Ariz.: Specimen of mineral found in the Grand Canon
of the Colorado. 1149 (xv1).

CAMPBELL, J. J., Hot Springs, N. C.: Two specimens of minerals. 1198 (xy1).

CAMPBELL, W.S., Johnson City, Tenn.: Specimens of minerals. 1030 (xv1).

CAMPFIELD, C.H., Magdalena, N. Mex.: Specimen of ore from New Mexico. 981
(XVII); specimen of mineral found in the Magdalena Mountain, New Mexico.
1050 (XVI).

CARTER AND ROGAN, Lafayette, Ga.: Specimens of rock from a tunnel in Pigeon
Mountain, a spur of Mount Lookout. 922 (xvit).

Cary, EDwarRp A. (See under N. A. Theodorodi.)

Caver, J. L., Vernon, Tex.: Specimen of mammal, in the flesh, from Texas. 1182
(Iv).

Crssna, WILLIAM T., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen of ore. (Returned.) 968 (XVIt).

CuHAsE, JAMES H., Wenatchee, Wash.: Specimen of clay and specimen of rock from
Washington. 974 (xvi); specimen of mineral from the same locality. 1034
(XVI).

CHESNEY, J.C., Northumberland, Pa.: Specimens of minerals and ores from Penn-
sylvania, 910,917, 1015 (xv1, XVII),
46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CHICKEY, CHARLES E., Scranton, Miss.: Specimen of caterpillar. 841 (x).

Cisco, J.G., Jackson, Tenn.: Fossil from the glades of Wayne County, and speci-
mens of smaller fossils from the same locality. 1092 (xin, A).

CLAIBORNE, J. H. & SON, Well Spring, Tenn.: Specimen of ores. 1166 (xv11).

CLARK, GEORGE W., Wyandale, N. Y.: A substance found on the surface of a well.
1006 (xvi).

CLAUSE, HENRY, Phebe, Tenn.: Specimens of ores. 1129, 1179 (xvi1).

Coss, R. E. C., St. Paul, Minn.: Specimen of bird, in the flesh. 866 (v, A).

COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, Imperial University, Tokio, Japan (through Dr. J. Ijima):
85 specimens of Japanese birds. (Returned.) 998 (Vv, A).

ConneER, I. S., Powell’s Station, Tenn.: Two specimens of ore. 1093 (xv1t).

Conway, W. B. (See under Montgomery Marble Company. )

CoRNELL, Epwin, P. M., Pomeroy, Ill.: Concretionary nodule of pyrite from Mercer
County. 1066 (xvi).

Corry, E. M., Magnolia, Ark.: Specimen of insect. 809 (xX).

CouLsoNn, GEorGE, La Harpe, Il.: Image found while digging a well in La Harpe;
stone found in drift-sand and gravel on Honey Creek, Henderson County, Il.
994 (111).

CunuHA, ANTONIO, Big Pine, Cal.: Specimens of ore from Inis mine, Deep Spring Val-
ley. 1108 (xvit).

CurRAN, L. R., Adair, lowa.: Two pieces of bone found in Adair County on a drift
42 feet below the surface. 1001 (xm).

Dasss, J. R., Chelan, Wash.: Specimens of ore from Washington. 871 (XVII).

DauHLeER, C. H., Helena, Mont.: Specimen of mineral. 929 (xv1).

DaANFOoRD, W.S8., Boulder, Colo.: Specimen of fossil (?) embedded in a hard shale-
like substance. 1220 (xvItI).

DANTAGNAN, J. D., New Orleans, La.: Specimen of crab. 1231 (24513) (x1).

DARLING, JAMES, Alpine, Tex.: Specimens of ores. 844 (XVII).

Davipson, W. B. M., Kissimmee, Fla.: Tooth found in the phosphate beds in Peace
River, near Arcadia, Fla. 874 (Iv).

Dawson, F. W., Charleston, 8. C.; Larvie of insects. 854 (Xx).

DAN, FrRED., Lowville, Pa.: The ‘‘ Miller axe,” found under an oak log in Benton,
Ohio. (Returned.) 1067 (111).

Dietz, OTTOMAR, New York City, N. Y.: Two hundred species of North America
coleoptera. (Returned.) 993 (x).

Dismer, H. F. E., Washington, D. C.: Picture found behind the mantel in a house
in the city of Washington. 903 (1).

DovGe, ByRon E., Richfield, Mich.: Stone ax with handle, red stone pipe, and arrow-
head. 1056 (24272) (111).

Duncan, A. L., Dunedin, Fla.: Specimen of caterpillar. 873 (x).

DUNNELL, L. W., Mulvane, Kans.: Specimen of beetle from Kansas. 1154 (x).

DuRANT, S. W., St. Charles, Ill.: Two specimens of insects. 1185 (x).

East, Henry, Fredericksburgh, Tex.; Specimen of feather ball, supposed to have
been made by insects. 1202 (x).

ECKERT, J., Newark, N. J.: Insect from Newark. 802 (xX).

ELKINS, 8. B., Elkins, W. Va.: Sample of well-water. 850 (xv1).

EMMERT, J. W., Bristol, Tenn.: Mineral. 937 (Xv1).

ENGLISH, GEORGE L. & Co., New York City, N. Y.: Minerals from various localities.
(Returned.) 1155 (xyr).

EppLey, WILLIAM, Zanesville, Ohio: Rocks and clay from Ohio. (Returned.) 1040
(XVI).

Ercuison, L. C., Jefferson, Md.: Ten ancient coins, confederate two-dollar note, and
specimen of amethyst from Frederick County, 1087 (1, XVI).

Everts, ARTHUR A., Dallas, Tex.: Fern. 1132 (xv),

FarNnuHAM, A. B., Benning’s, D. C. (through P. A. Gannon): Stone reli¢ from near
Plantsville, Conn, (Returned,) 914 (11). —
el REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. AT

Fauaut, M. M., Idaho Falls, Idaho: Two specimens of supposed kaolin, 1160 (xv11).

FERRIS, J. S., Silver Reef, Utah: Mineral. 1042 (xvi).

FINDLEY, W. R., Hoodsport, Wash.: Ores.’ 1211 (xvit).

Fisurer, Frepertck C., Middlesboro, Ky.: Ore from Kentucky. 1011 (xvir).

FisHer, FREDERICK C. & Co., Middlesboro, Ky.: Minerals from Kentucky. 973
(XVI).

FISHER, GEORGE W., Alaska, W. Va.: Larva of insect. 865 (Xx).

FLECHTER, Vicror S., New York City, N. Y.: Viola d’Amour from Germany, Hurdy-
Gurdy, and a Kit from London. (Purchased.) 957 (23899) (1).

FLEIG, FRED, Ripley, Ohio: Insect. 1222 (x).

FLETCHER, L. M., Decatur, Mich.: Luna-moth. 1192 (x).

FLETCHER, S., Phebe, Tenn.: Three specimens of ores. 845, 906 (Xvir).

Fietcurr, W. A., Rhodelia, Tenn.: Two specimens of ores. 840, 1172 (xv11).

Fioyp, Joun E., Helena, Ohio: Moth from Ohio. 1075 (x).

FoGarty, Miss Lizzir, Braidentown, Fla.: Specimen of insect. 955 (x).

FOGLESONGER, J. M., Shippensburgh, Pa.: Cecropia-moth. 1207 (x).

Forp, Mrs. Mary E., Hazlehucest, Miss.: Specimen of moth or butterfly. 1128 (x).

FoORRESTER, ROBERT, Schofield, Utah: Specimens of invertebrate fossils from Iron
County, Utah. (Returned with one exception.) 1049 (x1, B). Fossils from Utah.
1168 (XII, B).

Foster, F. D., Norwalk, Ohio: Copies of 42 photographs of Zulus. 884 (23602).

(I-A).
Foster, J. H., Marshall, Va.: Two specimens of minerals from Virginia. 1044
(XVI).

Fowke, GERARD, Sidney, Ohio: Quartz ‘ Butterfly gorget,” and a shaft-rubber from
Monongahela City, Pa.; paleolithic axe from Flint Ridge, and a hematite cone
from Augusta, Ky.: 3 small worked flints from Flint Ridge and Ripley, Obio.
872 (23599) (111).

Fowter, Dr. S. MILus, Gainesville, Tex.: Specimen of chrysalis. 1218 (x).

FrrAD, E. C., Des Moines, lowa: Concretion(?) found in Iowa. 1086 (xvit).

FRENCH, CLARENCE E., Jacksonville. Tex.: Mineral. 816 (xv1).

FRYE, Levi, Pinkerton, Va.: Minerals. 992 (xv1).

Fucus, H.7T., Tiger Mills, Tex.: Minerals from Texas. 935 (xvi). (See under P.
A. Graves.)

FuLier, H. DouGias, Winchester, Va.: Sample of clay from Frederic County, Vir-
ginia. 1124 (xvi).

GAME, M. F.: (See under C. R. Richey.)

GANNON, P. A. (See under A. B. Farnham.)

GARNER, R. L., Roanoke, Va.: Two specimens of minerals from Franklin County.
806 (xvr). (See under Johannes Marjenhoff, and Roanoke Stock Exchange.)

GARRISON, C. G., Santa Ana, Cal.: Specimens of ore from California. 961 (XVI).

GARWOOD, SPENCER, Milford Center, Ohio: Shrew. 1082 (1v).

GHISELIN, Miss H. V., Louisville, Ky: Twospecimens of pottery. (One returned and
the other presented). 889 (11, B).

GrpBons, J. A., Quijotoa, Ariz.: Sample of Indian paint, and a black stone or shale
found in Pima County. 1046 (xvit).

GiLtBERT, Mrs. A., Plainfield, N. J.: Twenty-one specimens of lepidoptera. (Re-
turned.) 1022 (x).

GILBERT, J. E., Mitchell, S. Dak.: Tooth of fossil shark. 1114 (xr).

GIRDWOODE, WILLIAM, Hospital Corps, U. S. Army, Fort Riley, Kans.: Specimen of
moth. 1188 (x).

Graves, P. A., Tiger Mills, Texas (through H. T. Fuchs): Minerals from Texas,
934, 967 (XVI).

Gray, 8. R. S., East Sound, San Juan County, Wash.: Minerals from Washington.
939 (XVI).

GREEN, Prof. H. A., Chester, S. C,; Sample of clay. 1098 (xvi),
48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

GREENEBAUM, W. B., Oakland, Cal.: Minerals from California. 997 (xv1).

GRIFFITH, FRANK, Glendive, Mont.: Specimens of fossil wood and ores. 1125
(CSV5SVALE))

GROSVENOR, Hon. C. H., House of Representatives: Ore from Pennsylvania. 911
(XVII).

HaaGuk, T. O., New York city, N. Y.: Eleven ethnological paintings and pictures
from the Bombay Exhibition. (Returned.) 1146 (1, A).

HALLOWELL, Prof. H. C., Sandy Spring, Md.: Mineral from Montgomery County.
933 (XVI).

HAMILTON, J. T., Spokane Falls, Wash.: Samples of earth. 814 (xvi).

HAMPTON, ALFRED, El Paso, Tex.: Specimen of work made by a species of silkworm
in the Sierra Madre Mountains of old Mexico. 907 (xX).

Harris, D. B., Payson, Ariz.: Quartz. 800 (xvI1).

Harris, Hon. Isuam G., United States Senate: Ore. 875 (xv1).

Harris, JOSEPH A., Provo City. Utah: Coal, graphite (?), and minerals. 958, 970
(GXaVaIeeXaVAIII) =

Hart, Winuiam H. & Co., New York city: Skin and skull of Lion-slaying Monkey,
and Red-fur Monkey. 1074 (24209) (1v).

Hart, WILLIAM R., Camanche, Iowa: Specimens of dendrite from near Camanche,
and two specimens from near Silver Cliff, Colo. 918 (23733) (xy1).

HAZARD, GEORGE W., Los Angeles, Cal.: Rocks from California. 946 (xvi).

HEAcOCcK, J. W., Alpine, Ala.: Minerals. 1139 (xv1).

HrempPet, ApoupH,, Hillsdale, Mich.: Two skins of Florida Gallinule, from Villa
Nova. 1005 (v, A).

HENsHAW, S. B., Stanardsville, Va.: Ore from Virginia. 984 (XVII).

HeERBERT, Dr. G. H., Beaver City, Utah: Specimens of mineral rock. 877 (XVI).

HERRING, Mrs. F. O., Plainfield, N. J.: Thirty-one species of North American lepi-
doptera. (Returned all but one specimen.) 990 (x).

Hess, R. A., Arkansas City, Kans.: Sample of earth. 1016 (xvit).

Hewitt, G. C., Rock Springs, Wyo.: Geological material. 1045 (xvi).

Hbyens, JAMES H., Ogden, Utah: Ores. (Returned.) 1084 (xvi1).

HEYMANN, S., Fayetteville, Tenn.: Ore. 1150 (xvit).

Hint, FRED. A., Havana, N. Y-: Insect. 1118 (x).

Hin, L. F., Rico, Cole.: Specimen of madstone. 1023 (1).

Hitt, Dr. W. Scott, Augusta, Me.: Chippings from the material of which arrow and
spear-heads are made in the Kennebec Valley. 987 (xvi).

HILTON, GEORGE, Coral, 8. Dak.: Sample of clay from South Dakota. 899 (xvi1).

HiLTon, J. W., Acworth, Ga.: Ore. 1104 (xvi).

Hover, H. G., York, Ill.: Samples of clay containing shells and sample of sand.
843, 864 (1X, XVII).

Hotty, L. B., Biloxi, Miss.: Specimen of ore (?) from near Biloxi. 1131 (xvm).

Homes, J. A., Chapel Hill, N. C.: Specimen of slug. (Returned.) 919 (1x).

Homer, F. L., New Hamburg, Pa.: Skin of bird from New Hamburg. 1009 (y, A).

HorppinG, RALPH, Bloomfield, N. J.: Twenty-six species of North American coleop-
tera. (Returned). 1008 (x). Thirty-seven specimens of coleoptera. (Returned.)
1020 (x). Beetles from New Jersey. (Returned). 1068 (x).

HORNBECK, LEWIS N., Minco, Chickasaw Nation, Ind. T.: Specimen of butterfly.
a alel(EXS) =

HOUGHTON, C., Batavia, N. Y.: Insect. 838 (x).

Hovey, GEORGE U. 8., White Church, Kans.: Insect. 1105 (x).

HUNTER, FRANK, Eureka, Utah: Mineral. 931 (xv).

Hypkr, J. A., Nephi, Utah: Ores from Utah. (Returned.) 991 (xvi).

INGERSOLL, J. Z., Lee, N. Y.: Insect. 1137 (x).

Jacobs, Dr. P. B., Henry, Il.: Specimen of supposed petrified pear. 801 (Xxvit).

JACKSON, THOMAS, Plymouth, Mass.: Sample of earth. 815 (xvir).
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49

Jackson, T. H., Westchester, Pa.: Three sets of eggs of Callipepla squamata castan-
ogastris, representing 44 specimens. (Purchased.) 894 (23557) (v, B.).

JARVIS, Burt, Theresa, N. Y.: Specimen of butterfly. 1239 (x).

Jaske, BROTHER HERMANN, Dayton, Ohio: Small collection of shells from various
localities. (Returned.) 879 (tx); collection of shells, 951 (1x); specimens of
minerals and shells. (Returned.) 1056 (1x, XVI).

JOHNSTON, Rev. E. F., Tallula, Ill.: Section of grapevine taken from a coal-shaft
891 (1).

JONES, GEORGE E., Columbus Grove, Ohio: Specimen of butterfly. 1134 (x).

JONES, Dr. Lrvi, Green River, N.C.: Mineral. 849 (xvi).

JORDAN, W. T., Griffin, Ga.: Mineral. 1059 (xvi).

Jouy, P. L., U.S. National Museum: Supposed aluminum ore from Arizona. 966
(XVI1).

Joynes, W. N., Wesson, Miss.: Specimen of butterfly. 842 (x).

KANE, JAMES A., Jensen, Utah: Mineral. 1052 (xvr).

KaZEr, W. L., Lowmansville, Ky : Minerals. 980, 988 (xv1).

Keira and Briss, Drs., Bonne Terre, Mo.: Specimen of fossil tooth. 822 (x11).

KENNEDY, E. B., Amicus, Va.: Specimen of ore from Virginia. 969 (xv).

KENNEDY, THOMAS C., Baltimore, Md.: Stone frem Baltimore. 1013 (xvi).

Kniagut, E. B., Woodford, Ontario, Canada: Insects. 1209 (x).

Knorr, W.T., Lebanon, Ky.: Sample of well-drillings. 908 (xtv).

KNOWLES, F. E., Spencer, lowa: Specimens of grass and birds’ eggs. 901 (Vv, B; XV).

KOHN, GusTAVE, New Orleans, La.: Snakes, 1058, 1183 (v1).

KosBeE, Maj. W. A., U.S. Army, Artillery School, Fort Monroe, Va.: Fungus. 847(Xv).

KREISHER, D., Johnson City, Teun.: Ores from Tennessee. 1012, 1014 (xvir).

Kurncer, O. F., Kingman, Ariz.: Insects injurious to grapevines; also bulbs or
lumps which injure cottonwood trees in Arizona. 900 (xX).

LAMBERT BROTHERS, Kearney, Nebr.: Bird-skin. 1142 (24385) (v, A).

LAMPHERE, F. W., Chittenango, N. Y.: Samples of well-drillings. 882 (xIv).

LANE, WILFRED, Wild Rose, Wis.: Crystalline quartz. 1126 (xvi).

LAWS, FRANKLIN, Windom, N. C.: Minerals. 1229 (xvi).

LEAVELL, J. M., Culpeper, Va.: Insects. 1043 (x).

Lrpy, J. H., Marion, Pa.: Sample of earth. 876 (xvI1).

LEE; G. S., Lyerly, Ga.: Mineral. 1080 (xv1).

LExr, Miss JANE E., Richmond, Ala.: Ore. 1010 (xvit).

LEGGE, J. F., Shepherdstown, W. Va.: Mineral. 1028 (xvt).

Lester, Mrs.G. P., Chillicothe, Il].: Moth. 1187 (x).

LEwTerR, F. A., Orlando, Fla.: Indian bowl. (Returned.) 831 (11, B).

Livincston, E., New Orleans, La.: Specimen of Benacus griseus. 870 (x).

LOMBARD, H., Westfield, Mass.: Minerals. 1072 (xvr).

LOWNDES, C. GAMBLE, Baltimore, Md.: Two specimens of Bob-white (mounted).
(Returned.) 965 (v, A).

Love, Dr. T. B., Gunsight, Tex.: Butterfly. 1194 (x).

Lupton, JOHN S., Winchester, Va.: Rock, supposed to be ‘‘coal-bloom.” 797 (XvIr).

Lyon, HENryY S., Sollitt, 11.: Luna-moth. 1152 (x).

McCaiGug, P., Danvers, Mass.: Insect. 1189 (x).

McComas, FrEepErRIcK I°., Hagerstown, Md. (through Hon. L. E. McComas): Tron
ore and a bottle of mineral water. (Water returned.) 8&7 (XVII).

McComas, Hon. L. E. (See under Frederick F. McComas.)

McDONNELL, F., Grant, Tex.: Insect. 813 (x).

McGALLEARD, W. M., Connelly Springs, N. C.: Mineral. 834 (Xv1).

McItwraira, T., Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.: Eight specimens, representing 6
species, of birds, from the vicinity of Toronto. (Returned.) 890 (Vv, 4).

MANNING, T. H., Mineral, Idaho.: Insect. 1244 (x).

sm 91, pT 2 4

5O REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

MARJENHOFF, JOHANNES, Charleston, 8. C. (through Mr. R. L. Garner): Cale tufas
from the south of Germany. 1029 (xvi1).

Marsu, JOHN S. Chicago, Ill.: Plants. 1243 (xv).

Martin, D. G., Eagle Rock, Idaho.: Specimen of supposed kaolin. 1133 (24409)
(XVI).

May, WILLIAM R., Nephi, Utah.: Mineral. 985 (xv1).

MAYDWELL, Rey. GEORGE E., Baltimore, Md.: Insects. 977 (x).

Mereppock, FRANK, Maineville, Ohio: Two fossils found in a strata of rock. 1071
(XI, A).

MEEKER, Dr. J.W., Nyack-on-Hudson, N.Y.: Plants. 938, 1159 (xv).

MELLINGER, I. G., Stephenson, Va.: Minerals. 999, 1018 (xv1).

MELVILLE, W. P., Orillia, Ontario, Canada: Crystals. 839 (xv1).

MENZL, A., Steinway, Long Island: Supposed petrified wood. 1140 (xvt).

MERRILL, GEORGE R., Grand Rapids, Mich.: Collection of Parker’s and Weaver’s
Almanacs, 1730-1750 inclusive, and an Indian skull. 851 (23582). (1, 111).

METCALFE, CHARLES, Las Cruces, N. Mex.: Sample of kaolin. 1060 (xvit.)

MIars, FREMONT, Hartmonsville, W. Va.: Mineral. 941 (xv1).

MILBURN, BERT, Round Hill, Va.: Moth. 1195 (x).

MILLER, B. F., East Martinsburgh, N. Y.: Moth. 1206 (x).

Mitirr, H. D., Plainville, Conn.: Egg-case of skate or ray. 883 (VI).

Mitter, G. M., Newport, Ky.: Seed found among Persian locusts. 837 (xv); moth.
1167 (x).

MILLER, G. 8. jr., Cambridge, Mass.: Three specimens of Thomomys noy.sp. (Re-
turned.) 1100 (1v); skin andskull of Jumping-mouse. (Returned.) 1115 (1v);
specimens of Harvest-mice from Kansas. (Returned.) 1144 (1v.)

MILLER, M. J., Deadwood, 8S. Dak.: Specimens of fossiliferous slate rock. 1210 (Xv1).

Mircu, JOHN L., Edmond, Okla.: Specimens of grass. 1227 (xv).

MONTGOMERY MARBLE COMPANY, Blacksburgh, Va. (through W. B. Conway): Speci-
men of black marble from Virginia. 860 (xvI1).

MooreEnousE, JOSEPH, Hibernia, Fla.: Sample of earth. (Returned.) 1083 (vut).

Moyers, Marion, Compensation, Tenn.: Fossils, shells, and ores. 1186 (XII, A;
XVII).

Mutk, JOHN, Brooklyn, N. Y.: Two samples of earth. 953 (xvit).

MULKEY, J. K., Los Angeles, Cal.: Mineral from California. 983 (xv1).

MunGer, C. A., Hannibal, Mo.: Specimen of mineral and a fossil. 949 (XII, A;
XVI).

Mourrny, THOMAS M., Sanborn, W. Dak.: Ancient silver coin found in an old fort in
Ireland. (Returned.) 1037 (1).

Myrr, W.E., Carthage, Tenn.: Jaw-bone of porpoise. (Returned.) 832 (Iv).

Myers, Dr. R. P., Green Mountain Falls, Colo.: Anatomical specimen. 11638 (Iv).

Narrin, Mrs. M. L,, Goodrich, Mich.: Geological specimens from Hadley Hill. 1157

(XVIL).
NELSON, CHRISTIAN, Virginia City, Mont.: Sample of clay. (Returned.) 1062 (xvu1).
NELSON, WILLIAM, Sally, 8. C.: Specimens of supposed marl, limestone, and chalk

from Aiken County. 1054 (xvi).
NEWLON, Dr. W.8., Oswego, Kans.: Specimens of fossil-leaf coral. 1076 (x01, A).
Noyes, J. B., Lawrenceburg, Tenn.: Ore. 927 (Xvi).
O’FARRALL, Hon. CHARLES T., Harrisonburg, Va.: Ore. 1101 (xvm).
OLDHAM, Mrs. NATHAN J., Johnstown, Pa,: Horsefly and electric-light bug. 1153
(x).
OLIVER, J. F., Steubenville, Ohio: Leaves from maple tree. 920 (xv).
OSBORNE, BE. & SON, Fort Smith, Ark.: Insect from Indian Territory. 1135 (x).
OsBorN, Prof. H. L., Hamline, Minn.: Shells. (Returned.) 1108 (1x).
PaGeE, J. B., North Fork, Cal.: Herbs. 1181 (xv).

PALMER, W. L., Crookston, Minn.: Hide of moose. 1122 (24384) (rv).
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51

Park, Mrs. KATHERINE B., Hampton, Va.: Insect. 1217 (x).

PARRISH, GEORGE W., Wenatchee, Wash.: Specimens of lime and stone containing
erystals. 850 (Xvi).

PATTON, W., Prestonville, N. C.: Stones. 1191 (xvt).

PETERSON, R., Green Mountain, N. C.: Three minerals. 1026 (xv1).

Puiniies, L. E., Peede’s, Tex.: Insect. 1161 (x).

Poor, CuHarLEs, Hubbardstown, W. Va.: Two photographs representing the skull
ofa hog. 996 (Iv).

Porrer, Miss ELLA B., Norwich, Kans.: Moth. 1147 (x).

Price, I. K., Holly Brook, Va. (through D. W. M. Wright): Specimens of rocks.
1017 (xvi1).

Prock, A. B., Osceola, Mo.: Mineral. 1091 (xvt).

RANKIN, J. A., Mer Range, La.: Insect from Louisiana. 886 (xX).

RAYBURN, ROBERT, Elkhorn Station, W. Va.: Insect. 1240 (x).

ReIcu, M., St. Joseph, Mo.: Insect. 1165 (x).

ReEYNOLDs, P. V., Copenhavers Mills, W. Va. (through Hon. G. W. Atkinson): Ore
from West Virginia. 1021 (xv1).

RIBLETT, F., Rahway, J.: Worm. 858 (x).

Ricukry, C. R., Abbeville, S. C. (through M. F. Game): Sample of earth. 1079
(XVI).

RicuTER, Rey. Epwarp F., Cairo, Ga.: Scales of Gar. 857 (VI); minerals. 1109
(XVI).

RisinG, H. A., San Bernardino, Cal.: Specimen of ground gypsum. 820 (XvIr).

Roacu, Mrs. A. D., Louisville, Ky.: Moth. 1246 (x).

ROANOKE Srock EXCHANGE, Roanoke, Va. (through R. L. Garner): Specimens of
granite and mineral. 888 (XVI, XVII).

Roark, J. M., Charlotte, N. C.: Worm. 856 (xX).

Ropprns, S. G., Siverly, Pa.: Insect. 1200 (x).

RoBeErts, 8. P., Big Pine, Cal.: Samples of clay. 1112, 1158 (xvi, xvi).

Rosrnson, James H., Lewiston, Idaho: Specimens of magnesia stone. 1170 (24426)
(XVII).

RosBrinson, JoOUN M., Bozeman, Mont.: Specimens of mineral. 982, 1090 (xvt).

Rogesster, A. R., San Antonio, Tex.: Sample of mineral water. 829 (XVI).

RoGAN, CUARLES L., Kenton, Ohio: Sample of a substance froma well. 1223 (xv).

RoGan, JAMES W., Amis, Tenn.: Two specimens of fossils. 936 (xuI, A). Mineral
from Tennessee. 1069 (xvi1). Specimen of stone such as was formerly used for
millstones. 1094 (XvIr).

Roure, Hattie M., Sherman, 8S. Dak.: Specimen of insect. 1235 (xX).

Romer, J. L., Anacortes, Wash.: Floss of “ fire-wood.” 897 (xv).

RosE, OVEREND G., Lakeport, Cal.: Specimen of Woodpecker. 1052 (v, A).

ROSEDAHL, N., Whiting, Kans.: Mineral. 1102 (xv1).

ROSENTHAL, JOSEPH, New York city, N. Y.: Three specimens of birds. (Returned.)
1230 (Vv, A).

Rousk, THOMAS, Jr., Leota, Pa.: Insects. 1143 (x).

SACHLAND, NATHAN, Waxahachie, Tex.: Moth. 1151 (x).

SaMPsoN, GEORGE T., Boston, Mass.: Insect from Rhode Island. 1237 (xX).

ScHaar, Purrrp, Tucson, Ariz.: Ore. 1033 (xvi).

SCHREIBAR, J. D., Allentown, Pa.: Ores. 1180 (24425) (<viII).

Scort, Dr. A. J., Nahma, Mich.: Plant. 826 (XxIv).

ScREVEN, E. W., Columbia, S.C.: Plants and insects. 1193 (xX, xv).

Secrest, T. D., Okolona, Ark.: Fossil bones of mammals. 972 (24275) (x).

SHEARER, R. A., Elko, Nev.: Moth. 898 (x).

SHERIDAN, EpMuND J., Cleveland, Ohio: Shells from Florida, 1212 (1x).

Survey, E. A., Jonesboro, Tenn.: Mineral. 1055 (xv1).

Sumpson, A. M., Straubville, N. Dak.: Mineral. 1213 (24486) (XV1).
52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Stayton, C. M., Grattan, Mich.: Two small clay tablets, taken from mounds in
Montcalm County. (Returned.) 1162 (111).

SMEDLEY, 8S. H., Sanger Junction, Cal.: Specimen of ore (?). 979 (24813) (Xv1).

SmitH, Epwarp, Port Hope, Ontario, Canada: Insect. 1169 (x).

SmitH, G. T., Middlesboro, Ky. Mineral. 1110 (xvr).

SnypDER, JAcos, Two Taverns, Pa.: Specimen of stone from Adams County. 1136
(xv1). Specimen, of meteoric iron. 1196 (xv1I).

SpanGc, NorMAN, Etna, Pa.: Stone hatchet from North Carolina. 1138 (111).

SPENCER, Miss FLORENCE I., Oak Lawn, Fla.: Snake. 853 (23479) (v1).

SPINDLE, H. H., Warrenton, Va.: Minerals. 823, 827 (XVI).

Spray, S. J., Salida, Colo.: Bird. 880 (23528) (v. a.). Skin of mammal. 952 (Iv).

Srarre, DEPARTMENT OF. (See under Alexander Bishop.)

STEDMAN, A. B., Minnesota Lake, Minn.: Insect. 1215 (x).

STEELE, JOHN G., Rock Hill, S. C.: Mineral. 942 (xv1).

STEINBAUER, E. F., Vandalia, Ill.: Bird. (Returned.) 1156 (Vv, A).

STEINER, R., Waynesboro, Ga.: Collection of stone implements from mounds and
village sites in the vicinity of Waynesboro. (Returned.) 1081 (11).

STEVENSON, E., Granite Cafion, Wyo.: Plants. 1127, 1199 (xv).

SrockBrRiIpDGE, Hon. F. B., United States Senate: Stone. 810 (xvit).

Sroxrs, W. R., Wallace, Idaho: Insects. 1208 (x).

Srong, Witmer, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.: Bird. (Returned.)
GAL (Cie ANE

Stoner, D. U., Mount Joy, Pa.: Piece of ash wood with profile of a human face,
(Returned.) 995 (1).

Strunk, D., Mankato, Minn.: Insects. 799 (xX).

SruaRtT, R.C., Brunswick, Ga.: Insects. 869 (X).

SWINGLE, O. H., Dudleyville, Ariz.: Ore. 1130 (xvi).

SyBERrt, O. P., Ravenswood, W. Va.: Specimens of ore. 1225 (Xvit).

TayLor, DouGuas, Columbus, Ohio: Specimen of diatomaceous earth. 1064 (XIV).

Taytor, J. C., Springer, N. Mex.: Sample of a deposit found about six miles from
Springer. 1095 (xvit).

TEGARDEN, W.S., Fort Scott, Kans.: Minerals. 821, 1088 (XVI).

THe D. H. Ranck PUBLISHING COMPANY, Indianapolis, Ind.: Specimen of stone.
811 (xvitr).

THEODORIDI, N. A., Constantinople, Turkey (through Mr. Edward A. Cary): Nine
Babylonian seal cylinders or cuneiform tablets. (Returned.) 1053 (1).

Tuorpr, Dr. H. H., Liberty Hill, Tex.: Mineral. 1061 (xvt).

THRELKELD, E. R., Los Angeles, Cal.: Specimen of supposed graphite. 1007 (xvi1).

Tricknor, F. A., Rockford, I1.: Skull supposed to have been taken from a mound near
Rockford, and a copper spear-head from the same locality. 1073 (24273) (111).

Titron, W. L. R., Prairie Depot, Ohio: Insect. 1205 (x).

TOUZALEN, C. V., Bristol, Tenn.: Insect. 1148 (x).

TREAT, R. G., Cleveland, Ohio: Three pipes and an ornamented stone object. 959
(111).

Trescott, Judge WILLIAM H., Washington, D, C.: Specimens of marble. 954 (XvI1).

TREWEEK, JOHN, Salt Lake City, Utah: Ore from Idaho. (Returned.) 986 (XvI1).

TRUSSELL, J. N., Shepherdstown, W. Va.: Ores. (Returned.) 1070 (xvit).

TULLORT, Miss FLORENCE E., Newark, Ohio: Insects. 1228 (x).

TurTLe, Mrs. Mary E., Sabetha, Kans.: Butterfly. 1164 (x).

Tyson, M., Hope, Ark.: Bone of a mammal. 925 (xIr).

VAN ALLEN, GrorGrE C., Mount Pleasant, Iowa: Specimens found deposited on grass.
1234 (x).

VAN DEURSEN, GEORGE L., Vernon, Tex.: Insect. 1197 (xX).

VAN VuteT, F. C., Shrewsbury, N. J.: Specimen of growth found on a young red
cedar tree. 1117 (XV).
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53

Vannay, E., Goshen, Ark.: Chert with iron pyrites. 1106 (xvi).

VARNER, Miss RILE, Berwick, Pa.: Quartz. 1204 (xv1).

RINGHARZ, THEO. VON, Middletown, Va.: Small tube cemented together with small
gravel found in a spring near the North Carolina line, in Tennessee. 932 (x).

WAGNER, W. H., Cleveland, Ohio: Two Indian stone axes. 962 (11).

WALKER, E. A., Moulton, Iowa: Piece of a meteorite. (Returned.) 1025 (xv1).

WALKER, JOHN, Muldon, Miss.: Insect. 878 (x).

Warp, ELBorRN T., Trinidad, Colo.: An iron hanging-lamp, probably of French or
Spanish make, found in an old adobe building. 904 (23657) (11 A).

WarrEN, HENRY, & Co., Oregon, Tenn.: Ore. 1035 (Xvit).

WATKINS, GEORGE F., Moriah, N. Y.: Rock. 812 (xvm).

WATKINS, GEORGE W., Moriah, N. Y.: Ores. 916, 964 (xvi). Specimen of mineral.
1047 (Xvi).

Wartrous, E., Weiser, Idaho: Specimen of supposed kaolin. 1173 (xvi).

Warts, W. C., Smithland, Ky.: Piece of supposed petrified pork. 950 (x1, B).

Wess, J. S., Elkhorn, W. Va.: Insect. 1219 (x).

Wess, W. L., Asbury Park, N. J.: Cocoon of insect. 863 (x).

WEIGLE, J. A., Washington, D. C.: Chipped flint leaf-shaped implement from St.
Lawrence County, N. Y. (Returned.) 1078 (11).

WELCH, I. E., Alpine, Ala.: Iron ore. 928 (xvi1).

WENNER, Samuel, Drifton, Pa.: Butterfly. 1120 (x).

WERTH, J. M., Stockton, Va.: Ores. 855 (XVII).

WEsT, C.S., Sumter, S. C.: Leaf and seeds of fern (?) 1141 (xv).

WESTERVELT, Mrs. F. M., Rural, Fla.: Rock. 1201 (xvir).

WETHERBY, M. K., Trenton, N. J.: Moth and cocoon. 1176 (x).

WHITE, Stewart E., Grand Rapids, Mich.: Three birds’ skins. (Returned.) 867
(V, INN

WHITEHORN, Worth, Saratoga, Nebr.: Moth. 1241 (x).

WIcKER and ROcCKETT, Red Oak, Tex. Insect. 1184 (x).

WiceErsMaA, P., Sioux City, lowa. European butterflies. 1113 (x).

WiGuT and HENNE, Salina, Kans. Clay. (Returned.) 948 (xvi).

WILEMAN, E. D., Massillon, Ohio. Worm. 1039 (x).

WILLARD, CHARLES D., Cottonwood, Ariz. Mineral. 881 (xv1).

WitmorTn, H, C., Washington, D. C. (through Hon. William L. Wilson). Ores. 1057
(XVI).

Wincu Brotruers, Boston, Mass. Insect, and a pair of shoes showing injury done
by the insect. 1138 (x).

Witson, Hon. J. H., House of Representatives. Six specimens of minerals. 807
(avin):

WILSON, J. S., Stillman, Va. Mineral (through Hon. G. W. Atkinson). 1003 (Xv1).

WILSON, WILLIAM, Welch, Va. Mineral. 818 (XVI).

WILSON, Hon. WILLIAM L. (See under H. C. Wilmoth.)

WILVERT, E., Sunbury, Pa. Ores and a mineral. 835, 846, 848, 930, 956, and 1236
(XVI, XVII).

WITTKUGEL, ERICH, San Pedro Sula, Honduras. Birds’ skins and mammal skins.
1085, 24394 (1v, vV, A).

WILLIAMS, A. J. Specimen of fungus from Florida. 803 (xv).

WirTHROW, Dr. J. M., La Luz, N. Mex. Rock. 978 (xvit).

Woop, Albert, North Bristol, Ohio. Stone. 924 (xvi1).

WoORRALL, WILLIAM, St. Louis, Mo. Fish. (Returned.) 1174 (vit).

WortueEN, C. K., Warsaw, Ill. Thirty-three skins and skulls of mammals. (Pur-
chased.) 862 (24069) (Iv). Two skins of raccoon. (Purchased.) 926 (24068)
(iv). Thirty-three specimens representing 27 species of birds’ skins from various
localities. (Returned.) 975 (v,A). Specimens of reptiles from Texas, 1077
(24410) (v1). Mammal skins. 1099 (24265) (1v).

WRIGHT, D. W. M. (See under L. R. Price.)
5A

WRIGHT, SAMUEL H., Longview, Tex.
. P., Elkader, Kans.
Va.
Ores, 1048, 1097 (xv11).
YounNG, J. R., Windom, N.C.
Station, Md.
Zipp, EK. H., Capon Bridge, W. Va.
Logan,

WRIGHT, S
YEATTS, L. K., Ella,
1019 (xvtI).

ZEIGLER, F. ee Boyds

ZUBERBIER, A. W.,

(XIV):

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Specimen of mineral ore. 805 (xvi1).

Three specimens of rocks. 804 (xvi).

Ores. (One sample returned.) 1004 (xvi).

Minerals, 808, 833, 1027,
Ores, 838 (Xvit).

Specimen of supposed kaolin.

Specimen of petrified nut.

1238 (XVI).

Minn. (Returned. )

893 (XVII).

Minerals,

iH

Index to list of specimens sent for examination and report, arranged geographically.

|
|

Source. Number of lot. Total.
North America:

British America......-- 18393890895) 1169 1209. os .. stato cr totere he lane ale lee Sete te oe eee ti}
@entral America. = 23-2: L085. a8 sep an oe oe eh eis ele aa See ee See eee See EE eee 1
IMIGKICO ayer aioe cere. S615 1226. <5 tr scis cya ta Be aera eevee stats a sale ores sive eee Eee ene eine 2

United States:

J MEME hrtt eo pseSMOrenaae | SeAch HUMOR INIG)Ee SoS combs sedcsus on seSoessocesh ene re donsoasoteaacsos 3
Nrizona Jeet esc | 800, 852, 881, 900, 966, 1033, 1046, 1130, 1149, 1247 ............---------- 10
ASIANS AS saa nt's seals | 809, 817, 925, 972, 1065, 1106...... Se ae Oa Mee toa seeme sees 6

@alitormases soar eee | 820, 861, 912, 921, 945, 946, 947, 961, 979, 983, 997, 1007, 1032, 1108, 1112,
| AGS TO WA esse Peer ae eat a 18
Coloradot- ae ee eee | eis EOE ene) Ce P IWR BS WGI) WEY oe son5en oe sdsosawocesseocsSotoscne- 7
@onnecticute ss ] eee BBS 220s 28 Sse ae Bae oe ee eee ee ae ee ee eee 2
Mistrictiofi Columbits=5 |) Sr Sl0us24 9034954 0b Taco ee eee aaa oeee ee eee eee eee eee 6
SOT aie cs secs ala ere UM Wilby rosMyreatmtetish teilic Ghee y pb Ad eay JN IPA Ces oseeaadeopoascoce fal
Goorin ao ea Snee 857, 869, 922, 943, 1059, 1080, 1081, 1104, 1109..........----------------- 10
id ahOeeee ese eee eee 1133, AIGOSULT OP 173s T208 1d4e 3. eee ee Ae ee eee 6

Moise ese eae 801, 819, 843, 862, 864, 885, 891, 909, 926, 968, 975, 994, 1066, 1073, 1077,
q 1099) TVIS2 ISG S185 dei eas ee eee ne ee eee 21

(ndianave scans ees eee SI 1096 a7 8s oS bce ce Sts tence gs SS ae ne ee ee ees 3
Indian Territory -..---. DDS AMT So apoccsee otc ee mond See Re ee ee ee ie er 2
TOW ase oe eo canes see 901,918; 1001, 1025; 1063) 1086 :ttdS WO 224 Os 2234 ee ee 11
ans aciaree =e s5 enon 804, 948, 1016, 1076, 1088, 1102, 1105, 1144, 1147, 1154, 1164, 1177, 1188. .-. 13
Kenbu Cyn eee eee eee 837, 872, 889, 908, 950, 973, 980, 988, 1011, 1041, 1110, 1167, 1246........-- 13
Mouisianasseeaee eee S702 8861058 G32 Si eens as eee ot Fe a, Sd eget aia eee 5
IMMSINGreees oaieine ae cece OST E ao be ardbecens eee SoC AO OSE Fe Ho Bene TE SEE aos Ee ee 1
Mearvlandens==-heeeee ee 82858872933. 960/965" OT Tel ONS OR Te = ee cece eee ae eee 8
Massachusetts.......--- SLISSSO 1 GOO. Oa LOO! els AS el SO nele aig eee eta = les ee ale a a 9
ME Ghipam 22 2 ece i sae scer 8265851, 867.1005; LOS6S LTS Te Ta G 2s OD ery ee tape a ratcieyere a eee ee 8
Minnesota: ..-2-=: 5=-: =. 799: S66; TOS UI) VO OO ene nae eee eee ae eos oe nee 6
IMUSSISSIP Pie. aes. a2 | GAH BAD" B78. ARTS Meet = ee een i en ea eee ee 5
IMUSSO0RIe a... sasecseoase 1822) .896; 923,949. LOOT W121 WIGS 74s L2abe = 2 n ee ee Se een 9
WGNEN NE eoetenernacees [P92 OE 2 LOG Se eee ee 5
Nebraska <2... 2..2.20k.. | 1.491983, 10D 0 34 oc ee eek alee 3
Nevada,.-.--. Ses a ee (BOG GW) oa h oka ee aly 0 ks we ORE eo eee a oe ee 1
IN@w: Ji@TSeY.=<-os-->-> =< | 802, 858, 863, 990, 1008, 1020, 1022; 1068) 1007, 175; W76Re eS sesee eee i
INeweMiexico)-2.. =s-.2-. 978,981,050; 10511 06051095, 1078524 5-n<25-ee eee eeere econ eee 7

. INewerMOr ky csc cs=cerae es 812, 838, 868, 882, 916, 938, 944, 953, 957, 964, 993, 1002, 1006, 1047, 1074,
1078, 1118, 1137, 1140, 1146, 1155, 1159, 1190, 1206, 1230, 1239 ........-- 26
North @arolina,....=..-- 808, 833, 834, 849, 856, 919, 1026, 1027, 1191, 1198, 1229, 1238 ............- 12
NortiheD akotasses-e esse WOW Be ave aloe see ea cle scige eee mee see tee Se ae Oe ee Che ae ee ee ne 1
Qhiosss hese oes coerce 872, 879, 884, 920, 924, 951, 959, 962, 1036, 1039, 1040, 1064, 1071, 1075, 1082,
13450205; 7212, 1216 1221223 O28. ee eee einer ee ae ee eee 22

Oklahoma Merricow yee LT a eam cm mre tape lee ee ph ee Fat le 1

Oreron 2F 32.csee = eee 3] op Ie) is SE ee rae i eens Sees AEE Sey es Sees 2

—-;
oe ae

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55

Index to list of specimens sent for examination and report, ete-—Continued.

Source. Number of lot. ‘Total.
United States—Continued. |
Pennsylvania.......---- 835, 846, 848, 873, 876, 894, 910, 911, 917, 930, 956, 995, 971, 1009, 1015, 1038, |
1067, 1089, 1120, 1136, 1143, 1153, 1180, 1196, 1200, 1204, 1207, 1236, 1242.) 29
South Carolina -.....--- 854, O15; 942) 1029, 1054, 1079: 1098, 1141. 1193... ...--.-...-c..----2--=- 9
South Dakota .2:2..- -& BOO LOS Aol OMe ad Dimers eres ca. Sens se ee eee cota cits a cite ats 6
EP ENNGSSCO ls = oc -1' ai a cl=1s 832, 840. 845, 875, 905, 906, 927, 936, 9387, 1012, 1014, 1030, 1035, 1055, 1069, |
1092, 1093, 1094, 1129, 1148, 1150, 1166, 1172, 1179, 1186, 12038..-.....--. °6
MO@XKaS! = sn aeonscaeenise aise 805, 813, 816, §29, 844, 907, 934, 935, 967. 1061, 1132, 1151, 1161, 1182, 1184, |
ATG ATO HAO 2 MATS cee taa = oe ree eee nie eRe, it a Stelejs ce a aatareeec crs 19
Witahrs=<Seeessscet esses. 877, 931, 958, 970, 985, 986, 991, 1024, 1042, 1049, 1052, 1084, 1145, 1168 . ___| 14
WAL OUNTA ee caress 2 siercs = | 797, 806, 818, 823, 825, 827, 847, 855, 860, 888, 902, 932. 969, 984, 989, 992, |
999, 1004, 1017, 1018, 1019, 1043, 1044, 1048, 1097, 1101, 1124, 1195, 1217 | 29
NWrashune ton o-2-2-ssss- SIZATSSON Sil Poo OOO a OMOp OSLO sders = ne ee rmra sere se ee ele ae = 9
West Virginia...-....-. 850, 865, 893, 941, 963, 996, 1008, 1021, 1028, 1070, 1107, 1219, 1221, 1225,
PPA Oe Ae che Seeley sae leioyais eta sige sie eva/ee Sado Rbielele cis ne oe eS eeinnemeee ae 15
WS COUSIN = ea sas se oo Ih ee eee rece nS Joa e eer cee ese chica sieecee SEO SCRE tt
Wyoming............--- WES TeOdo Gna oIGOr shes Peete ee o =. kN co eeu: 1s eee 4
Europe: | |
JWR \ Se SS Anomasnensees | WB Rs so 22 = oc cacies SS etioscnaaceedseece alae eties «=e Samet oweeciseseeee | 1
Africa: |
Mey pb etss seo 5--- DUO A= ation doors SOS e RR ORME Ste Glace Ee See aaaa pe aIaa Oors bomen 1
Ag Hesaeueee eee eae se Shes ei cee a ee eva Pay a I pS ew, A le a ee Rayon ee 1
PASI aPNEIN On seen cease on eae TRIG Bek NS eA eee ae SE Sa ee ee Bok ee ona ae! | 1

FOREIGN EXCHANGES.

Exchanges of duplicate specimens with foreign museums have been
continued in accordance with the custom which has prevailed in past
years. The record of domestic exchanges is shown in the accession list
(Section v), and the exchanges made with persons and scientific insti-
tutions abroad are referred te in the following statement.

ARTS AND INDUSTRIES.

Mr. Charles Gindriez, director of the museum at Chalon sur Sadne,
France, transmitted an impression from a heliograph ‘“‘ Portrait of Car-
dinal Amboise” prepared from an engraving by Briot, made by Joseph
Nicephore Niepce in 1824, for which a collection of archeological ob-
jects was sent in exchange.

From the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, England (through Dr. W.
T. Thiselton-Dyer, director), was received a collection of Indian and tex-
tile fabrics, samples of miscellaneous drugs, and a collection of seeds.
Ethnological objects and bogus coffee beans were sent in exchange.

ETHNOLOGY.

From the British Museum, London, England, were received twenty-
five ethnological objects from Kaffirland, South Africa, in exchange for
specimens of the same character.
56 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Mr. Henry Balfour, of the Museum, Oxford, Englai:i, transmitted
models of a shell lamp from the southwest coast of Brittany, and from
the Orkney and Shelter islands; also a French crusie of brass from
Normandy; two iron lamps used by bakers for lighting ovens, and a
Spoon made from a pecten shell. In exchange a blowgun of cane from
the Chetimacha Indians, Louisiana, model of fire-drill from the Eskimos
of Anderson River, Canada, and a pottery lamp from Morgantown, W.
Va., were transmitted.

Several small exchanges of ethnological objects have been made with
Mr. Edward Lovett, of Croydon, England.

From the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, England (through Dr. W.
T.. Thiselton-Dyer, director), was received a mat from New Guinea, for
which an equivalent has been transmitted.

The Museum, Oxford, England, through Mr. Henry Balfour, trans-
mitted a bamboo blow-pipe from Burmah, for which an equivalent will
soon be sent.

PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY.

From the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Bruns-
wick, through Mr. L. W. Bailey, were received three stone implements
and other specimens, for which twenty-six stone implements and six
fragments of pottery were sent in exchange.

Exchanges of archeological material have been made with Mr. Ed-
ward Lovett, of Croydon, England.

A collection of archeological objects was transmitted to the Museo
Nazionale d’Anthropologia, Florence, Italy, for which an equivalent will
doubtless be received before long. :.

MAMMALS.

Dr. R. Collett, director of the Zodlogical Museum, Christiania, Nor-
way, transmitted a skeleton of a porpoise (Lagenorhynchus albirostris),
for which the skin and model of skull of a California sea-lion will be
sent in exchange.

Seventy-onespecimens of mammals were sent tothe Auckland Museum,
Auckland, New Zealand, for which an equivalent has been promised.

A skin and skullof Antilocapra americana, and skull of Bison amer-
icanus, has been transmitted to the Australian Museum, Sydney, New
South- Wales, for which material has been promised in exchange.

To Dr. George Pouchet, Musée d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France,
was sent a skeleton of Bison americanus, in exchange for objects
already received.

BIRDS.

Mr. W. Eagle Clarke, Edinburgh Museum of Science and Art, Edin-

burgh, Scotland, sent eleven specimens, representing nine species, of

birds’ skins from England, Azores Islands, Siberia, and Japan, for
which an exchange will be sent. .

——— OU
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 57

From the National Museum of Costa Rica, San José, Costa Rica,
through Mr. George K. Cherrie, were received sixty-five birds’ skins,
representing thirty-five species from Costa Riea, including types of two
new species and one new genus, two species new to the collection, and
plumages previously unrepresented, for which a collection of birds’
skins was transmitted in exchange.

Ten specimens of birds’ skins have been transmitted, in exchange, to
the Auckland Museum, Auckland, New Zealand.

To Dr. George Pouchet, Musée d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France,
have been sent four skeletons of birds, in return for material received.

REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS.

A collection of reptiles and batrachians was sent to the Auckland
Museum, Auckland, New Zealand, for which specimens have been
promised in return.

FISHES.

From the Royal Zodlogical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark (through
Prof. Dr. Chr. Liitken, president), were received four species of fishes,
including Liparis fabricii, Lycoden liitkent, Icelus hamatus, and Aspido-
phoroides olrikii, for which an exchange of deep-sea forms will be pre-
pared for transmission.

The skin of a specimen of Lepidosteus osseus has been transmittted
to the Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales, for which an
equivalent has been promised.

MOLLUSKS.

To Dr. Hugh Fulton, South Kensington, England, were sent four
specimens of Voluta stearnsii, in exchange for exotic shells previously
received.

From the Royal Zoblogical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark (through
Prof. Dr. Chr. Liitken, president), were received twenty-seven speci.
mens of marine shells, representing eleven species, for which an
exchange will be sent.

A collection of North American Unionide has been sent to Dr. H-
Von Ihering, Grande do Sul, Brazil, in exchange for a collection of
South American shells already received.

INSECTS.

From Mr. J. H. Brady, Cape Town, South Africa, were received one
hundred and sixty-seven species of South African insects, for which
thirty-three species of coleoptera and other insects were sent in exchange.

Alcoholic specimens of Myriapods were sent to Mr. O. F. Cook,
Orillia, Ontario, Canada, in exchange for specimens which have been
promised.

Mr. Paul Noél, of Rouen, France, transmitted fourteen species of
European Caribide, for which an exchange will be sent.
58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
MARINE INVERTEBRATES.

From the Royal Museum of Natural History, Berlin, Germany,
(through Dr. Karl Moébius, director) was received a collection of echino-
derms from Kurope, South America, Asia, and the East Indies, for
which one hundred and fifty specimens of echinoderms, representing
forty-two species, were sent in exchange.

From the Royal Zodlogical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark (through
Prof. Dr. Chr. Liitken), wasreceived a collection of marine invertebrates,
for which a collection will be prepared in exchange.

Dr. Charles F. Newcombe, secretary of the Natural History Society
of British Columbia, Victoria, transmitted a small collection of dried
crustaceans from British Columbia, and an alcoholic specimen of Gebia
pugettensis with Lepton attached, for which an exchange will be sent.

Prof. George 5S. Brady, Mowbray Villa, Sunderland, England, has
been sent specimens of echinoderms and corals, for which an equivalent
has been promised.

INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (PALEOZOIC. )

From the Geological Survey of Sweden, Stockholm, Sweden, were
received fifty-one specimens of Cambrian fossils in exchange for speci-
mens already sent.

From the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Brunswick
(through Mr. L. W. Bailey), were received ten specimens of Canadian
fossils, for which an equivalent has been transmitted.

FOSSIL PLANTS,

From the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Bruns-
wick (through Mr. L. W. Bailey), were received fossils plants, for which
Specinens were sent in exchange.

Twenty-two specimens of fossil plants have been sent to Mr. Isaae
Earnshaw, Oldham, England, in exchange for plants already received.

BOTANY.

From the Royal Botanie Garden, Calcutta, India (through Dr. G.
King, superintendent), were received specimens of dried plants from
India, for which an exchange will be sent.

Dr. I. Hagen; Trondjhem, Norway, transmitted specimens of Norwe-
gian mosses, for which an exchange will be prepared.

Prof. A. G. Nathorst, of the Royal Academy of Science, Stockholm,
Sweden, sent a collection of Arctic mosses in exchange for one hundred
specimens of dried ferns from the United States and Costa Rica, pre-
viously sent.

Prof. T. M. Fries, Upsala, Sweden, was sent eight hundred species of
dried plants from the United States, for which an equivalent will be
received,
qn
wo)

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
MINERALS.

From the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Bruns-
wick (through Mr. L. W. Bailey), were received specimens of minerals,
in exchange for material sent.

Mr. H. J. Johnston-Lavis, of Naples, Italy, transmitted eleven speci-
mens of minerals, for which an exchange of eighteen specimens of mis-
cellaneous minerals was sent.

From the Royal Saxon Mining Academy, Frieberg, Saxony, were re-
ceived fifty-five specimens of minerals, for which a collection, consisting
of forty-four specimens of miscellaneous minerals, was sent in exchange.

GEOLOGY -

From the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Bruns-
wick (through Mr. L. W. Bailey), were received specimens of geological
material, for which an exchange has been sent.

Sixteen specimens of minerals have been sent to the Auckland
Museum, Auckland, New Zealand, as an exchange for material which
has been promised.

Mr. H. J. Johnston-Lavis, of Naples, Italy, sent a small series of
eruptive rocks from Mount Vesuvius, for which specimens of rocks were
seut in exchange.

From Mr. B. Sturtz, of Bonn, Prussia, were received fifty-five speci-
mens of rocks from European sources, for which ninety-three specimens
of rocks were sent in exchange. Mr. Sturtz also sent specimens of ores,
for which an exchange will be prepared and forwarded.

Four specimens of rocks were sent, in exchange, to Prof. P. Groth,
Munich, Bavaria, for which an equivalent has been promised.

PUBLICATIONS.

In the report of the National Museum for 1889 the subject of the
publications ot the National Museum is treated at some length. It is
therefore not considered necessary to review in extenso this branch of
the work in this report.

It is proper to remark that the work of issuing the publications of
the Museum is now being more punctualiy performed than heretofore.
The report for 1889 has been published, and the report for 1890 has
been in type for several months. Volume x1 of Proceedings of the
National Museum (for 1890) is in type, and all the papers of volume
xIv (for 1891) have been issued separately and distributed, although
the volume in bound form has not yet appeared.

In the case of the “ Bulletin,” No. 38 has been published during the
last fiscal year, and some of the parts of Bulletin 39 are now being dis-
tributed. Before long Bulletins 40, 41, and 42 will be published.

During the last session of Congress an appropriation of $15,000 was
made for printing the report and other publications of the Museum,
60 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

being an increase of $5,000 over the preceding year. This will render
possible a somewhat wider distribution of the ‘“ Proceedings” and
“ Bulletin,” though the increased number of copies is still far from suf-
ficient to meet all legitimate demands.

REPORTS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM,

The Museum report for 1888 was issued during the current year, and
those for 1889 and 1890 are now in type. The delay in issuing the last
two reports has been occasioned by the overcrowded condition of the
Government Printing Office and the increased amount of engray-
ing needed for these reports. The report for 1888 contains xxii + 876
pages. The following special papers, based upon collections in the
Museum, are published in this report:

1. The Coast Indians of Southern Alaska and Northern British Columbia. By Lieut.
Albert P. Niblack, U.S. Navy.

2. A catalogue of the Hippisley collection of Chinese Porcelains, with a sketch of the
history of the ceramic art in China. By Alfred E. Hippisley (of the Imperial
Chinese customs service).

3. The expedition to Funk Island, with observations upon the history and anatomy
of the Great Auk. By Frederic A. Lucas.

4, Fire-making Apparatus in the U.S. National Museum. By Walter Hough.

5. The collection of Korean mortuary pottery in the U. 8. National Museum. By
Pierre Louis Jouy.

6. A study of prehistoric anthropology. By Thomas Wilson. °

7. Ancient Indian matting, from Petit Anse Island, Louisiana. By Thomas Wilson.

8. Results of an inquiry as to the existence of man in North America during the
paleolithic period of the stone age. By Thomas Wilson.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The papers published in the “ Proceedings ” consist chiefly of tech-
nical descriptions of specimens, prepared by the curators of the National
Museum or by other investigators, founded upon the collections in the
National Museum. Vol. x1 of the “ Proceedings” was issued in No-
vember, 1890, although a few unbound copies were printed before the
end of the previous fiscal year. It contains 686 pages (23 plates, 19
text figures) and embraces 32 papers by 26 authors, 10 of whom are
connected with the National Museum. A list of the papers is given
on pp. 54-56 of the last report. The papers relate to the following sub-
jects:

Subject. aes Subject. ry
PATCH ROOM Wiss sss secie5 at ec cee eo ueenee 2: (|| Miamim alls. 425. =aoe eee ee ee eee eee 1
IBID Se sec ee eile ints anor faosaintee amnesia ale G || Marine invertebrates eese-es>=4sceeeeaee 1
IB SHES Be aya eee terete as alere eee 5) || SMoUUSKS | Soa. 022--2 ceases ccseas eae 1
Hossilinvertebrates’. 22-2; -/2-2:-:-5--)--- 2 | Osteology ./22: eee as ae eee eee 1
Fossil planteetes tet een eee eee ees 1) Recentyplants2s2--s5=4-eeee Pe er rec 1
Geologyi: aca. saeeence acs sane ececse 1 | Reptiles) «02 ccsccch since tactckc ees aeaieee 3
IMSECUS seme eee eee cee see ec eeeaeeeee 7

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61

Vol. xr of the “ Proceedings” was put in type during the fiscal year,
but was not issued until after June 30. It includes 52 papers, compris-
ing separates 799 to 841. The titles of the separate papers, with the
names of the authors, are here given:

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.
No.

790.

Description of a new species of land shell from Cuba— Vertigo Cubana. By
William H. Dall. Pp. 1-2.

. Description of a new species of fish from Tippecanoe River, Indiana. By

David Starr Jordan and Barton Warren Evermann. Pp. 3,4.

. Remarks on some fossil remains considered as peculiar kinds of marine plants.

By Leo Lesquereux. Pp.5-12.

93. On certain Mesozoic fossils from the islands of St. Paul and St. Peter, in

800.

. sol.

. 802.

. 803.

804.

. 805.

. S06.

. S07.

. 808.

. 809.

. S10.

OE

. 812.

the Straits of Magellan. By Charles A. White. Pp. 13, 14.

. Notes on the leaves of Liriodendron, By Theodore Holm. Pp, 15-35.
. New fishes collected off the coast of Alaska and the adjacent regions south-

ward. By Tarleton H. Bean. Pp. 37-45.

. Preliminary report on the fishes collected by the steamer Albatross on the

Pacitie coast of North America during the year 1889, with dlescription of

twelve new genera and ninety-two new species. By Charles H. Gilbert.
e

Pp. 49-126.

. Further notes on the genus Xiphocolaptes of Lesson. By Robert Ridgway.

Pp. 47, 48.

. Catalogue of skeletons of birds collected at the Abrolhos Islands, Brazil, the

Straits of Magellan, and the Galapagos Islands, in 188788. By Frederic A.
Lucas. Pp. 127-130.

9, Birds from the coasts of Western North America and adjacent islands, col-

lected in 1888-89, with descriptions of new species. By Charles H. Townsend.
Pp. 131-142.

Reptiles from Clarion and Socorro islands and the Gulf of California, with
description of a new species. By Charles H. Townsend. Pp. 143, 144.

Plants collected in 1889 at Socorro and Clarion islands, Pacific Ocean. By
Dr. George Vasey and J. N. Rose. Pp. 145-149.

On a new genus and species of Colubrine snake from North America. By
Leonhard Stejneger. Pp. 151-155.

The osteological characteristics of the family Anguillide. By Theodore
Gill. Pp. 157-160.
The osteological characteristics of the family Synaphobranchidwe. By
Theodore Gill. Pp. 161-164.

The osteological characteristics of the family Muraenidie. By Theodore
Gill. Pp. 165-170.

On the disappearance of the Dick Cissel (Spiza Americana) from the District
of Columbia. By Hugh M. Smith. Pp. 171, 172.

Description of a new species of bat, dtalapha semota. By Harrison Allen,
Pp. 173-175.

On the snakes of the genus Charina. By Leonhard Stejneger. Pp. 177-
182.

On the North American lizards of the genus Barissia of Gray. By Leonhard
Stejneger. Pp. 183-185.

A collection of stone implements from the District of Columbia. By S. V.
Proudfit. Rp. 187-194.

Notes on the occurrence of a young crab-eater (Llacate Canada) from the
Lower Hudson Valley, New York. By Dr. A. K. Fisher. Pp. 195, 196.

Observations on the life history of the Bottlenose Porpoise. By Frederick
W. True. Pp. 197-203.
62
No.
No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

815.

814,

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Description of new West American land, fresh water, and marine shells,
with notes and comments. By Robert E. C. Stearns. Pp. 205-225.

Description of two new eee of mammals from Mount Kilima-Njaro,
Kast Africa. By Frederick W. True. Pp. 227-229.

5. Osteological characteristics of the family Muraenesocidw. By Theodore

Gill. Pp. 231-234.

On the family Ranicipitide. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 235-238.

The osteological characteristics of the family Simenchelyidw. By Theo-
dore Gill. Pp. 239-242.

The characteristics of the Dactylopteroidw. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 243-
248.

319. Notes on the birds observed during the cruise of the U. 8S. Fish Commission

828.
5 oh

. 830.
5 totais
. 8d2.

000%

. Sad.

. 835.

. 838.

839.

840.

. S41.

schooner Grampus, in the summer of 1887. By William Palmer. Pp.
249-265.

. Description of new forms of Upper Cambrian fossils. By Charles D. Wal-

cott. Pp. 266-279.

Notes on Triassic plants from New Mexico. By W. M. Fontaine and F. H.
Knowlton. Pp. 281-285.

Notes on fishes of the genera Agosia, Algansea, and Zophendum. By David
Starr Jordan. Wp. 287, 288.

Description of a new species of Etheostoma (/. micropterus) from Chihua-
hua, Mexico. By Charles H. Gilbert. Pp. 289, 290.

Description of anew species of bat of the genus Carollia, and remarks on
Carollia brevicauda. By Harrison Alen. Pp. 291-298.

. Osteological characteristics of the family Amphipnoide. By Theodore Gill.

Pp. 299-302.

26. Description of anew species of mouse, Phenacomys longicaudus, from Oregon.

By Frederick W. True. Pp. 303, 304.

. Notes on the habits of the moose in the far north of British America in 1865.

By J. G. Lockhart. Pp. 305-308.

Observations on the Farallon Rail. By Robert Ridgway. Pp. 309-311.

List of fishes obtained in the harbor Be eae Brazil, and in adjacent waters.
By David Starr Jordan. Pp. 313-83¢

Notes on the osteology of the Peak Sitta, and Chamea. By Frederic A.
Lucas. Pp. 337-345.

Notes on the Aspredinidie. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 547-352.

Note on the genus Felicthys of Swainson. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 353, 354.

The characteristics of the family of Seatophagoid fishes. By Theodore Gill.
Pp. 355-360.

On the relations of Cylopteroidea. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 361-376.

The osteological characteristics of the family Hemitripteridie. By Theodore
Gill. Pp. 377-380.

Playing cards from Japan. By Mrs. J. King Van Rensselaer. Pp. 381, 382.

Notes on North American Myriapoda of the family Geophilid, with descrip-
tions of three genera. By O. F. Cook and G. N. Collins. Pp. 383-396.

Contributions toward a monograph of the Noctuidie of temperate North
America, Revision of Homohadena, Grote. By John B. Smith. Pp. 397-
405.

Contributions toward a monograph of the Noctuide of temperate North
America. Revision of the species of Hadena referable to Xylophasia and
Luperina. By John B. Smith. Pp. 407-447.

A supplementary list of fishes collected at the Galapagos Islands and Pan-
ama, with description of one new genus and three new species. By Charles
H. Gilbert. Pp. 449-455.

The Birds of Manitoba. By Ernest EK. Thompson. Pp. 457-643.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

These papers may be classified under the following subjects:

Subject. ance Subject. | ses
INIOTES)) GRY oe een Se SeS SBCer nape aso Wi PENS CCUS\ Sc nace 18s)- tamacremecincenese ee seas 3
TEST Sy SRS preteen ea ede a oh eMarmmale epee eee tha be ORES 6
Ethnology ---.----- Ee ers Be See eS 1 | MEGUISISSIsee eee. eee MERELY YM IES. 4 | 2
TRS ST ee es See RS ee ene ie 21 || Recent plants. ....- Be CE Oe Ie a ee eee 2
Fossil invertebrates -....-.-.-.- Serb ebaeee 3 | IGP ilestees ee cc <eae eae earner 4 4
JPteysise! jMeM IS) o Se eo ckios be Joos eceeetoomaare 1 || |

Vol. xtv of the Proceedings. is now in the hands of the printer, about
300 pages being in type, including papers 842 to 850.

“BULLETIN” OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Bulletin 38, which was put in type during the preceding fiscal year,
was received from the Public Printer on July 25, 1891. This bulletin,
consisting of 227 pages, is entitled ‘Contributions towards a monograph
of the Insects of the Lepidopterous family Noctuidee of Temperate North
America—Review of the species of the genus Agrotis,” by John B.
Sinith.

The manuscript of Parts A, B, C, D, and E of Bulletin 39 were sent
to the Public Printer in May and June, 1891, but none of these parts
were issued until after July 1. This bulletin under the general title
“Instructions to Collectors” will be published in parts as fast as
printed, and the parts may finally be combined and issued as one or
more bound volumes. ‘The papers to be included, thus far prepared,
are as follows:

Part A, Directions for collecting specimens of birds. By Robert
Ridgway. Part B, Directions for collecting fossil and recent plants.
By F. H. Knowlton. Part C, The preparation of rough skeletons.
By F. A. Lueas. Part D, Directions for collecting birds’ eggs. By
Capt. Charles Bendire. Part E, Directions for collecting reptiles and
batrachians. By Dr. Leonhard Stejneger.

The manuscript of Bulletin 40, Bibliography of George N. Lawrence,
and of Bulletin 41, Bibliography of Dr. Charles Girard, was sent to the
Public Printer on May 28.

The manuscript of “Special Bulletin No. 1”—the first quarto publica-
tion undertaken by the Musetuin—was sent to the Public Printer early in
May, and 184 printed pages were revised before July 1. This bulletin
is by Capt. Charles Bendire, U.S. Army, and is entitled ‘ Life Histories
of North American Birds, with special reference to their breeding habits
and eggs.” This work will be illustrated with chromo-lithographic
plates.

The first annual report of the American Historical Association (1889)
was printed during the year, and the report for 1890 was transmitted
to the printer. This association was founded in 1884 for the promotion
64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

of historical studies and the collection and preservation of historical
manuscripts. By act of Congress in January, 1839, the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution were authorized to permit the Association to
deposit its collections in the Museum,

A large number of papers upon scientific subjects have been pub-
lished by officers of the Museum and other specialists. These are for
the most part based on collections in the Museum, and are referred to
by title in the Bibliography, constituting Section Iv of this report.
The authors of these papers are seventy-nine in number, thirty-three of
whom are connected with the Smithsonian Institution or the National
Museum. The papers number three hundred and forty-six, and relate
to the following subjects:

By By other
Subjects. Museum  investi- | Total.
officers. | gators.

/ NOIRE coven arwee NOUN Ee eo so me ae ako oa soba so peanaseoeaes ses Sbogasc 1 0 | 1
IAT CHOCO LN oc 2s = Sa eeene Some 2 eee SGM ema aims See wens emo eer 7 iL 8
JNGHIRD IONS 55 592s does tase OSaSaise S Sesishoscoses conse odsetepasouecasoads 1 0 1
KEEN sanase Hee soctecewosgsseonssscccsu += Ce sorsoesouasessssoeseces Soe 4 | 0 4
OSU eee ce eats arate 2k Sh Pet eayctreinas actrees He jee cas = Pagel eee eer eet oc Roe me oe ee epee 15 20 35
(CANIS soocstsesapscne sated 2 ecedore se aobccc cc esene pose esosmesseedecse 7 | il 8
(Chomp eiAiNnG GIMENO \js- sass doce Odea ers ness sos beSsee eee cosoeebsSeone 1 2) 3
TO MONT Bas kesh ate ese sbessecsecons haces aero oacoseeacnesctonseosoee | 9 | 1 10
Tosaym onion. 22 oto ce ee cadsods Soe cose dogs Ss seh 2Sgedor Sheu secdeecbochs: 1 1 9
higheriesrang sh-CculgurGs+ 5-40 a-eee. ae esse oe eee Sn. Se ee 34 | 0 34
[ef eae ee Meat eae by yee ted el ee teks Sete aad 37 | 22 | 59
TAGES eae is Bak Sit os Set oe eds alt pee RS Oa aeiers 4 | 2 6
(EGGS NN 26552 ccene so ssese cose sense ssonensecoocadesacyobesossoqsedas Ps 0 2
(GOON, .6 cs cco eusosecstassaneisose 9s see aae sagas spans seas os oesSrosae2 | 10 2 12
(Greyo ane Aine) < bes oonce asec sesss Secs Sa5 sess sages cose a ssegIeseccacss 7 0 7
Stonical cOllechGns=<.-. + -ce teas seca ee oa eee es cee enee- SEE ee eeeee | 1 0 1
1 Gate tA Se Noe ets A i oe a I a et et ay are ee Seg ae 39 | 8! 40
IMicima Taal she tc = bse Sete he tage bee Re ey 22 ee ae oe oo re eee ere | 6 | 5 il
Miamin sin WeUbhe DRAbOSte Se smi ce etne cece oie elena eyaia sic taker eee eee Rise | 24" 0 2
IMIR TETTR IMG GAr sas aise mn pene i a gn e Ri ele ere ee = See ees 0 1
Metallurgy ------------.--------------------- +--+ - 22-2222 2-2 eee 0 | 1 | 1
Mineral OO Vata eee Be Res eae ERE EES one Meo on See 1 | it] 2
IMO MISES Se Soe ee see ops a= bie tes sae eee ce eee ee aed = ce ee ce eee Eee | 18 0 | 18
(OOIOENY Ss ano me sosacer ge Gee ease Serer SESE be aoa no ace Ure saanome san: 1 0° 1
Opn nie EMO MUO S 3 oy sites 55 Seca se eeasecos 4055055 soso Soo see ssonéesse 2 0 | 2
O)MieWysA7 sonst osee coe shee se Stes soso se sess sssoschss sSonnsseSsosadsssasess- 3 | 0
lamiis sa: sate hestes ape eee. SOR boc cee eon Ae eee ic eles art eee te eee 38 5 | 43
leeyprilletsy Sracil Enea WG ES 56 some sos 5656 cs0Se Soec5so ssSssesssaascsoassan- | ah 5 | 12
Sirens PON barby OTN Am le Ory Tae Crem Oe rae eee eae ae are eo ele ee 3 0 | 3
IETS CORANVOOUSS occ occ oe cine pe cic cic rc pean ote tenes a ataeie racehe caine o, Seay eae ne eee 13 1 | 14

Motale es fie cas Siaciars alee ects ste Rese aie se eee ecin seen ee eae a 258 “346

VISITORS.

During the year the total number of visitors to the Museum building
was 286,426, and to the Smithsonian Institution 111,669.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65

The monthly register of visitors during the last fiscal year is as follows:

Y | National Smithsoni
ear and month. | Musenm buildin eae
| building. 8
1890. |
SELEY Sa SBA fac eis oR pa opi afte NaI RG aii oe | 17, 788 8, 298
2A TNE, coe S0G8 Hato SSB eR AACE HOARE eee ae wavaeae 32, 138 11, 435
SSL LED Glaser ee meres eee ere eA EL a TE Poe et Ok i? | 25, 329 | 10, 365
Octonens. 82. cise job aecce Se Set AEE BOSS Ge SOC R OS SE ECT ee ESET ee ae eae | 2M Bes 9,731
INI OW OTN OE? S55 Fars coge AU cbs Peon OF CEO Oe Rae COC OR aa ee ee 21,715 | 7,783
TLE CGTCOI STEP a ewes GaSe ae SG Recife Re: | crete ant ces ge eee a ne ee 18, 762 | 8, 227
1891 |
eM ATUREA TS Ver Meet ctare a ate ene is ala AAO Cee Re AN Rc yo OEE es oe Pech dc,. te ae 24,005 | 8, 262
IDG HTN oop 3 Sc RS SR SO eS BREET te er ne eee eee ea a 26, 825 | 10, 458
INE RON, ooo mS CO POC aa OSG SICK eT eae ee ee 26, 112 | 10, 019
JN] ss cance oR Ogellt COR ROE Re cae ae es OR ne ce ee 26, 294 | 9, 767
IW 2h SGD NSE GE Ce ATER ee eel aE ete mn ee Ss ee a ae 25, 072 } 8, 882
TWD Bopdeh take nck UBER eens es Dips Be ce I Ae leg ee 21,063 8, 492
| 286, 426 | 111, 669
Approximate daily average on a basis of 313 days in the year.....-......-. 921 | 346

Table showing the number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the
opening of the former in 1881.

|
Total number

|
|
| Museum | Smithsonian | of visitors

co |building.| building. | to both
| : buildings.
|
iit wold cae (ae I ee rd SUL OMNI tee 150, 000
RED cdctack CReee Beles SACS NE a ee ee 167, 455 | 152, 744 320, 199
SSHED pp cise ja eSB SCR cee ES Eat fac ae ee ee 202, 188 | 104, 823 07, O11
rage Ak As 6 RS SpE 5 2 eh ctonny  e  eed  e 195, 322 | 91,130 286. 452
“FBS Qe EER fc a 107, 365 | 60, 428 167, 793
“FTES (SIS aye ea Sea en a Dn en a Pose | 174, 225 | 88, 960 | 263, 185
iW SURI Teasers ec ge INS et Ne | 216, 562 98, 552 315, 114
ESTEE cc aatgeci hee OS 8 AE A ne Re | 249, 665 | 102, 863 | 352, 528
“BSS De RE eat £2 tee te Bean ee oe yee | 374,843 | 149, 618 | 524, 461
TEETOOED CoG eee eee Bel ee ee en ee 274, 324 | 120, 894 395, 218
Ce) ee Ree se ed i Sha ene egy nS 226, 426 | 111, 669 | 398, 095
RNs clea os be Sees eee ae eek eee ne ee | 2,398,375 | ‘1, 081, 681 | 3, 480, 056
| |
LECTURES AND MEETINGS OF SOCIETIES.

Following the practice of previous years, the lecture hall of the Mu-
seum has been granted for lectures and meetings of numerous scientific
societies. A statement of the meetings held between July, 1890, and
July, 1891, is appended. ;

1890.
Photographers’ Association, August 12-15.
Association of Official Agricultural Chemists (eighth meeting), August 2s.
American Ornithologists Union, November 18-20,
American Historical Association (seventh annual meeting), December 29-31.
Joint meeting of the American Economic Association and the American Forestry
Association, December 30.

SM 91, pr 2 9)

66 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

1S91.

National Dairy and Food Commissioners’ Association, January 14 and 15,
National Geographic Society, March 13, April 10, April 24, May 1, May 29.
National Academy of Sciences, April 21.

The usual course of Saturday lectures was omitted this year. Mr.
Thomas Wilson, curator of prehistoric anthropology, gave a series of
eightlectures. The first four lectures related to art and architecture of
prehistoric times. These were delivered on February 4, 7, 11, 14.
The other four were as follows: May 13, Prehistoric Anthropology at
the French Exposition. May 16, Ancient Industries, Charms and
Amulets (illustrated); May 21, History of Human Habitations (illus-
trated); May 23, Anthropological Congresses and Prehistoric Mu-
seums,

STUDENTS.

It has always been one of the aims of the National Museum to aid
students and others engaged in scientific work by lending them mate-
rial to be used in connection with their scientific researches. The fol-
lowing statement has reference to the more important transactions of
this kind during the year: skins, alcoholics, and skulls of North Ameri-
ean rodents were sent to Dr. Jd. A. Allen, American Museum of Natural
History, New York; a series of bats to Dr. Harrison Allen, Philadel-
phia, Pa.; skulls of otters and badgers to Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S.
Army, Fort Snelling, Minn.; bird-skeletons to Dr. R. W. Shufeldt,
Takoma Park, D. C.; bird-skins to Mr. George N. Lawrence, New York
city, N. ¥.; South American Devonian fossils to Prof. J. M. Clarke,
Albany, N. Y.; turtles to Dr. G. Baur, Clark University, Worcester,
Mass.; fishes to Prof. D. S. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind.; invertebrate
fossils to Dr. W. B. Clark, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.;
mammal-skins to Walter E. Bryant, California Academy of Sciences,
San Francisco, Cal.; geological material to the Geological Survey of
Arkansas; crustaceans to Prof. H. A. Ward, Rochester, N. Y.; stone
implements to the Bureau of Ethnology, W ashington, D.C.; bird-skins
to William Brewster, Cambridge, Mass.; rocks to Prof. H. D. Campbell,
of Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.; bird-skins to C.
B. Cory, Boston, Mass.; bird-skins to American Museum of Natural
ee New York; clays and earth to Dr. A. M. Edwards, Newark,
N.J.; lizards to Prof. E. D. Cope, Philadelphia, Pa.

Several students have availed themselves of the privilege of exam-
ining the collections in the Museum. Dr. George K. Cherrie, orni-
thologist of the Costa Rica National Museum, has examined the collec-
tion of Costa Rica birds, and a similar opportunity was also afforded
to Mr. Charles A. Keeler, of Berkeley, Cal., while engaged in a special
investigation of the origin of color in birds. Dr. O. P. Hay, of Irving-
ton, Ind., spent several weeks in the department of reptiles and
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 67

batrachians, studying the material bearing upon the herpetology of
Indiana.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES BY CURATORS AND OTHERS.

The curators of the Museum in addition to their regular duties have
made special studies of the collections under their charge, and these
investigations have resulted in the publication of several important and
interesting papers in the publications of the Smithsonian Institution
and the National Museum. During the first three years of the oecu-
paney of the Museum building, or from 1881 to 1884, the Reports of the
Museum were very limited in extent, owing to the fact that the collee-
tions had not been properly arranged for study; but during and since
1884 a large number of special studies of collections have been made
both by the curators and by collaborators of the Museum. These re-
sults have been for the most part published in the Annual Reports and
in the “‘ Proceedings” of the Museum. The following list represents
the papers published in the Museum reports, commencing with 1884;

18s4.

Throwing-sticks in the National Museum. By Otis T, Mason.

Basket-work of the North American Aborigines. By Otis T. Mason.

A study of the Eskimo Bows in the U. 8. National Museum. By John Murdoch.

On a Spotted Dolphin, apparently identical with the Prodelphinus doris of Gray. By
Frederick W. True.

The Florida Muskrat, Neofiber Allenit True. By Frederick W. True.

Onthe West Indian Seal, Monachus tropicalis Gray. By Frederick W, True and F,
A, Lueas,

1885.

The George Catlin Indian Gallery inthe U. 8. National Museum, with Memoir and
Statistics. By Thomas Donaldson,

1886,

The Meteorite Collection, a catalogue of meteorites represented November 1, 1886,
By F. W. Clarke.

The Gem Collection. By George F. Kunz,

The Collection of Building and Ornamental Stones; a handbook and catalogue. By
George P. Merrill.

The Collection of Textiles; List of Fibers and Fabrics. By Romyn Hitchcock.

Preparation of Microscopical Mounts of Vegetable Textile Fibers. By Romyn Hitch-
cock.

How to collect Mammal Skins for Purposes of Study and for Mounting. By William
T. Hornaday.

1887.

Cradles of the American Aborigines. By Otis T. Mason.

Notes on the artificial deformation of children among savage and civilized peo-
ples. By Dr. J. Hi. Porter.

The Human Beast of Burden. By Otis T. Mason.

Ethno-Conchology. A study of Primitive Money. By Robert E. C. Stearns,

A Preliminary Catalogue of the Eskimo Collection in the U. 8. National Museum,
arranged geographically and by uses. By Lieut, T, Dix Bolles, U, 5, Navy,
68 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The Extermination of the American Bison, with a sketch of its discovery and life-
history. By William T. Hornaday.

The Preservation of Museum specimens from insects and the effect of dampness. By
Walter Hough.

1888.

The Coast Indians of Southern Alaska and Northern British Columbia. By Lieut:
Albert P. Niblack, U.S. Navy.

A Catalogue of the Hippisley Collection of Chinese Porcelain, with a sketch of the
history of the ceramic art in China. By Alfred E. Hippisley, of the Imperial
Chinese customs service.

The Expedition to Funk Island, with observations upon the history and anatomy of
the Great Auk. By Frederick A. Lueas.

Fire-making Apparatus in the U.S. National Museum. By Walter Hough.

The Collection of Korean Mortuary Pottery in the U.S. National Museum. By Pierre
Louis Jouy.

A study of Prehistoric Anthropology. By Thomas Wilson.

Ancient Indian Matting; from Petit Ause Island, Louisiana. By Thomas Wilson.

Results of an inquiry as to the existence of man in North America during the paleo-
lithic period of the stone age. By Thomas Wilson.

1889.

The Museums of the Future. By G. Brown Goode.

The Ethnology and Antiquities of Master Island, By William J. Thomson, paymas-
ter, U.S. Navy.

Aboriginal Skin-dressing. By Otis T. Mason.

The Puma or American lion. By Frederick W. True.

Animals recently extinct or threatened with extermination. By Frederic A. Lucas.

The development of the American rail and track, as illustrated by the collection in
the U.S. National Museum. By J. Elfreth Watkins.

Explorations in Newfoundland and Labrador in 1887 made in connection with the
cruise of the U.S. Fish Commission schooner Grampus. By Frederic A. Lueas.

On a bronze Buddha in the U.S. National Museum. By Charles De Kay.

1890.

The Humming Birds. By Robert Ridgway.

White-line engraving for relief printing in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. By
S. R. Koehler.

The methods of fire-making. By Walter Hough.

The Ulu, or woman’s knife, of the Eskimo. By Otis 'T. Mason.

The Ancient Pit-dwellers of Yezo. By Romyn Hitchcock.

The Ainos of Yezo, Japan. By Romyn Hitchcock.

Hand-book for the department of geology in the U. 8. National Museum. Part 1.
Geognosy. The Materials of the Earth’s Crust. By George P. Merrill.

The Catlin collection of Indian paintings. By Dr.Washington Matthews, U.S. Army.

The Log of the Savannah. By J. E. Watkins.

Anthropology at the Paris Exposition. By Thomas Wilson.

A list of the special papers published in this Report will be found at
the beginning of section II.
FINANCE, PROPERTY, SUPPLIES, AND ACCOUNTS.
The following statement relating to cases and other furniture, and to
the supplies and accounts of the Museum for the fiscal year 1890-91
has been prepared by Mr. W. V. Cox, chief clerk.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 69
PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS,

The appropriation for preservation of collections for the fiseal year
ending June 30, 1891, is $140,000. The disbursements are as follows:

For salaries or compensation, $117,300.52; for specimens, $6,211.40 5
for general supplies, $3,052,32; for stationery, $1,653.02; for books aa
periodicals, $825.40; for travel, $1,114.78; for freight and cartage,
$1,862.57; a total of $132,020.01, which leaves an unexpended balance
of $7,979.99 to meet Cuierana an habilities June 30, 1891.

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES.

The appropriation for furniture and fixtures, 1891, is $25,000; the
disbursements are as follows:

For salaries or compensation, $14,212.52; exhibition cases, with de-
signs and drawings for same, $1,331; drawers, trays, boxes, ete., $448.08;
frames, stands, miscellaneous woodwork, $330.52; office furniture and
other fixtures, $588.22; lumber, paints, oils, brushes, $1,929.45; tools,
glass, hard ware, brackets, and interior fittings for cases, $1,930,49; appa-
ratus, glass jars, and vials, $146.42; plumbing, tin, Bog etc., $282.72;
rubber tubing for rendering cases insect proot, $105.04; traveling ex-
penses, $5; making a total of $21,309.46, and leaving a bi alanice on hand
of $3,690.54 to meet outstanding Te for cases, plate glass, lumber,

ete.

Detailed list of cases, unit tables, fixtures, etc., made or furnished during the year
by persons outside the Museum:

Three mahogany wall cases, $730; 2 mahogany double-width cases (for lay fig-
ures), $375; 2 unit tables, special size, $108; 1 mahogany case for shrike group, $50;
mahogany cornice for Liverpool case, $15; 1 pine pedestal and shade, $17; designs
and drawings for cases, $36; drawers, trays, boxes, etc., $448.08; frames, stands,
miscellaneous woodwork, $330.52; office furniture and other fixtures, $588.22.

Lumber, needed supplies, fittings, etc., have been bought as follows: Lumber,
$1,364.05; glass, $954.56; hardware and fittings for cases, $707.13; cloth, cotton,
etc., linings for cases, $108.03; apparatus, $84.50; glass jars and vials, $61.92; tools,
$73.67; paints, oils, brushes, $565.40; tin, lead, ete., $268.48: rubber tubing for
rendering cases insect proof, $105.04; iron brackets for cases, $87.10: plumbing,
$14.24; traveling expenses, $5.

Cases made in the Museum workshops during the year 1891:

Two mahogany table cases; 3 mahogany table cases with sloping tops; 7 walnut
table cases; 6 book cases; 13 half unit insect-proof cases; 4 insect proof storage
cases, two of them with 50 compartments each; 13 tops for cases, sloping, upright,
ee ; 9 card catalogue cases.

Cases repaired, remodeled, extended, and made insect Brook by lining them with
metal and fitting the doors with rubber tubing:

One wall case, department of vertebrate fossils, extended; 6 half unit cases, de-
partment of mammals, made insoct proof; 53 quarter unit cases, department of
ornithology, made insect proof; 5 table cases, department of botany, made insect
proof; 3 table cases for special deposit, Department of Agriculture, made insect
proof; 1 table case, department of botany, repaired; 1 Kensington case, remodeled;
1 case for domestic fowls, remodeled.

Screens, frames, unit boxes, drawers, diaphragms, bases, trays, etc., made in the
Museum workshops during the year 189091:
70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Two mahogany table screens; 11 pine screens; 79 mahogany label frames; 103
oak, ash, cherry, and pine label frames; 7 pine picture frames; 364 stands for speci-
mens; 8 mahogany table tops; 1 walnut table top; 5 pine table tops; 1 pine, upright
desk, for office work; 1,729 pine trays, for specimens, stored in cases; 358 drawers,
cherry, poplar, and pine, for cases; 90 unit boxes, for exhibition cases; 48 costume
boxes; 23 pine diaphragms, for cases; 78 walnut and pine bases, for specimens ; 2,943
blocks, for the exhibition of minerals; 4 pine card catalogue boxes; 7 tank boxes,
for receivers for specimens; 238 boxes for storing and shipping specimens; 433
shelves, for cases, etc.; 180 zine partitions, for files cases; 184 pine partitions, for
files cases; 433 shelves, for cases; 11 brackets, for exhibition purposes; 200 tin label
holders; 1 case for negatives, photographer's department; 6 presses, for specimens,
department of botany.

Screens, frames, drawers, trays, bases, etc., extended, refitted, reglazed, painted,
and otherwise repaired, during the year 1890-91:

One hundred and sixteen wing frames, glazed and fitted with hinges; 2 wall-
screens extended; 67 ash screens repaired; 4 pine screens repaired; 1,193 pine trays
fitted in cases; 35 pine trays altered; 110 unit boxes stained; 78 bases painted; 33
diaphragms for cases, painted; 52 costume boxes altered, stained, and glazed; 3,362
blocks painted; 101 windows reglazed.

HEATING AND LIGHTING.

The appropriation for heating and lighting, 1891, is $12,000. Fol-
lowing are the disbursements:

For salaries or compensation, $5,084.91; coal and wood, $2,766.96;
gas, $1,233.84; electric supplies, $905.68; electric work, $7.50; tele-
phones, $604.40; rental of call boxes, $100; heating supplies, $448.95;
traveling expenses, $5.42, making a total of $11,157.66, and leaving on
hand a balance of $842.54 to meet outstanding liabilities.

In addition to the items mentioned in the detailed list, much work
of a general nature has been accomplished, and while the routine has
not differed materially from that of former years, the total amount ex-
pended for services is somewhat less than that of last year.

Frequent repairs in the large flat roof of the Museum building have
been necessary, and pending the anticipated laying of a granolithie
pavement, the floors have been patched in many places; the trenches
beneath the Museum have been thoroughly cleaned and whitewashed
and the electric wires therein put in order, so far as possible; the
north balcony has been painted and the walls calecimined, and in the
rooms adjacent to the eastern entrance, and in the baleony and stair-
way above them, the walls have been calcimined and the woodwork
painted.

The moving of the heavy exhibits, which occasionally becomes neces-
sary in order to place suitably in the series the valuable objects which
from time to time come into possession of the Museum, is an important
feature in the duty of the force. The articles, many of them of great
weight, must be handled with skill in order to prevent injury to them-
selves, to other objects, or to the building. The superintendent has
placed rollers under the large cases, which serve to remove them
from any dampness of the floor, and allow them to be moved with all
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 71

the facility possible under the circtunstances, and in changing the po-
sition of the engine “ John Bull,” it was found necessary to construct a
railway track for the purpose.

It is worthy of mention that the painters in the superintendent’s
force are frequently called on to trace, color, and letter the large charts
and maps required by the different curators, or used in illustrating the
scientific lectures given in the Museum hall.

3y economy of administration, the Museum has been able to increase
its insufficient electric-light plant, so that now it has a small dynamo,
which supplies twenty-five are lights, of 2,000 candle power each. This
is only about one-half the number required for a satisfactory illumina-
tion, but by screening off the courts it was found possible to light the
halls so that the building could be opened for the admission of the
American Medical Association on the evening of May 7, and for the
National Geographic Society on the evening of May 29, 1891.

With the limited means available, no elaborate form of installation of
the electric-light plant could be adopted, and it was necessary to pass
the wires loosely from burner to burner around the building. It is
hoped that a future appropriation will make it possible to remedy the
defects in the present system, and will permit the purchase of a dynamo
of such power that the whole building can occasionally be thrown open
at night, for the accommodation of those who can not avail themselves
of the regular hours of admission, as well as for the various scientific
associations of Washington and the country, as often earnestly re-
quested.

The changes found necessary in the heating apparatus, such as ad-
justing radiators, making connections with steam pipes, ete., have this
year, as last, been made by the regular force without outside help. Sev-
eral improvements in the boiler room, among which may be mentioned
inclosing the pipes in a wooden casing, removing partitions and fitting
up the vault for dyamo used to run the system of electric lights in the
building, have been completed in the same way.

As stated in the report of last year, the boilers, especially those of the
Smithsonian building, have been for some time in an extremely wnsatis-
factory condition. Proposals have accordingly been invited for the pur-
chase and setting in place of new ones, and an appropriation of $3,000,
which becomes available at the close of the present fiscal year, has been
made by Congress for this purpose.

Mention was also made in my last report of the necessity for remoy-
ing the decayed wooden floors in the Museum and substituting therefor
granolithic or artificial stone pavement. Five thousand dollars having
been appropriated for this object, proposals for the necessary pavement
have been invited.

The appointment by the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, of
Mr. J. M. Parkhurst as engineer, dates from December 1, 1890. In
72 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

deciding this appointment, the Museum was much indebted to the
courtesy of Commodore Melville, U. S. Navy, who, in compliance with
the request of the Secretary, appointed Passed Assistant Engineer
Baird, and Assistant Engineer Norton, of the Navy, as a board to ex-
amine the candidates.

There were twenty-five applicants for the position, eight of whom
completed the examination. The questions, fifty-five in number, were
mostly on practical engineering and practical electric lighting. The
papers of Mr. Parkhurst reached a percentage of 83.81; those of
two other candidates, Mr. F. M. Stromberger and Mr. R. H. Speake
were but slightly less. The examining board pronounced the percent-
age reached by several of the competitors remarkable, considering the
character of the questions submitted.

The complicated nature of the duties connected with this position,
both in the Smithsonian Institution and the Museum, renders apparent
the necessity of having the appointment depend upon a competitive ex-
amination, which is a thorough test of ability.

In the autumn of 1890 permission was given by Mr. Clark, the archi-
tect of the Capitol, to remove from the crypt beneath the building the
original plaster model of the bronze statue by Crawford, which sur-
mounts the dome, and to deposit the same in the Museum.

The work of removing the fragments of this cast was begun in Octo-
ber, 1890. A brick and cement base was prepared in the center of the
rotunda and the erection and restoration of the statue were begun on
the Sth of December. The model, which had remained for nearly
thirty years in the basement of the capitol, was found to be so broken,
many of the more delicate parts being entirely gone, that its complete
restoration from the fragments seemed imposssible. In addition to
difficulties of this sort, in order to move and place safely in position
the immense pieces of the statue which remained intact, it was found
necessary to saw them carefully into smaller parts, which after being
lifted into place were securely reunited. Great interest was manifested
in the restoration, it being observed that many persons came regularly
to watch its progress, and it was a matter for congratulation when the
difficult work was finally satisfactorily completed. The restoring was
done by an employé of the Museum, Mr. Theodore Mills, gon of Clark
Mills, who in 1860 cast from this model, the statue in bronze for the
Capitol.

The preparation for the World’s Columbian Exposition has been begun
under the direction of Dr. Goode, representative of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and National Museum. As the most skillful workmanship is re-
quired in this connection, many of the best employés of the museum have
been transferred to the Exposition roll, and a few others of known efti-
ciency have been appointed.

Mr. R. E. Earll, who took part in the Fisheries Exhibition in London,

a
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 73

in 1882, in the World’s Cotton Exposition at New Orleans, in 1884, and
who was superintendent of the Museum display during the Centennial
Exposition of the Ohio Valley at Cincinnati, in 1888, has been made
chief special agent of the Smithsonian for the World’s Columbian
ixposition, and will devote his entire energy to the preparation and
installation of the Museum exhibit.

The wording of the bill making the appropriation for the Columbian
Exposition renders the employment of clerical help upon the Exposi-
tion roll virtually impossible, so that the necessary work of this class
must be done by the employés of the Museum. The preparation and
settlement of accounts, in this as in other recent expositions, will
devolve upon the clerks of this office, in addition to their other duties.

Many requests have been received this year, as in the past, from
museums, scientific associations, universities, colleges, etc., in this and
other countries, for information in regard to the Museum standard
cases, of various types, in compliance with which cyanotypes of the cases,
with details as to cost of construction, have frequently been sent out.
Among the institutions asking for information of this sort during the
year may be mentioned the American Museum of Natural History and
the Academy of the Sacred Heart, New York City; the College of Fine
Arts, Syracuse, N. Y,; the College Museum, Bloomington, Ind.; the
State University, lowa; the Academy of Natural Sciences, San Fran-
cisco; the University of Toronto, and the Royal Society of Northern
Antiquaries, Copenhagen.

In this connection I would note the fact that several new designs for
cases, Which prove highly satisfactory, have been made by the engineer
of property, and in some instances, by uniting the most desirable fea-
tures of different cases, others of a new pattern have been constructed
under the direction of Mr. Watkins, which prove admirably suited
to the purposes required.

The work of the Museum, which has been gradually but surely ex-
tending itself in various directions without a commensurate increase of
the force, has been accomplished only by the means of the most faith-
ful and energetic service on part of the employés, many of whom have
been frequently required to work beyond the regular hours. It should
be added that a request for such extra service has always been most
cheerfully complied with.

CORRESPONDENCE AND REPORTS.

The system adopted several years ago for conducting the correspond-
ence still prevails and has been found on the whole satisfactory. ‘This
division of the Museum is under the charge of Mr. R. 1. Geare, assisted
by a corps of stenographers and typewriters. The number of corre-
spondents of the Museum is constantly increasing.

The following geographical statement of letters written in this office
74

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Melides only those containing technical information on various sub-
jects:
Num- Num-
ber of ber of
Locality. ee Locality. nee
writ- writ-
ten. ten.
PMA DANA yen Mae ee ae ree eee pik Ie 990i Mexiday oe ae et ee 81
PA A SISDa tes iclerarelsieihis once ae meee a cise eee Ail OG os Specs Se ee ns eee 26
INDIZON itraciacte camels ee esis wees ee ate er 40g} | Wermonitt ese - se eee cee nee ea eee eee 11
California... . SSOP SE eae See oh Site or 147 il| Wargintades 2 ees, SAE aos Ee ee eee 111
Colorado ss =e en os se tee ee eones 30 iets HT 97 OT eee eae ere ee | 4
GonnectiCiutinessesccse see Sac ae See Sees | 69 Wiest Vang img, «5-25-52 os: fe eee ee 88
Melawanetes seeks ce st cote see neces cas eas 1 | IWASCONSIN, gor an sence see etree ee aoe eee 43
Distnictor Columbigees sess see eee ee 1, 463 || Wyoming ..-.-..--.-+-2+--2-2-2eeeeeeeeeees V1
PHOT alee vate Jeena ns ieee ae eee yae sneer 69 | Foreign countries :
(GEOr oa mcsiesce te ose a eens ebeeees aaee sc 27 i Afri Gal. 8 cet ike ae ee ee 7
Maan essences aes see ses cee eee Sree totes 13 | JAS Olen =75< ese seer eee ee 1
IN Taree A at ol eRe ne A CT arg [>-A130) (2) Atuwttallin © 2h. a ty 0a ok 15
LTE See oes Seb Sa caneubA Saar tne 62 | PCUSUEIA ES =(: bhyae cee artiste oe ete ee 2
Dinan} Merhitorya-eo- > sericea Sea | 7 | Belodnnilse 3. eee eee hes cee eee eee 2
TO eee ae rasa ene ee dee cia | 84 Canadas Jo. ees 3 oe eee eee 53
IMME eoane Sesem Ane oconpscoen des sag seaueS 27 | Central Aanericar.- - 2s. 4- wees 12
Went iyencese ort see arene eee cones 32 (Shing sa ee oe oe coe eee 28
MOUSE aise ce eee reed eat eerie erecta 18 BastvAhmea ad s-a2 aces a= eee eee eee 1
INTIS 2Se eae Spee ents Ree R Sper ceescec 32 Binalan die 22 323 4-eee a eeeee eE eee 103
IN erard ehod Se GaSe are cS ee eas Eanes eeoeee Sere 94 | Hoy pte ann Sates oto oe sceReiae 2
Massachusettes. 2 ssse-6 2-2 sesso seaeeoe = 187 NPAM CES. So 512 tate etns cee cto Sree 37
MAINKCIWIEBIN sotccocece ess nesecesrs essen ssegcs | 83 (Germ ay scee soem cee te etal mile fete tees 33
Minnesota +---=.------ OS RARE ern Dae BO GrGCcGrs 2245 c8 1 cs qseee tee eseeeee eae 2
INDE RIES OM UaSe se eomch- DBs Boar oSseorse SEs 13 lelibbi eth ay ooso an opo recede sactabsenoqacses 3
INNER LNSE SS ee ee eoeen pec oeceea sun poeeoee 48 Wally) a's ojs oye soe 2 Sse Seen eee 8
Mionbans: 4.18). eae canta = Seneca tanses Sees 31 || Indians: 2.502 See cece ces. eeeeeeee 4
INebrasi) -25.22.5--% EE Seals IAAL Ee. Sees Sete } 33 Trelands 2: 26 22 4 ss3 te 32 ee ae eer 3
NIGWEEM. .e See occepb ob coseocoessheSes: dete 3 AUC aioe Aes a ASee Oberadte ec aie 4
NGAI RS MUR G \aeee swe y ee eee 16 Mie GO soa) < LURES aS ale eee 23
ING WAG ELSCYi ce aa as 222 ce sees ses esessemes 118 IG AWE emcee on Res ono nA waco shsbdesce 2
INewaMliexdcor eas 2 Sh = See Let a2 fae. 2 es cee 20 Prussigemereecre os 65 nee oe es 5
ING OH Sanaa Aa eee Oe Ear ee ORE aE ere 497 IRUSSIONE S22. be aaase aoe epee eee 9
Noxnthi@arolinnc. -ces-ces cise tonne cee ee 37 Scotland... ees oS t. i eeae eee 7
INGRUN AKO LAP ars ta 5 eels eee taeers 4 | South sAcM ni Ga serectiecia= at see oes 8
Ohiolsss: 225 Bere 254-52 sce ees bene 148 SomohyAtha Galeer eerie ae ees SERN RHE acs 14
Oklahoma Remnitonye ssa. e ee ee ee 3 Spain .c. Se se heal oe ee eee a
QO ROD a sth A ss erertelars gu, Moa ae we hea | 19 Straits Settlements=----2- -)o sees eee 2
enim Sis 8 ee ee es er 287 | Sweden eo" 2. S20ec\.c.. 255 se eee 7
Rbogertslan dy cc .2 = sees see Cees eens 10) Switzerland! 22:4 .22. 5... caesar eee PY
SOUULS CATON aR. - ones pee ie tee re ee | 44 Torkey 222.1 22) 235 521-05 s5 cece eae 7
SOuoM Oo gkOta. <p escet = eke eae one | on | Wiest Africa’ 2! 22.4258 222 etc See 2
PRENMNERSBOo-sic7 sic eres etn hice eee ee | 113 Wiestslnidicst 2: soso aoe 2 ee i 2

In addition, about 5,000 letters pertaining to general Museum corre-

spondence have been prepared in this office.

In all, about 8,000 official

papers have been prepared during the year for the signature of the
Secretary and the Assistant Secretary.
This division has been charged with the acknowledgments of all

the bate
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 15

gifts te the Museum, and with the preparation of reports upon material
sent to the Museum for examination. The preparation and editing of
the annual reports of the Museum, as well as the proof-reading of the
same, also form a part of the work of this office.

PREPARATION OF LABELS.

-During the year 4,126 forms of labels were printed, as shown in the
following tables, 24 copies of each form being printed:

| No. of

Department. Aerot } Department. fornia

—— = aie - l = ae a = : . es
REO LOPS eee ea a ioe oe se Se | 2, 086 | IB CHRO Vann woe mis ware ayeitainalsiete ee sees 150
AWist omieNpN Cd Cols see eee bus hes as HeESOS2h Ili GrraplicArtgx eva Geese sot) we ae 130
Transportation and Engincering.-.---.----. 326 || Prehistoric Anthropology === 22-2 5-2-2-: | 103
@entaleAmtiquitios...-.=2.-+.---22-20---- \aleoaty ii ee rok SE YR ere

BUILDINGS AND LABOR.
POLICE AND PUBLIC COMFORT.

Mr. Henry Horan, superintendent of buildings, remains in charge
of this department, the employés of which consist of watchmen, paint-
ers, carpenters, laborers, cleaners, and attendants. Mr. ©, A. Steuart
is assistant superintendent. The force of carpenters number eight or
nine, who are kept continually busy constructing cases and shelves, re-
modeling old cases, making repairs to buildings, ete. Only two paint-
ers are kept constantly on the Museum roll, and their time is completely
occupied in keeping the buildings and fixtures in proper condition.

From the report of the superintendent the following statements are
quoted, in order to convey an idea as to the character of the work
accomplished in this department:

1890.

July.—A dynamo engine was placed in the engine room. <A connection of water
and gas pipe was made for the accommodation of the mammal department. Labor-
ers were engaged in remodeling the south entrance preparatory to making changes
in cases. shelving, and other appointments.

August.—A new gas engine torun the dynamo was placed in the engine room.
The lecture hall and the east balcony were cleared for the meeting and exhibit of
the Photographers’ Association. The marble statue of Daguerre was placed in the
rotunda and unveiled August 15. The collection of oriental antiquities was trans-
ferred from the west hall to the southeast corner of the north hall. The lecture hall
was put in order for the meeting of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists,
August 28.

September.—Numerous miscellaneous items of work were completed by the mechan-
ics. Mahogany table tops were placed in the exhibition hall of the Smithsonian
building. Steam pipes were altered and an extra pipe was placed outside of the
Natural History laboratory building for the department of mammals.

October.—F our large pine screens were placed in the east hall. The stairway of the
northwest pavilion was painted and the wall wainscoted. The original cast of the
Statue of Liberty was placed in the rotunda of the building.

November.—A pedestal was placed in the rotunda of the building for the plaster
statue of Liberty. The lecture hall was prepared for the meetings of the American
Ornithologists Union, November 18.

December.—J. 1. Parkhurst was appointed engineer in charge of heating apparatus,
December 1, The lecture hall was prepared for the meeting of the American Histori-
76 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

cal Association December 31. The railing formerly around the boat hall was removed
and placed in the lecture hall. Owing to the cold weather two laborers were detailed
for special duty in the engine room. Plumbers were busy repairing leaks in sewer
pipes. A large radiator in the superintendent’s office was removed and a new one
substituted.

1891.

January.—The wires running from the boiler room to the various electric lights in
the Lear ae were inspected and repaired. The National Dairy and I’ood Commis-
sioners’ Association met in the lecture hall December 14. ‘The building was wired
for electric lights.

February.—The transportation exhibit in the eastern hall was rearranged, neces-
sitating the services of the greater part of the laboring force. Changes were made
in the boiler room, whereby considerable more room and space were gained. Two
large pine screens were made and placed at the entrance to the rotunda balcony in
the south hall.

March.—The rooms on the south side of the east entrance were newly painted.
The office rooms on the w est balcony were frescoed and painted. The large paint-
ing, “The March of Time,” by Henry Sandan, deposited by the artist, was placed
in thenorth hall. The basement of the Smithsonian building was thoroughly cleaned
and whitewashed.

April.—A large force of laborers was engaged in preparing an exhibit of patents
in the lecture hall, in connection with the ‘Patent Centennial celebration. Laborers ’
were engaged for several days in arranging lecture hall and office rooms for the meet-
ings of the National Academy of Science. The roof on the building at the west end
of the Smithsonian was removed. e

May.—tThe electric lights were placed in order for the visit of the Medical Con-
gress on May 7. The cases and material in the anthropological hall of the Smith-
sonian were entirely rearranged necessitating the detail of a large laboring force.
A leak m the gas main at the south entrance was repaired by the Museum plumbers
and laborers. A large shed was prepared for the taxidermists’ work.

June.—Twenty d-unit cases were removed from the west balcony to other depart-
ments of the Museum, being replaced by two large wall storage cases. A force of
laborers was engaged for several days in preparing the shed south of the Smithsonian
building for the taxidermists in connection with the World’s Fair. ‘The work of re-
moving the old roof from the chapel in the Smithsonian building is under way, requir-
ing a large force of laborers.

THE WORK OF THE MUSEUM PREPARATORS.
TAXIDERMISTS.

In September, 1890, the force of taxidermists was reorganized. At
that time it consisted of only three regular taxidermists and one volun-
teer, and the number was not increased until the spring, when one
taxidermist was designated to take general charge of the work under
superintendence of the curator of mammals. The skins which had
accumulated in the vats, some 400 in number, were examined and
their exact condition (for mounting or addition to the reserve series)
was ascertained. A card-e¢atalogue of the entire collection of skins

yas prepared, detailed information regarding each skin being obtained.
In March, 1891, preparations were commenced for an exhibit of mam-
mals at the World’s Columbian Exposition. A plan was submitted and
approved, steps being tinmimediately taken to obtain the necessary mate-
rial for exhibition. The force of taxidermists was then increased and
a special workshop was fitted up for their use, Mr. William Palmer
being appointed chief taxidermist. The number of regular taxider-
mists was increased to six, and one special laborer was also added.

Collection of mounted domestic animals.—The work of mounting typi-
cal specimens of domestic birds has been continued by Ma. Nelson R.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. U7

Wood, who completed sixty-nine specimens during the year. The
mounting of most of these skins was a difficult task. A number of
alcoholic specimens were also mounted. The material development of
the collection of thoroughbred domestic fowls and pigeons, which was
increased by the addition of forty-four specimens, is largely due to the
energy and zeal of Mr. Wood, who has endeavored to show prominently
the distinguishing characteristics of the various breeds.

OSTEOLOGICAL PREPARATOR,

Mr. F. A. Lueas, osteologist, states that the preparation of osteological
specimens for the exhibition and study series has made favorable progress.
Theamount of work accomplished is indicated in the following statement:

Mammals. | 3irds. | teptiles. | Fishes. | Total.

Received in the flesh :

nHiGREUSIKGLOLOMS: seectes cece cia sianis oan cites Saemnc| 31 | 51 | 1 1 84

Simply ce once sere Seeee eee alka [eects us fe Re Rae | 1
Cleaned: | |

Hmibirerskeletvons +. --\c< <<: -jcetscstees sc ccce ase 16 | 65 | 3 6 | 90

Incomplete skeletonsiece= ae. e ees sail ee -ela a Be leecae ares | 1 2 8

SISTINE, 222 s gendcokorsness cdsbasooounbcuousEdEae 423 1e,| 2 3 434
Mounted: |

BNpTerSKELCtONS << sc o-6-- solo ses cm eesccs cee sis | 3 16 | 4 2 25

Lina) os yane lay datewey oF ete Rh poe rigeeee ones | 2 | 3 pee ce -Sante|posees oa 5

Soil BASS SSS SS Se5cshe hee e AE eee Ae See eeNe eae ae [Reece S| Soeeeeo | 3

TUNES Ben ege aoe Ss 22ers eee eee | 486 136 | lf 14 | 650

In addition, a number of specimens of vertebrate fossils were cleaned,
repaired, and mounted, molds and casts of combs made for domestic
birds, 13 rare and valuable eggs repaired, and 150 specimens arranged
for the synoptic series of invertebrates. The specimens of domesticated
animals and the small series contained in the taxidermic collection have
been completely rearranged and installed in new cases. Asin previous
years, Mr. Scollick has assisted in the preparation of vertebrate fossils
and other osteological material.

PHOTOGRAPHER.

r. T. W. Smillie, photographer, reports that he has made 5 1eLa-
Mr. T. W. Smillie, photographer, reports that he has made 511 nega
tives during the year, as follows:

IN TENS. obeyatieasecel sins BB Get SORA a eg eRe eee ae ines Se ie ae Oe cee ene 222
DOU ia? 2 S22 oc BGG Bote oA a Cae Mie aes ee oe eee eee &5
PULTE NS TOV EEG ONIORS a Bok, sae Sees Oe ee Se Be TRO eee ote nee ree 14
PREMIO RIN TARO NON codecs de Good GIS BOS] Bann Soee BEe eee Sb. ce See oae ners 11
CUEING CURIS on So ea ok ee sa See Cee UR Une Ie BS Os ee eee Se ter. 3
MOTHERS MIP ASOMeMOMMS hb DION se. es. cote a sere ee eee ae eats 51
Hor the National Zoolosical Park (0)! .222 7)...2l 2.02 hoe Lhe. noe eee ens 45

IWS GIG TAG OIE omer Ae oer Soe eee ee nn ee eo Re ere ear 80 |
78 ~ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Two thousand and twenty-four silver prints, made during the year,’

were distributed as follows:

Mammals. :. 228s ci ost ccd gaat ce socetnive So. tes aoe eee eee ae neces ee 430
HE UNMOLOS Yi cay einen eas aka mae em eo ag ea eee eee a ee 191
Prehistoricianthropolosy 225.2. 25a5) seeatssS- eae eect eee = ee ee eee 30
Marine: imvertebrates:- 2252 sb eesti se ene ee ae
Graphie@rarts ic oe 22 eee a aoe a aan eee ee eee eee ee 44
POM TE SoM NSO MehO IHN 555 ioog ioeooees acse cs seeso5 eed aoe acsce soe e--- 153
Horthe National’ ZoolocicaliParkereseee se.) earn eee e eee eee eee 95
Korthe Department: of State- 1. 4-- 2 35. shes eae See ee eee ee 450
Miscellameousie. 2 co2.)s soe Res ces ceee sn ete eeee ooetsiiigicet. cae eee eee eee 602

In addition to these, 199 cyanotypes were made, of which 147 were
for the Museum and 52 for the Zodlogical Park; 92 transparencies were
prepared for the purpose of illustrating public scientific lectures, and
5 photographs enlarged. Numerous photographic outfits were supplied
for scientific expeditions and for the World’s Fair Commissioners; sev-
eral students instructed in the methods of photography, and a good
deal of experimental work done.

As in past years, the photogrpahie work of the Fish Commission was
performed under the supervision of Mr. Smillie. This included 1,131
cyanotype prints, 15 silver prints, and 15 negatives.

DRAFTSMEN.

Mr. W.H. Chandlee and Mr. W. H. Burger have continued the prep-
aration of illustrations for Museum publications. Drawings have
been made of objects belonging to the Abbott and Chatelain African
collections; of tablets for Paymaster Thomson’s paper on Easter Island;
of arrows, powder-horns, lamps, matches, ete., for papers by Prof. Otis
T. Mason and Mr. Walter Hough; and also of specimens of marine
invertebrates, osteological specimens, and instruments used in taxi-
dermie work. In addition tothis a large amount of miscellaneous work
has been accomplished, including the sketching and tracing of charts,

maps, and diagrams of the arrangement of exhibits, lettering and en-

graving of labels, ete.
COLORIST.

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler has been occupied during the year in painting
in oil for the department of ethnology representations of the various
races of men, and of a Japanese native; in coloring a number of pho-
tographs of Indians and negroes from the collections of Prince Roland
Bonaparte; in representing in water colors the process of silk reeling,
and the preparation of vegetable wax in Japan; in restaining and re.
pairing a bust of King Kalakaua of the Sandwich Islands, and in
painting life-sized casts of a Samoan, a Dyak, and a negro. He has
also prepared a map showing the location of the Indian tribes in the
United States, and arelief map of one of the St. Guan mining districts
of California.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 2 (Ss

H.—ACCESSIONS.

Ten years ago the National Museum moved into its new building.
and the present year marks the close of a very important decade in its
history. The increase in the collections during this period has been
unexpectedly large, the accessions from all sources now numbering
3,028,738 specimens. In 1882, when the first census of the collections
was made, the total number of specimens was estimated at less than
200,000. The totally inadequate space provided for this vast aceumu-
lation of material has been so frequently commented upon in previous
reports, that 1t is not necessary to reiterate the recommendations to
Congress for another building.

The total number of accessions to the Museum during the year is
1,187 (Nos. 23,341—24,527), inclusive).

A geographical review of the more important accessions during the
year is here presented. This is preceded by a brief classified state:
ment showing the most valuable contributions of the year.

STATEMENT OF THE MOST IMPORTANT CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE YEAR.
(Arranged by Departments in the Museum.)
ANTHROPOLOGY.

Archeology.—A._ large collection of prehistoric copper and galena
objects, chiefly from Wisconsin and Ohio, purchased by special appro-
priation of Congress from Frederick 8S. Perkins, of Madison, Wis.; an-
thropological objects from the site of the ancient aboriginal fish-weir
near Claymont, Del., presented by Dr. Hilborn T. Cresson, Philadelphia,
Pa.; sandstone rock containing human bones, found in Florida and
transmitted by Judge John G. Webb, Osprey, Fla.; archeological speci-
mens from the base of Roan Mountain, North Carolina, collected by
Mr. P. L. Jouy, of the National Museum.

Hthnology.—A collection of ethnological objects from the native tribes
of Angola, Africa, including medicine horns and musical instruments,
presented by Mr. Héli Chatelain, of Vineland, N. J.; a fine collection
of spears, shields, bows, swords, birds’ skins, and personal ornaments
from the Kilima-Njaro region, East Africa, collected and presented by
Dr. W. L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, Pa.

ZOOLOGY.

Mammals.—Two pairs of interlocked elk antlers from Montana, de-
posited by Hon. Clinton L. Merriam, Locust Grove, N. Y.; four skins
of Belding’s Spermophile, from Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, Cal.

Birds’ skins —A valuable collection comprising 427 specimens of
birds’ skins from the island of Yesso, Japan, and containing species new
to the collection, purchased from Harry V. Hensen, Hakodadi, Japan;
80 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

194 specimens of birds from the interior of Honduras, purchased from
Mr. Erich Wittkugel, of San Pedro Sula, Republic of Honduras; a col-
lection of birds from South Carolina, containing one species (Cistothorus
mariane Scott) new to the Museum collection, received from Mr. James
HK. Benedict, of the National Museum. ;

Birds’ eqgs.—An exceedingly valuable collection of nests and eggs
received from R. MacFarlane, esq., of the Hudson Bay Company; 15
specimens of birds’ eggs, 15 specimens of eggs of the rare Franklin’s
grouse (Dendragapus franklinii), 4 eggs of the Greater Yellowlegs
(Totanus melanoleucus), 9 eggs of the Canadian Ruffed grouse (Bonasa
umbellus togata), were presented by Mr. W. E. Traill, of Fort St. James,
British Columbia; 8 nests and 13 eggs, all collected in the District of
Columbia, were received from Dr. Hugh M. Smith, of the U.S. Fish
Commission.

Fishes.—A collection of fishes, made by the U.S. Fish Commission
steamer Albatross, from the Galapagos Islands and Panama, received
from the U. 8. Fish Commission; a collection of deep-sea fishes from the
Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterrean Sea, received through Mr. Léon
Vaillant, from the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France; fishes
collected in the Bay of Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, received from Prof,
B. W. Evermann, Greencastle, Ind.

Reptiles and batrachians.—A very interesting collection of reptiles from
Mr. Charles K. Worthen, Warsaw, Il.; alcoholic specimens of lizards
from Arizona, collected by P. L. Jouy, of the National Museum; a col.
lection of reptiles from Idaho, made by Dr. C. Hart Merrian, of the
Department of Agriculture; several collections of reptiles, made by
Charles R. Orcutt, of San Diego, in southern California; reptiles from
the Seychelles Islands and the Kilima-Njaro mountains, collected by
Dr. W. L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, Pa.

Mollusks.—An interesting collection of marine shells from the coast
of Venezuela, including a beautiful series of the Argonaut, received
from Mr. R. M. Bartleman of the United States legation at Caracas,
Venezuela; a remarkably fine series of Tritonwm femorale from the
Bahama Islands, presented by Mr. Isaiah Greegor of Jacksonville, Fla. ;
an interesting series of Shells and miocene fossils, collected by Messrs.
Henry W. Elliott and William Palmer in connection with their visit to
the Seal Islands of Alaska; collections from the western Atlantic coast
obtained by the naturalists of the Fish Commission.

Insects.—A collection of Tineide including North American and
Kuropean species, transmitted to the National Museum by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture; a collection of specimens of Lepidoptera and Cole-
optera, collected in California and Washington by Mr. A. Koebele, and
transmitted by the Department of Agriculture; an extensive series of
North American Microlepidoptera from the Department of Agriculture.

Marine invertebrates—A collection of Brachyurans from the U.S.
Fish Commission; a collection containing 500 specimens of annelids
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 81

from Beaufort,.N. C., and Willoughby Sand Spit, Virginia, received
from Dr. EK. A. Andrews of Baltimore, Md.; a collection of echinoderms
received in exchange from the Royal Museum of Natural History, Ber-
lin, Germany.

Invertebrate fossils (Paleozoic)—A valuable collection comprising 44
species of Cambrian fossils, received from the Geological Survey of
Sweden, Stockholm; 232 specimens of Bala fossils, received from Mr,
Thomas Ruddy of Cowen, Wales.

(Mesozoic.)—Forty-seven specimens of cretaceous fossils from Ala-
bama, Mississippi, Texas, and Colorado, received from the United
States Geological Survey; a collection of fossil insect masses, presented
by Mr. 8. H. Scudder, of Cambridge, Mass.

BOTANY.

Fossil plants.—A_ collection of carboniferous fossil plants, received
from Dr. J. H. Britts, of Clinton, Mo.; fossil plants from Victoria, New
South Wales, presented by Baron Ferd von Miieller, Royal Botanical
Gardens, Australia; seven specimens of fossil plants from the Devonian
and Carboniferous formation of Ohio, presented by Prof. Edward Orton,
of Columbus, Ohio.

Recent plants.—A collection of dried plants from India, presented by
the Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta, India, through Dr. G. King, super-
intendent; a collection of Norwegian mosses, presented by Dr. I.
Hagen, Trondhjem, Norway; specimens of Florida plants, presented by
Mr. Otto Vesterlund, Storvreta, Sweden.

GEOLOGY.

Minerals.—A collection of Russian minerals, received from Mrs. Mary
I. Stroud, of Washington, D. C.; a superb series of mineral specimens,
consisting mainly of silver, copper, and cerussite, from the Broken Hill
mines in Australia, presented by Mr. Walter H. Koehler; the gem
collection of the late Dr. Joseph Leidy, containing 400 cut stones,
purchased from Dr. Leidy’s estate.

Rocks and ores.—A large series of ores and economic minerals from
Texas, Mexico, New Mexico, and California, collected by Mr. I’. W.
Crosby, of Washington, D. C., coustituting the most important acces-
sion of the year; a fine lot of onyx marble from Prescott, Ariz., pre-
sented by Mr. William O. O’Neill; a large study series of ores and
rocks, Hlustrating the quicksilver deposits of the Pacific slopes, re-
ceived from the U. 8, Geological Survey. 7

MISCELLANEOUS.

Through the courtesy of Mr. Edward Clark, Architect of the Capi-
tol, the original full-size plaster cast of the statue of Liberty, modeled
by Mr. Thomas Crawford, was received; a Sechuana bible used by Dr.
David Livingston in his journey from the Cape of Good Hope to Lo-

SM 91, PT 2——6
82 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

anda, in 1852, presented by Mr. Héli Chatelain, of Vineland, N. J.;
manuscripts, drawings, letters, etc., comprising the “ Vail papers ” rel-
ative to the invention and early application of the telegraph, received
from the American Historical Association; autograph manuscripts,
glass pitcher, wine glasses, silver cake-basket, and other relics of Gen.
Washington; a collection of 20 Chinese musical instruments, obtained
by Dr. Julius Neumann; 240 colored plates, illustrating the forest flora
of the United States, received from the Massachusetts Society for Pro-
motion of Agriculture; model of the vessel Half Moon, received from
William J. Boyd, of Brooklyn, N. Y.; a model of a Burmese canoe, re-
ceived from Dr. John Bartlett, of Chicago, Ill.; the electro-magnetic
engine for producing reciprocating motion by magnetic attraction and
repulsion, invented and constructed by Prof. Joseph Henry in 1831
(this being one of the first applications of electricity for producing
power), deposited by Miss Mary Henry; a collection of incandescent
lamps, Switches, and other apparatus used in 1881 in one of the earliest
electric-light plants in America, transmitted by the Hinds-Ketcham
Company of Brooklyn, N. Y.; a complete collection of the woods of the
Argentine Republic, presented by the Museo de Productos Argentinos,
Buenos Ayres.

GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW OF THE MORE IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS
RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR.

AFRICA.
EAST AFRICA.

Mount Kilima-Njaro and vicinity —From Dr. W. lL. Abbott, of Phil-
adelphia, Pa., has been received a magnificent collection* of spears,
shields, bows, swords, wooden dishes, and personal ornaments of the
Wa Chaga and Wasai negroes; insects of all orders, a large collection
of birds’ skins representing many species, reptiles, and mammals;
plants, birds’ eggs, shells, and photographic negatives illustrating eth-
nological subjects.

Zanzibar.—From Messrs. Crockett and Harrison, of Bridgeport, Conn.,
were received two pieces of gum.

NORTH AFRICA.

Algiers.—From Mr. W. W. Rockhill, of Washington, D. C., was re-
ecived a pair of Algerian spurs.

Tunis.—From Mrs. Emma 8. Brinton, of Washington, D. C., was
received in exchange, a pottery lamp of green glaze.

Mr. Kdward Lovett, of Croydon, England, sent in exchange four

~ A catalogue of this collection is published in this volume,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 83

Hoschish pipes from Tunis, and a Moorish lamp from the northern part
of Africa.

Judge Jacob J. Noah, of Washington, D. C., transmitted two plates,
one made of porcelain and brought from Tunis in 1818,

SOUTH AFRICA,

Cape Town.—Mr. J. H. Brady, Education Bureau, Cape Town, sent
a collection of insects.

Mr. W. E. Frye, of Cape Town, transmitted a series of antelope
horns.

Griqualand.—Mr. Seal, of Cape Town, through the courtesy of Prof.
Cleveland Abbe, of Washington, D. C., sent a beautiful specimen of
crocidolite.

Kafirland.—From the British Museum, London, England (through
the agency of Mr. Charles H. Read), were obtained, in exchange, twenty-
three ethnological objects.

Through Prof. E. J. Loomis, of the United States Eclipse Expedition,
were received specimens of rocks from the Kimberley diamond mines.

WEST AFRICA.

Angola.—Mr. Héli Chatelain, of Vineland, N. J., has enriched the
Museum collections by several contributions, and other objects of inter-
est have been obtained from him by purchase. Among the specimens
received are a collection of rocks, shells, fossil plants, mammals, rep-
tiles, insects, crabs, starfishes, birds’ nests, plants, ethnological objects
of all kinds, and a collection of Portuguese-African coins.

Rey. William P. Dodson, in charge of the Bishop Taylor Mission,
Loanda, transmitted (through Prof. Cleveland Abbe) a Kimbunda
hatchet, called “ Dikellemba,” made by a native smith of the Lunda
country, and a basket called ‘‘ Kinda,” made by a native woman of
Angola.

Mr. Walter Hough, of the U.S. National Museum, presented a speci-
men of Bostrychus cornutus, representing the imago, larva, and specimen
of work.

AFRICA (MISCELLANEOUS).

Mr. Héli Chatelain, of Vineland, N. J., presented hair from the head
of a McBamba negro, and a Sechuana bible (Pentateuch) used by Dr.
David Livingstone on his journey from Cape of Good Hope to Loanda
in 1852, containing the autograph of Dr. Livingstone. Mr. Chatelain
also transmitted the skin of a crocedile, obtained from him by purchase.

Mr. W. E. Frye, of Cape Town, sent a specimen of asbestus from the
Orange River, Mount Hopetown; a specimen of Iceland spar from Van-
84 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Rhyn-Dorf, a Bushman’s stone picked up near Cape St. Francis Light-
house, skull of Cape leopard (tiger), and a small gourd used as a whis-
tle for signaling.

Rey. H. 8. Gorham, of Dartford, Kent, England, sent in exchange 33
specimens representing 19 species of named African coleoptera.

The H. W. Johns Manufacturing Company, of New York City, trans-
mitted a specimen of asbestus.

From Messrs. Lewishon Brothers, of New York City (through the
courtesy of Messrs. Phelps, Dodge & Co.), was received a sample of tin
from the interior of Africa.

Mr. Edward 8. Schmid, of Washington, D. C., presented a Parrot
(Psittacus erithracus),

AMEHERICA.
NORTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA.

From the Agricultural College, Lansing, Mich., through Prof. A. J.
Cooke, were received in exchange 40 species of North American cole-
optera, 17 of which are new to the collection.

Through Col. Marshall MeDonald, U. 8S. Commissioner of Fisheries,
were received from the Fish Commission a collection of 1,128 speci-
mens, representing 33 species of brachyurans and anomouran crusta-
ceans collected by the steamer Albatross, and 327 specimens of duplhi-
cate echini, also obtained from the collections of the Albatross.

From Mr. Charles Palm, of New York City, were received in ex-
chan ge 90 specimens, representing 41 species of North American cole-
optera, either new to the collection or represented by a single speci:
men.

From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. C. V. Riley,
were received 382 species of lepidoptera; 110 specimens of North
American coleoptera representing 54 species, new to the collection, and
collected by Mr. H. F. Wickham, of Iowa City, Lowa; a collection of
Tineide, containing 900 specimens, and representing about 430 North
American species; 1,100 specimens of North American microlepidoptera
representing 240 species; 25 species of coleoptera, mostly new to the
collection, obtained from a number of specimens sent by Prof. Cooke, of
the Agricultural College, Lansing, Mich., for identification.

A large study series of rocks and ores, illustrating the quicksilver
deposits of the Pacific slope, was received from the U. 8. Geological
Survey.

From Prof. J. B. Smith, of New Brunswick, N. J., were received 15
specimens of North American Noctuide representing 12 species, types
of 10 species represented by 12 specimens.

From Mr. Henry Ulke, of the District of Columbia, were received 37
specimens, representing 19 species of rare North American coleoptera.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 85
BRITISH AMERICA.

Canada—British Columbia.—From Mr. W. E. Traill, Fort St. James,
Stuart’s Lake, were received skins and eggs of Franklin’s Grouse
(Dendrogapus franklinii), and Canadian Rufted Grouse (Bonasa umbellus
togata); also eggs of the Greater Yellow-legs (Totanus melanoleucus),
all of which are rare specimens.

Lake St. John, Quebec.—From Mr. George R. Dana, of Washington,
D. C., was received a Landlocked Salmon (Salmo salar sebago).

Ontario.—From Mr. R. P. Travers, of Illinois, were received speci-
mens of nickel and copper from the Sudbury district, and nickel ore
from the Chicago Nickel Company, Inez Mine, Travers, Algona. dis-
trict.

Vancouver Island.—From Mr. I. C. Russell, of the U. 8. Geological
Survey, were received 3 specimens of coal.

An exceedingly valuable collection of birds’ nests and eggs was
received from Mr. R. MacFarlane of the Hudson Bay Company.

CENTRAL AMERICA.

Costa Rica.—From the Museo Nacional de Costa, Rica San José,
through Senor Anastasio Alfaro, was received a skin of Antrostomus
rufomaculatus, representing a new species.

From Mr. George K. Cherrie, of the Museo Nacional de Costa Rica,
San José, were received 73 specimens, representing 22 species of birds’
skins from Costa Rica, forming a valuable addition to the collection; and,
through the courtesy of Mr. Cherrie, from the museum at Costa Riea,
were received in exchange 63 birds’ skins representing 33 species,
including types of 2 new species, | new genus, 2 species new to the
collection, and plumages previously unrepresented. Krom Mr, Cher-
rie was also received an egg of Vireo flavoviridis trom San José, new
to the collection. :

Guatemala.—From Lieut. Charles F. Pond, U.S. Navy, were received
specimens of Grasshoppers (Dictyophorus sp.) and Fire-fly (Photuris sp.).

Honduras.—From Mr. Erich Wittkugel, of San Pedro Sula, were
obtained by purchase 194 specimens of birds.

MEXICO,

Hidalgo.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, Fort Ringgold, Texas,
deposited a sling used by the Hidalgo Indians.

Monterey.—F rom the Department of Agriculture, through Dr.C. Hart
Merriam, were received 5 specimens of land shells collected by Mr. Wil-
liam Lloyd, of Monterey.

Queretaro.—From Mr. Miguel Piedra, of Lagos, Mexico, were re-
ceived 4 opals.

Sonora.—Prof. B. W. Evermann, of Greencastle, Ind., transmitted a
collection of fishes from the Bay of Guaymas.
86 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Vera Cruz.—Prof. A. Duges, of Guanajuato, transmitted a skin of
Ferruginous Pygmy Owl (Glaucidium phalenoides).

Miscellaneous.—Mr. William Brewster, of Cambridge, Mass., pre-
sented 3 specimens of the Lower California Wood Pewee (Contopus
richardsonii peninsula Brewst.). Prof. A. Duges presented specimens
ot Rhodinocichla schiastacea from southern Mexico.

From Prof. C. V. Riley, Department of Agriculture, were received a
series of 400 species of coleoptera and 130 species of hemiptera, collected
by Prof. L. Bruner, of Lincoln, Nebraska.

My. E. Kirby Smith, jr., of Vera Cruz, transmitted a Lantern-fly (ul-
gora lanternaria) found halfway across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, im
a dense thicket.

UNITED STATES.

Alabama.—From the U.S. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W.
Powell, director, were received specimens of cretaceous fossils.

Alaska.—Capt. W. C. Coulson, U.S. Revenue Marine Cutter Rush,
presented the skin of an adult male Walrus (Odobenus obesus) from Wal-
rus Island.

From Mr. I. C. Russell of the U. 8S. Geological Survey, were received
2 faulted pebbles from Pinnacle Pass, Mount St. Elias, 3 specimens of
coal and a leather pouch containing a stone fish (used as a charm by
medicine man), two stone mortars, adze, and stone implement.

Arizona.—From Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, were received
ethnological objects and stone implements comprising grooved axes,
hammers, rubbing-stones and other objects.

Mr. P. L. Jouy of the Museum staff collected 89 alcoholic specimens
of lizards in different sections of Arizona.

From the U. 8S. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W. Powell,
director, was received a specimen of agatized wood, from Chalcedony
Park, collected by Mr. F. H. Knowlton of the Survey.

From the Geological Survey, were also received 40 specimens of
kyanite in quartz, 80 specimens of dumortierite in quartz; 74 specimens
of dumortierite in quartz from Clip, Yuma County, and 45 specimens of
brochantite and malachite from the United Verde Mine, Jerome, col-
lected by Dr. W. F. Hillebrand.

Through the courtesy of the Quartermaster’s Department, U.S. Army,
were received a number of fine specimens of onyx marble from a quarry
near Prescott, collected by Mr. William O’ Neill.

Arkansas.—F rom Mr. Charles F. Brown, of Hot Springs, was received
a specimen of wavellite from Mount Ida.

Yalifornia.—From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. C.
V. Riley, were received 54 specimens of coleoptera, collected by Mr. D.
W. Coguillet, of Los Angeles, Cal., some of which are new to the collee-
tion, and also a collection of specimens of lepidoptera, collected by Mr.
A. Koebele.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 87

Hon. Delos Arnold, of Pasadena, presented specimens of pliocene and
post-pliocene fossils.

Dr. George F. Becker, of the U. S. Geological Survey, transmitted 2
specimens of iridosmine.

From Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, were received 4 skins of Belding’s
Spermophile.

Mr. F. W. Crosby, of Washington, D. C., transmitted a large series of
ores and economic minerals.

Mrs. C. H. Dall presented samples of auriferous black sand from the
coast of Mendocino County.

From Mr. Henry Hemphill, of San Diego, were received marine shells
and 3 specimens of Ostria Veatchii Gab.

Mr. L. L. Frost, of Susanville, presented a stone mortar found on a
neighboring ranch near Honey Lake, and a perforated stone found near
the banks of the Susan River, also 3 arrow-heads and 2 round stones.

From Mr. C. R. Orcutt, of San Diego, was received a collection of
alcoholic specimens of reptiles, mammals, and a Black-headed Gull,
alcoholic specimens of insects (mostly coleoptera), among which were 80
specimens of Asida hirsuta, collected in the Colorado Desert.

Prof. C. V. Kiley, of the Department of Agriculture, transmitted to
the Museum a series of lepidoptera, consisting of 17 specimens repre-
senting 17 species, and 200 specimens representing 20 species of coleop-
tera, most of which are rare and valuable to the collection. These
specimens were obtained in the Colorado Desert by Mr. D. W. Coquil-
let.

Mrs. John A. Sherman, of Watertown, N. Y., presented a very beau-
tifully prepared and abundant collection of sea-mosses and ferns, found
by her on the Pacific coast, at Santa Barbara.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U.S. Army, sent 3 alcoholic specimens of Lagomys
princeps from the Sierra Nevadas.

Colorado.—From the U.S. Geological Survey, through Major J. W.
Powell, director, were received specimens of cretaceous fossils; LO
specimens of cerussite from Polonia Mine, Rosita, collected by Mr.
Whitman Cross; 2 specimens of gadolinite from Devil’s Head Moun-
tain, Douglas County, collected by Mr. L. G. Eakins, 1 specimen
being the original material used by Mr. Eakins in identifying and
describing the mineral from this locality, and 13 specimens of minerals
from various localities in Colorado, which have been studied by Dr.
Hillebrand, who collected the specimens.

Connecticut.—From Mr. C. H. Peck, of Newtown, were received 2 old
brass buttons, and castings of 16 buttons of the kind in use in Revolu-
tionary times.

Mr. John N. Sage, of Portland presented a fine specimen of fossil
plant, Dendrophycus triassicus Newby.

Krom the U.S. Geological Survey, through Major J.W. Powell, director,
were deposited 3 specimens of minerals from Glastonbury, collected by
Di. W. FF. Hillebrand.
88 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Delaware.—Dr. Hilborn T. Cresson, Philadelphia, Pa., deposited a
collection of archeological specimens collected by Mr. William Reilly
and Mr. F.G. Smith at the site of the “ Ancient Aboriginal Fish Weirs.”

District of Columbia.—Hon. Edward Clark, the Architect of the Capi-
tol, transmitted the original full size plaster model of the Statue of
Liberty, by Thomas Crawford. This was used in making the mold in

which was cast the bronze statue now surmounting the dome of the —

Capitol.

From Dr. Elliott Coues of Washington, D. C., was received a speci-
men of Tinamou (Hudromias elegans) for skeletons.

Gen. Benjamin F. Hawkes, Washington, D. C., presented an Eskimo
snuff-bag made from the foot of an albatross.

Dr. Hugh M. Smith, of the U.S. Fish Commission, presented 8 birds’
nests and 15 eggs.

Mrs. Mary I. Stroud, of Washington, D. C., deposited 14 daguerreo-
types made with a camera imported from France by Prof. Walter R.
Johnson, of Washington, D. C., soon after daguerreotyping was discov-
ered.

The Treasury Department, Bureau of Printing and Engraving,
through Hon. William M. Meredith, Chief of the Bureau, presented 264
unmounted India impressions of portraits, vignettes, and lathe work.

Florida.—From Mr. Henry Edwards, of New York City, were re-
ceived alcoholic specimens of insects.

Mr. C. L. Hopkins, of Umatilla, presented a living Glass snake
(Ophisaurus ventralis).

Lieut. J. I’. Moser, U. 8S. Navy, commanding the Revenue Marine
Steamer A. D. Bache, presented specimens of fishes comprising Chilo-
mycterus, Ostracion, Pristis, Centropomus, Murcena, Balistes, Platyglos-
sus, Hemirhombus, Urolophus, Centropristis, Monacanthus, and Keheneis;
alcoholic specimens of snakes, shells, and marine invertebrates.

From Dr. William L. Ralph, of Utica, N. Y., were received through
Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U.S. Army, honorary curator of birds’ eggs
in the National Museum, the remains of an old Indian necklace, a stone
implement from a mound-builders’ tomb, and a handsome spear point;
the skin of a Southern Hairy Woodpecker (Dryobates villosus audu-
boni) from San Mateo, and a collection of birds’ eggs, mostly from
Florida, including 5 species not before represented in the Museum col-
lection.

From Hon. J. ©. Slocum, United States surveyor-general, Tallahas-
see, through Hon. John T. Noble, Secretary of the Interior, were re-
ceived several old surveying instruments from the office of the sur-
veyor-general at Tallahassee. Among them were included a transit,
telescope tube, brass frame, wooden tripod and detached legs; solar
compass, tripod and leveling head for the same; sextant (in case) and
a standard chain.

From the U.S. Fish Commission, through Col. Marshall MeDonald,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 89

Commissioner, was received a small collection of brachyuran crusta-
ceans obtained off the coast of Florida by the Fish Commission schooner
Grampus.

Mr. Lester I. Ward, of the U. S. Geological Survey, presented 2
fine specimens of Zamia integrifolia.

Judge Webb, of Osprey, transmitted a collection of human fossil re-
mains, found in sandstone near the shore of Sarasota Bay.

Idaho.—From the Department of Agricuiture, through Dr. ©. Hart
Merriam, chief of the division of mammalogy, were deposited 31 speci-
mens of reptiles and batrachians, and Dr. Merriam presented 3 species
of fresh-water gastropods from Salmon River, and one species of land
shell from Needle Peak.

Dr. W. P. Jenney, of the U. 8S. Geological Survey,. transmitted a
specimen of native lead, with minium and anglesite, from Mineral Hill
district, near Hailey, Alturas County.

Lilinois.—A. very interesting collection of reptiles was received from
Mr. Charles K. Worthen, of Warsaw.

Indiana.—Three species of corals, consisting of Monticulipora filiosa
(2 specimens), Streptelasma cornoculum (2 specimens), and Protarea
vetusta ; three species of brachiopods, consisting of Rhynchonella capax
(3 Specimens), Orthis biforata, Orthis retrorsa, were received from Mr.
F. Linsley, of Farmdale, Ohio. These specimens were found in the
rocks of the Cincinnati Group (Hudson), Lower Silurian Age. Speei-
mens of iron pyrites were also transmitted by Mr. Linsley.

From the U. 8. Geological Survey, through Maj. Powell, director, was
received a specimen of gyroceras (?) collected by Mr. C. D. Walcott, of
the Survey.

From Mr. J. L. Cheyney, of Fort Dodge, Iowa (through Hon. ©. ©.
Carpenter, M. C., and Hon. J. P. Dolliver, M. ©., was received a silver
watch which was carried by Thomas Cheyney, of Pennsylvania, during
the Revolutionary war.

Hon. J. P. Dolliver, M. C., presented a fragment of the Winnebago
County meteorite.

Mr. G. F. Kunz, of New York City, transmitted a specimen of mete-
orite from Winnebago County.

Seven specimens of corals representing 5 species from the Hamilton
Group (Devonian) were presented by Mr. F..H. Luthe, of McGregor.

Kansas.—Mr. W. P. Jenney, of the U.S. Geological Survey, trans-
mitted a specimen of native white sulphide of zine from Moll Mine,
Galena.

From Mr. George I’. Kunz, of New York City, was received a speci-
men of meteorite from Kiowa County.

Kentucky.—Mr. George F. Kunz, of New York City, presented a
specimen of meteorite from Carroll County.

Maine.—From the Cameron Silica Company, through Mr. ©. KE.
Mitchell, superintendent, were received specimens of silica.
90 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Maryland.—My. O. N. Bryan, of Marshall Hall, presented a collee-
tion of hammer stones, grooved axes, polished hatchet, paleolithie im-
plements, rude notched implements, arrow and spear-points, pierced
tablet, stone slab, with mortar like cavities, fragment of potstone ves-
sel, and fragment of pottery.

From Master Samuel H. Hopkins was received a very beautiful speci-
men of American Sparrow Hawk (Falco sparverius),.

Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds in the National Museum, pre-
sented 44 birds’ skins, representing 29 species.

Massachusetts.—Prof. W. O. Crosby, of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Boston, transmitted in exchange three specimens of nick-
eliferous pyrrhotite from Dracut.

From the Deerfoot Farm Company, through Mr. James Cheeseman,
was received the original centrifugal separator, erected on the Deerfoot
farm in 1879.

A collection consisting of 160 stone implements from Blaeckman’s
farm, Blackmans Point, at the mouth of Cut River, Marshfield, was
received from Mr. George B. Frazar, of West Medford.

From the Granite Railway Company, Boston, through Mr. H. E.
Sheldon, was received a piece of the old track of the Granite Railway.

The Massachusetts Society for the Promotion of Agriculture pre-
sented 240 colored plates illustrating the forest flora of the United
States.

From Dr. C. A. Norton, of Washington, D. C., were received a warm-
ing-pan formerly belonging to the Franklin family, a photograph of a
fire-place in the Franklin homestead, Nantucket, and a photograph of
the Whittier fire-place, Haverhill.

A. collection of fossils was presented by Mr. 8S. H. Seudder, of Cam-
bridge, Mass.

Mr. W. W. Wheiidon, Concord, presented a piece of the ‘Old North

3ridge,” over which the Massachusetts minute men and the British
troops first opened fire upon each other.

Minnesota.—Vrom Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U.S. Army, was received
a Western Evening Grosbeak (Coccotheraustes vespertinus montanus),
first plumage, and new to the collection.

Mississippi.icFrom the U.S. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W.
Powell, director, were received specimens of cretaceous fossils.

Missouri.i—Dr. J. H. Britts, of Clinton, presented 150 specimens
representing about 55 species of carboniferous fossil plants from the
vicinity of Clinton.

Montana.—From Mr. J. B. Koch, of Bozeman, were received 70 rude
implements, consisting of knives, arrow-points, flakes, and a fragment
of potstone vessel.

Dr. Clinton L. Merriam, of Locust Grove, N. Y., deposited two pairs
of interlocked elk antlers.

Capt. O. M. Smith, U.S. Army, Fort Keogh, transmitted a Spring-
field bullet partially pierced by a nail at target range.

an
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 91

Nevada.—My. L. L. Frost, of Susanville, presented a flint perforator
from Smoke Creek.

New Jersey—From Mr. Theo. M. Ely, general superintendent of the
Motive Power, Pennsylvania Railroad, Altoona, Pa., was received a
car-wheel of the same class of wheels in use under the first locomotive
and cars run on the New Jersey Railroad, and similar to those used
under the cars when they were drawn by horses prior to the use of
locomotives.

New Mexrico.—¥rom Capt. John G. Bourke, U. 8. Army, were received
ethnological objects and stone implements.

From the Department of Agriculture, through Dr. C. Hart Merriam,
were received the jaw and radius of a bear from a cave in Grant County,

Dr. W. Matthews, U.S. Army, Fort Wingate, sent a pair of wooden
tongs used by the Navajo women for picking cactus fruif.

From Mr. M. Metealfe, of Silver City, was received a fork-tailed
lizard (Cnemidophorus gularis).

From the U.S. Geological Survey, through Major J. W. Powell, direc-
tor, was received a specimen of smoky quartz, collected by Mr. F. H.
Knowlton in Santa Fe.

A large series of ores and economic minerals were collected and pre-
sented by Mr. F. W. Crosby, of Washington, D. C.

New York.—From Mr. Moses Eames, of Watertown, through Mr. N.
I. Blount, of Washington, D. C., was deposited an old plow, which was
awarded a premium by the Jefferson County Fair in 1820 for the best
plow manufactured. The plow was manufactured by Col. William
Lord in 1820,

Hon. Roswell P. Flower, M. C., presented an ancient iron ax, an
English penny of date 1754, brass button, brass arrow-points, and
stone tablet found near the ruins of Fort George.

From Mrs. F. M. Hartwell, of Washington, D. C., was received a
foot-stove belonging to David Randall and used in the “Old Red
Meeting House” in Dutchess County in 1788.

Mr. J. Scott Hartley, of New York City, presented life-size busts of
Judge Noah Davis, Edwin Booth, Lawrence Barrett, and John Gilbert.

Mrs. Nellie Long Maynard, through Mr. George W. Maynard, of
New York City, presented breech-loading guns, guns fitted with the
- Maynard system of priming—inventions of Dr. George Maynard—parts
of Maynard rifle, wooden models of parts of guns, chargers, breech-
block, hammer, and priming case, loading device, primed cartridges,
vartridges, and priming strips (tapes).

From the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company,
through Mr. William Buchanan, superintendent, was received one of
the wheels of the locomotive “ De Witt Clinton.”

A specimen of Orthoeeras from the Upper Devonian formation of
New York was received from Mr. Osear Potter, of Scott, N. Y.

Dr. William LL. Ralph, of Utiea, presented a nest and 3 eggs of Sporo-
92 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

phila morelleti sharpi; 8 eggs of Parus atricristatus, new to the collee-
tion; 2 eggs of Chordeiles texensis; 4eggsof Tyrannus melancholichus
couchii, new to the collection, and 2 eggs of Columba flavirostris.

The Syracuse Plow Company, of Syracuse, N. Y., presented a model
of a steel plow.

The U. S. Geological Survey, through Mr. C. D. Walcott, presented
2 slabs of slate showing bedding, clearage, and faulting

Mz. Stephen Vail, of New York City, deposited a paper ribbon con-
taining a record of the first Presidential election reported by electric¢
telegraph, November 5, 1844.

North Carolina.—A_ collection containing 500 specimens of annelids
from Beaufort and Virginia, was received from Dr, EK, A. Andrews, of
Baltimore, Md.

From Messrs. H. H. and C. 8. Brimley, of Raleigh, were received 24
specimens representing 11 species of batrachians, among which is a
fine series of what is believed to be Holbrook’s Salamander haldemanni,
a form apparently lost sight of since its original description.

From Mr. Frank Burns, of the Smithsonian Institution, was received
a specimen of matting manufactured out of the leaf fiber of the Long
leaved Pine (Pinus palustris), obtained from the manufactory at Cronly,
near Wilmington.

Archeological specimens from the base of Roan Mountain were col-
lected and transmitted by Mr. P. L. Jouy, of the National Museum.

Ohio.—Mr. Warren K. Moorehead, of Xenia, deposited the Simonton
collection of aboriginal relics from Warren County.

From Prof. Edward Orton, of Columbus, were received 7 specimens
of fossil plants from the Devonian and Carboniferous formation of Ohio.

Prof. F. W. Putnam, of Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass., trans-
mitted an ancient iron lamp found in the remains of a fruit-drying
house on the top of a mound in Adams County.

Oregon.—Dr. A. G. Prill, of Sweet Home, presented 11 eggs (one set)
of the Ring-necked Pheasant (Phaisanus torquatus), an introduced
species in the United States, new to the collection.

Pennsylvania.—My. Charles W. Cottom, of Dunbar, presented a piece
of charcoal taken out of the ill-fated Hill Farm mine, some 1,500 feet
from the mouth of the pit.

From Mr. 8. M. Fletcher, of Lima, Ohio, through Hon. 8.:S. Yoder,
was received a specimen of oil sendrock from the Union Oil Company
well No. 9, Barse Track, McKean County. This specimen was found at
the depth of 1,730 feet.

A silver medal of Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, presented in 1854
to Mr. Joseph Francis, of Minneapolis, was transmitted by him to the
Museum.

From Messrs. Lindsay and Karly was received as a loan the cylinder
of the locomotive “Stourbridge Lion.”

Two polished slabs of marble were received from Messrs. Schweyer
and Liess, of King of Prussia, Montgomery County.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 93

Mr. James Todd, of Pittsburg, presented a silver watch with fob-
chain, seal, and pendant, supposed to have been taken from a British
soldier at the battle of Lexington, 1775, by Lieut. Todd, of the Conti-
nental army.

From the U. 8. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W. Powell, diree-
tor, were received samples of garnet, 4 specimens of garnet in musco-
vite, and 2 pieces of chalcedony, collected by Mr. E. A. Sehneider in
Delaware County.

South Carolina.—From Mr. James E. Benedict, of the National Mu-
seum, was received a collection of birds’ skins, containing, among many
other valuable and interesting species, one entirely new to the collec-
tion, Cistothorus mariane Scott.

Mr. J. L. Black, managing director of the Magnetic Iron and Steel
Ore Company, Blacksburgh, transmitted specimeus of ore from the
mines of the company.

From Mr. E. E. Jackson, of Columbus, were received archeological
objects, consisting of shallow stone mortars, rubbing-stone, grooved
axes, polished hatchet, leaf-shaped implement, arrow and spear-points,
stone pendant with lines and dots, fragments of pottery, and fragments
of potstone vessels.

Mr. W. ©. Kendall, of the U. S. Fish Commission, transmitted 30
specimens of birds’ skins, representing 27 species.

South Dakota.—Dr. Z. T. Daniel, Cheyenne River Agency, presented
stone implements, teeth, and pottery found in the remains of Indian
houses. The houses were tormerly inhabited by the Rees tribe (Arika-
rees) of the Pawnee family. The specimens were collected at the sugges-
tion of Gen. T. J. Morgan, Indian Commissioner. In addition, Dr. Daniel
contributed the bones of a Sioux Indian found on the site of an ancient
burial-tree on the Missouri River near the agency, and also buffalo
horns.

From Mr. Frank D. Lewis, special agent, Indian Departinent, were,
received through Mr. F. J. Heiberger, of Washington, D. C., two ‘‘ ghost
shirts” from the site of the “Wounded Knee” fight.

Tennessee.—Mr. Tertsh Lander, of Williamston, presented specimens
of coal plants from Tracy City.

A large series of ores and economic minerals from Texas were col-
Jected and presented to the Museum by Mr. F. W. Crosby, of Washing-
ton, D. C.

From the U. 8. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W. Powell, di-
rector, were received specimens of cretaceous fossils.

Utah.—Mr. Titus Ulke, of Hill City, S. Dak., presented a specimen
of fibrous meerschatin from Little Cottonwood.

Virginia.—Dr. E. A. Andrews, of Baltimore, Md., presented a collec-
tion of annelids containing 500 specimens from Willoughby Sand Spit,
and Beaufort, N. C.

From Mr. H. B. Battle, director of the North Carolina Agricultural
J4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Experiment Station, Raleigh, was received a portion of the Henry
County meteorite.

From the Randolph-Macon College, through Mr. Richard Irby, see-
retary and treasurer, was received a medal commemorating the incor-
poration of the college, February 3, 1830,

Mr. Henry Hemphill, of San Diego, Cal., presented tertiary fossils
from Lake Whatcom.

Wisconsin.—From Dr. W. J. Hoffman, of the Bureau of Ethnology,
were received a model of Menomonee medicine-maws grave with sym-
bols; crayon sketch of the grave of Oshkosh, and of the great lodges
of the Menomonee tribe, where funeral services are held over medicine-
men on the anniversary of their death,

Wyoming.—From the Department of Agriculture, through Dr. C.
Hart Merriam, were received specimens of fossil turtles and mammals
from Fort Bridger.

From the U.S. Geological Survey, through Major J. W. Powell, di-
rector, were received 17 specimens of chalcedony, collected at Fossil
Point by Prof. Lester F. Ward.

Misccllaneous.—F rom the American Historical Society were received,
through Mr. A. Howard Clark, assistant secretary of the society, man-
uscripts, drawings, letters, etc., comprising the “ Vail papers” relative
to the invention and early application of the telegraph.

Dr. John Bartlett, of Chicago, IL, transmitted a model of a Burmese
canoe.

Mr. William J. Boyd, of Brooklyn, N. Y., presented a model of the
vessel Half Moon.

Miss Mary Henry, of Washington, D. ©., deposited the electro mag-
netic engine for producing reciprocating motion by magnetic attraction
and repulsion, invented and constructed by Prof. Joseph Henry in
1851,

The gem collection of the late Dr. Joseph Leidy, containing 400 cut
stones, was obtained by purchase from the heirs of Dr. Leidy’s estate.

From Mr. Frederick S. Perkins, of Madison, Wis., by special appro-
priation of Congress, was purchased his large collection of prehistoric
copper and galena objects, obtained principally from Wisconsin and
Ohio.

From Mr. Frederick W. Porter, of Chicago, IL, was received a col-
lection of old State-bank notes from 1817 to 1860,

Prof. ©. V. Riley, of the Department of Agriculture, transmitted a
series of 400 species of coleoptera and 130 species of hemiptera, collected
in the United States by Prof. L. Bruner, of Lincoln, Nebr.

The Hinds Ketcham Company, of Brooklyn, N. Y., transmitted a
collection of incandescent lamps, switches, and other apparatus used
in 1881 in connection with one of the earliest electric-light plants in
America,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 95

From the Singer Manufacturing Company, Hartford, Conn., were
received 11 sewing-machines,

ISLANDS IN THE ATLANTIC OCEAN.

Bahama TIslands.—My. Edward D’Invilliers, of Philadelphia, Pa.,
presented specimens of phosphates from the island of Navassa.

A specimen of Ani (Crotophaga ani) was received from Dr. T. F. R.
Dufour, of Washington, D. ©. This specimen was obtained from the
island of Navassa.

Mr. I. Greegor, of Jacksonville, Fla., presented a remarkably fine
series of Tritonium femorale.

WEST INDIES.

Mr. C. B. Cory, of Boston, Mass., presented 40 birds’ skins, represent-
ing 25 species.

Lady Edith Blake, King’s House, Jamaica, presented drawings of
emblems of the Red Indian mythology and a water-color plate of Beo-
thuck Indian ornaments.

From the Botanie Garden, Trinidad, was received a specimen of a
newly discovered deposit of foraminiferous earth (“* Philippine deposit”),
from Naparima district, Trinidad.

SOUTH AMERICA.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

From Mr. Henry Edwards, of New York City, were received alco-
holie specimens of insects.

A very complete collection of woods of the Argentine Republic was
presented by the Museo de Productos Argentinos, through Mr. John
F, Thompson.

BRAZIL,

Mr. ©. F. Brown, of Hot Springs, Ark., sent a specimen of yellow
topaz.

Prof. Orville A. Derby, of the national museum of Brazil, through the
courtesy of Prof. J. M. Clarke, University of the State of New York,
New York State Museum, Albany, N. Y., transmitted trilobites from the
paleozoic system of Brazil.

Hon. J. O. Kerby, United States consul at Para, presented 2 birds’
skins from Brazil, and a few feathers of the Eigretei, a rich and rare
bird of the heron species found on the island of Marajo, Amazon
River; 11 specimens of South American Golden Tortoise-beetle (Desmo-
nota variolosa Webb), and 3 pieces of the bark of the tree used by the
Amazon Indians for paper.
96 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Capt. A. V. Reed, U.S. Navy, presented a dragon fly (Cordulegaster)
and a turtle.

Mr. C. W. Richmond, of the Department of Agriculture, sent in ex-
change two birds, Pteroglossus castanotis and Colaptes campestris, from
Chapada, Province of Maranhao.

Dr. H. Von Thering, of Rio Grande do Sul, sent 8 species of recent
shells and 16 species of fossils; also a collection of fresh-water shells
from the southern part of Brazil.

CHILE.

Messrs. Ward and Howell, of Rochester, N. Y., presented a fragment
of a meteorite from Llano del Inca.

ECUADOR,

From Dr. Hugh M. Smith, of the U.S. Fish Commission, were re-
ceived skins of the Golden-headed Manakin (Pipra aurocapilla) and
Blue-crowned Manakin (Pipra coronata).

FRENCH GUIANA.

From Mr. Charles Bullman, of Plainfield, N. J., were received speci-
mens of phosphates of alumina and iron, from the Island of Grand
Cannetable.

PATAGONIA,

From the Royal Museum of Natural History, Berlin, Germany, was
received, in exchange, a collection of echinoderms.

PERU.

Mr. F. T. Redwood, of Baltimore, Md., sent, in exchange, a wooden
image.

From Mrs. J. H. Baxter, of Washington, D. C., were received on de-
posit 37 specimens of ancient Peruvian pottery collected by Mr. William
Tryon, and presented by him to Surgeon-General Baxter. This collee-
tion is known as the “ Tryon collection.”

UNITED STATES OF COLOMBIA,

Mr. Charles Builman, of Plaintield, N. J., presented a piece of bark-
cloth called ‘“damaqua,” made by the Indians of Choco; a little paint-
pot used by the Choco Indians to hold the red paint made from anatto
seeds; a piece of lignite from gold and platinum alluviums, Condoto
River, and specimens of gold and platinum from the same locality.

From Hon. Thomas Herran, of Hamburg, Germany, was obtained by
purchase 9 golden ornaments of ancient Colombian workmanship,
weighing 133 grams, taken from graves in the province of Antioquia.
Mr. Herran also presented 2 pieces of ancient Indian pottery from a
grave in the same locality.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. oF
VENEZUELA.

From Mr. RK. M. Bartleman, of the United States legation, Caracas,
was received a fine series of Argonauta argo and other marine shells;
also a collection of insects.

A collection of fishes made by the steamer Albatross from the Gala-
pagos Islands, was received from the U.S, Geological Survey, through
Major J. W. Powell, director.

ASIA.

CHINA,

Canton.—Mr. P. LL. Jouy, of the U.S. National Museum, deposited 2
double cutlasses.

Shanghai.—From the Department of State were received samples of
ramie in various stages of manufacture, and a report regarding this
industry by the United States Consul-general at Shanghai.

Wenchow.—Dr. D. J. Macgowen, through Hon. J.D. Kennedy, Consul-
general, Shanghai, presented a sturgeon in alcohol, a pair of stockings,
and two wooden models.

Mr, P. L. Jouy deposited 13 objects of mother-of-pearl, and 4 pieces
of jade.

A collection of Chinese musical instruments was obtained for the
Museum by Dr. Julius Neumann.

Mr. W. W. Rockhill, of Washington, D. C., deposited a collection of

Chinese enamels, lacquers, and bronzes, Chinese swords, daggers, belt-
knives, and AipyeHas. Mr. Rockhill also presented a tobacco- pouch.

KORKA

Mr. P. L. Jouy, of the U. 8S. National Museum, presented 3 stone
implements, and a package of Korean tobacco, and deposited a collec-
tion of Korean religious objects.

Mr. W. W. Rockhill, of Washington, D. C., deposited a pair of shoes
worn by Korean children, and a quiver filled with arrows.

INDIA.

Burma.—Through the courtesy of Mr. Henry Balfour, of Oxford, Eng-
land, a bamboo blowpipe from Burma, was received in exchange, from
the Oxford Museum, Oxford, England.

Mr. Edward Lovett, of Croydon, England, sent in exchange a brass
lota.

Calcutta.—From the Royal Botanic Garden, through Dr. G. King,
superintendent, was obtained by exchange, a collection of dried plants.

Madras.-—Bishop John P. Newman, presented a mosaic dish, inlaid
with variegated stones.

From the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, England, through Dr, W, T,

sM 91, pr 2——7
98 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Thiselton-Dyer, director, was received in exchange, a collection of Indian
fabrics.

From the Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., through Prof.
William North Rice, was received a group of Indian idols,

JAPAN.

From Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. S., Navy, was received a fire-bowl.

W. Eagle Clarke, esq., of the Edinburgh Museum of Science and Art,
Edinburgh, Scotland, sent in exchange a collection of birds’ skins.

From Mr. Harry V. Henson, of Yokohama, were obtained by purchase
380 birds’ skins from the island of Yezo.

Mr. Romyn Hitchcock presented Japanese alphabetical playing
cards.

Mr. P. L. Jouy presented 2 shampooer’s whistles and 2 clam-darts,
and deposited a Japanese sword.

From Mr. H. Loomis, of Yokohama, were received cocoons of the ich-
neumon fly (Apantelas sp.), and 2 specimens of the work of the insect.

Mr. F. T. Redwood, of Baltimore, Md., sent, in exchange, a pair of
Japanese swords and a hari-kiri dirk.

Mr. W. W. Rockhill, of Washington, D. C., presented Japanese
swords, daggers, belt knives, and chopsticks.

From Mr. T. Tokuno, chief of the Insetsu Kioku, Tokyo, were received
6 sheets of color-prints from paintings by Japanese artists, and 5 illus-
trated Japanese books, consisting of nineteen volumes.

SIAM.

From Hon. 8S. H. Boyd, United States Consul-general, Bangkok, were
received gambling cards and a set of dice.

Rev. H. S. Gorman, England, presented 30 specimens, representing
19 species of named coleoptera.

From the Royal Museum of Natural History, Berlin, Germany, was
received a collection of echinoderms.

ASIATIC RUSSIA.

Bagdad.—From Rey. John P. Peters, of Philadelphia, Pa., were re-
cieved a kufa, plow, yoke, spade, two guns, handle of pestle, and 2
paddles for kufa, collected by Dr. Peters for the National Museum.

Beirut.—From Mr. Stewart Culin, of Philadelphia, Pa., were received
2 packs of playing cards.

Mesopotamia.—Rey. John P. Peters, of Philadelphia, collected for the
National Museum a number of ethnological objects illustrating the life
of the Arabs of Mesopotamia.

‘
ASIA MINOR.

From Col. S. F. Tappan, Washington, D. C., was received a shirt
made of chain armor, captured by Hon, H. M. Stanley from brigands.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 99
ISLANDS IN THE INDIAN OCEAN.

Ceylon.—From Mr. A. P. Gordon-Cumming, of Washington, D. C.,
was received a feather head-dress made by the Cinghalese.

From Prof. Henry A. Ward, of New York City, was received in ex-
change a specimen of Kelaart’s Monkey (Semnopithicus kelaartii).

Mauritius.—From Mr. Edward 8. Schmid, of Washington, D. ©., was
received a Mountain dove (Geopelia setriata).

From the Royal Museum of Natural History, Berlin, Germany, was re-
ceived in exchange a collection of echinoderms. This collection was
also obtained in part from the Kerguelen and Philippine Islands.

HMUROP FE.
AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.

From Mr. H. J. Johnston-Lavis, of Naples, Italy, were received in
exchange specimens of minerals from Tyrol.

DENMARK,

From Dr. C, A. Norton, of Washington, D. C., was received a pair of
fire-tongs brought to the United States in 1792, which were originally
used for transporting coals of fire from one house to another,

FRANCE.

From Mr. Henry Balfour, of Oxford, England, were received in ex-
change 2 iron lamps used by bakers for lighting ovens and a spoon
made of a pecten shell, and commonly used by the fishing people on
the southern coast of Brittany.

From Mr. Charles Gincriez, director of the museum at Chalon-sur-
Sadne, was received in exchange through Mr. John Durand, of Paris,
an impression from a heliograph “ Portrait of Cardinal Amboise,” from
an engraving by Briot, made by Mr. Joseph Nicéphore Niepcee in 1824.

Mr. Henry Balfour, of Oxford, England, transmitted in exchange a
model of a shell lamp and a French crusie, of brass, from Normandy.

Prince Roland Bonaparte, of Paris, presented photographs of Soma-
lis and of Hottentots.

The Department of State, through Hon. William Wharton, assist-
ant secretary, transmitted 2 medals awarded to the Government of the
United States tor its exhibits at the late Paris International Exhibition,
and 2 diplomas awarded to the United States from the same source.

Mr. George H. Draper, of Paris, France, through Mr. D. 8. Lawson
and Hon. J. W. Candler, presented an account-book of the Royal
Treasurer under Louis xv, signed by Louis xv1, March 28, 1780.

From Mr. Joseph Francis, of Minneapolis, was received a_ silver
medal presented to him by the Société Générale des Naufrages, in rec-
ognition of his services in connection with life-saving appliances.

Dr. Hilborn T. Cresson, of Philadelphia, Pa., deposited 5 flint objects
from the cavern of Le Moustier.
100 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
GERMANY.

From My. J. B. Kevinski, of Lancaster, Pa., was received a clavichord
brought to the United States about 1741.

A collection of echinoderms was received from the Royal Museum of
Natural History, Berlin.

GREAT BRITAIN.

England.—From the Guildhall Library Committee, London, through
Mr. Charles Welch, were received 6 copies of bronze medals issued by
the corporation of the city of London and representing the visit of
Queen Victoria to Guildhall, 1857; passing of the Reform Bill, 1832;
opening of the London Bridge (large); opening of the London Bridge
(small); thanksgiving at St. Paul’s for the recovery of the Prince of
Wales, and the opening of the City of London School.

From Mr. Edward Lovett, of Croydon, England, were obtained by
exchange a knife found while excavations were being made at Temple
Bar, and 11 pieces of pottery from Old London.

From the Royal Geographical Society, through Mr. H. W. Bates, as-
sistant secretary, was received a bronze medal commemorating the
Stanley expedition for the relief of Emin Pasha.

From Mr. Thomas Rogers, of Manchester, were received a number of
specimens of Planorbis dilatatus.

From Mr. W. Eagle Clarke, Edinburgh Museum of Seience and Art,
Edinburgh, Scotland, were received in exchange birds’ skins.

Mr. Thomas Ruddy, of Cowen, Wales, transmitted 232 specimens of
Bala fossils.

Scotland.—F rom Mr. Henry Balfour, of Oxford, England, was received
a model of a shell lamp found in the vicinity of the Orkney and Shelter
islands.

From the U. 8. Geological Survey, through Major J. W. Powell, diree-
tor, were received 4 specimens of Devonian fish remains, collected by
Mr. ©. D. Walcott, of the Survey.

GREECE.

From Mr. R. Forrer were obtained by purchase a collection of Roman
pottery and specimens of Coptic cloths.

From Mr. H. J. Johnston—Lavis, of Naples, Italy, were received
specimens of minerals.

ITALY.

Catania.—The U. 8. Department of State transmitted seven speci-
mens of celestite with sulphur, collected by the United States Consul
at Catania.

Florence.—¥rom Supervising Surgeon-General John B. Hamilton,
U.S. Marine Hospital service, was received a piece of wood, supposed
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 101

to be a piece of lignite, excavated from » mountain near Florence, and
used in many parts of Italy for fuel.

Isle of Elba.—From Mr. J. G. MeGuire was received a specimen of
pyrite.

Leghorn.—From Hon, William 'T, Rice, United States Consul, were
obtained 6 rare historical medals consisting of the following: Bronze
medal, 1790, Rhode Island fight; silver medal, 1780, armed neutrality
of Russia, Denmark, Sweden, and Holland during the war of inde-
pendence of America, with the arms of the four States ‘“ Ichova wreeker
der verbonden ”; dupheate of the above medal; silver medal of 1784
“ Médaille offerte par la Société.” “ Voorveyheid in ¥ver” to the State
of Friesland, Holland, (Iriesland arms) onthe occasion of John Adams’s
reception as an ambassador of the United States; a silver medal
representing the independence of the United States recognized by Hol-
land “ Libera soror” April 19, 1782, and a silver medal treaty of com-
merce between the United States and Holland, October 7, 1782.

Monte Gimmelaro.—From Myr. J. P. Iddings, of the U.S. Geological
Survey, was received a specimen of basalt with inclusion of vitrified
sandstone.

Sicily—Mr. Joseph Francis, of Minneapolis, Miun., transmitted a
gold medal presented to him by Ferdinand II, in recognition of lis serv-
ices in connection with life-saving appliances.

From the U. 8S. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W. Powell, diree-
tor, was received a crystal from Mineo.

Mr. H. J. Johnston-Lavis, of Naples, Italy, transmitted, in exchange,
specimens of minerals and a series of eruptive rocks.

Mr. Edward P. Mason, of Boston, Mass., presented an Italian stringed
“Salterio” about 120 years old, with an ornamental outer case, and
several sheets of manuscript music by Pasquale Anfossi, a celebrated
and suecessful dramatic composer in the years 1733-1795.

Mr. Thomas Wilson, of the U.S. National Museum, deposited a bronze
sword, 205 inches long,

NORWAY.

Arendal.—From Dr. W. F. Hillebrand, of the U. S. Geological Sur-
vey, was received a specimen of yttroguimmite.

Christiania —From Dr. Robert Collett, director of the Zodblogical
Museum, was received, in exchange, the skeleton of a porpoise.

Trondhjem.—Dry. I. Hagen transmitted, in exchange, a collection of
Norwegian mosses,

RUSSIA.
From Mr. Joseph Francis, of Minneapolis, Minn., was received a
medal representing the insignia of the Order of Sr. Stanislaus, con-

ferred upon him by the Emperor of Russia, in recognition of his serv-
ices in connection with life-saving appliances.
102 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

From Mr. Theo. Holm, of the U.S. National Museum, was received
a specimen of grogroilite from the Kara Sea, north of Siberia, collected
by the Danish North Pole Expedition of 1882 and 1883.

From Mr. A. Losch, of St. Petersburg, through Dr. E. A. Schneider
of the U.S. Geological Survey, were received 2 specimens of xanthro-
phyllite (waluewite) and a specimen of ripidolite from Nikolaje Maxi-
miliamowsk Mine, near Slatoust.

Dr. E. A. Norton, of the U. S. Geological Survey, presented a speci-
men of leuchtenbergite from Schischimsk, near Slatoust, southern
Ural.

From the Royal Zodlogical Museum of Copenhagen, Denmark, through
Prof. Dr. Chr. Liitken, were received, in exchange, 27 specimens (rep-
resenting 11 species) of marine shells; 4 species of fishes, including
Liparis fabricii, Pycodes liithkeni, Icelus hamatus and Aspidophoroides
olrikit ; a collection of crustaceans, echinoderms, bryozoans, worms,
sponges, hyroids, and other specimens collected by the steamer
Dymphna during an exploring expedition in 188283 north of Russia,
and the Kara Sea, Nova Zembla, and the Arctic regions.

Mrs. Mary I. Stroud, of Washington, D. C., deposited a collection of
Russian minerals, presented in 1845 by the Russian Government to
Prof. Walter R. Johnson, of Washington, D.C.

SPAIN.

Mr. S. P. Langley, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, pre-
sented a pack of Spanish “ Monte” cards collected by him in Spain,
and 2 reed pipes of Moorish character.

Mr. W. W. Rockhill, of Washington, D. C., presented Moorish dag-
gers and a short sword; also a Catalonian knife.

From Col. Seely, of the United States Patent Office, was obtained a
collection of photographs representing ethnological objects. Col. Seely
also presented a set of bronze weights and a brass clock.

SWEDEN.

From the Geological Survey of Sweden, Stockholm, were received
in exchange 51 species of Cambrian fossils.

SWITZERLAND.

From Mr. Edward Lovett, of Croydon, England, were received in
exchange a model of a Swiss fire-drill and a bronze fish-hook from the
Swiss lake-dwellings.

TURKEY.

From Hon, O, 8S. Straus, of Constantinople, was received a cast of
the Jerusalem stele, the original of which is in the Imperial Museum
at Constantinople.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 103

Objects of interest have been received from various parts of Europe,
the exact localities from which some of them were obtained not being
stated. Among them are the following:

Specimens of rocks sent in exchange by Prot. William H. Hobbs, of
Madison, Wis.

From Mr. J. P. lddings, of the U.S. Geological Survey, was received
a volcanic bomb from the Island of Lipari, Mediterranean Sea.

Fourteen species of Kuropean Caribide, received in exchange from
Mr. Paul Noel, of Rouen, France.

Sixty-two species of lepidoptera, received from the Department of
Agriculture through Prof. C. V. Riley.

A collection of echinoderms, received in exchange from the Royal
Museum of Natural History, Berlin, Germany.

Specimens of rocks, received in exchange from Myr. B. Sturtz, of
Bonn, Prussia.

Aleoholic specimens of deep-sea fishes and the skin of a shark,
transmitted by the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France, through
Mr. Léon Vaillant, collected in the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterran-
ean Sea by the Travailleur and Talisman expeditions and by the Com-
mission to Cape Horn.

OCHANICA.

AUSTRALASTA.

AUSTRALIA,

New South Wales—From Mr. Walter Koehler, of Broken Hill, was
received a very tine collection of minerals and rocks from the Broken
Hill Mines.

From Mr. Titus Ulke, of Washington, D.C., was received a specimen
of phosgenite from Broken Hill.

Baron Ferd von Miieller, of the Royal Botanical Gardens, Australia,
presented fossil plants.

NEW CALEDONTA.

Mr. W. EK. Traill, of Fort St. James, Stuart’s Lake, British Columbia,
presented alcoholic specimens of salmon.

NEW GUINEA.

From the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. (through Gen. Charles
G. Loring, director), was. received a spear.

From the Royal Botanical Gardens of Kew, England, was received in
exchange a collection of textile fabrics, specimens of materia medica,
a mat, and other objects.
104 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
VICTORIA,

From Baron Ferd von Miieller, of the Royal Botonical Gardens,
Australia, were received fossil fruits, consisting of Spondylostrobus
Smythii, Pleioclinis Sheperdi, and Conotheca turgida. These specimens
were transmitted to the National Museum through the courtesy of Mr.
David White, of the U. S. Geological Survey.

NEW ZEALAND.

From Mr. Henry Edwards, of New York City, were received sponges
and other marine specimens; alcoholic specimens of Dormouse Pha-
langer (Dromicia concinna) and alcoholic specimens of reptiles from the
western part of Australia.

From the British Museum, London, England, through Dr. A. Giin-
ther, was received a collection of marine objects.

Mrs. C. C. Cox, of Washington, D. C., presented 5 eggs of the Aus-
tralian emu.

POLYNESIA,

FIJI ISLANDS.

From Mr. Edward Lovett, of Croydon, England, were received in ex-
change a wooden dish, mallet, and tapa cloth.

Prof. 1. C. White, West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.

Y) 5 J) tS ? ?

transmitted in exchange a carved wooden vessel inlaid with shell and

bone, and known as “priest bowls,” colleeted by Lieut. W. I. Moore

y) e y)

U.S. Navy.

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

From Mr. A. F. Knudsen, of Cambridge, Mass., were received alco-
holie specimens of Mus musculus and Mus musculus (melanistio ).

Dr. H. ©. Bolton, of New York City, presented 3 photographs of Ha-
walian surf-boards and surf-board riding.

SAMOAN ISLANDS.

From Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. 8S. Navy, was received a collection of
ethnological objects, shells, sea-urchins, corals, echini, sponge, and a
sanoe with fittings. He also presented a basket and a gold mat.

ISLANDS IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.

Marshall Islands.—From Lieut. 'T. Dix Bolles, U. 8. Navy, was re-
cieved atapa cloth.

Paloa Tslands.—¥rom Capt. Frank Curling,in command of the Amer-
ican ship Joseph D. Spinney (through Capt. S. A. Day, U.S. Army), was
received a dugout, found adrift 210 miles off the Paloa Islands.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 105
NUMBER OF ACCESSIONS ANNUALLY SINCE 1881.
A tabulated statement showing the number of accessions to the

Museum each year, beginning with 1881 (the first year of the oceu-
pancy of the new building), is here given.

| No. of

Year, | “numbers. | accessions
| (inclusive). | year.

TERT. we Sea 0 seen Smee Sas ZAR oo a ine eB ee a 9890-11000 | 1,111
NSSORE Roe ee ea eee A Sect Jin hes Rtne on hale rt Se eae oS Day Se 11001-12500 1, 500
ISB 36 SoeS ec und LAS ates SIO D LEE eer ae Oran ae eee Ree ee 12501-13900 | 1, 400
Ts se Soe ES SO ee eee IS ROR EE. ae. een ey 13901-15550 | 1, 650
1885 (January to June) .-.--- SP OS SAC ASAE SORA AS EArt ate Eee AD ee | 15551-16208 658
TRESS SAc en hike See Meee ene eR Sen ey om I, ea A SO ar a 16209-17704 | 1, 496
egeeay ce. fe). ase i beraks. tg TARALUEIS BIRR) RSI DEE VY oS 2, TAY 17705-19350 | 1, 646
TIM SYE sae At ae ser te OB aces RS MAE? DOL Same DAR fer een areeres Serene dee peer 19351-20831 | 1, 481
USB he OO AN RS a Be Un Due eae Dem aliE + ae get rie a TL wiles URN IEE: 20832-22178 | 1, 347
ERO UU eerie Pie ete sips CURIE Ee GK) AOA hs oh eheeL., Puebece 22179-23340 | 1, 162
TESXEYDESEEN TRS CAF Ss dares peers Sakae See a BIE SS PLL ate Sen eet Deena See 23341-24527 1. 186
Motal wamberofaccessions from 1881 todinne 30; 189) 3... 52... se on~ oe |e eee ee ee ast 637

The first entry in the Accession Book bears the date of January 1,
1859, although considerable material had been received before that time.
From the above figures it will therefore be seen that the accessions
during the past ten years largely exceed the total number received
during the previous twenty-two years, or the period between 1859 and
1881.

I.—COOPERATION OF THE DEPARTMENTS AND BUREAUS
OF THE GOVERNMENT DURING THE YEAR ENDING
JUNE 30, 1891.

The National Museum, as in past years, has been the recipient of
many valuable and interesting contributions from the different bureaus
of the Government. The U. 8. Geological Survey and Fish Commis-
sion have as usual been very active in their friendly coéperation,
The Department of Agriculture has contributed large and interesting
collections, particularly from North America.

The officers of the Army and Navy have been instrumental in adding
to the collections of the different departments and sections of the Mu-
seum, and the Quartermaster’s Department has been efficient in its
services, as has always been its custom. The Department of State has
perhaps been more active in its contributions, particularly through its
ministers and consuls, than in former years. In response to a letter
from Secretary Langley, addressed to State Department officials in
various foreign countries, and bearing the indorsment of that Depart-
ment, some valuable accessions have been received and others promised,
A report upon these contributions will be made in due course.
106 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

From the Department, through Hon. William I. Wharton, assistant
secretary, were received 2 diplomas awarded to the United States Goy-
ernment at the late Paris International Exhibition; a medal awarded
to the Smithsonian Institution from the same souree; and 2 medals
awarded to the United States for its exhibits at the same exhibition.

Through Mr. Sevellon A. Brown, chief clerk, were received 2 large
bricks, which appear to represent cunieform or other inscriptions; sam-
ples of Chinese ramie, in various stages of manufacture, and a report
upon this industry written by the Consul-general of the United States
at Shanghai.

From Mr. William EK. Curtis, executive officer of the International
American Conference, was received an album of portraits of the officers
and members of the conference held at Washington in 138990, and a
photograph of Carib relics from St. Vincent.

From Mr. R. M. Bartleman, of the United States Legation at
Caracas, Venezuela, were received specimens of insects; shells and salt
from Cumana, alcoholic specimen of snake from Caracas, 2 gourds, and
pieces of pottery; specimens of Cicadie used for medicinal purposes,
and, through Prof. Otis T. Mason, of the National Museum, Mr. Bar-
tleman transmitted a fine series of Argonauta argo and other marine
shells.

From Hon. Ss. H. Boyd, United States Consul-general at Bangkok,
Siam, were received playing-cards used in Siam for gambling, and a
set of dice.

Hon. J. O. Kerby, United States consul at Para, Brazil, presented,
through Dr. Frank Baker, acting manager of the National Zodlogical
Park, 2 specimens of birds’ skins from Brazil, and afew feathers of the
Higretei, a rich and rare bird of the Heron species from the Island of
Marajo, Amazon River; 11 specimens of South American Golden Tor-
toise-beetle (Desmonota variolosa Web.), and 5 pieces of the bark of
the tree which the Amazon Indians use for paper.

Through Hon. J.D. Kennedy, Consul-general at Shanghai, China,
were received, from Dr. D. J. Macgowan, Chinese customs, Wenchow,
China, an alcoholic specimen of sturgeon, a pair of stockings, and 2
wooden models.

From Hon. William T. Rice, United States Consul at Leghorn, Italy,
were obtained, by purchase, 6 rare medals, as follows: Bronze medal,
1779, Rhode Island fight; silver medal, 1780, armed neutrality of Rus-
sia, Denmark, Sweden, and Holland during the war of independence of
America, with the arms of the four States “ Ichova wreeker der ver-
bonden; ” a duplicate of the same medal; silver medal, 1754, Meédaille
offerte par la Société “ Voorveyheid en ¥ver” to the State of Friesland,
Holland (Friesland arms) on the occasion of the reception of John
Adams as an ambassador of the United States; silver medal—the Inde-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. LOZ

pendence of the United States recognized by Holland “ Libera soror,”
“April 19, 1782; and a silver medal—Treaty of Commerce between the
‘United Sites and Holland, October 7, 1782.

Seven specimens of Bereetie with Solptian crystals, procured from the
largest sulphur mine in the province of Caltanissetta, Italy, were col-
lected by the United States Consul at Catania, and transmitted to the
Museum by the Department of State.

From Mr. Walter Koehler, of Broken Hill, Australia, through the
State Department, was received a very beautiful collection of minerals,
and also some specimens of ores.

The following consular officers have promised to assist in the collec-
tion of material: S. H. Boyd, Bangkok, Siam; C. C. Ellis, Rangoon,
Bumah; Augustine Heard, Seoul, Corea; N.C. Gram, Iceland; Louis
B. Grant, Cairo, Egypt; Victor A. Jenny, Macassar Celebes; James
MeIntosh, Tangiers, Morocco; E. Spencer Pratt, Teheran, Persia; EK. D.
Ropes, jr., Zanzibar, Africa; Harold M. Sewall, Apia, Samoa; Loudon A.
Snowden, Athens, Greece; A. R. Webb, Philippine Islands; Erhard
Bissinger, Beirut, Syria; Rounsevelle Wildman, Singapore, Straits Set-
tlements.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

The National Museum is specially indebted to the Treasury Depart-
ment for its valuable assistance in connection with the free entry of
objects from foreign countries. Several valuable contributions have
been made available in this way during the year. The bureaus of the
Treasury Department have also shown much interest in the Museum,
and special assistance has been rendered as follows:

Bureau of Printing and Engraving.—Through Hon. William M. Mere-
dith, Chief of the Bureau, were received 262 unmounted Indian impres-
sions of portraits, vignettes, and lathe-work.

Coast and Geodetic Survey.—Through Dr. 'T. C. Mendenhall, Superin-
tendent, were received 69 specimens, consisting of fragments of human
bones, clay vessels, and fragments of pottery from Pen Land, New
River, N. C.

From Lieut. J. F. Moser, commanding steamer Bache, were received

alcoholic specimens of fishes, snake, shells, and marine specimens from
Florida Reefs.

Mr. BK. D. Preston, of this Bureau, presented a crab, Grapsus macula-
tus, from Nonsuch Island, Bermuda Islands.

Revenue Marine Division.—Capt. W. C. Coulson, United States cutter
Rush, presented the skin of a walrus, Odobenus obesus, an adult male
from Walrus Island, Bering Sea.

Marine Hospital Service.—Supervising Surgeon-General John B.
Hamilton presented a piece of supposed lignite, from a mine near
Florence, used for fuel.

WAR DEPARTMEN'T AND THE ARMY.

Several officers of the Army have contributed material, and the
108 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Quartermaster’s Department has rendered valuable assistance in con.
nection with the transportation to Washington of bulky material for
the Museum.

From Lieut. Col. J. G. C. Lee, Vancouver Barracks, Wash., was re-
ceived the skull of a mammal found in Oregon.

Maj. John H. Wilcox, Fort Keogh, Mont., presented an Indian bow
from Yellowstone Park, Wyoming.

Capt. Charles EK. Bendire, honorary curator of birds’ eggs in the
National Museum, presented a parent specimen of Dendroica carula,
nest and 3 eggs, and also an egg of Molothrus ater, collected by Mr. W.
K. C. Todd from near Beaver, Pa.

Capt. John G. Bourke, Fort Ringgold, Tex., deposited a stone-headed
war club of the Dakota Indians, obtained from ‘‘ Fog Whirlwind,” one
of Sitting Bull’s warriors; a collection of ethnological and archeologi-
cal objects from Arizona and New Mexico; a sling used by the Indians
of Hidalgo, Mexico; and also presented some Mesquite beans.

From Capt. W. L. Carpenter, Whipple Barracks, Ariz., were re-
ceived eggs and nests of Spizella socialis arizone, Chondestes gramma-
cus strigatus, Vireo huttoni stephensi, Psaltriparus minimus, and Icterus
bullocki; nests and eggs of Black-chinned Hummingbird (Trochilus
alexandri), Western Wood Pewee (Contopus richardsoni), Lead-colored
Bush-tit (Psaltriparus plumbeus), Woodhouse’s Jay (Aphelocoma wood-
housei) and Spurred Towhee (Pipilo maculatus megalonyx); nest and
eges of Zenaidura macroura, Contopus richardsoni, Spizella socialis
arizone, and Trochilus alexandri; eggs of Harporhynchus crissalis,
Habia melanocephala, Mimus polyglottus, Icterus cucullatus nelsoni, and
Chondestes grammacus strigatus.

From Capt. Henry Romeyn, Fort Ringgold, Tex., were received 5
specimens of fossil oysters and a piece of petrified wood.

Capt. Thomas Sharp, Fort Russell, Wyo., presented anatomical speci-
mens.

Capt. O. M. Smith, Fort Keogh, Mont., presented a Springfield bul-
let partially pierced by a nailat target range.

Lieut. Robert H. Fletcher presented gaming-sticks used by Hupa
Indians of California; and Mr, Fletcher, through Dr. R. H. Fletcher,
of the Army Medical Museum, presented a dance-stick. 2 arrows, and
a photograph of the “White Deer Dance” of the Hupa Indians.

Lieut. J. S. Winn, Fort Huachuea, Ariz., sent a mammal skin from
the Huachuca Mountains.

Lieut. W. W. Wotherspoon, through Capt. Henry Romeyn, presented
2 living snakes.

Dr, W. H. Forwood, of the Soldiers’ Home, Washington, D. C., pre-
sented 20 crystals of sphene from Bridgewater, Pa., selenite erystal from
Ohio, and 4 specimens of quartz from Crystal Mountain, near Hot
Springs, Ark,

From Dr. W. T. Matthews, Fort Wingate, N. Mex., was received a
pair of wooden tongs used by the Navajo women for picking the fruit
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 109

of the cactus, and also specimens of dyed wool from the Navajo sheep,
and dyestutts used by the Navajo women of New Mexico and Arizona.

Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, Fort Snelling, Minn., presented a specimen of
Western Evening Grosbeck (Coccotheraustes vespertinus montanus), of
first plumage and new to the collection.

Dr. J. C. Merrill, Fort Reno, Ind. T., presented a nest of Vireo bel-
li. Dr. Merrill also presented a small collection of Grasshopper-mnice,
Meadow-mice, a Cotton-rat, and three bats.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, Takoma Park, D. C., presented a specimen of
Desmognathus fusca from Takoma Park; a Dragon-fly (Tramea carolina)
from Maryland; 2 photographs of a Navajo woman weaving a belt; 8
alcoholic specimens of reptiles and batrachians, and 2 alcoholic speci-
mens of tarantulas from Fort Wingate, N. Mex., and an Evening Gros-
beck, a skin of mink (Putorius vison) from Sligo Creek, 3 alcoholic speci-
mens of Lagomys princeps collected in the Sierra Nevada Mountains,
an Evening Grosbeck in the flesh from Fort Wingate, N. Mex., and 2
snakes and a tree-frog from Takoma Park.

Rev. J. T. Potter, chaplain, Fort Clark, Tex., presented a skin of
Massena Quail, Cyrtonyx montezume.

Mr. Charles Ruby, acting hospital steward, Fort Randall, 8S. Dak., pre-
sented fossil bones of reptiles and fish from Fort Randall, and also 4
specimens representing 3 species of birds’ skins, comprising Porzana
carolina, Cocecyzus erythropthalmus, and Setophaga ruticilla.

Mr. G. J. Westerdahl, hospital steward, San Carlos, Ariz., presented
a living Gila monster.

From Mr. E. R. Hodge, Army Medical Museum, was received a set
of United States stamped envelopes, 2 cent issue of 1883.

Through the Quartermaster’s Department, a bidarka and outfit from
Akoutan Island was received from the Alaska Commercial Company, of
San Francisco, Cal.

Six specimens of onyx from a quarry 28 miles from Prescott, Ariz.,
collected by Mr. William O. O’Neill, were transferred to the Museum
through the courtesy of the Quartermaster’s Department.

The important services rendered by Capt. Charles E. Bendire as hon-
orary curator of birds’ eggs in the National Museum, are very much
appreciated. Most of the important additions of the year are the direct
result of his active energy in developing the collection. Capt. Bendire
has now completed his manuscript on the Life Histories of North
American Birds, which will be published as a special bulletin of the
Museum.

NAVY DEPARTMENT AND THE NAVY.

From Commander William L. Folger, chief of the Bureau of Ord-
nance, was received a specimen of nickeliferous pyrrhotite from Sud-
bury, Ontario, Canada,

Lieut. Commander F. Hanford collected a brass ‘“ fig-leaf,” which was
presented to the Museum by Dr, Hugh M, Smith, of the U.S, Fish
Commission.
110 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Capt. A. V. Reed presented a Dragon-fly (Cordulegaster) and a Turtle
(Testudo tabulata) from Brazil.

Capt. Mason N. Shufeldt transmitted a collection of photographs,
illustrating some of the ethnological objects collected during his voy-
ages.

Lieut. T. Dix Bolles presented a collection of ethnological objects, 64
shells, sea-urchins, corals, echini, a canoe and its fittings, a basket, and a
gold matfrom Samoa; a tapa cloth from the Marshall Islands, and a fire-
bowl from Japan.

Lieut. W. I. Moore, collected from the Fiji Islands, a carved wooden
vessel inlaid with shell and bone, known as a “priest bowl.” This ob-
ject was presented to the Museum by Prof. I. O. White, of the West
Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.

Lieut. Charles F. Pond presented specimens of grasshoppers and a
firefly from Guatemala, Central America.

Mr. L.G. Billings, medical inspector, presented a collection of birds’
skins, made by him during the recent cruise of the Pensacola to Africa.
The collection also includes some specimens from St. Helena.

Mr. O. G. Dodge, of the U. S. Navy, collected 12 specimens of agat-
ized wood, silicified wood, garnet pebbles, and smoky quartz, which
were presented by the U.S. Geological Survey, through Major J. W.
Powell, director.

The thanks of the Museum are due to Dr. James M. Flint, honorary
curator of the section of materia medica, for the very efficient manner
in which he has continued to administer the affairs of his section.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

Through Hon. John W. Noble, Secretary, was received from Hon. J.
C. Slocum, United States surveyor-general, Tallahassee, Fla., a collee-
tion of old surveying instruments, consisting of a transit comprising a
telescope tube, a brass frame, a wooden tripod and detached legs, one
solar compass (injured in a fire), a sextant In case, a standard chain,
and a tripod and leveling-head for the solar compass.

Indian Office—From Mr. George A, Allen, Indian agent, Colorado
River Agency, Parker, Ariz., were received 4 photographs of the Mojave
Indians; a collection of pressed flowers and plants; alcoholic speci-
mens of insects; 4 lizards representing 3 species from the Colorado
River Indian Reservation; ethnological objects, and 5 pieces of pottery
from the Mojave Indians.

Dr. Z. T. Daniel, of Cheyenne River Agency, 8S. Dak., presented stone
implements, teeth, and pottery found in the remains of Indian houses,
circular mounds, from 10 to 50 feet in diameter, with depressed centers.
These houses were formerly inhabited by the Rees Arickarees of the
Pawnee family. These objects were collected by Dr. Daniel at the sug-
gestion of Gen. T. J. Morgan, Commissioner of Indian Affairs. Dr.
Daniel also presented scrapers, arrow-heads, and broken pieces or chips
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. dull

from the ruins of houses formerly occupied by the Ree Indians; flint
scrapers found on the ground of the agency, a flint scraper from near
Fort Bennett, and a portion of a gun found by an Indian on the Custer
battle-field.

From Myr. Frank D. Lewis, special agent, Indian Department, through
Mr. T. J. Heiberger, of Washington, D. C., were received 2 ghost shirts
from the late ‘* Wounded Knee” Indian fight.

Patent Office—From Col. J. W. Babson was received a patent granted
to John W. Bronaugh and Jesse Talbot for a refrigerator, March, 18135,
signed by James Madison, President, and James Monroe, Secretary of
State.

From Col. F. A. Seely were obtained by purchase 27 photographs of
ethnological objects from Spain.

U.S. Geological Survey.—tThe following statement will show the ex-
tent of the accessions from the survey during the year:

Through Major J. W. Powell, director, were received 111 photographs
illustrating typical exposures of strata, contacts, folds, joints, etc.; 47
specimens of cretaceous fossils from Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, and
Colorado; 4 specimens of minerals from Colorado and Arkansas, con-
sisting of foliated kaolin, molybdenite, scheelite, and cuprodescloizite ; <
erystal from Mineo, Catania, Sicily ; 2 geologic models, one labeled ‘‘ Geo-
logische Karte des Sentis, aufgenammen von Arnold Escher von der
Linth,” with sections set up according to the method proposed by Mr.
Albert Heim, of Zurich, and the other representing one of a series pre-
pared in wax and plaster by Mr. Willis in superintending the experi-
ments upon the reproduetion of geological structures by horizontal
pressure; 4 specimens of apophyllite and a specimen of analcite from
New Almaden, Cal.; specimen of cinnabar in barite from Almaden,
Spain, crystallized cinnabar from the Reddington Mine, Knoxville
district, California, and a collection of quicksilver (these collections
were all made by Dr. G. I. Becker); 10 specimens of cerussite from
Polonia Mine, Rosita, Colo., collected by My. Whitman Cross;  silici-
fied wood; 12 specimens of agatized wood, garnet pebbles, and smoky
quartz, collected by Mr. O. G. Dodge, U. 8S. Navy; 2 specimens of
gadolinite from Devils Head Mountain, Colorado, one specimen being
the original material used by Mr. L. G. Eakins in identifying and
describing the mineral from this locality (deposit); 3 specimens of
minerals from Glastonbury, Conn., and 15 specimens from various
localities in Colorado, most of it being the original material upon which
Dr. Hillebrand, by whom the specimens were collected, has done scien-
tific work; Dr. Hillebrand also collected 45 specimens of brochantite
and malachite from the United Verde Mine, Jerome, Ariz.; 40 speci-
mens of kyanite in quartz, 80 specimens of dumortierite in quartz, and
74 specimens of dumortierite in quartz from Clip, Ariz.; 3 specimens of
white pulverulent sulphide of zine from Galena, Kans., and 3 spect-
mens of barite pseudomorph after crinoid stems and shells from Seda-
t12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

lia, Mo., collected by Dr. W. P. Jenney; specimen of agatized wood
from Chalcedony Park, Ariz., and a specimen of smoky quartz from
near Santa Fé, N. Mex., collected by Mr. F. H. Knowlton; minerals
from Delaware County, Pa., 4 specimens of garnet, 4 of garnet in mus-
covite, and 2 of chalcedony, collected by Dr. EK. A. Schneider; speci-
mens of garnet, epidote and enargite, from Alpine County, Cal., col-
lected by Mr. H. W. Turner; a specimen of Gyroceras (?) from the lower
Carboniferous, Indiana, and 4 specimens of Devonian fish remains from
Scotland, collected by Mr. Charles D. Walcott; 17 specimens of chalce-
dony from Fossil Point, Wyoming, collected by Prof. Lester F. Ward;
specimen of chrome tourmaline from Montgomery County, Md., collected
by Mr. Williams; 2 specimens of crinoids from the Trenton Limestone,
Ottawa, Canada.

From Mr. Marcus Baker were received 28 specimens of Helix thy-
roides from Washington, D.C. Mr. Baker also forwarded for Mr. EK. W.
Boker, a Marmoset, Hapale jacchus.

From Dr. George I. Becker were received 2 specimens of iridosmine
from California.

From Mr. Frank Burns was received a collection of fresh-water mol-
lusks from the Potomac River.

Mr. W. H. Dall presented a collection of fresh-water shells from Cal-
ifornia and Oregon, a specimen of Acridiwm americanum from the Dis-
trict of Columbia, 2 specimens of Chernes sp., taken from a house-fly,
2 specimens of Aspergillum vaginiferum Lam., 8 speciinens of Strombus
fasciatus, and a specimen of Bulimus Marielinus from the Indo-Pacific,
5 specimens of Bulla sp. from Florida, and a turban from India.

From Dr. David T. Day was received a specimen of silica made by
electrolysis from quartz, by the Herault Aluminum Company, of Boon-
ton, N. J., a specimen of corundum from Shimersville, Pa., and 5 spec-
imens of diaspore from Chester, Mass.

From Prof. J. S. Diller were received 2 specimens of conglomerate,
one from near Point of Rocks, Md., and the other from near Leesburg,
Va., and 2 specimens of conglomerates from Maryland.

Mr. William Hallock transmitted for Mr. J. C. Brady, of Wheeling,
W. Va., a piece of carbon deposited by natural gas.

From Dr. W. F. Hillebrand was received a specimen of yttrogummite
from Arendal, Norway.

Mr. J. P. Iddings presented a voleanic bomb from the island of Lip-
ari, Mediterranean Sea, and a specimen of basalt with inclusion of vitri-
fied sandstone from Monte Gimmelaro, Etna eruption of 1886.

From Dr. Walter P. Jenney was received a specimen of native lead,
with minium and anglesite from Mineral Hill district, near Hailey,
Alturas County, Idaho; specimen of native white sulphide of zine from
Moll mine, Galena, Kans., and 154 specimens of minerals consisting of
eudialyte, manganopectolite, rutile, aegirite, monticellite, leucite, and
vesuvianite obtained trom Dr, Jenney by purchase.
i i.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 118

From Mr. F. H. Knowlton was received a specinenof Spotted Turtle
(Chelopus guttatus) from Laurel, Md., and’ through Mr. Knowlton was
received a specimen of Platysamia columbia Grote, from Montana, trans-
mitted by Mr. E. F. Hanly, of Bozeman. Mr. Knowlton presented 2
samples of lignite from the Potomae formation near Richmond, Va.

From Mr. 8S. Ward Loper, assistant geologist, Middletown, Conn.,
Was received a specimen of folded gneiss and a specimen of Triassic
trap-rock from Baileyville, Conn.

From Dr. W. H. Melville was received a specimen of bismuthinite,
with chalcopyrite in quartz, from Mariposa mine, Rosario district, Sin-
aloa, Mexico, and from Dr. Melville were also received specimens of
napalite, cinnabar, metastibnite, elaterite, and livingstonite.

From Dr. A. C. Peale was received a sample of ‘* Diamond Polish”
(volcanic dust) from the Diamond Kmery Company, Phillipsburg,
Kans.

From Mr. [. ©. Russell were received 3 specimens of coal from Alaska

-and Vancouver Island, a pouch of leather from Yakutat, Alaska, con-

taining a stone fish used as a charm by medicine man, 2 stone mortars,
an adze, a stone implement, and 2 faulted pebbles from Pinnacle Pass,
Mount St. Elias, Alaska.

From Dr. EK. A. Schneider was received a specimen of Jeuchtenber-
gite from Schischimsk, near Slatoiist, Southern Ural, Russia, and
through Dr. Schneider was transmitted from Mr. A. Lésch, of St. Peters-
burg, Russia, 2 specimens of xanthophyllite (waluewite) and a specimen
of ripidolite from Nikolaje-Maximilianowsk mine, near Slatoiist, Si-
beria.

From Mr. T. W. Stanton were received 18 arrow-points, found in a
field on Cowikee Creek, near Eufaula, Ala.

Through Mr. C. D. Walcott was received a mud-marked limestone
slab from Rathbone Brook, Herkimer County, N. Y., and 2 slabs of
slate showing bedding, clearage, and faulting.

From Prof. Lester A. Ward were received 2 fine specimens of Zamia
integrifolia from Florida, and a natural grafting illustrated by speci-
mens from black-oak trees.

From W. C. Weed were received 2 specimens of coal from Cinnabar
Coal Field, Montana.

Dr. C. A. White presented a collection of mixed shells from Lowa and
other localities, a gorgonian, specimens of gypsum, and a stalactite.

Several of the honorary curators in the National Museum are officers
of the Geological Survey, and the Museum is much indebted to them
for their codperation with its work. These are: Mr. ©. D. Walcott,
in charge of paleozoic fossils; Dr. C. A. White, in charge of mesozoic
fossils; Mr. William H. Dall, in charge of mollusks and cenozoic fossils,
with Dr. Rk. E, C. Stearns as adjunct curator; Prof. Lester A. Ward,
in charge of fossil plants; Prof. Ff. W. Clarke, in charge of minerals,
and Prof. O. ©. Marsh, in charge of vertebrate fossils.

em 91, pr 2 8

114 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

From the Department of Agriculture, through the Secretary, have
been received the following objects:

Twenty-seven photolithographs illustrating the forest destruction and
reforestration in France, 2 maps showing the forest distribution, 100
small label maps representing the distribution of species, a section of
a tulip tree and a historical chart of its growth were deposited.

Numerous collections have been received from the divisions of animal
industry, entomology, botany, forestry, and economic ornithology and
mammalogy. The following statement shows the extent of the material
contributed.

Through Dr. ©. Hart Merriam, fossils from Fort Bridger, Wyo., and
fraginents of the jaw and radius of a bear from Grant County, N. Mex. ;
11 specimens of land shells from Texas, representing 4 species; 5 horned
toads (Phrynosoma brevirostre), collected by Mr. V. Bailey in Idaho;
specimens of Haxogyra arietina from Painted Cave, Rio Grande Bank,
Texas, and 9 species of land and fresh-water shells from the same
locality, collected by Mr. William Lloyd; 2 turtles representing 2 species
from Texas (deposit); a Pacific Pine-snake (Pitwophis catenifer) from
Marshall, Wash. (deposit); a womans suit, suit of a man, boots, pan-
taloons, ete., and a sleeping-bag obtained from the Eskimos of West
Greenland; beadwork of the Piegan Indians of Montana, and pouches
of the Montagnais Indians of Canada, collected by Dr. I’. H. Hoadley
(deposit); a specimen of Bruennich’s Murre (Uvria bruennichii) from
Throg’s Neck, Long Island, collected by Mr. A. Ferreira; 5 species of
land-shells, collected by Myr. William Lloyd, and 31 reptiles and batra-
chians from Idaho (deposit).

Through Prof. C. V. Riley: Specimens of alcoholic insects, chiefly
coleoptera from southern California, collected by Mr. D. W. Coquillet,
of Los Angeles; 383 species of North American lepidoptera and 62
species of European lepidoptera; 54 species of coleoptera, collected in
California by Mr. Coquillet, some of the species being new to the col-
lection; 110 specimens representing 54 species of North American cole--
optera, many of which are new to the collection, collected by Mr. H. F.
Wickham, of lowa City, lowa; collection of insects, made by Prof. L.
Bruner, of Lincoln, Nebr., consisting of 225 species of coleoptera from
the United States; 20 species of coieoptera from Mexico; 29 species of
hemiptera from Mexico and the United States; 75 species of hymenop-
tera from the same localities; 4 species of diptera from the United
States; 1 species of neuroptera from the United States, and 6 specimens
of Vanessa californica from Idaho; 25 species of North American cole-
optera retained from a collection sent by Prof. A. J.Cooke, of Lansing,
Mich., for identification, and transferred to the Museum by Prof. Riley ;
425 specimens representing 60 species of lepidoptera, and 2,400 speci-
mens representing 375 species of coleoptera, collected in California and
Washington by Mr, A. Koebele; 30 species of coleoptera collected by
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 115
Mr. Coquillet in southern California; 400 species of coleoptera aud 130
species of hemiptera, collected by Prof. L. Bruner; 71 species of North
American coleoptera collected by Prof. Bruner, some of which are new
to the collection, and a series of lepidoptera, 17 specimens representing
17 species, and 200 specimens of coleoptera representing 20 species,
most of which are rare and valuable, collected in San Diego County,
Cal., by Mr. Coquillet.

The following contributions have been received from the officials and
other employés of the Department.

From Mr. H. B. Ayres were received 7 specimens of ores of iron and
manganese from Minnesota and Dakota.

From Mr. Nathan Banks were received 10 species of coleoptera,
among which was a specimen of Zacotus matthewtt Lac., collected by
Mr. Trevor Kincaid, of Olympia, Wash., and also 20 species of arach-
nida, all new to the collection.

Mr. W. b. Barrows, presented 2 snakes from Brookland, D. C., one
of which was a blotched kingsnake (Ophibolus rhombomaculatus).

From Dr. B. E. Fernow was received a model of a_ tree-planting
machine invented by Mr. Thomas Stratton, and a view of a Japanese
cedar (Cryptomeria Japonica).

Mr. O. Heidemann presented 6 speéimens of Neoborus petit Uhl.

From Dr. ©. Hart Merriam were received 5 eggs of Spizella breweri;
3 species of fresh-water gastropods from Salmon River, and one species
from Needle Peak, Idaho; numerous specimens representing 4 species
of fresh-water mollusks from Salmon River and Shoshone Falls, Idaho;
2 specimens of fossil wood from Elm Creek, New Eagle Pass, Texas; 9
specimens of carboniferous limestone fossils, Zaphrentis sp., from Needle
Peak, Idaho; a skin of Indian flamingo (Phenicopterus anderson),
new to the collection; through Mr. W. B. Barrows, a worm (Aphrodita
aculeata), 4 specimens repesenting 2 species of ascidians, 2 shrimps, and
dry shells, collected in and near the Island of Grand Manan, New
Brunswick, by Mr. S. F. Cheney; and a horned toad (Phrynosoma
coronatum) from Twin Oaks, San Diego County, Cal.

From Mr. ©. W. Richmond was received a slate-colored junco (-Junco
hyemalis) from Washington, D. ©.

From Prof. ©. V. Riley was received a collection of Tinetde contain-
ing 900 specimens representing about 430 North American species,
and 900 specimens representing about 140 European species; 1,100
specimens representing about 240 North American species of micro-
lepidoptera, and small land-shells from Blanco County, Texas.

Mr. E. A. Schwarz presented 2 species of Bittacus, new to the col-
lection, from Fort Pendleton, Maryland.

The very valuabie services rendered by Prof. Riley, honorary curator
of insects; Dr. B. E. Fernow, honorary curator of the section of forestry;
and Dr. George Vasey, as honorary curator of the Department of Botany,
have been continued,
116 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION.

The following collections and contributions have been transmitted to
the National Museum, through Col. Marshall MeDonald, U. 8. Com-
missioner of Fisheries:

Twenty-eight specimens of fishes, collected by the steamer Albatross
on the Pacific coast of North America during 1889, being the types of
the new species recently described by Prof. Charles H. Gilbert in the
“Proceedings of the National Museum;” specimen of Rainbow-trout
(Salmo trideus) artificially reared at Bucksport, Me., and 2 specimens of
the Black-fin White-fish (Coregonus nigripinnis), collected in Milton Lake,
Minnesota, by Mr. James R. B. Van Cleane; a collection of 60 species
of fishes from the vicinity of Charles City, Va., collected by Mr. W. P.
Seal, during September and October, 1890; a collection of 1,128 speci-
mens, representing 33species of brachyuran and anomouran crustaceans,
collected by the Albatross on the Pacific coast of North America; 327
specimens of echini obtained from the collections of the Albatross in
the North Pacific Ocean; a small collection of brachyuran crustaceans
obtained by the steamer Grampus off the coast of Florida; an alcoholie
collection of the type series of fresh-water fishes, collected during the
summer of 1889 in Missouri, Arkansas, Colorado, Utah, Alabama, and
Georgia, by Prof. S. E. Meek, Dr. D. S. Jordan, C. H. Bollman, B.
Kesler, and others; a collection of fishes, numbering 90 specimens,
made by the Albatross from the Galapagos Islands and Panama, during
the spring of 1888; a collection of mollusks, numbering 163 specimens,
collected by the schooner Grampus off the west coast of Florida during
the spring of 1889; a collection of fishes, chiefly from Brazil and some
from Georgia and Alabama, made by the Albatross during the cruise
from Norfolk and San Francisco during 188788; fishes and reptiles
collected in Alabama by Mr. P. H. Kirsch and party in 18895 a col-
lection of fishes made in Georgia in 1889 by Messrs. C. H. Bollman and
Bert. Fesler; a small collection of fishes comprising Halicheres radiatus,
LTuthanus analis, Malthe radiata, Bulamia limbata, and Lepomis palli-
dus, from Florida, made by Dr, J, A. Henshall in 1889; fishes from the
Gulf of Mexico, obtained by the Grampus; 447 specimens of crabs
belonging to the genus Panopeus, collected by the Fish Commission
during recent years; and specimens of a small variety of barnacle
attached to the rushes on the shore of Clear Water Harbor, Florida,
collected by Mr. W. H. Abbott.

From Mr. J. E. Benedict of the steamer Fish Haick was received a
skin of Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo borealis), from Bulls Island, Calibogue
Sound, South Carolina.

Mr. W.C. Kendall presented 30 birds’ skins, representing 27 species,
from near Port Royal, 8. C.

From Dr. Hugh M. Smith was received a collection of dried plants,
representing 22 species, obtained by him at various littoral points
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. LEG

in New Jersey and Virginia; a stone taken from the stomach of a Coot
(Fulica americana) from Roanoke Island, North Carolina; a small col-
lection of dried plants from St. George’s Island, Maryland; a brass ‘fig
leaf” collected by Lieut. Commander F. Hanford, U.S. Navy; 2 birds’
skins, Golden-headed Manakin (Pipra aurocapilla) and Blue-crowned
Manakin (Pipra coronata), from Eeuador, South America; skin of
Western Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus subarcticus), from New Mexico;
specimens of Pecten magellanus, from the coast of Maine; 10 species
of pressed plants from St. George’s Island, Maryland; nests and eges
of Vireo flavifrons, Vireo olivaceus, Dendroica estiva, Dendroica discolor,
Contopus virens, Falco sparverius, and Aigialitis vocifera, from the Dis-
trict of Columbia; 2 water snakes, Tropidonotus sipedo, from the Poto-
mac River; 13 small turtles from the Potomac River collected by Mr.
William P. Seal, and 4 photographs showing a side-wheel steam-
packet, the raising of a wreck in Norfolk Harbor, and the wreck of a
four-masted schooner.

The valuable services of Mr. Richard Rathbun as honorary curator of
Marine Invertebrates; Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, as honorary curator of
Fishes, and Capt. J. W. Collins as honorary curator of Fisheries and
Naval Architecture have, through the courtesy of Col. MeDonald,
U.S. Commissioner of Fisheries, been continued.

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

The following contributions have been received from the bureau and
its officers:

A collection of enthnological and archeological material and speci-
mens of pottery was transferred to the Museum by Maj. J. W. Powell,
director.

From Dr. H. W. Henshaw was received a specimen of Ophibolus
rhombomaculatus, from Falls Church, Va.

Dr. J. W. Hoffman presented a model of Menomonee inedicine-man’s
grave with symbols; a crayon sketch of Oshkosh, and the great lodges
of the Menomonee tribe where funeral services are held over the medicine-
man on the anniversary of his death.

From Mr. James Mooney was received a pair of Cherokee ball sticks.

J.—REVIEW OF THE RESULTS OF THE COOPERATION OF
THE GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS AND BUREAUS
DURING THE DECADE ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

When the enormous increase, during the last decade, in the extent
and importance of the Museum collections, from a scientific as well as
from a popular standpoint, is taken into consideration, if seems proper
to make special mention of the important results derived during that
period from the system of coéperation inaugurated many years ago
118 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

between the Smithsonian Institution and the various departments and
bureaus of the Government. The collections made by the Wilkes ex-
ploring expedition, the Perry expedition to Japan, and other naval
expeditions, and the material gathered by the scientific officers of the
Pacific Railroad survey, the Mexican Boundary survey, and the sur-
veys carried on by the Engineer Corps of the Army, constitute the
very groundwork of the collections, the nucleus upon which has been
built its present structure. Indeed, had it not been for this cobperation
on the part of the Government departments, the successful development
of the collections would be extremely difficult, perhaps impossible, with
the hmited resources at the command of the Museum. The friendly
interest displayed by officials at home and abroad, at all times and in
every capacity, not only when officially detailed but during the leisure
hours at their disposal, is worthy of the greatest praise and encourage-
ment. Nor has this interest been confined to any one bureau or depart-
ment. The friendly competition which has been engendered has aroused
to action officers in almost every bureau of each of the departments.
This interest has been shown not only in the collection of an enormous
amount of material, but in its proper preservation and careful trans-
portation to Washington, when collected.

The special ways in which this codperation on the part of the depart-
ments and bureaus of the Government has manifested itself, may be
thus enumerated :

(1) By assistance rendered to persons conducting investigations for
the Smithsonian Institution.

(2) By the direct effort of Government officials in making collections
for the National Museum, which is under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

(3) By the willingness of Government officials at distant points to
notify the Institution of the occurrence of remarkable specimens and
phenomena.

(4) By the transfer to the National Museum of collections which had
been deposited in one or another of the departments for safe-keeping.

(5) By assigning persons to the Smithsonian Institution for special
training, with a view to enabling them to observe accurately and to
collect intelligently when afterwards engaged in their regular duties.
(This is applicable chiefly to the Navy Department.)

(6) By transmitting to the Institution the results of observations as
well as collections made by officers, at their post of duty, in behalf of
the Institution.

(7) By assistance rendered in connection with the transportation of
collections to Washington.

(8) By the receipt of collections made by other departments of the
Government service, and studied and identified by officers of those de-
partments before being transferred to the custody of the Museum.

(9) By the detail of officers connected with various departments and
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 119

bureaus of the Government, to act as honorary curators of collections
in the National Museum.

A brief résumé of the special manner in which each department has
contributed to the welfare of the National Museum, is here presented.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

The ministers, consuls, and other officers of the Department have
always shown a great willingness to further the interests of the National
Museum in foreign countries. Through the courtesy of the Depart-
ment letters of introduction to them have been furnished from time to
time, at the request of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
and they have frequently been requested by the Secretary of State to
aid persons collecting for the Museum. The Department has also
kindly indorsed and forwarded letters from the Institution to its minis-
ters and other officers, asking their coéperation in securing special
desiderata to fill important gaps in the Museum collections.

Valuable assistance has also been rendered by the State Department
in obtaining special facilities in connection with the exportation from
foreign countries of material intended for the Museum. Among the
most important accessions acquired through the codperation of the
Department and its officers may be mentioned the following: Speei-
mens of native handiwork from Western Afriea, sent by Mr. Smyth,
the United States minister at Liberia; a collection of samples of wool
from the Technological Museum at Sydney, New South Wales, through
Hon. G. W. Griffin, United States consul at Sydney; a collection of
antique copper, silver, and gold coins from Ceylon, Europe, the United
States, and South America, from Hon. William 'T. Rice, United States
consul at Horgen, Switzerland; a canoe similar to those in use by the na-
tives of Hawaii, presented by the Queen of Hawaii; specimensof iron ore
coal, and coke from Rio Grande de Sul; a collection of woolen, worsted,
silk, and cotton fabrics, gathered by Hon. W. F. Grinnell, United
States consul at Bradford, England; specimens, of sisal, through
Hon. Thomas J. McLain, United States consul at Nassau, West
Indies, and a piece of rope made of human hair and used in hoisting
building material in the construction of a Buddhist temple at Kyoto,
Japan, transmitted by Hon. John T. Swift, United States consul at
Tokio, Japan.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

The Treasury Department has extended its friendly offices in con-
nection with the free entry of material from abroad, and has greatly
aided the work of Museum investigators by allowing the free entry of
scientific outfits. Through the courtesy of the Department a valuable
collection of diamonds, pearls, and gold ornaments, which was presented
in 1840 to the United States Government by the Imaum of Muscat, and
120 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

had been kept in a vault in the Treasury Department witil 1887, when
it was transferred to the Musetim.

The U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey and the Reventie Marine Divi-
sion have frequently afforded special facilities to Museum explorers.
Valuable contributions of material and information have been made by
officers of the Light-House Board and the Life-Saving Service. Spe-
cialists sent out by the Museum have, through the courtesy of the
Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, been supplied with’
charts of the regions along the coast to be explored. In April, 1880,
Dr. Tarleton H. Bean was detailed to visit Alaska to collect fishery
statistics, fishes, birds, and other objects of interest. Through the
courtesy of the Coast Survey he was permitted to accompany the expe-
dition on the schooner Yukon, and was given all possible assistance and
facilities in making collections. More than eighty species of fishes and
fifty species of birds were obtained on that occasion. The Coast Survey,
in connection with the Smithsonian Institution, secured important
information as to the relative height of points upon the surface of the
North American continent. Mr. W. J. Fisher, who was stationed at
Kadiak, Alaska, gathered much valuable material relative to the man-
ners and characteristics of the native tribes. On the occasion of the
visit of Mr. Henry Elliott to the seal islands of Alaska, on business of
the United States Government, the Secretary of the Treasury kindly
permitted’ a taxidermist, selected by the Smithsonian Institution, to
accompany him for the purpose of collecting specimens for the Museum,
and extended important aid in facilitating the preservation of the mate-
rial secured.

The interest in the photographic exhibit of the Museum at the Cin-
cinnati Exposition was materially increased by a set of photographs
illustrating the methods of mounting prints, obtained through the
courtesy of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and
a collection of photographs of counterfeiters, illustrating the uses to
which photography has been applied in connection with the require-
ments of the Government service, was secured, through the kind
ottices of Mr. John 8. Bell, Chief of the Secret Service Division. An
interesting series of proofs of the current bonds and currency notes,
and of gold and silver certiticates, coupons, and registered bonds, was
presented by the Chief of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.

In 1881, under instruction of the Treasury Department, through Mr.
EK. W. Clarke, Chief of the Bureau of Revenue Marine, Capt. Hooper, in
command of the revenue cutter Corwin, visited the Aretic coast. He
was instructed to take Mr. Nelson, an agent of the National Museum,
to St. Michaels, and give him an opportunity to visit St. Lawrence
Island for the purpose of collecting Eskimo objects. Mr. Nelson
obtained on the island, in addition to a fine collection of implements,
utensils, dresses, ete., a large number of crania, filling an important
deficiency in the Museum collections. In 1884 the Chief of the Bureau
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. gE |

of Revenue Marine, instructed its captains in Alaska to assist Myr.
James G. Swan in his explorations for the Institution, by receiving him
and his collections on board, whenever such action did not interfere
with the regular service of the vessels. The commander of the revenue
steamer Key West was instructed to assist Mr. Hemphill in carrying on
his explorations of the Florida Keys in behalf of the Museum. In
1885 the Corwin again visited the Arctic Ocean, and parties were sent
up the Kowak and other rivers emptying into Kotzebue Sound. Mr.
Charles H. Townsend, an experienced collector, accompanied the ves-
sel, and collected many interesting objects in ethnology and natural
history. During the year 1887 the assistance of the Revenue Marine
Division was asked in procuring for the Museum specimens of ‘ bi-
darkas” or Eskimo kyaks. Capt. Healy was requested to obtain speci-
mens on his next visit to Alaska, and upon his return six of these
objects were placed in the hands of the Alaska Commercial Company
for shipment to Washington.

A most important research into the natural history of the Atlantic
coast of the United States has been carried on by the Institution with
the cobperation of Mr. 8. I. Kimball, Superintendent of the Life-Saving
Service. In the early part of 1883, circulars from the Institution were
distributed by him, asking the keepers of life-saving stations for
telegraphic notification of the occurrence or capture of any remarkable
marine animal. This arrangement has been productive of many inter-
esting and valuable results. The specimens received are often of great
scientific importance, and it is hoped that the system may continue to
be as productive of good results in the future as it has been in the past.

The Light-House Board has extended aid by instructing the keep-
ers of light-houses and light-ships to make observations in regard
to the temperature of the air and water, as well as to notice the
occurrence of phenomena in connection with the migrations of marine
animals. The data accumulated from this source have been of the
utmost importance in connection with the general problems of ocean
physics, and have been used to great advantage in solving many
questions concerning the movements of fishes in relation to their
physical surroundings. The keepers were also instructed to note the
course of birds, especially as evidenced by their falling to the ground
after striking against the light-houses on dark nights. The Light-
House Board also kindly contributed to the Museum exhibit at the Cin-
cinnati Exposition an interesting collection of eyanotype prints, show-
ing the lights and flames used in the light-houses on the American
coast.

WAR DEPARTMENT.

Through the courtesy of the Secretary of War and the Adjutant-
General of the Army, instructions were given to the commanders of
the military posts at Fort Keogh and Fort Maginnis, Mont., and Fort
a bey REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

McKinney, Wyo., to render all assistance in their power to Mr. Horna-
day, the chief taxidermist of the Smithsonian Institution, and his party
of assistants, who started in June, 1886, for Montana and Wyoming for
the purpose of securing specimens of buffalo. Mr. H. H. Rusby, a well-
known botanist of New Jersey, was engaged in 1880 in investigating
the botany, natural history, and archeology of New Mexico, and the
War Department furnished some important facilities to aid him in his
researches.

For many years the Secretary of War has permitted the quarter-
masters of the Army to forward from their posts boxes containing speci-
mens intended for the National Museum. The transportation of 4 liv-
ing buffaloes from Rapid City, S. Dak., to Washington, was greatly
facilitated by Lieut. Col. William B. Hughes, chief quartermaster, De-
partment of the Platte, at Omaha, Nebr., and by Capt.C. A. H. McCauley,
now depot quartermaster at Portland, Oregon. A mahogany gun ear-
riage, from the citadel of Santo Domingo City, was transmitted by Lieut.
Col. G. L. Gillespie, of Engineer Corps, U.S. Army. lmnportant assist-
ance in securing collections and information has also been rendered by
officers of the Army stationed at various posts throughout the country.
Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, while detailed as medical officer at Fort Wingate,
N. Mex., forwarded much interesting material and information.

Owing to the close relationship which had always existed between
the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Signal Service, the
codperation of the latter in the prosecution of scientific researches, par-
ticularly in Arctic America, has resulted in most important additions
to our knowledge of the natural history and ethnology of the countries
north of the United States. Especial service has been rendered in this
direction by Mr. Lucien M. Turner, who was detailed to Alaska by the
Signal Service. In addition to the valuable collections made by him,
he devoted much time to the study of the languages and customs of the
people of that country, of whom little had been previously known. He
also made many instructive and interesting observations relating to the
natural history and ethnology of Northern Labrador, where he was at-
tached to one of the Signal Service stations for several years. In 1886
it was found expedient to withdraw these stations from the outposts of
Alaska and other northern countries, and thus the Museum was cut off
from a most valuable field of research. Through the courtesy of Gen.
A.W.Greely, Chief Signal Officer, photographs of meteorological records
were contributed to the Museum exhibit at the Cincinnati Exposition,
and a Seechi meteorograph, two sections of Beck’s pantograph, and
Meyers’s autographic instrument, were added to the collection of scien-
tific apparatus in the Museum. The results of twenty-five years me-
teorological correspondence and research, which had been conducted
by the Smithsonian Institution, were transferred by it to the Signal
Office, in accordance with the time-honored practice of the Institution,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. hb

namely, to discontinue research in any subject which is covered by the
operations of any other branch of the service.

An arrangement has for several years been carried out with the
Surgeon-General of the Army, by which the Smithsonian Institution
transfers all its human crania to the Army Medical Museum, and re-
ceives in exchange skeletons and skulls of North American vertebrates.
An agreement was also entered into between the National Museum and
the Army Medical Museum, by which the latter undertakes to make
post-mortem examinations of animals in the flesh received by the
Smithsonian Institution, with the understanding that the Army Medi-
eal Museum retains the viscera of such animals, and returns the skele-
tons, unless otherwise specified, to the National Museum.

In 1888 several interesting objects were turned over to the Museum
by the War Department. Gen. 8S. V. Benét transmitted from the Ord-
nance Museum a plaster model of the equestrian statue of Gen.
McPherson; a section of an oak tree cut down by musket balls near
Spottsylvania court-house, Va., and presented to the War Depart-
ment by Gen. N. A. Miles, U. S. Army; and a Mexican saddle and
bridle, manufactured in Mexico for Gen. Trevino, commanding the
northern line of Mexico, and presented by him to Gen. Kk, O.C. Ord, U.
S. Army.

Valuable services have been rendered by Capt. Charles E. Bendire
and Dr. Henry ©. Yarrow, of the Army, as honorary members of the
Museum staff.

NAVY DEPARTMENT.

In 1881 the Navy Department expressed a desire to assign six re-
cently appointed midshipmen to the Smithsonian Institution for the
purpose of familiarizing themselves with the routine work of the scien-
tific departments in the National Museum, in order that they might be
able to take advantage of the training in case opportunity for natural
history research should arise in connection with their future service, and
also to enable them to perform the scientific duties for which the Navy
Department had been obliged to employ civilians. This proposition met
with the hearty approval of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and six young officers in the Navy, who had shown special liking
for scientific matters during their educational course, were detailed to
the Museum. They were instructed in taxidermic work and became
quite proficient in the preparation of skeletons and skins of birds and
mammals. Several of them also familiarized themselves with photog:
raphy. This experiment having proved satisfactory, twelve other
junior officers were assigned tothe Museum. During the last few years
the Department has found it inconvenient to continue the arrangement.
While its discontinuance is to be regretted, there is no doubt that im-
portant results will be gained, both by the Navy Department and the
National Museum, from the scientific training which has been given to
these officers.
124 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. ‘

Several collections have, indeed, been already obtained as a result of
the arrangement. Messrs. Dresel and Ackerman, the two ensigns as-
signed to the Smithsonian Institution, who were detailed by the Secre-
tary of the Navy to accompany the Yantie on her voyage to Lady
Franklin Bay in search of the Greely party, secured very valuable
representations of the ethnology and natural history of that region.
These have been turned over to the Museum and incorporated in the
collections. Ensign J. B. Bernadou, who was ordered to Corea in 1883
for the purpose of prosecuting explorations under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution, forwarded a large and valuable collection of
ethnological and zodlogical specimens, many of which were entirely
new to the Museum. An interesting series of ethnological and natural
history objects has been received from Lieut. W. EK. Safford. Lieut. A.
P. Niblack, during a cruise upon the Alaskan coast in 1888, secured an
extensive representation of the ethnology and zodlogy of that region,
and obtained material for an elaborate report upon the coast Indians
of Southern Alaska and Northern British Columbia, which was pub-
lished in the Report of the National Museum for 1888.

When Commander I. M. Green was detailed to determine the longi-
tudes of points in the Pacifie Ocean, he invited the codperation of the
Smithsonian Institution in making his work productive in results in
natural history as well as in physical science. Through his efforts a
large amount of valuable material was secured, and the Government
authorities at Tokio and the officers of the Natural History Museum at
Shanghai were induced to contribute collections to the Museum.

In November, 1885, Lieut. T. Dix Bolles was detailed for service in
the National Museum by the Secretary of the Navy, and was assigned
to the department of ethnology. He rendered valuable service in the
classification and arrangement of the Eskimo collections, which he eom-
pleted in 1888, when, to the regret of the Museum, he was recalled by
the Navy Department and assigned to active duty.

The Secretary of the Navy also rendered important service by detail-
ing the U.S. 8. Mohican to bring to the United States a collection of
stone images and archeological objects from Easter Islands. Rear-
Admiral Kimberly, of the Navy, forwarded a number of valuable eth-
nological specimens een Fa to the United States Government by
Malietoa, Mataafa, and other Samoan chiefs.

The scientific work of the United States Naval Observatory has nat-
urally brought about an affiliation with the Smithsonian Institution,
and this codperation has been effective in connection with the trans-
mission of astronomical discoveries by telegraph. The Institution is
indebted to the Superintendent of the Observatory for the receipt of
telegraphic time at noon of each day, and a clock has been supplied,
fitted up under the direction of the OUR EMER by which the Observ-
atory corrects aberrations in time.

Dr. James M. Flint and Dr. H. G. Beyer, of the Navy, have rendered
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. : 125

valuable assistance as honorary curators of the section of materia medica
in the Museum.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

The rapid growth of the museum collections in certain directions is
due in a large degree to the addition of material turned over to it by
the U.S. Geological Survey, after having served the purposes for which
it was collected. This material is gathered by trained collectors sent
out especially for the purpose, and has in most cases been carefully
described and labeled before it reaches the Museum. Large quantities
of rocks, minerals, ores, fossils, ete., have been forwarded annually by
the Survey. The Museum is also indebted to the Survey for the valuable
services rendered by the following gentlemenasmembersof the scientific
statf: Dr. C. A. White, in charge of mesozoic fossils; Mr. Charles D.
Walcott, incharge of paleozoic fossils; Mr. William H. Dall, in charge
of mollusks and tertiary fossils, with Dr. R. E. C. Stearns as adjunct
curator; Prof. O. C. Marsh, in charge of vertebrate fossils; Prof. Lester
F. Ward, in charge of fossil plants, with Mr. F. H. Knowlton as assistant
curator; and Prof. W. I. Clarke, in charge of minerals.

The Director of the Survey having organized a special department
of maps and charts, the Smithsonian Institution offered the use of
material comprising many thousands of sheets which had accumulated
during forty years. This offer was accepted by Major Powell, with the
understanding that the material would be properly classified and ar-
ranged, and remain at all time subject to the order of the Smithsonian
Institution.

A great mass of material, embracing more particularly the building-
stones, ores, combustibles, and forest timber of the United States, re-
sulted from the industrial collections of the census of 1880. These col-
lections represent complete series, as far as practicable, from all parts
of the country, and are rendered especially valuable to the Museum by
reason of the full and accurate descriptions which accompany the spee-
imens. ‘The collection of building and ornamental stones has been fur-
nished in this way with thousands of specimens of marble, granite,
sandstone, etc., and it is fair to assume that no established quarry in
the United States is unrepresented. The collection of ores, which is
also very extensive, contains representations from all the important
mines of the country. The specimens are accompanied by authoritative
reports upon their chemical and metallurgical properties, as well as
upon their economic value.

In 1883 the collection of Washington relics was transferred from the

-atent Office. It includes not only the old collection that had been on
view for so many years, but also a large number of objects purchased
some years ago by Congressional appropriation from Col, Lewis, and
never unpacked after their arrival in the city. This collection is one of
the most attractive to the visitors to the Museum, Through the cour-
126 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

“

tesy of the Commissioner of Patents specifications and patents illustrat-
ing the development of photography and the graphic arts in the United
States and in Germany have been obtained.

Hon. N. H. R. Dawson, the Commissioner of Education, presented a
series of very interesting publications relating to American educa-
tional history.

POST-OFFICH DEPARTMENT.

The Post-Office Department has contributed to the welfare of the
Museum, although in a less degree than the others. In 1887 it pre-
sented to the Museum a collection of United States postage stamps,
newspaper wrappers, stamped envelopes and newspaper stamps, num-
bering one hundred and seventy specimens. Through the courtesy of
the Postmaster-General, the superintendent of the Dead-Letter Office
has been instructed to inform the Museum of the receipt in his office of
objects received which might be of value to the collections.

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

By far the largest part of the National Herbarium has been in the
custody of the Department of Agriculture since 1869, when, at the re-
quest of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Commissioner
of Agriculture consented to house the material received either direct
or through the Smithsonian Institution, and to permit the botanist of
the Department to bestow as much time upon the collection as was
necessary in order to keep it in a good state of preservation. The Na-
tional Herbarium has for many years been under the charge of Dr,
George Vasey, botanist of the Department of Agriculture. In later
years the curator of fossil plants in the National Museum found it de-
sirable to have available for his use, in comparing recent with fossil
forms, a limited number of specimens within easy access, and in this
way a second collection of recent plants has sprung up, both, however,
forming parts of the National Herbarium, which will be transferred
wholly to the care of the Museum, as soon as it shall be found practi-
cable to provide proper accommodations for the collection. In 1886,
Prof. C. V. Riley, entomologist of the Department, and honorary cura-
tor of the department of insects in the National Museum, gave his collee-
tion of North American insects, representing the results of hisown labors
for more than twenty-five years. This collection is by far the most im-
portant accession which the department of insects has ever received.
The Museum is indebted to the Department of Agriculture for the vol-
unteer services of the following named gentlemen as honorary members
of the scientific staff: Prof. C. V. Riley, in charge of the department of
insects; Dr. B. I. Fernow, in charge of the section of forestry; Dr.
George Vasey, in charge of the department of botany, and Prof. W. O.
Atwater, in charge of the section of foods.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. E20
U. S. FISH COMMISSION.

Exceedingly important contributions have been received yearly from
the U.S. Fish Commission. Large quantities of material, embracing
fishes, mammals, reptiles, batrachians, insects, birds, birds’ eggs, fos-
sils, plants, and geological and archeological objects, have been trans-
mitted to the Museum by the Commission, as the results of expeditions.
Important contributions to our knowledge of the fauna of the West
Indies have been made by the steamer Albatross. Searches made for
new fishing grounds in the Gulf of Mexico and off the coast of New-
foundland and the adjoining region, abounded in results of great prac-
tical as well as scientific value. Explorations along the entire Atlantic
coast of North America, from the Grand Bank of Newfoundland to the
southern part of Florida and the Bahamas, produced results of biologic
importance. Dr. Tarleton H. Bean explored the waters adjacent to Long
Island, and succeeded in making some interesting scientific and prac-
tical discoveries. Mr. Charles H. Townsend made extensive explora-
tions on the coast of California, and obtained valuable statistics in
regard to the fisheries of the Pacific coast. He also visited Mount
Shasta and carefully noted the distribution of animal life.

Through the courtesy of the Commissioner of Fisheries two employés
of the Museum were permitted to accompany the schooner Grampus on
its trip to the Gulf of St. Lawrence in 1887, for the purpose of investi-
gating the natural history of that region, and especially of securing
remains of the Great Auk. Suecess attended their efforts, and a large
amount of material was secured.

The Museum is indebted tothe Commission for the valuable services
rendered by Mr. Richard Rathbun, as honorary curator of marine inver-
tebrates; Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, as honorary curator of fishes, and Capt.
J. W Collins, as honorary curator of fisheries and naval architecture.

K.—HXPLORATIONS.

The material which has been received by the National Museum dur-
ing the year, as a result of the work of the various collectors, who were
either commissioned by the Museum to gather specimens or who
offered their services, has greatly enriched the collections.

Through the courtesy of the Secretary of the Treasury, who com-
missioned Mr. Henry W, Elliott, of the Smithsonian Lustitute, to visit
Alaska in the interest of the seal fisheries, a taxidermist of the Museum
was allowed to accompany Mr. Elliott, Mr. William Palmer being se-—
lected for that duty. The results of this trip were highly gratifying,
and valuable assistance was rendered by Capt. W. C. Coulson, of the
U.S. Revenue Marine steamer Rush. The coliections included a fine
specimen of walrus, the first obtained by the Smithsonian Institution
from Walrus Island since 1857, This was transmitted by Capt. Coul-
128 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

son, Collections of birds, birds’ eggs and skeletons, mammals, plants,
insects, crustaceans, shells, fossils, and fishes were also made.

Mr. W. W. Rockhill, whose past services in Thibet have re esulted so
favorably in behalf of the Museum, contemplates another journey to
that region. Mr. Rockhill, in a letter dated June 5, writes as follows:

In compliance with your request that I would outline to you my proposed plan of
exploration in Thibet, I have much pleasure in submitting the following brief outline
of the work I am anxious to undertake.

Returning to the Koko-nor by the route I formerly followed (i. ¢., Peking, Hsi-
an-fu, Lan-chon-fu, Hsining) I would endeavor to go round Lake Koko-nor by the
south and thus complete my study of the eastern Thibetan tribes. After that, the
Ts’aidam Mongols, with whom [spent two months and over in 1889, would require
to be studied more fully as to their social relations and language.

After this preliminary part of the journey I would go to a 'Thibetan tribe three days’
march south of the source of the Yellow River, and claim the services promised to
me to travel towards Lh’ara on my former journey. Should I not be able to thus
reach that city, I have marked on the sketch maps I send herewith, two other routes,
either of which I could follow with great profit to my special studies, and neither
one of which presents insurmountable difficulties. Any one of the routes I propose
following in Thibet will lead me through inhabited regions of special interest to eth-
nography. The degree of culture of the tribes inhabiting them is lower than in any
other region of the country, save perhaps that between India and Thibet, but these
tribes are probably not of the pure Thibetan stock,

Mr. Rockhill has continued his interest in making collections for the
Museum. Among the contributions received from him is a map of
Peking; a specimen of popular Chinese cartography, Chinese Buddhist
book containing the Thibetan gospels, a fine collection of Chinese cloi-
sonnés, enamels, jlacquers, and bronzes, daggers and other weapons
(deposited), and many ethnological objects relating to Chinese modes
of living.

Dr. W. L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, Pa., has supplemented his pre-
vious collections by contributions of valuable material gathered in dif-
ferent parts of Africa, including a magnificent collection of weapons
and personal ornameuts of the Wa Chaga and Waisi negroes of the
Kilima-Njaro region,* ethnological specimens from the Chagga tribes
in the same locality, mammal skins and skulls, insects, specimens of
woods, plants, fishes, crustaceans, birds, birds’ eggs, birds’ skeletons,
fossils, and reptiles and batrachians, photographs taken in Kast Africa
showing natives, scenery, habitations, and objects belonging to native
jife, from Madagascar, Kilima-Njaro and the Seychelles Islands.

Mr. Héli Chatelain, of Vineland, N. J., has collected, during his
travels in Africa, a great variety of interesting objects. On his return
to the United States last year, he added many valuable objects to the
Museum collection. Among these may be mentioned a Sechuana Bible
(Pentateuch) used by Dr. David Livingstone in his journey from the

Cape of Good Hope to Loanda, West Africa. This book has Dr. Liv-
ME SOue ss autograph on the first page. The most extensive explora-

“A catalogue of this polectan is published in Section 111 of this volume,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 129

tions of Mr. Chatelain have been in western Africa, and from that
region the Museum has received from him mammals, ethnological ob-
jects, coins, textiles and foods, rocks, shells, fossils, insects, marine
objects, reptiles, birds’ nests, a specimen of hair taken from the head
of a MeBamba negro, and many articles used in the daily life of the
natives.

Capt. Frank Curling, of the Joseph S. Spinney, in a recent voyage,
found a dugout adrift about 210 miles off the Pelew or Paloa Islands
in the western Pacific Ocean. The boat contained 7 men, who had
started from the Pelew Islands on a fishing cruise. They were over-
taken by a storm and drifted out to sea, and were rescued by Capt.
Curling. The dugout was forwarded to the Museum by Capt. S. A.
Day, U.S. Army, Fort Mason, San Francisco, Cal., and attracts much
attention.

Mr. R. M. Bartleman, of the United States Legation at Caracas,
Venezuela, has continued his interest in the Museum. He has trans-
mitted, as the results of his explorations, through Prof. O. T. Mason,
some very interesting and valuable objects, among which are speci-
mens of pottery from the Island of Gran Roque, stone implements,
insects, shells, specimens of salt from the Salt Lakes of Cumana, a
snake, gourds, and Cicadex, used for medicinal purposes.

Mr. J. P. Iddings, of the U. 8. Geological Survey, collected for the
Museum on the island of Lipari, Mediterranean Sea, a volcanic bomb,
and a specimen of basalt with inclusion of vitrified sandstone, found
after the Etna eruption of 1886.

Mr. I. C. Russell, of the U. S. Geological Survey, has added to the
collection, as a result of his recent explorations, faulted pebbles from
Pinnacle Pass, Mt. St. Elias, Alaska; specimens of iron ore from
Michigan and Alabama, coal from Vancouver Island, and ethnological
objects from Alaska.

Lieut. Charles F. Pond, U.S. Navy, during his travels in Guatemala,
collected and sent to the Museum specimens of grasshoppers and. fire-
flies.

Mr. P. L. Jouy, of the Museum staff, while on an exploring trip in
Arizona, collected for the Museum many valuable specimens of natural
history. Mr. Jouy is now in Mexico engaged in similar work.

The U.S. Fish Commission contributed to the Museum several new
and valuable collections of fishes gathered by the steamer Albatross on
the Pacific and by the schooner Grampus on the Atlantic coast.

Mr. Barton A. Bean, of the Museum staff, made a brief trip to Cape
St. Charles, Virginia, for the purpose of collecting the fishes of that
locality. He succeeded in obtaining several interesting specimens.

Rey. A. ©. Goode, now traveling in Africa, has signified his intention
to aid the Museum in the collection of ethnological material.

Hon. J. M. Crawford, consul-general at St. Petersburg, Russia, has

9

SM 91, pr 2
130 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

continued his work of collecting ethnological objects for the Museun,
Writing under date of January 13, 1891, he says:

“Tam getting on very nicely with the Finnish collection. In June I was all through
Finland, and I even began the Arctic Circle in the Frigid Zone. I gathered consid-
erable material, including curious old musical instruments, sacred Cantela, harp,
weighing implements, hand-mill, bronze instruments, stone axes, copper plates (used
for money), ancient jewelry, and an ancient Karelian costume of a peasant girl.
Next summer I will make my shipment to the Sinithsonian Lostitnution.”

COLLECTORS’ OUTFITS.

>

During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1891, the following collecting
outfits have been furnished by the Museum:

1S90.

September 1.—Col. Cecil Clay, of the Department of Justice, obtained
permission from the Commissioner of Crown Lands, Quebee Province,
Canada, to procure specimens of moose and caribou for the National
Museum. Col. Clay was supplied with a suitable outfit for this purpose.

November 12.—My. P. L. Jouy started on an exploring expedition in
Arizona for the purpose of procuring natural history specimens for the
Museum. He was supplied with a large outfit, including tanks, aleohol,
jars, Cloth, cans, ammunition, ete., to be used in collecting and presery-
ing the specimens. The collections received from him are referred to
in the accession list (Seetion v).

November 15.—Mr. R. M. Bartleman, of the United States Legation
at Caracas, Venezuela, was supplied with an outfit, including a tank-
box, alcoholic jars, ete. Several collections have been received from Mr.
Bartleman, and reference is made to them in the accession list (Section
V).

December 1.—My. H. W. Perry, of Chicago, Ill., was supplhed with a
quantity of ammunition, several tank boxes, and other material neces-
sary for collecting specimens in Honduras.

LSOl.

Photographic outfits were lent to several Army and Navy officers,
who were detailed tor duty in foreign countries in connection with the
World’s Columbian Exposition. Among these were:

January 7.—Dalmeyer lens sent to Lieut. Baker, care of United
States legation, Mexico City.

January 29.—Camera and film sent to Lieut. E. EK. Sawyer, U.S.
Navy.

Camera and film sent to Mr. W. P. Tisdell.

Camera and film sent to Lieut. George P. Scriven, U. S. Army.

April 10.—Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. 8. Army, Takoma Park, D. C.,
was supplied with alcohol, tank-box, and other articles necessary to be
used in collecting natural history specimens for the National Museum.
Reference to his collections is made in the accession list (Section V).

>
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. | Ae |

May 11.—Mr. C. K. Worthen, of Warsaw, Ll., was furnished with
material to be used in making a collection of bats and shrews for the
National Museum.

Mr. A. G. Menoeal, chief engineer of the Nicaraguan Canal Con-
struction Company, at San Juan Del Norte, Nicaragua, has kindly
consented to aid the Museum in its endeavor to secure collections of
natural history from that country, and to enlist the aid of his assist-
ants in this connection.
SCP LOIN SEE:

REPORTS OF THE CURATORS OF THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
UPON THE PROGRESS OF WORK DURING THE FISCAL
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, L891.

oad ae Hf. rant ie Fh et HG a at ernit aif? rs
Sp Tse EL NE eee ith
fier (ihe PGA NARS eRe ak

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY
IN THE U. S, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By Oris T. Mason, Curator.

The policy adopted in the formation of this department, to make all
its operations contributory to the instruction of the people and to the
advancement of anthropological science, has been steadily pursued. In
addition to the routine work of receiving additions to the collections
and caring for them, some important results have been accomplished,
which will be referred to in detail.

In August, 1890, the curator, in company with Mr. True and Dr.
Stejneger, commenced the preparation of a set of standard maps to be
used in labeling the case and specimens in the National Museum. The
work of this committee is now completed. It will add very much to the
efficiency of our method of installation to have the geographical distri-
bution of specimens indicated. In the Dresden Museum each specimen
or special group is accompanied with a map indicating the area over
which the species to which it belongs is spread.

The curator attended a meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in August, and utilized this opportunity to
interest those connected with museums and institutions in the States
in the methods of the National Museum, and to establish a friendly
relationship between these institutions and our own. The policy of
doing every thing to encourage the formation of local societies for the
purpose of carefully working up the archeology and natural history of
small sections, has been a very efficient means of enlarging the national
collections.

In September, 1890, the President of the United States created a
National Board on Geographical Names. This Board consists of repre-
sentatives from the several map-drawing departments of the Govern-
ment. The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution was requested to
appoint one from his staff to act in behalf of this Institution, and the
writer was invited by him to accept this position. The Board has held
monthly and special mectings, and many hundreds of names printed in
different spellings on the charts of the Hydrographic Office, the Coast
Survey, the Geological Survey, the Department of State, the Light-

135
136 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

House Board, the Land Office, the Post-Oftice Department, the Census
maps, ete., have been carefully studied and a uniform spelling adopted.
Two bulletins have been published by the Board, and others will be
ready for the printer by the end of the fiscal year.

The curator has been called upon frequently in this geographie work
to settle the spelling of aboriginal names, and this has necessitated a
great deal of research.

In September, 1890, a fresh start was made in the preparation of life-
size lay-figures of aboriginal people. Fortunately, Mr. Héli Chatelain
brought with him from Angola a native, named Jeremiah, of whom Mr.
Mills has made an excellent reproduction for the ethnic series. Ar-
rangements have been made to follow up this work of making lay-
figures to illustrate all the stocks of North American aborigines.

In October the department was fortunate enough to again secure
the services of Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. 8S. Navy, who devoted several
months to the arrangement and cataloguing of specimens in our pos-
session from Oceanica. This he has worked wp with assiduous care,
and too much praise can not be accorded to the Secretary of the Navy
for the continued exhibition of lis interest in our work, in thus assign-
ing Lieut. Bolles and other efficient officers to duty in this Institution.
A great deal of this material which Lieut. Bolles has set up had been
stored away for years, awaiting examination by some one familiar with
Polynesian studies. Valuable additions to the collections from Ocean-
ica were sent by Admiral Kimberly and Lieut. Safford, U.S. Navy,
and the latter showed his continued interest in the Museum by spend-
ing some time in giving information concerning the Samoan collection.

In November the curator delivered an address before the Folk-Lore
Congress in New York upon the scientific treatment of this subject,
taking the ground that we have in the survivals of custom, language,
and belief a species of archeology, in which is contained a record of
human history not to be found in printed page or in material relies,
but in the conduct and behef of the unlettered folk. A systematic
effort will be made to give dignity and effect to this study by more care-
ful collecting and by the comparison of larger bodies of material.

In December the Latin-American department of the World’s Fair,
under Mr. William E. Curtis, secured the codperation of several officers
of the Army and Navy as commissioners to Central and South Amer-
ican Republics, to awaken an interest in, and secure material for, the
World’s Fair at Chicago. These gentlemen spent several weeks in the
Museum taking lessons in photography, taxidermy, making squeezes,
and practising other operations necessary to perfect them in their work.
Before the end of the fiscal year favorable reports were received from
these officers.

In January was completed a card catalogue of the large collections of
religious objects secured among the pueblos of the southwest, by the
Bureau of Ethnology. These specimens have been in the Museum for
z

DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. Pan

Six or seven years, but it was impossible to study them or put them on
exhibition for want of information. This was kindly supplied by Mrs.
Matilda Stevenson,who spent several days in the Museum and,with the
help of a stenographer, supplied a legend for each one of the specimens.
With this added information, the collection becomes the largest and
best in the world on the subject of Pueblo religion.

On the 10th of April, 1891, was celebrated the beginning of the sec-
ond century of American patents. The curator was appointed to pre-
pare and read an essay on this occasion, and he was induced to comply
with this request, in the hope that a large number of those who at-
tended the Congress might have their interest aroused in the Museum.
The result was far greater than he anticipated. Col. Dodge’s collection
of breech-loading firearms; Dr. Maynard’s series, showing the unfolding
of a single invention—the Maynard rifle; and Gen. Berdan’s collection,
have all been added to the National Museum, besides others which will
be mentioned in the report of Mr. J. E. Watkins. The permanent
organization of the Patent Association secures to the Museum a body of
new friends.

In May the curator delivered a course of lectures in the Crozier
Theological Seminary, Pennsylvania, on the Natural History of Reli-
gions. The object of these lectures was to show that religion may be
brought within the purview of science as a body of phenomena. From
the point of view of the Museum, religion is what men believe concern-
ing a spirit world, and all that they do in consequence of such belief.
That which they believe is creed, that which they do is eult. The
science of religion is the comparative study of the creeds and the cults
of the world.

Much time has been spent during the past year in working up a
series of bows and arrows and shields and other objects connected with
the art of war, or what the older writers call the “artillery” of the
American aborigines. The material in the Museum to illustrate this
subject is now very rich. The linguistic stocks of our American abori-
gines have been fully studied out, and the locations of each tribe when
first mentioned by travelers and explorers, marked upon a map. By
collecting the weapons of war of each tribe and studying their charac-
teristics minutely, it is possible now to formulate a geography of them.
This study has begun to bear fruit in two directions: Poorly labeled
specimens which have been in the Museum a long time, and therefore
extremely valuable, can be relegated to their proper tribe, and collee-
tions belonging to other bureaus for which no data have been fwwr-
nished can be easily labeled by reference to our large series.

At the suggestion of Prof. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution,and greatly aided by materials which he was able to secure in his
travels abroad, the curator has commenced an exhibition series of time-
keeping .apparatus, beginning with the earliest known process of
mechanically marking divisions of the day or small periods of time, and

~
: \

138 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

ending with the most delicate chronograph. This is associated with
the unfolding of all primitive engineering devices and of instruments
of precision.

Much time has been spent during the year in forming a card eata-
logue of the ethnological series, a thing which has not been attempted
before. This will enable future curators of the Department of Ethnol-
ogy to put their hands at once upon all that is known concerning each
specimen. It will also give additional value to all objects sent out for
exchange.

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler has completed a series of type portraits of man-
kind, thirty-three in number. These have been prepared with great
care, each figure painted half the natural size, as given in Topinard’s
tables. The color and costumes also have been carefully scrutinized by
those who are personally familar with each type. As an educational
series, these portraits are very instructive and give correct ideas to
thousands of persons who can never hope to see the originals.

During the year my assistant, Mr. Walter Hough, has followed up
the publication of his pamphlet on fire-making with an exhibition of
all the types of this art, set up in sucha manner as to show the spread
of each type and the method of its elaboration, from the most simple
process known. As a study in comparative technology and the geo-
graphic distribution of an art, this study is of great value.

As an encouragement to those who have given large collections to
the Institution, the curator, assisted by Mr. Hough, has begun the
preparation of monographic catalogues after the manner of the Ken-
sington series. Frequently those who have been among our greatest
benefactors are so much engaged that they have no time to prepare
extended accounts of these donations, so the material slips into the
great mass unnoticed. The effect of such seeming neglect is prejudi-
cial to the best interests of the Museum, hence it is proposed to have
the cataloguing done by the force in the department, especially of such
material as the Bernadou and Allen collection from Korea, the Rock-
hill collections from Thibet, the collections of the Navy Department
from Samoa, the collections of Dr. W. L. Abbott from Kilima-Njaro.

The department has had friendly conneetions with the British
Museum, the Oxford Museum, the Royal Museum at Dresden, Dart-
mouth College Museum, and the Cincinnati Art Museum, through ex-
changes. <A series of continuous small exchanges is found to be pro-
ductive of the best results.

Mr. Héli Chatelain, who was for some years a missionary in Africa,
and who acted as interpreter to the Eclipse Expedition in 1889, has ren-
dered signal service to the Museum, not only by means of his collee-
tions, but in furnishing correct and ample information concerning each
specimen collected and also concerning many hundreds of specimens
already in the Museum from East Africa, of which little was hith-
erto known. On his return to Africa in June, Mr. Chatelain was fur-
nished with an outfit for photographing and collecting.
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 139

During the last few weeks of the fiscal year the curator has given
much time and attention to preparing for the Chicago Exposition. A
plan proposed is as follows:

To show at Chicago, as accurately as possible, the aboriginal life of
North America at the time the natives were first visited by the whites
and before they were changed by contact with our civilization. Such
an exhibit has never been attempted for any continent before, because
the means were not at hand to carry it out. It is true that in all the
great expositions much attention has been paid to primitive arts. The
Paris Exposition of 1889 had a section devoted to the French colonies
in Africa and in southeastern Asia, and there was a most interesting
series of structures illustrative of human habitations in all grades of
culture. In the Palais des Industries Diverses, fourteen groupsof lay-
figures were arranged to illustrate the progress of art, commencing with
the rude cave-dweller and ending with the Chinese cloissonné worker.
In many of the exhibits sent by our Institution to Philadelphia, London,
Berlin, New Orleans, and Cincinnati, single arts or a single people have
been exhaustively treated. At Philadelphia, under the direction of my
distinguished predecessor, Prof. Charles Rau, assisted by Mr. Frank
Cushing, the archeology of America was well set forth with attractive
collections from the northwest coast. All these efforts were successful
in their way, and it is now designed to follow them up with a compre-
hensive display which will enable the spectator to see the continent as
it appeared to the first explorers. At the same time the exposition
will furnish an appropriate culmination of a series of investigations
which have been prosecuted for a century. Not that these investiga-
tions were pursued for the purpose of bringing them together in an en-
eyclopredic work or display, but the World’s Exposition furnishes the
happy occasion of crowning the distinguished scholars who have for a
hundred years been doing their best to make a great historic and eth-

=
i

nographie exhibit possible. J

During the year the material gathered from various parts of the
earth, without reference to the elucidation of any especial art, have
been collected and arranged in a series of courts after the manner of
the European museums. This has been only partially carried out on
account of the great lack of space.

At the close of the year 1890-91 the department became so crowded
for space, that it was deemed necessary to entirely reconstruct the
system of caring tor the material, but this will furnish only temporary
relief. Any one visiting the halls and space allotted to this department
will see how entirely inadequate is the room, either for exhibition, stor-
age, or for the study series. It is now necessary to box up a great
many things, so that the curator can have no aecess to them without
the greatest difficulty.

I beg that this matter be taken into consideration at the earliest
moment, as it will soon be impossible to do anything but receive and
140 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

put away. This is not only very discouraging to the curator, but
equally so to those who may wish to enrich our collections.

ACCESSIONS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY DURING THE YEAR.

Greenland.—Dr. C. H. Merriam, man’s suit (3 pieces); woman’s suit (3 pieces) ;
woman’s summer suit (6 pieces); coat (3); trowsers (1 pair); boots (4 pairs); sleep-
ing bag. (Acc. 23828.)

Labrador.—Miss Anna L. Ward, pouches (2); coiled basket tray. (Ace. 24381,
24511.)

Nova Scotia.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, birch bark canoe. (Ace. 24142.)

Canada.—Lady Edith Blake, sketches of bone ornaments from a Beothue grave;
sketches of emblems of Red Indian mythology. (Ace, 23591). Dr. C. H. Merriam;
sealskin pouches (2). (Ace. 23828.)

Yakutat Bay, Alaska.—Dr. I. C. Russell, leather pouch and fish charm. (Ace, 23735.)

Eskimo. —Edward Lovett, whalebone nooses. (Acc. 23784.)

Washington.—Dr. Franz Boas, baskets (4); salmon spear; adze; hammer. (Ace.
23490. )

Oregon.—Dr. Franz Boas, baskets (3). (Ace. 23490.)

Hupa Indians, California.—Lieut. Robert H. Fletcher, U.S. Army, gaming sticks
(1 set); photograph of ‘ White Deer Dance;” dance wand; arrows (2). (Ace. 23829,
24368. )

Bannock Indians, Idaho.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, doll cradle; beaded
bag; beaded leggings (1 pair). (Ace, 24142.)

Nez Perce Indians, Idaho.—Proft. C. H. Hitcheock, Chief Joseph’s suit.

Crows, Montana.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, whetstone; whip. (Ace.
24142.)

Piegan Indians, Montana.—Dr. C. Hart Merriam, bead-work. (Ace. 23828.)

Leadville, Mont.—Lewis Engel, miner's candle holder. (Ace. 24128.)

Sioux Indians, Dakota.—Mrs. E. J. Stone, child’s moccasins (1 pair). (Ace. 23319.)
Dr. Z. T. Daniel, tweezers; carved pipestone; wooden pipe; buffalo horns (2 pairs);
tobacco pouch; antelope bones, showing method of extracting marrow; gun lever,
Custer’s battle; photos (2). (Acc. 23489, 23675, 24013, 24244, 24526.) Capt. John G.
Bourke, U.S. Army, war club; herald’s wand ; medicine man’s shirt; baldric; tobacco:
bags (2); pipes (2); toy moccasins (1 pair). (Ace. 24113, 24132.) A. J. Standing,
pipe and pipe pouch. (Ace. 23370.) Lewis Engel, photograph of seven chiefs. (Acc.
24548.) Emil Granier, suit of clothing. (Ace. 24505.) Nathan Appleton, photo-
graphs of Sioux Indians (3). (Ace. 24212.) Charles L. Bristol, catlinite pipe with
stem. (Acc. 23544.) Maj. J.H. Wilcox, U.S. Army, bow. (Ace. 23560.) F.O. Lewis,
ghost shirts (2). (Ace. 24204.) Max. E. Dickerson, photograph of Sitting Bull’s war
elub. (Ace. 23721.)

Arikarees, South Dakota.—Dr. Z. T. Daniel, arrow heads (2). (Ace. 23489.)

Assiniboine Indians.—A. J. Standing, squaw belts (3). (Ace. 23370.)

Shoshone Indians, Wyoming.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, pipe and stems (2) ;
war bonnet. (Acc. 24142.) Lewis Engel, buffalo calf skin. (Acc. 24548.)

Winnebagos, Nebraska.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, doll. (Ace. 24142.)

Cheyennes, Indian Territory.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, knife case; beaded
box; moceasins; shield; ring; elk teeth (2); pipe; necklace. (Acc, 24142.) A.J.
Standing, head-dress. (Ace. 23370.) Dr. %. T. Daniel, burial relics. (Acc. 24013.)

Arrapahoes, Indian Territory.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, pipe; gun ease ;
moceasins (1 pair); purse. (Acc. 24142.)

Ute Indians, Utah.—Lewis Engel, squaw saddle; apron; moccasins (1 pair); pap-
poose board; photographs (52). (Acc. 24548.)

Salt Lake City, Utah.—Lewis Engel, ‘‘Temple” silk handkerchiefs; book of Mor-
mon; Mormon photographs (107); cowboy photographs (80); cowboy coats (2);
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 141

trowsers, leggings, blankets (2); buffalo robe, hunting pouch, moccasins (6); belts
(2), and whip; photographs of Rocky Mountain scenery (93.) (Ace. 24128, 24548.)
George W. Woltz, fig leaf apron worn by elders; moccasins worn by elders. (Ace.
23481.)

Piutes, Nevada.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, cooking tray. (Ace. 24142.)

Navajos, Arizona.—Dr. Washington Matthews, U. 8S. Army, cactus tongs. (Ace,
23625.) Lieut. R. W.Shufeldt, U. 8. Army, photographs of belt weaver (2). (Ace.
24339.) Capt.John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, loom and rug; hair rope; neck orna-
ment; turquoise (6 pieces); silver buttons (10); pump drill. (Ace. 24142.)

Pimas, Arizona.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, whip. (Ace. 24142.)

Papagos, Arizona.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U. 8. Army, halter. (Ace. 24142.)

Wotpi Pueblos, Arizona.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U. S. Army, tobacco bag. (Ace.
24142.)

Moki Pueblos, Arizona.—Jeremiah Sullivan, sacred pine shoots. (Ace. 11175.)
Capt. John G. Bourke, U. 8. Army, medicine rattles (2); shrine offerings (2); ancient
pottery (8 pieces); household gods (5); ladle; toy baskets (2); rattles (2); orna-
ments (16); basket tray; woman’s girdle; girdle; head ornament; head dress;
baskets (10); rabbit clubs (2); pipes (4); bone flaker; medicine drum. (Ace. 24142.)

Apaches, Arizona.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, twirling sticks (2); tobacco
bags (2); medicine cord; buckskin coat; moccasins (3 pairs); canteen; arrow points;
agency tag; louse catcher; basket tray; mystery flute; brush; toy baskets (3);
basket; war club; sacred meal; medicine arrows (2); playing cards; awl case;
head dresses (4); fiddle; doll babies (4); bows (3); arrows (9); game; head orna-
ment; talisman; sacred meal bag; seratch stick and drinking reed; medicine cords
(3); war bonnet; medicine shirts (3). (Acc. 24142.) Lewis Engel, beaded medi-
cine bags. (Ace. 24548.) H.H. Rusby, photographs of ruined pueblos (28). (Acc.
13809. )

Yumas, Arizona.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, rattle. (Ace. 24142.)

Mojaves, Arizona.—G. A. Allen, paint bag; head dress; pottery dolls (2); cradle;
mesquite beans; screw beans; hair of Mojave; photographs (4). (Ace. 24160.)

Lipans, Texas.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, carrying pouch; Fort Ringgold,
mesquite beans. (Acc. 24142.)

Avasupais, Grand Canon of the Colorado.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, ladle;
basket; fire tongs. (Acc. 24142.)

Trinidad, Colo.—Elborn F. Ward, French potter’s lamp. (Acc. 23657. )

Zuni, New Mexico.—Capt. J. G. Bourke, U. 8S. Army, fetiches (6); girdle; spoon;
blocks for kicking game (3); top; hammer; medicine cord; necklace. (Ace, 24142.)

Picuris, New Mexico.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U. S. Army, bears’ claw necklace.
(Ace. 24142.)

Isleta, New Mexico.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, shield. (Acc. 24142.)

Acoma, New Mexico.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, drum. (Ace. 24142.)

Nambe, New Mexico.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U. 8S. Army, altar pieces. (Acc. 24142.)

Sia, New Mexico.—Miss May Clark, fetich, ‘‘mole.” (Acc. 24577.)

Taos, New Mexico.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U. S. Army, crosses (2). (Ace. 24142.)

Rio Grande Pueblos.—Capt. John G. Bourke, U. S. Army, pipes (2); pottery (40
pieces); tops (2); bowl. (Ace. 24142.)

Hidalgo, Mexico.—Capt. J. G. Bourke, U. 8. Army, sling. (Ace. 24142.)

Mexico.—Edward Lovett, reticule. (Ace, 24343.)

Menomonee Indians, Keshena, Wisconsin.—Model of grave; sketch of grave of Osh-
kosh; sketch of Grand Medicine Lodge. (Ace. 23794.)

Massachusetts.—Essex Institute, Salem, Mass., photograph of original box of Luci-
fer matches (Ace, 23981). M. F. Savage, weaver’s lamp; water heater; fat lamps
(2); (Ace. 23640). Dr. C. A. Norton, warming pan; photograph of fireplace in
Franklin’s homestead; photograph of Whittier’s fireplace. (Acc. 22641.)

Providence, R. I.—M. F. Savage, pewter night lamp. (Acc. 23640.)

New York.—Mrs. F. M. Hartwell, foot-stove (Acc. 24390). Moses Eames, wooden

142 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. —

plow of 1820 (Acc. 23969). Syracuse Plow Company, model of steel plow (Acc.
24060). Rufus A. Grider, water-color sketches of famous powder horns (130) (Ace.
24045). J. KE. Ireland, mouse trap (Ace, 24186). Nathan Appleton, photographs of
ship bearing Statue of Liberty (2) (Ace, 24212). Biirgi Brothers, relief map of Pales-
tine (Ace, 24475). Mrs. E..J. Stone, moceasins of Oneidas (2 pairs). (Ace. 23319.)

Pennsylvania.—Stewart Ciuin, playing cards (2 packs) (Ace. 24402). T. W. Sweeney,
lire-place lamps (2); fat lamp and candlestick. (Ace. 23525.)

Virginia,—k. E. Mason, pot hook from Custis mansion (Ace.23861). Capt. John G,
Bourke, U.S. Army. saber. (Acc, 24142.)

District of Columbia.—Col. W. C. Dodge, English cross bow, belts, helmet, revolvers,
(6); extractors) (2); repeating pistol, Austrian breechloaders, arquebus, matehlock,
breechloaders (16); magazine guns (5); German wheel lock, German needle gun,
Martini-Henry rifle, French chassepot, United States military rifle, German wheel
carbine, rebounding gun lock, pistol, voleanie repeating arm, powder flask, test of
Simond’s steel bullets (Ace. 24171). Thomas Dowling, jr., swords (3), fireman’s
trumpet (Acc, 23809). Geo. W. Woltz, extinguisher (Acc. 24226). Gen. C. H. Berdan,
Berdan rifle and metallic cartridge (Acc. 24188). Emile Granier, lithographs
(Ace. 23944). Mrs. E. J. Stone, headwork (6 pieces), lace pillows (2) (Ace. 23319).
William Churchill, mounts showing method of tying square knots (Acc. 23676), J.
Louis Willige, pistol. (Ace. 24106.)

West Virginia.—Walter Hough, lamp-wick trimmers (Acc. 23346). O. T. Mason,
leather-finishing tool. (Ace. 23405.)

Ohio.—Prof. F. W. Putnam, fat lamp. (Ace. 23645.)

Indiana.—Henry F. Blount, model of modern plow. (Ace. 23873.)

Cherokees, North Carolina.—James Mooney, ball rackets (1 pair),(Ace. 23764). Capt.
John G. Bourke, U.S. Army, pipes (2); spoon; blowpipe gun. Ace. 24142.)

Negroes, North Carolina.—J.E. Benedict, basket. (Ace. 24238.)

Florida.—Mrs. EK. J. Stone, rule of cabrasa wood. (Ace, 23319.)

Barbadoes.—Rev. F. Gardiner, jr., basket. (Ace. 22998.)

St. Vincent, Barbadoes.—W. E. Curtis, photograph of Carib relies. (Ace. 24379.)

Cuba.—W.C. Winlock, fireflies. (Acc. 23611.)

Colombia,—Charles Bullman, bark cloth; paint pot. (Ace. 23612.)

Venezuela.—R. M. Bartleman, jicaras. (Acc. 24216.)

Peru.—F. T. Redwood, Peruvian image. (Ace. 23611.)

Amazon River, South America.—J.O. Kerbey, bark paper (Ace. 24193). F. G. Fry,
masks (9); gourd vessel; ornament; necklace; rattle; girdle; cloth; carrying-nets
(2). (Ace. 22738.)

England.—Edward Lovett, tinder pistol; snutters and tray ; matchlock gun; ancient
knife; King Alfred candles (2); pistols (2), (Ace. 23416, 23950, 24342). Henry Balfour,
bakers’ lamps (2); sections of compound bows (4). (Ace. 24290. )

Orkney and Shetland Islands.—Henry Balfour, shell lamp (model). (Ace. 23783. )

France.—A. Zeno Shindler, strike-a-light (Ace. 23977). Edward Lovett, shell snuff
box; sulphur matches. (Acc. 23416.)

Normandy.—Henry Balfour, cruise lamp. (Acc. 23783.)

Brittany.—Henry Balfour, shell spoon; shell lamp (model). (Ace. 23788, 24290. )

Germany.—Bene Bache, beer mug. (Acc. 23973.)

Switzerland.—W. W. Rockhill, wooden clogs (Acc. 23372). Edward Lovett, fire
drill (Ace. 23950). Mrs. E. J. Stone, paper-knife. (Ace. 23319.)

Denmark.—Dr. C. A. Norton, fire-carrying tongs. (Ace. 23798.)

Spain.—Prof. S. P. Langley, monte cards (Acc. 24281). W.W. Rockhill, clasp-
knife (Acc. 23372). Col. F. A. Seely, ethnological photographs (27). (Ace. 23709.)

Syria.—Stewart Culin, playing cards (2 packs). (Acc. 24402.)

Asia Minor.—Col. F. H. Tappan, chain shirt. (Acc. 23839.)

Bagdad, Turkey.—Department of State, inscribed bricks (2), (Ace. 24201). Rev. J.
P. Peters, oven; clubs (2); lock and key; coffee mortar; bird trap; gun trappings
(3); drum; pipes (3); food mat; man’s costume (8 pieces); woman’s costume (8
DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 143

pieces); millstones; coffee pots (5); pistols (3); coffee roaster; cups (6); spear head ;
pitcher; boat; plow; yoke; spade; guns (2); flint and steel; tobacco pouch; kohl
paint; anklets; nose-ring; necklace. (Acc. 24087, 23986. )

India.—Dr. W. H. Dall, turban (Ace. 24401). Rey. John P. Newman, mosaic dish

-from Aera (Ace. 238785). Edward Lovett, hand-fans (2); hookah; image of Buddha.
(Ace, 23416.)

Ceylon.—Edward Lovett, carved wooden spoons (4). (Ace. 25416.)

Spain.—L. H. Boyd, playing cards (5 packs); gaming dice (1 set). (Ace. 24478.)

Burmah.—Vhe Museum, Oxford, England, blow gun (Ace. 24291). Edward Lovett,
drinking cup. (Ace. 23950.)

Egypt.—Edward Lovett, writing case. (Ace, 24343. )

Algiers.—W. W. Rockhill, spurs (Ace, 23592). Edward Lovett, snuff-box ; earthen
lamp; moorish lamp. (Ace. 25416.)

Tunis.—Edward Lovett, dagger (Ace. 23950). Mrs. E. 8. Brinton, pottery lamp.
(Ace. 24064. )

Tangier.—Edward Lovett, pipes (4). (Acc. 23950.)

Oran.—W. WW. Rockhill, daggers (4); sword. (Acc. 23372.)

Kafirs, South Africa.—British Museum; wooden spoons (6); gourds (2); necklace
(6); leglet; hat; bracelets (4); knapsack; breast plate; staff; assagais (2); head
plume (Ace. 23892); Foster, photographs of Zulus (43), (Ace. 23602); W. E. Frye,
gourd whistle. (Ace. 25670.)

Hottentots, South Africa.—Prince Roland Bonaparte; photographs of Hott n-
tots (14). (Ace. 24177.) ‘

Wa Chaga Negroes, Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.—Dr. W. L. Abbott; photographic
negatives (41); swords (16); knives (8); bows (5); shield (1); assagais (16); ear
stretchers (4); ear plugs (2); aprons (8); snuff horns (3); beadwork; plumes (3) ;
medicine girdle; bags (5); daggers (3); razors (3); manioc knife; bird arrows (5);
quiver and arrows (16); knob sticks (4); wooden dishes (18); etched gourd; spoons
(5); honey bucket; headdresses (3); war capes (5); sleeping mat; basket trays (4);
wallets (2); dippers (4); shields (11); beaded belts (5); neck rings (13); armlets (12) ;
anklets (5); finger rings (2); necklaces (4); wristlets; ankle rattles (2); arm rings
(3); earrings (10); ear ornament; beer tubs (3); beehives (5); mortars (2); combs
(3); churn-dashers; war cloth; fire-sticks (2); stool; hoes (4); axes (2); war-capes
(2); jar; mallet; partridge trap; awls (3); snuff-bottles (3); rat-trap; bracelets (4
pairs); fig-leaf (2); tweezers; knife-gouge; beer-cup; goat-cage; food hook; gran-
ary (2); wicker door; goat-trough; reaping-knife; reaping-hook; native huts
(models, 3); game-board; cup; feather case; quivers (4); arrows (27); stool; cook-
ing-pot; dress; face ruffs (2); hair ornaments (2); rattles (4); cow-bells (2); bucket;
dress for boy and girl; cloaks (2); capes (2). (Ace. 23158, 25656, 24008, 24334.)

Somalis, Bast Africa.—Prince Roland Bonaparte, photographs of Somalis (50).
(Ace, 24177.)

Africa.—Rev. F. Gardiner, game of ‘ wa-wee.” (Acc., 22998.)

Congo River, West Africa.—Edward Lovett, bag; belt (Acc. 24543) ; Cincinnati Mu-
seum Association, rattle; torch; witch switch; whip; pipe; mail currency ; bracelet;
ballofrubber; grass cloth (4 pieces) ; mats (5); pouch; pocket; dress; carrying basket ;
baskets (7) ; spear, bow and arrows (12); sword; knife; hoe; farm knife; tree climber ;
thatch material; wooden platter; mortar and pestle. (Acc, 24343.)

Angola, Africa.—Héli Chatelain, loin cloth; spoons (2) ;- fetish image; bead neck-.
lace; hair from M’bamba negro; baskets (5); reading chart; mortuary images (7) ;
images (2); belts (2); hat; monkey skin; doll; charm; head-dresses (3); charms (5) ;
medicine images (2); charm ax; spindle and distaff; knife sheaths; spoon; copper
currency ; violins (2); pipes (2); native cloth; hammock; fan; mats (2); whistles (2) ;
arm ring; knife awl; arrows (13); kilt; aprons (2); breechclout; rug; paint; fetish
necklace; medicine horns (5); mats (4); caps (3); necklaces (4); bracelets; sieves
(2); climbing ropes (2); sack; musical instruments (3); belt loom; slippers (1 pair);
tobacco; love handkerchiet; cartridge boxes (5); clubs (11); knives (2); hatchet;
144 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

hoes (7)} shoemaker’s kit; wooden platter; hemp pipes (2); pipe stems (25); snuff
boxes (4); head scratcher; comb (Ace, 23435, 24070, 24190, 24258). The Bishop Taylor
Mission; hatchet; coiled basket (Acc. 23667). Lieut. Mason A. Shufeldt, U.S. Navy;
photographs (16), (Acc. 23460, 24844). W.H. Brown, wooden stool. (Ace, 23272.)

Japan.—W. W. Rockhill, hara-kiri dagger; samurai swords (1 pair); long swords
(2) (Ace. 23372). Romyn Hitchcock, coir mats (2); woman’s dress; game of alpha-
betical proverbs (Acc. 23462). F.T. Redwood, hara-kiri dagver; swords (2) (Ace.
23716). Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U.S. Navy, fire vase (Ace. 24121). Department of edu-
cation, Tokyo, drawings illustrating use of carpenter’s tools (15) (Ace. 18415). P.
L. Jony, swords; shampooer’s whistles (2); clam darts (Ace. 23753).

Korea.—W. W. Rockhill, marshal’s baton; belt knife; matechlock gun; child’s san-
dals (1 pair); quiver with arrows; dharani or magical formula buried with dead
(Ace. 23372). P.L. Jouy, horsehair hats (2); hat button; arrow point straightener;
baton; official girdle; writing paper; rosary; cover of fire box; pillows; tobacco
boxes (2); windbell; incense burner; wooden bell; pallet; chest; image of Buddha;
sword; cant hook; image of horse; donkey bell; images of warriors (2); official
seal; figure of tiger god; knives and chopsticks (2); pocket knife; scroll pictures
(3); picture book; announcement card; frying pot; photographs (43); old man’s
cane; ceremonial hat; flag; tobacco (Ace. 23753).

China.—W. W. Rockhill, cloisonné vase; cloisonné incense burner; bronze mytho-
logical figure; bronze lions; bronze vase; palace fan; enamel platters (3); hand
warmer; lacquer cup; bronze koros (2); bronze candlestick; cloisonné jars (2);
cloisonné vases (2); cloisonné pitchers (2); cloisonné koro; enamel dishes (2);
enamel cup and saucer; enamel jewel boxes (2); perfume cups (2); water bottle;
jewel tray; writing brush box; plan of Peking; tobacco pouch; shoes; belt knives
with chopsticks (3); infantry swords (4); military sword; double swords (2);
dagger (Acc. 23372, 24520). P. L. Jouy, double eutlasses (2) (Acc. 23753). Stewart
Culin, slow matches; spirit cups (3); marbles; dice (10); fan tan outfit (5 pieces)
(Ace. 24314). Dr. D. J. MeGowan, pair of socks; folding headrests (2) (Ace. 23456).
Julius Newmann, rain cloaks (4); irrigating wheel (model) (Ace. 24256). Mrs. E. J.
Stone, shoes (1 pair) (Acc. 23319). J. W. Osborne, lithographs of Chinese life (17)
(Ace, 23775). Thomas Dowling, jr., engravings of Tartar wars (Acc. 24134),

Thibet.—W. W. Rockhill, fly flappers (2); silver tea pot (Ace. 23372).

Easter Island.—Fred A. Norton, club (Ace, 23793) Parke, Davis & Co., copies of
Easter Island tablets (2) (Ace. 19160).

Hawati.—Dr. H. C. Bolton, photographs of surf boards and swimmers (3) (Ace.
23813).

Samoa.—Lieut. T, Dix Bolles, U. 8. Navy, spears (2); clubs (4); kava strainers (2) ;
kava root; necklaces (3); shell decoy; cigarette wrappers; finger ring; hair; wo-
man’s dress; baskets (5); mats (5); tapacloth; gold mats (2); dictionary; fly brush;
fans (2); walking stick; kava bowl; cocoanut drinking cups (2); stick to brace sides
of canoe; fire sticks (2); net-making outfit; tapa-making outfit; waist cloths (2);
belt; jacket; wreath of flowers; waist garment; pillow (Acc. 23390, 24120, 24121).

Fiji.—Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. S. Navy, pillow (Ace. 23390). Edward Lovett, tapa
mallet (Ace, 23950); oil vessel; tapa cloth (Ace. 23390).

Pelew Islands.—Frank Curling, dugout canoe (Acc. 23888).

Marshall Istands.—Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. S. Navy, tapa cloth (Ace. 24121).

New Guinea.—Boston Museum of Fine Arts, spear (Ace. 23719) Edward Lovett,
native’s dress (Acc. 24343). Royal Gardens, Kew sleeping mat (Acc. 23358).

Australia.—J. W. Osborne, photographs (2) (Acc. 23775).

Solomon Islands.—Prof. I, C. White, priest’s bowl (Ace. 23745). Edward, Lovett,
arm rings (4) (Ace. 24348).

South Sea Islands.—Dr. Hugh Sinith, fig-leaf of brass (Acc. 23522),

Malay.—W. W. Rockhill, kris (2) (Ace. 23372).
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN ABORIGINAL POTTERY
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

By WitttIAM H, HotmMes, Honorary Curator.

In this department during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1391, active
operations have been unimportant, as the installment of material is prac-
tically complete. Accessions for the year are humerous, but no collec-
tions of especial importance have been received. The last catalogue
number for June, 1890, is 135363; for June, 1891, 136183.

Such researches as have been conducted by the curator relate mainly
to collections made by the Bureau of Ethnology during the past few
years in the Mississippi Valley and along the Atlantic coast. They
will be embodied in a forthcoming volume of contributions to the
Bureau of Ethnology.

Reference is made in the bibliography (Section Iv) to papers pub-
lished by the curator during the year, relating to excavations in an
ancient soapstone quarry in the District of Columbia, and to the Thrus-
ton tablet.

ACCESSIONS TO THE COLLECTION.

Acc. 23621.—Fragments of a bowl from New Mexico. Presented by Miss H. V.
Ghiselin, Louisvilie, Ky.

Acc. 24012.—Pottery fragiments, pottery disk, and fragments of earthen pipe.

Acc. 24012.—Pottery fragments, pottery disk 1 fragments of eartl
ransterred to the National Museum by the Bureau of Ethnology. These collec-
‘it f 1 to the Nat 1M by the B f Ethnology. TI 1]
lions were made by Mr. William H. Holmes, Mr. . L. Reynolds, Mr. Thomas Har-
t le by Mr. Will H. Hol , Mr. H. L. Reynolds, Mr. T! H
per, Mr. John Bury, Mr. Charles Miller, and Mr. F. D. Snyder, in the District of
Columbia, South Dakota, South Carolina, lowa, Indiana, Arkansas, Maryland, New
York, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.

Ace, 24160.—Pottery from Parker, Ariz. Presented by Mr. George A. Allen, United
States Indian agent, Colorado River Agency, Parker, Ariz.

Ace, 24216.—Pottery from Caracas, Venezuela. Presented by Mr, R. M. Batlerman,
legation of the United States, Cardcas, Venezuela,

145
sm 91, pT 2——10
REPORT ON THE SECTION OF ORIENTAL ANTIQUITIES
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By Cyrus ADLER, Assistant Curator.

The work of the year proceeded on the lines hitherto marked out—
the assembling of a study collection illustrative of Biblical archeology.
From November 1 until the close of the fiscal year the assistant cur-
ator was absent on leave, having accepted a commission from the
World’s Columbian Exposition to proceed to the East in the interest of
the Exposition. Much of his time previous to that was devoted to a
collection of Jewish ceremonials which, while cognate in a sense to
the work of the section, was separately installed.

ACCESSIONS.

Two casts of ancient Babylonian figures in the Louvre were added
to the collection. These have been placed on exhibition and labels
prepared. The one figure represents Gudea (“ speaker ” or ‘‘ prophet”)
the ancient priest-king (who reigned about 3800 B. C.), as an architect.
The following statement concerning this specimen has been prepared
by Prof. Paul Haupt, the honorary curator.

Gudea is seated on a sort of stoolin a religious attitude. The hands
are clasped in the oriental posture of meditation and devotion. On his
knees he holds a tablet with plan of a fortress. There are six gates
flanked by towers, and the walls are surmounted by battlements. In
front of this tablet there is a graduated rule, 103 inches long (=27
centimeters, ?. ¢., a Babylonian half cubit), and at the side of itis the
style with which the architect engraved his design. The figure is clad
in a sleeveless cloak crossed over the breast and thrown back over the
shoulder. The Arab of this region still drapes himself in the same
fashion in his burnoose—a piece of woolen stuff with a fringe which is
folded in two and wrapped around the body obliquely, so that it covers
one arm and leaves the other bare.

The original is of blackish diorite with a bluish tinge. It was found
with a number of sculptures, inscribed cylinders, fragments of vases,
and remnants of various kinds of Chaldean art, in the ruins of an ancient
temple, at Telloh, during the extensive excavations undertaken from
187781, by the French vice-consul at Bassora, M. Ernest de Sarzee.
His collection was purchased by the French Government, in 1881, for
150,000 franes ($30,000).

147
148 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Telloh, or more accurately Tell-loh (Arabie Tall-lib i. e., “Mound of
Tablets”), seems to represent the site of the ancient Chaldean city
Shirpurla, or Lagash. It is situated in the midst of a morass about 5
miles east of the Shatt-el-Hai, an ancient canal connecting the Euphrates
with the Tigris. Telloh is about 60 miles north of Mugheir (Arabic el
Magha’ir, “The Caverns,” 7%. e., the Biblical Ur of the Chaldees whence
Abraham went forth, Gen. x1, 31) and 45 miles east of Warka (the
Erech of Nimrod, Gen. x, 10) in about the same latitude as Warka, only
a little further south.

The inseriptions Goveving the figure are composed in the so-called
Proto-Chaidean, 72. ¢., the language of Sumer (the Biblical Shinar) and
Acead (Gen. X, 10) representing the non-Semitic idiom of the aborigines
of Mesopotamia. According to some authorities this ancient language
is said to be allied to the Turko-Tartarie family of speech of which the
modern Turkish is the best known representative.

The writing is in the early hieroglyphic forms of the cuneiform script,
and it runs not from left to right in horizontal lines as in the later
Assyro-Babylonian inscriptions, but from above downward, beginning
at the right and thence proceeding toward the left in parallel vertical
columns, the face of the characters being turned towards the right, not
to the left asin Chinese. The same arrangement is met with in the
Egyptian hieroglyphics.

The writing always begins in the upper right-hand corner, viz:

We Q L a A

WwW R M G B
X S N H C
Ns T O I D
Z U P K a)

The inscription covering the figure is known as inscription B of
Gudea.

Prof. Haupt has also prepared a translation of the inscriptions, a copy
of which has been placed on the book table.

The casts of the Assyrian seals loaned by Prof. D. G. Lyon, of Har-
vard College, referred to in the last report, were labelled and placed on
exhibition. Labels were also prepared for a miscellaneous collection
from Egypt, Palestine, and Syria, made by Dr. Geo. W. Samson, and
the collection was placed on exhibition.

Labels were also prepared for the British Museum collection of Egyp-
tian photographs, for a series of Egyptian paper impressions, and for a
collection of Egyptian originals, but none of these could be placed on
exhibition owing to lack of space.
REPORT ON THE HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By A. Howarp CLark, Curator.

Work on the historical collections has been carried on with industry
during the year, and much progress has been made toward a more com-
prehensive classification of the material that hasaccumulated since the
beginning of this department in 1884. Fifty-six new accessions were
received, including about three thousand individual objects. Several
collections of ancient bronze and silver coins, and other historical
objects were received by the curator and were returned to the owners
with descriptive reports, identifying the objects. This branch of the
curator’s duty is becoming greater each year, and has resulted in the
permanent accession of several valuable collections. Many letters of
inquiry have been answered concerning the identity and value of
medals, coins, and other objects.

Among the most important accessions of the year are: (1) The ‘‘ Vail
Papers” deposited by the heirs of Alfred Vail, and consisting of about
thirty volumes of manuscript letters, drawings, and printed matter per-
taining to the invention and history of the telegraph from 1837 to 1852.
These papers are enumerated in detail below in the list of accessions.
(2) Original full-size plaster model of the statue of Liberty, from which
was cast the bronze statue surmounting the dome of the United States
Capitol. This model was made in Rome, Italy, by Thomas Crawford,
American sculptor (born 1814, died 1857), and the bronze was cast by
Clark Mills, in Washington, 1860; height, 19 feet 6 inches. (3) Album
of portraits of the officers and members of the International American
Conference, held at Washington in 1889-90. (4) A silver watch cap-
tured from a British officer at the battle of Lexington in 1775, also the
silver watch carried by Thomas Cheyney, who did valiant service at the
battle of Brandywine during the Revolutionary war. (5) A Bible (Pen-
tateuch) in Sechuana language, carried by Dr. David Livingstone in his
journey in Africa in 1852, with autograph of Livingstone on title page.
(6) Royal account-book of Louis xv and Louis xvt of France, with
autograph of Louis Xvi approving the accounts. (7) Collection of
almanacs from 1730 to 1750. (8) A large collection of personal papers

149
150 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

and relics of George Washington, including also the original will of
John Washington, the founder of the family in America. (9) Silver-
mounted glass flute, presented to President James Madison. (10) Six
medals in silver and bronze struck in Holland in 178283 to commem-
orate the success of the Americans in the Revolutionary war. (11)
Manuscripts, early publications, and objects pertaining to the early his-
tory of Kentucky and of the Shenandoah Valley. (12) Collection of
855 official seals of European governments and institutions. (13) Medals
and diplomas awarded the United States Government by the Paris Ex-
position. (14) Six additional medals of the series struck by order of the
corporation of the city of London, England, to commemorate important
events, including the passage of the reform bill, the opening of London
Bridge, ete.

The routine work on the collections has consisted in the preparation
of labels and arranging the objects for exhibition. Very little could
be done in making a detailed catalogue, for upwards of three thousand
individual objects have been received, and without any assistant the
curator has found it impossible to keep up with the work. Each aec-
cession, however, of which fifty-six have been received during the year,
has been carefully preserved in its identity, so that there will be little
difficulty in cataloguing the specimens hereatter.

The systematic card catalogue of the collection has been carried along,
as also the alphabetical card catalogue of the several accessions, which
number about eight hundred.

In December, 1890, the curator spent four days in Virginia and West
Virginia, for the special purpose of examining some collections of papers
and other personal relies of Gen. Washington in possession of some of
the Washington family residing in Fauquier County, Va., and in
Charlestown, W. Va., and a large number of interesting papers were
secured as a loan to the National Museum. They attracted much
attention while on exhibition, but were withdrawn after several months
by the owners and sold at auction in Philadelphia. Among the inter-
esting places so numerous in the Shenandoah Valley, the curator vis-
ited the old town of Strasburg, a place settled upwards of a hundred
years ago by Germans from Pennsylvania (and still bearing evidence
of its German origin), and also the region about Winchester, Charles-
town, and Harpers Ferry.

The present condition of the several parts of the historical collections
is as follows:

PERSONAL RELICS OF EMINENT MEN.

It is intended to exhibit relics of each President of the United States,
also of eminent soldiers, statesmen, explorers, and inventors, men emi-
nent for scientific attainments, ete.

The large collections of relics of Washington and Grant have acted
as strong magnets to attract other accessions to this department, so
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 151

that there are now exhibited relics of Washington, Adams, Jefferson,
Madison,- Van Buren, Gen. Harrison, Jackson, Lincoln, and Grant
among the Presidents; of Elliott, Ripple, Perry, Grant, Hancock, Paul,
Harney, Shields, and other prominent soldiers and sailors; of Benjamin
Franklin, Morse, Vail, Whitney, Fulton, Sir John Franklin, Kane, Liv-
ingstone, and other eminent scientists, inventors, and explorers.

RELICS OF IMPORTANT HISTORICAL EVENTS IN THE’ HISTORY OF
AMERICA.

This part of the collection is growing steadily. There are already on
exhibition documents and various objects connected with the early
colonial period, the French and Indian wars, the period of the Declara-
tion of Independence, and the Revolutionary war, the formative period
of the Constitution, the war of 1812, the Mexican war, the war of the
rebellion, besides papers and objects to illustrate the history and aboli-
tion of slavery.

MEDALS AND MONUMENTS.

The medallie history of the United States is quite fully shown by the
Museum collection, which now includes all the medals struck by order
of Congress, a large number of medals commemorating national and
local events of greater or less importance, and quite a full series of the
smaller class of medals and tokens exhibiting the medallie history of
the Presidential campaigns, centennials and bicentennials of settle-
ments of towns, etc. The Museum collection of foreign medals is not
very complete, though there are many specimens of much interest.

Monuments are classed next to medals as commemorating events or
as preserving the memory of eminent men. Something has been done
towards making a list of the monuments in the United States commem-
orating events of national importance, and photographs or other illus-
trations of many monuments have been collected. The Memorial Arch,
at Hartford, Conn., erected in memory of the men who fell in the war
of the Rebellion, is, perhaps, the most interesting monument connected
with the rebellion period of our history.

All over the country there are buildings, bridges, etc., such as In-
dependence Hall, in Philadelphia; Faneuil Hall, in Boston; the Old
North Bridge, at Concord, and the bridge at Salem, that stand as
monuments to perpetuate the memory of historic events, and it is proper
that the Museum should exhibit illustrations of them.

PORTRAITS OF EMINENT MEN.

The portrait collection numbers several thousand, and has been en-
larged during the year by the addition of several hundred engravings
of eminent Americans and foreigners. Much work has been done in-
mounting them on standard ecards. A complete catalogue has not yet
152 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

been made. There have been on exhibition several hundred engraved
portraits of some of the eminent scientists of the past four centuries,
also several hundred portraits of medical men, these last forming the
loan collection of Dr. J. M. Toner,

MONEY OF THE WORLD.

About two years ago the curator was directed to begin the formation
of a collection to illustrate the money of the world, and within a few
months the collection was given a good start by the gift of several
hundred copper and silver coins of modern times, and by loans of
nearly two thousand ancient Greek and Roman coins. Part of the col-
lection is labeled and placed on exhibition, but the greater portion
can not be shown for want of exhibition space. The shell money of the
Indians of our country during the early colonial period is interesting
to the public. This collection was arranged by the curator of the de-
partment of mollusks, and shows the shells from which the money was
made, the discs used as coin, and the belts of wampum. Accompany-
ing the exhibit is an instructive pamphlet, giving in detail the history
of the manufacture and uses of this money. The collection of paper
money is steadily growing, and most of the principal countries of the
world are now represented.

The interesting series of issues of Continental paper money of our
country and the State bank series is far from complete, though being
added to by frequent acquisitions.

POSTAGE STAMPS.

There were but few additions to the stamp collection during the year,
and but little time could be given toward arranging the collection for
exhibition. The Museum now has about three thousand stamps exelu-
sive of duplicates, and many of them are of rare issues.

AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION,

For three successive years the American Historical Association has
held its annual meeting in Washington during the Christmas holidays.
The morning sessions have been held in the lecture hall of the National
Museum and the evening sessions in the Columbian University. This
association has a membership of about six hundred eminent historians,
teachers, and students of history from all parts of the United States.

The curator of historical collections in the Museum is assistant seere-
tary and curator of the association, and has received into his charge
some collections of books and papers deposited for exhibition in the
Museum by permission of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, as
authorized by the act of incorporation of the association. The most im-
portant of these collections are the ‘ Vail papers,” enumerated in detail
in the list of accessions, and pertaining to the early history of the tele-
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 153

graph. These were deposited with the association by Messrs. J. Cum-
mings Vail, Stephen R. Vail, and George R. Vail, surviving heirs of the
late Alfred Vail, of New Jersey.

The association is directed by the act of incorporation to report an-
nually to Congress, through the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, concerning the condition of historical study in America.

The first annual report was transmitted to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on June 15, 1890, by Dr. H. B. Adams, secretary, and was submit-
ted to Congress on June 16. By the Senate it was referred to the

Jommittee on the Library and ordered to be printed as Senate Miscel-
laneous Document, No. 170, Fifty-first Congress, first session. The
document was put in type during the fall of 1890, and forms an octavo
volume of 427 pages, coutaining—

(1) General report of the proceedings at the annual meeting held at
Washington, D. C., December 28-31, 1889.

2) Inaugural address of President Charles Kendall Adams on recent
historical work in the colleges and universities of Europe and America.
(3) The spirit of historical research, by James Schouler, of Boston.

(4) The origin of the National Scientific and Educational Institutions
of the United States, by Dr. G. Brown Goode.

(9) Bibliography of the published works of members of the American
Historical Association.

The regular document edition (1,900) copies of this report is all that
was officially printed and distributed in the usual manner by the Senate
and House of Representatives. The association, however, had aprivate
edition of 500 copies printed in December, 1890, and a second edition of
1,000 copies on special paper was printed during the spring of 1891.
The reports have been distributed to the leading historical associations
and institutions in the United States and foreign countries.

The seventh annual meeting of the association was held December
29-31, when some loan collections of objects pertaining to American
history were brought together in the lecture hall to supplement the reg-
ular exhibibition in the north hall.

The programme of the meeting was as follows:

PROGRAMME OF THE SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL
ASSOCIATION (DECEMBER 27-31, 1890).

Inaugural address. By the Hon. John Jay, LL. D., president of the association.

Canada and the United States: From historical points of view. By Dr. J. G.
Bourinot, c. M. G., clerk of the Canadian house of commons.

The New England Settlements in Acadia. By Benjamin Rand, pH. p., Cainbridge,
Mass.

The Legislative Work of the First Parliament of Upper Canada., 1792-1796.
(Abstract.) By William Houston, M. A., librarian to the Ontario legislature, Canada.

The Fate of Dietrich Flade. By Prof. George L. Burr, Cornell University.

The Theory of the Village Community. By Dr. Charles M. Andrews, Bryn Mawr.

A Plea for Reform in the Study of English Municipal History. By Dr. Charles
Gross, Harvard University.
154 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 189%.

Mirabeaw’s Speech of May 20, 1790. By F. M. Fling, pH. p. (Leipzig.)

The Formation of the Freneh Constitution. By Prof. Adolphe Cohn, Harvard
University.

Karl Follen and the Liberal Student Movement in Germany, from 1815 to 1819,
By Prof. Kuno Francke, Harvard University.

Bismarck as the Typical German. By William G. Taylor, esq., of New York City.

How the Written Ballot came into the United States. By Douglas Campbell,
esq., New York City.

A Virginia Bill of Attainder. The case of Josiah Philips. By Prof. William P.
Trent, University of the South, Sewanee, Tenn.

Amendments to the Constitution of the United States. By Herman V. Ames,
A.M., Harvard Graduate School.

Presidential Protests. By Edward Campbell Mason, A. B., Harvard Law School.

Responsible Government in Canada. By Dr. J. G. Bourinot, C. M. G., clerk of
Canadian House of Commons.

Bills of Right in State Constitutions. (Abstract.) By Gen. R. D, Mussey, Wash-
ington, D.C.

The Historical Development of the Budget in the United States. By Ephraim
D. Adams, Ph. D., University of Michigan.

The Yazoo Land Companies. By Dr. Charles H. Haskins, University of Wis-
consin.

State Activities and Politics. By W. F. Willoughby, United States Department
of Labor.

Slavery in New York. By Edwin VY. Morgan, A. B., Harvard Graduate School.

Slavery in the District of Columbia: The Policy of Congress and the Struggle for
Abolition. By Mary Tremain, A. M. Paper to be read by Prof. George E, Howard,
University of Nebraska.

Raleigh’s Settlements on Roanoke Island: An Historical Survival. By Stephen
B. Weeks, Ph. D., University of North Carolina.

Political Ideas of the Puritans. By Dr. Herbert LL. Osgood, adjunet professor of
Columbia College.

Coéperation among the State Historical Societies. By Gen. C. W. Darling, Utica,
Ila We

The Organization of Historical Material. By W. H. Mace, M. A., Cornell Uni-
versity.

Is History a Science? By Prof. R. H. Dabney, University of Virginia.

The Teaching of History. By Prof. Edward Channing, Harvard University.

The Philosophical Aspects of History. By Dr. William T. Harris, Commissinoer
of Education.

Importance of Geography to the Reader and Student of History. By President
D. C. Gilman, Johns Hopkins University.

Webster’s Seventh of March Speech. By James Schouler, of Boston.

The Border Land between the Archeologist and the Historian. By Prof. Otis T.
Mason, U. 8. National Museum.

The Expenditures of Foreign Governments in behalf of History. By Prof. J. F.
Jameson, Brown University.

The second official report of the association was transmitted to the
Smithsonian Institution on February 25, 1891. It was submitted to
Congress by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution on February
26, and on the following day the Senate ordered it to be printed. It
was partly’ in type before the close of the fiscal year and will be pub-
lished as Senate Mis. Doc. No. 83, Fifty-first Congress, second session,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 155

The report will cover about 300 octavo pages and contains:

(1) Report of proceedings at the annual meeting, December 29-31,
1820.

(2) Inaugural address of John Jay, president of the Association:
The Demand for Education in American History.

(3) Abstracts of the several papers on American, Canadian, and Eu-
ropean history, read at the annual meeting.

(4) Bibliography of published writings of members of the association
for 1890.

(5) Bibliography of the national and State historical associations of
the United States.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

From the American Historical Association: Manuscripts and drawings pertaining
to the history of the telegraph from 1837 to 1852, deposited with the association by
the surviving heirs of Alfred Vail, who was associated with Prof. Morse in the inven-
tion and introduction of the telegraph.

From George H. Boehmer, Washington, D. C., collection of eight hundred and fifty-
five seals, in paper and wax, of European governments and institutions.

From Col. J. B. Bowman, Little Rock, Ark., manuscripts, deeds, books, and his-
torical relics pertaining to the pioneer history of the Shenandoah Valley and Ken-
tucky.

From C. B. Boyle, Washington, D. C., silver-mounted glass flute, made in Paris, and
presented to President James Madison.

From Rey. W. C. Calder, Chester, Pa., five silver coins of Burmah.

From H. Chatelain, Vineland, N.J., a bible (Pentateuch) in Sechuana language,
used by Dr. David Livingston in his journey from Cape of Good Hope to Loanda,
Africa, in 1852, the autograph of Livingston on title page; also forty-three copper
coins of Portuguese, Africa, and Azores.

From J. L. Cheyney, Fort Dodge, lowa, a silver watch carried by Thomas Chey-
ney during the Revolutionary war and particularly during his service to the Amer-
ican forces at the battle of the Brandywine.

From Edward Clark, Architect of the United States Capitol, the original full-size
plaster model of Statue of Liberty, by Thomas Crawford, made in Rome, and used
in making the mold from which was cast the bronze statue surmounting the Capitol
dome.

From Miss Una H. Clarke, Washington, D. C., commissions of notary public
signed by Governor Marcus Morton, 1825, and Governor Levi Lincoln, 1828, of Mas-
sachusetts.

From Charles W. Cotton, Dunbar, Pa., piece of charcoal from the ill-fated Hill
Farm Mine.

From Josiah Cuffy, Fort Monroe, Va., twenty silver and copper coins of Spain,
Germany, Switzerland, Canada, and the United States.

From William Ellory Curtis, Washington, D. C., an album of photographs of the
officers and members of the International American Conference, held at Washington
in 1889-90.

From Department of State, Washington, D. C., two medals with accompanying
diplomas awarded the United States for exhibits at the Paris Exposition, 1889.

From George H. Draper, Paris, France, the private account book of Louis xy and
Louis xvi of France, with signature of Louis xv1.

From Charles F. Fish, Fall River, Mass., photographs of old stone mill at New-
port and of a windmill at Portsmouth, R. 1.
156 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

From Mrs. R. A. Foster, New York City, sword presented in 1862 to Albert H.
Foster, of Company D, Twenty-fifth Regiment, Massachusetts Volunteers.

From Joseph Francis, of Minneapolis, a silver medal of the Franklin Institute of
Philadelphia; a gold medal from Ferdinand II, King of Sicily; a decoration of the
Imperial Order of St. Stanislaus; and a silver medal of honor of the International
Shipwreck Society of France, presented to Mr. Francis for his invention of corru-
gated metallic boats and army wagons.

From Guildhall Library, London, England, bronze medals struck by order of the
corporation of the city of London to commemorate the passing of the reform bill,
1832; Queen Victoria’s visit to Guildhall, 1837; opening of London Bridge; Thanks-
giving for recovery of Prince of Wales; and opening of the city of London School.

From I. Gregor, Jacksonville, Fla., some relics of the old Spanish cathedral at St.
Augustine, Fla.

From J. Scott Hartley, New York City, plaster casts of John Gilbert, Judge Noah
Davis, Edwin Booth as ‘‘ Brutus,” and of Lawrence Barrett as ‘“‘ Cassius.”

From Col. E. H. Haskell, Boston, Mass., official souvenir programme of the twenty-
fourth national encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic, at Boston, Mass.,
August, 1890.

From Mrs. C. W. Hayden, Washington, D. C., engraved portraits of Bayard Taylor,
J. W. DeForest, Mark Twain, Herbert Spencer, and others (twenty in all).

From W. H. Heany, Washington, D. C., one-real silver coin of Spain, date 1741,
with arms of Philip of Anjou on shield of pretense.

From Thomas F. Hennesey, Cincinnati, Ohio, seventeen ancient Greek aud Roman
copper and silver coins.

From Miss Rosena Hitchcock, Chicago, Ill., the Alleghany Republican of Decem-
ber 23, 1825; anti-Masonic almanac for the year 1832; and an almanac for the year
1841.

From E, R. Hodge, Washington, D. C., set of United States stamped envelopes (2
cents), issue of 1883. .

From W. F. Hornblower, Washington, D. C., progammes and other official papers
relating to the centennial celebration of the organization of the Federal judiciary,
February 4, 1890.

From Alexander Hynds, Dandridge, Tenn., small silver medal of Confederate
States.

From Dr. Robert H. Lamborn, New York City, autograph manuscripts, glass pitcher
and wine glasses, silver cake-basket, knife and fork, and other personal relies of
Gen. Washington.

From Harry W. Lewis, Jefferson, Ind., 1-sen copper coin of Japan and a deux-sous
token of Lower Canada.

From Johannes Marjenhoff, Charleston, 8. C., cannon ball from Fort Sumter, and
pistol from field of battle at Battery Wagenner.

From George R. Merrill, Grand Rapids, Mich., series of Parkers and Weavers
Almanac, 1730 to 1750, inclusive.

From Charles Miller, jr., Grand Rapids, Mich., Confederate States and Miehigan
paper money and a copper coin. I

From W. B. Peek, Sharpsburg, Va., a 16mo. volume entitled ‘The American
Schoolmaster’s Assistant,” etc., printed at Lexington, 1811.

From C. H. Peck, Newtown, Conn., some Revolutionary war military buttons.

From W. Hallett Phillips, Washington, D. C., a book entitled ‘Shut your Mouth,”
by George Catlin.

From Fred W. Porter, Chicago, Ill., collection of State bank bills from 1817 to
1860.

From Randolph-Macon College, Ashland, Va., medal commemorating the incorpo-
ration of Randolph-Macon College, February 3, 1830.

From W. J. Rhees, Washington, D. C., daguerreotypes of Governor Johnson, of
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 157

Pennsylvania (1851), and Maj.-Gen. Hugh Brady (1768-1851), and ambrotype of Dr.
John D. Easter (1855).

From William T. Rice, Leghorn,I taly, silver medals struck in Holland in 1782 and
1783 to commemorate the armed neutrality of Russia, Sweden, Denmark, and Hol-
land; the acceptance of John Adams as ambassador from the United States; in
recognition of American Independence; and the treaty of commerce between the
United States and Holland; also a bronze medal relating to Lord Howe’s fleet at
Rhode Island in 1778.

From George T. Rogers, Lynn Haven, Va., military coat of a colonel in Virginia
infantry, Confederate States army.

From Royal Geographical Society, London, England, a bronze medal, commem-
orating Stanley’s expedition in Africa for the relief of Emin Pasha.

From Capt. O. M. Smith, U. 8. Army, Washington, D. C., Springfield bullet par-
tially pierced by a nail at target range at Fort Keogh, Mont., in June, 1890, distance
800 yards.

From the Smithsonian Institution, a medal awarded the Smithsonian Institution
by the Paris Exposition, 1889.

From the Smithsonian Institution, bronze medal from the University of Montpellier,
France.

From Mary I. Stroud, Washington, D. C., an oil portrait of the late Prof. Walter
k. Johnson.

From James Todd, Pittsburg, Pa., a silver watch with fob chain, seal, and pend-
ant, said to have been captured from a British soldier at the battle of Lexington,
1775, by Lieut. James Todd, of Boston.

From Edward Troye, Washington, equestrian portrait of Gen. Winfield Scott.

From Lawrence Washington, Marshall, Va., original will of John Washington,
great grandfather of George Washington, first of the family in Virginia; deed of
release to Augustine Washington, father of George, May 17, 1726; bargain and sale
of 1,906 acres of land, Thompson to Rose, in 1689; agreement with John West for
sale of land; ‘‘ The daily sacrifice,” a daily prayer book, in manuscript, apparently
in handwriting of George Washington; ledger account book of manager of Mount
Vernon for 1794, with indorsements by George Washington; overseer’s weekly re-
port of Mount Vernon plantation, September 16, 1797, to January 26, 1799, with in-
dorsements in Washington’s handwriting; daily record book of overseer from Jan-
uary 7 to September 10, 1797; overseer’s account book, 1786 to 1793, with list of negro
slaves in the several Mount Vernon plantations, besides upwards of 200 receipts and
letters in Washington’s handwriting; a number of deeds of property in Virginia;
broadsides pertaining to Revolutionary war period in Virginia, ete.

From Col. T. A. Washington, Washington, D. C., a brick from the house at Wake-
field, Va., where Gen. Washington was born.

From W. W. Wheildon, Concord, Mass., copy of the historical souvenir deposited
under the cornerstone of the Massachusetts state-house extension, December 21,
1889; also a piece of wood of the historic ‘‘ Old North Bridge,” at Concord.

From A. C. Wilcox, Washington, D. C., 14 copper coins of England, Ireland, Can-
ada, and Mexico, dating from 1731 to 1878; also a letter dated 1816, signed by com-
missary-general of prisoners; a certificate of identification as an American citizen,
dated 1803, and the indenture of an apprentice in schooner Lydia, of Marblehead,
in 1807.
REPORT ON THE SECTION OF GRAPHIC ARTS
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

By S. R. KOEHLER, Curator.

The work done during this year does not show perceptibly in the ap-
pearance of the collections under my charge, so far as they have been
placed on exhibition. The aim has been to make the several divisions
more complete by filling gaps here and there, and these additions are,
as a matter of course, lost in the mass to the general observer, while
some of them have not yet been placed in position. This is more es-
pecially true of several series of specimens lately acquired, in illustra-
tion of a number of photo-mechanical processes. Special attention has
been given to the development of the division comprising these inter-
esting and inost important processes, and the additions recently made
will compel a rearrangement of the whole division.

The accessions for the year, both by gift and by purchase, although
not as numerous as in previous years, have yet been by no means un-
important. The lists herewith submitted show that many of the friends
of the Museum especially interested in the Section of Graphic Arts
have again remembered it, and that the codperation of others has been
enlisted inaddition. Among the gifts specially to be mentioned is a series
of specimens fully illustrating the photo-lithographic process invented
by Mr, J, W. Osborne, prepared by Mr. Fernald, of New York, under the
supervision of the inventor himself, and given by him to the Museum;
a small collection of Japanese color-prints and illustrated books, received
from Mr. T. Tokuno, chief of Insetsu Kioku, Tokio, Japan, and an im-
pression from a heliogravure plate made by Nicephore Niepce in 1824,
the gift of Mr, Ch. Gindriez, of Chalons-sur-Sadne, France. The his-
torical interest attaching to this specimen will be manifest at once when
it is considered that it is printed from the first measurably successful
plate produced by Niepce, who was the pioneer in this department of
scientific research. The purchases include a silver-point drawing by
Prof. Legros, of London; an aquatint plate, with proofs from it, illus-
trating the wet ground process, and specially made for the Museum by

159
160 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Mr. Jas. D. Smillie, N. A.; technical illustrations of several photo-me-
chanical processes, to wit, the photo-aquatint process (prepared for the
Museum by the New York Photogravure Company) the zinc-etching
process for line work, the wash-out gelatine process, and a half-tone
process involving the use of line screens (these three prepared for the
Museum by the New York Engraving and Printing Company), a set of
wood blocks, with the progressive proofs from them, of a chromoxylo-
graph by Gubitz, of Berlin, one of the earliest specimens of this kind
produced in the nineteenth century, and a number of impressions from
plates and blocks engraved by artists of past centuries, illustrating
various processes, but more especially the development of color-print-
ing. A beginning has also been made, thanks to the generosity of
Messrs. F. W. Devoe & Co., of New York, and Mr. M. Falconer, of
Brooklyn, in the formation of a collection of artists’ tools and materials,

The labeling of the specimens on exhibition has been continued, and
the cataloguing of the Osborne collection (see previous reports) has at
last been accomplished. A beginning has also been made with the
cataloguing of the collection of patents. The progress to be recorded,
owing to lack of time and of facilities, is not, however, as satisfactory
as might be desired.

The time has hardly arrived for making special researches upon
material belonging to the Section of Graphic Arts. The acquisi-
tion, however, of a couple of specimens of the so-called “ manicre ertb-
leé” cuts, has made it possible to illustrate this interesting subject intel-
ligently, and to enforce the conclusion arrived at by me some time ago,
that these cuts are really white-line and tint work of a very rude kind,
but in principle identical with the refined work of the most advanced
wood engravers of our own day. These conclusions have been embod-
ied in a paper entitled ‘“‘ White-line Engraving for Relief-printing in
the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries,” published, with illustrations,
in the Museum Report for 1890.

The last number entered on the catalogue of the Section of Graphic
Arts for the year ending June 30, 1890, having been 3,471, and the cor-
responding number for the year now under review being 4,797, it follows
that the number of entries during the year has been 1,326. As many
of these entries, however, comprise more than one specimen, it will be
safe to say that the total number of specimens represented by them is
between 1,400 and 1,500. But this number does not give the absolutely
new accessions of the year, as it includes the entries, to the number of
952, of the Osborne collection, which was received and reported among
the accessions several years ago. The entries representing absolutely
new material are, therefore, reduced to 374. The duplicates of the
Osborne collection, consisting of specimens of photo-mechanical process
work, have been laid aside, but not yet catalogued.

The Bibliography (Section rv) contains notices of the papers, ete,
published by me during the year.
SECTION OF GRAPHIC ARTS. 161

LIST OF ACCESSIONS RECEIVED AS GIFTS, ARRANGED ALPHABETICALLY ACCORD-
ING TO NAMES OF DONORS, FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

Avery, 8. P., New York: Etching, lithographs, etc., by French artists. (Cat. Nos.
4691-4741.)
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Washington, D. C.: Specimens of lathe work,
portraits and vignettes for bank notes. (Deposited.) (Cat. Nos. 3475-3537. )
Champney, J. Wells, New York: Lithographs and a woodeut by American artists,
(Cat. Nos. 4674-4688. )

Chandler, Prof. C. F., New York: Specimens of photo-mechanical process work.
(Cat. Nos. 3641-3619.)

Cheney, Mrs. Ednah D., Jamaica Plain, Mass.: Two engraved portraits. (Cat. Nos.
3558 and 3644. )

Davis, John P., New York: Two proofs of wood engravings by the donor. (Cat.
Nos. 3620 and 3621.)

Devoe, F. W. & Co., New York: Specimens of oil colors in bladders. (Cat. Nos.
3665-3675. )

istes & Lauriat, Boston; Blind impression from an etching. (Cat. No. 3559.)

Falconer, J. M., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Illustrations of methods of putting up water col-
ors; artists tools. (Cat. Nos. 3676-3719, 4762-4766. )

Gindriez, Ch., Chalons-sur-Marne, France: Heliograph by Nicephore Niepce. (Cat.
No. 3473.)

Hayden, Mrs. C. W., Washington, D. C.: Eight engravings. (Cat. Nos. 3538-3545. )

Hubbard, Gardiner G., Washington, D. C.: Two catalogues. (Cat. Nos. 3556 and
3557.)

Ives, I'rederick E., Philadelphia: Pamphlet by the donor, ‘‘ Photography in the col-
ors of nature.” (Cat. No. 3629.) ‘

Osborne, J. W., Washington, D. C.: Specimens of photo-mechanical process work,
including a complete technical elucidation of the donors own process, books,
pamphlets, etc. (Cat. Nos. 8560-3578, 3643, 3720-4671, 4742-4761. )

Smillie, James D., N. A., New York: Three aquatints by the donor (Cat. Nos. 3579-
3581).

Staigg, Mrs. R. M., Boston: Two engravings (Cat. Nos. 3641 and 3642).

Stroud, Mrs. Mary I., Washington, D. C.: One mezzo-tint portrait (Cat. No. 3474).

Tokuno, T., Tokio, Japan: Six specimens of Japanese color-prints, and five Japanese
illustrated books (Cat. Nos. 3630-3640).

Ward, S. G., Washington, D. C.: One etching by Callot (Cat. No. 3653).

Watkins, J. E., Washington, D. C.: Cuttings from journals relating to technical
matters (Cat. Nos. 3600 and 3601).

Wolfe, M., Dayton, Ohio: Specimens of photo-mechanical process work (Cat. Nos,
3245-3251).

Sm 91, pr 2 11

REPORT ON THE SECTION OF TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By J. ELFRETH WATKINS, Curator.

During the last fiscal year the collections in the section of trans-
portation and engineering have been materially strengthened. This
is especially so in the branch of mechanical engineering, where it is
hoped eventually to secure a series of objects to illustrate the birth
and development of the mechanic arts, with special reference to the
evolution of the epoch-making inventions.

The United States Patent Office, where thousands of models, draw-
ings, and descriptions of machines are preserved, is the great reposi-
tory from which the history of the development of inventive thought
may be studied, but the student of the history of invention interested
in ascertaining the influence that inventive action has had upon the
occupations, habits, and customs of the human race is desirous to
examine also the products resulting from this inventive development,
especially those that have been put in practical service for the benefit
ofmankind. To this end many of the objects exhibited at the decen-
nial celebration of the establishment of the electric-lighting industry,
held in Providence, R. I., in February, 1891, have found a permanent
place in the collection, together with other specimens from the Loan
Collection temporarily installed in the Museum lecture hall during the
Patent Centennial Celebration held at Washington in April last.

The objects relating to the infancy of electric lighting in America
are of the greatest interest, and a comparison of the crude sewing ma-
chines, typewriters, and other devices recently collected, with the mod-
ern achievements of the mechanic’s handiwork, is also most striking.
Since these relics of invention have proven of great interest to the pub-
lic, the codperation of all persons interested is solicited in the extension
of the section in this direction.

The work of labeling and cataloguing specimens in the exhibition se-
ries was completed during the year.

The electrical collection, of which the Museum formerly possessed only
a valuable nucleus. was enriched by the addition of the original electro-
magnetic engine designed by Joseph Henry, the first Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution in 1831, deposited by his daughter. This little

163
.

164 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

machine, which was construced by his own hands, is one of the earliest
applications of magneto-electricity to the production of power. Pro-
fessor Henry calls it “reciprocating motion produced by magnetic at-
traction and repulsion.”

In July, 1831, writing to the editor of Silliman’s Journal, he says:

I have lately succeeded in producing motion in a little machine by a power which,
I believe, has never before been applied in mechanics—by magnetic attraction and
repulsion.

Not much importance, however, is attached to the invention since the article inits
present state can only be considered a philosophical toy, although in the discovery
and invention it is not impossible that the same principle, or some modification of
it on a more extended scale, may hereafter be applied to some useful purpose. But
without reference to its practical utility, and viewed only as a new effect produced
by one of the most mysterious agents ef nature, you will not, periaps, think the fol-
lowing account of it unworthy of a place in the Journal of Science.

It is well known that an attractive or repulsive force is exerted between two mag-
nates, according as poles of different names, or poles of the same name, are pre-
sented to each other.

In order to understand how this principle can be applied to produce a reciprocat-
ing motion, let us suppose a bar magnet to be supported horizontally on an axis
passing through the center of gravity, in precisely the same manner as a dipping
needle is poised; and suppose two other magnets to be placed perpendicularly, one
under each pole of the horizontal magnet, and a little below it, with their north poles
uppermost; then it is evident that the south pole of the horizontal magnet will be
attracted by the north pole of one of the perpendicular magnets, and its north pole
repelled by the north pole of the other; in this state it will remain at rest, but if
by any means we reverse the polarity of the horizontal magnet, its position will be
changed and the extremity, which was before attracted, will now be repelled. If
the polarity be again reversed, the position will again be changed, and so on indefi-
nitely. To produce, therefore, a continued vibration, it is only necessary to intro-
duce into this arrangement some means by which the polarity of the horizontal
magnet can be instantly changed, and that, too, by a cause which shall be put in
operation by the motion of the magnet itself; how this can be effected will not be
difficult to conceive, when I mention that instead of a permanent steel magnet in
the movable part of the apparatus, a soft iron galvanic magnet is used.

The motion here described is entirely distinct from that produced by the electro-
magneti¢e combination of wires and magnets; it results directly from the mechanical
action of ordinary magnetism, galvanism being only introduced for the purpose of
changing the poles.

At the end of sixty years the same principle, that led the great physi-
cist (who is known to the world asa discoverer rather than an inventor)
to make this “little machine,” is used in constructing the electrical
devices which may be properly classed among the mechanical triumphs
of this century of invention.*

A deposit was made of two original letters written to 8S. Vail & Son,
in 1838, by Alfred Vail, while associated with Prof. Morse. They
deseribe Mr. Vail’s relations with Prof. Morse, and the operations of the
first practical electro-magnetic telegraph machine then being tested
before the Committee on Commerce at the United States Capitol. This

*See article ‘“‘ Henry’s Electric Motor Constructed in 1831,” by J. Elfreth Watkins,
Electrical World, May 9, 1891,
SECTION OF TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING. 165

original instrument, invented and constructed by Alfred Vail, by which
the historic message, “* What hath God wrought,” was received at the
Baltimore end of the first telegraph line, May 24, 1844, is also preserved
in the collection, where it was deposited by the sons of the great inventor
some years ago.

In addition to these letters are several sheets of drawings and litho-
graphs of the early machines, all deposited by Mrs. Amanda Vail, widow
of Alfred Vail; also a paper ribbon containing a dot-and-dash record of
the first Presidential electiou reported by telegraph in 1844. This relie
was deposited by Stephen Vail, son of the inventor.

Mr. J. EK. Hinds, of Brooklyn, N. Y., has added greatly to the value
of the electrical series by depositing a collection of incandescent lamps, —
switches, and other apparatus used in 1881 in one of the earliest
electric-light plants in America. These relies formed an important part
of the Loan Collection at the Electrical Celebration at Providence, in
February, 1891, previously alluded to.

In my last report the fact that the original boiler of the historic loco-
motive “Stourbridge Lion” had been acquired, was mentioned. It
gives me pleasure now to state that one of the original cylinders of this
locomotive has been deposited by Lindsay & Early, of Carbondale, Pa.,
to whom the Museum is also indebted for.the boiler. As before stated,
‘it is the intention to mount the boiler on the original driving wheels,
collected in 1888.” The accession of the cylinder will make possible a
more complete restoration of this historic locomotive.

The series illustrating the development of the car wheel has been added
to by a gift from Mr. Theodore N, Ely, general superintendent of motive
power Pennsylvania Railroad, of a car wheel of the type in use when
the first locomotives were put on the New Jersey Railroad, in 1831. It
is quite similar to the wheels used under the passenger cars when they
were drawn by horses, prior to the introduction of locomotives, on the
first portion of the Pennsylvania Railroad, opened for traffic in 1854.

Through the courtesy of the master mechanic of the New York Cen-
tral and Hudson River Railroad Company, one of the original driving
wheels of the locomotive “ De Witt Clinton” has found a place in the
collection. The ‘‘De Witt Clinton” was built at the West Point
Foundry, New York, in 1831, and was the first locomotive constructed
in America to do work. It was also the first engine placed in service
on the Albany and Schenectady road, the oldest railway in the
State of New York.

This engine was the subject of the illustration in silhouette, familiar
to all students of the early history of the American railway.

PATENT CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.

Karly in December, the plans which had been under discussion for
several months for celebrating the beginning of the second century of
the American patent system, in a manner commensurate with the vast
importance of the interests involved, crystallized by the appointment of
166 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

a central committee composed otf citizens of Washington, who were
empowered to proceed with the arrangements for the celebration.
Having at the unanimous request of this committee accepted the gen-
eral secretaryship of the organization, I proceeded to devote as much
time to matters relating to the celebration as my other duties would
permit, feeling that a more intimate acquaintance with the inventors of
the country, and those interested in the manufacture of patented arti-
eles would result in the extension of such of the Museum collections as
relate to the development of the mechanic art.

The ceremonies were held in Washington on the 8th, 9th, and 10th
of April, 1891. They consisted of a series of meetings at which addresses
relating to the history and influence of invention were delivered by
prominent statesmen, political economists, and engineers. The follow-
ing addresses were delivered :

Hon. Charles Eliot Mitchell, of Connecticut, Commissioner of Patents: ‘* The
Birth and Growth of the American Patent System.”

Hon. O. H. Platt, LL. p., of Connecticut, United States Senator: ‘‘ Invention and
Advancement.”

Hon. Carroll D. Wright, a. M., of Massachusetts, Commissioner of Labor: ‘‘ The
Relation of Invention to Labor.”

Hon. Samuel Blatchford, LL. bp., justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States: ‘A Century of Patent Law.”

Hon. Robert 8. Taylor, of Indiana: ‘‘The Epoch Making Inventions of America.”

Hon. John W. Daniel, LL. D., of Virginia, United States Senator: ‘‘ The New South
as an Outgrowth of Invention and the American Patent Law.”

Hon. Edwin Willits, of Michigan, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture: ‘‘The Rela-
tion of Invention to Agriculture.”

Hon. Benjamin Butterworth, of Ohio, United States House of Representatives:
“The Effect of our Patent System on the Material Development of the United
States.”

Octave Chanute, of Illinois, president of the American Society of Civil Engineers:
“The Effect of Invention upon the Railroad and Other Means of Intercommunica-
tion.”

Hon. A. R. Spofford, Lu. p., Librarian United States Congress: ‘‘The Copyright
System of the United States: its Origin and its Growth.”

Thomas Gray, C. E., B. SC., F. R. S. E., of Indiana, professor of dynamic engi-
neering, Rose Polytechnic Institute, Terre Haute: ‘‘ The Inventors of the Telegraph
and Telephone.”

Col. F. A. Seely, of Pennsylvania, principal examiner United States Patent Office:
“International Protection of Industrial Property.”

William P. Trowbridge, pH. D.,LL. D., of New York, professor of engineering,
school of mines, Columbia College: ‘The Effect of Technological Schools upon the
Progress of Invention.”

Robert H. Thurston, A. M., LL. D., DOC. ENG., of New York, director and professor
of mechanical engineering, Sibley College, Cornell University: ‘‘The Invention of
the Steam Engine.”

Cyrus I’. Bracket, M. D., LL. b., of New Jersey, Henry professor of physics, Col-
lege of New Jersey, Princeton: ‘‘The Effect of Invention upon the Progress of
Electrical Science.”

Maj. Clarence E. Dutton, Ordnance Department, U.S. Army: ‘The Influence of
Invention upon the Inplements and Munitions of Modern Warfare.”
SECTION OF TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING. 167

Prof. F. W. Clarke, s. 8., of Ohio, chief chemist U.S. Geological Survey: ‘‘The
Relations of Abstract Scientific Research to Practical Invention, with Special Ref:
erence to Chemistry and Physics.”’

Hon. William T. Harris, Commissioner of Education: ‘‘ The Relation of Invention
to the Communication of Intelligence and the Diffusion of Knowledge by Newspaper
and Book.”

Prof. Otis T. Mason, PH. b., of Virginia, curator U. S. National Museum: ‘‘ The
Birth of Invention.”

Edward Atkinson, PH. D., LL. p., of Massachusetts: ‘‘Invention in its Effects npon
Household Economy.”

Dr. John 8. Billings, curator U.S. Army Medical Museum: ‘‘American Invention
and Discoveries in Medicine, Surgery, and Practical Sanitation.”

During the meetings, which were attended by citizens from all
parts of the country, a loan collection was installed in the lecture hall
of the National Museum, where machines of antique design, models, and
early patents were inspected and studied by many visitors drawn to
Washington by their interest in the Patent Centennial Celebration. In
this attractive collection were patents signed by James Madison, Pres-
ident of the United States, and James Monroe, Secretary of State, March
3, 1813, granting to John W. Bronough and Jesse Talbot the sole right
to manufacture a refrigerator. Several patents and assignments of
patents granted by the English Government in 1877 were also in the
collection.

No better description of the character of this loan exhibition can be
furnished than that contained in the Washington Evening Star, April,
1891, which reads as follows:

The first two talking machines ever made are on exhibition in the lecture hall of
the National Museum. There are a great many other curious things gathered in that
apartment just now, put there for the edification and instruction of those who are
interested in the Patent Centennial, which is now in full working order. There is a
case full of talking machines, and subscribers who are continually tangling them-
selves up with ‘‘Central” may be able to discover in the interior of one of the instru-
ments the cause of their trouble.

The first talking machine is a small walnut cone divided. The apex is the receiver,
the truncated portion is the transmitter. Those who ought to know say that it talks
well, but no company could collect $90 per annum upon any such looking thing as it
is. Bell’s liquid transmitter is in the case, and so is the first form of hand telephone.
This must have made even the inventor tired, for it is enormously large, and affords
a striking contrast to the ear trumpet now so common. ‘The first experimental forms
of the Blake transmitter are shown, and alongside of them are the component parts of
the long-distance telephone. How far this latter will work no one knows.

Mr. H. V. Hayes, who is arranging the exhibit, talked this morning with his family
in his home at Cambridge, Mass., a mere matter of 500 miles. Edison’s motophone is
shown in the telephone case.

AN ANTIQUE ELECTRICAL RAILROAD.

An antique electrical railway, dating back to 1837, is one of the interesting
curios of the collection, attracting as much general attention, perhaps, as the origi-
nal telegraph instruments used at the Baltimore end of the line which made 8. F. B.
Morse and Stephen Vail famous.
168 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
THE GROWTIL OF PHOTOGRAPHY.

A good many people clustered this morning about a big case in the center of the
room. The growth of photographic mechanism was there shown. The first camera
ever made in the United States—a plain, clumsy, wooden box, bearing the date
1839—stood alongside two portable tripod cameras of 1890 and looked much more
awkward. In the corner is the contract of partnership between Niepce and Dagu-
erre.

On the upper shelf in the same case a brass cylinder fully 2 feet in height stood
alongside a little scrap of mechanism that could be put in a little boy’s vest pocket,
and unwieldy by contrast. Just below the old camera was the gem of the colleetion—
an original daguerreotype of Daguerre. It is in first-class condition and is a better
picture than many so-called photographers can produceeyennow. The big cylinder,
which is 6 inches in diameter, is a ‘‘rapid lens, made in 1846; the other is also a
rapid lens, but it was made this year, and is only an inch long and an inch in diam-
eter. Both lenses are for the same plate, viz, 10 by 12 inches.

A hand camera in 1884, for a5 by 7 inch plate, was as big as a full-grown valise.
Near the specimen in the case is a hand camera of 1890, and it is comparatively a
baby in point of size.

The instantaneous ‘‘ shutter” that was regarded as perfect in 1858, is nothing but
a brass slide with two holes in it for exposures. If is a crude looking affair when
compared with the beautiful piece of mechanism alongside it—the instantaneous
shutter of to-day, in which the movement of the iris of the eye is imitated pre-
cisely, and by which as short an exposure as the one hundred and fiftieth part of a
second is possible.

The development of the Signal Service weather maps is made plain on a large
board, but there is no evidence to show that the weather has improved with the
maps. A row of mutilated poker chips is immediately below the specimens of
ancient and modern meteorological prophesy.

Side by side are the original Joseph Francis life car and the car now in use by the
U.S. Life-Saving Service.

The Benjamin Franklin hand press is under glass in the center of the room, and so
is a collection of time-indicators, sun dials, clepsydra, hour glasses, and watches.
With these latter is a chronoscope, an instrument that can cut a second into five
hundred parts.

The Steinert collection of musical instruments is another center of attraction, from
the earliest keyed instruments, the clavichord of Mozart and Beethoven’s tunes,
through the intermediary harpsichords and pianos down to the modern upright.

A COLLECTION OF TYPEWRITERS.
.

A collection of typewriters has been assembled this afternoon, not female opera-
tors, but the writing machines. Some of them are very clumsy and have an extremely
antique appearance, although none of them are very old.

Guns, revolvers, and knives are there in choice variety. The history of electric
lighting is made plain, and a good many other lines of endeavor are clearly traced.
The collection is one of the most valuable and interesting ever gotten up by the
Museum authorities. New features are hourly being added, Chief Clerk Cox and
Prof. Otis T. Mason being busily engaged in the work of direction.

Many of the objects that formed a part of this loan collection have
found a place in the permanent Museum collections. Among them may
be mentioned the collection of typewriters made by Messrs. Wyckoff,
Seamans & Benedict, of New York, illustrating the development of
the type-bar writing machine. Included among the number are the
SECTION OF TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING. 169

model of the Sholes and Glidden typewriter, which was invented at
Milwaukee, Wis., by C. Latham Sholes, Samuel 8. Soule, and Charles
Glidden in 1867. This is the model through which E. Remington &
Sons, of flion, N. Y., first became interested in the manufacture of type-
writers in 1875. Oneof the first machines manufactured from this model
(only three having been made in 1873) is also in the collection. Parts
of this mechanism were altered and modified when the present ‘“ Rem-
ington No. 1” was put upon the market. The collection also contains
a model of the first typewriting machine in which double-type bar
(upper and lower case type) was used, constructed in 1876. Only two
or three machines were constructed before it was found desirable to
make an entire change in the model. A machine somewhat similar to
that now manufactured followed shority afterward. A valuable .col-
lection of early forms of sewing machines made by the Singer Manufac-
turing Company of New York (from 1855 to 1891), as well as early types
of the Grover & Baker, and Elias Howe machines were received from
the Singer Manufacturing Company, through Mr. Henry Calver, who
rendered valuable aid in the preparation of the labels. A duplicate
of the original model of the Sickels lifting, tripping, and regulating
machine, with Patent Office certificate and copy of drawing attached to
the first patent in the world for the trip cut-off for steam engines now
in general use, dated May 20, 1842, was deposited by the inventor,
Mr. F. EK. Sickels, of Kansas City, Mo.

A centrifugal milk separator; the first machine used in separating
cream from milk at the Deerfoot Farm, Southboro, Mass., in 1879, gift
of the Deerfoot Farm Company, through James Cheesman, has been
added to the collection.

These and other relics of the early history of the mechanic art, pre-
viously acquired, form the nucleus of a collection which it is desired to
increase in other directions.

In addition to these relics of invention the silver coffee urn, which
was presented to Capt. Mcses Rogers, of the steamship Savannah, by
Lord Lynedoch, in 1819, as a memento of the first voyage across the
Atlantic by steam, together with a minature likeness of Capt. Rogers
made during his sojourn in Russia, have been deposited by Mrs. F. A.
Seely, granddaughter of Capt. Rogers.

In addition to the accessions already enumerated, the study and
exhibition series have been increased by the collection of engravings,
prints, photographs, and drawings of locomotives, cars, track stand-
ards, bridges, and many original rail sections belonging to and depos-
ited by the curator. This collection is the result of his labors during
the past fifteen years in this country and during a brief visit to Europe
in 1886.

In order to find space for the display of the valuable objects acquired
during the year it became necessary to rearrange the whole of the
exhibition series. Many objects that formerly occupied a position upon
170 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

the floor of the Museum have been installed upon brackets attached to
the walls or upon the tops of cases. Notwithstanding the fact that this
alternative was resorted to the floor space is overcrowded. This con-
dition of affairs is to be lamented, since the limited space that can be
assigned to this section precludes the acceptance of many objects which
the owners would donate or deposit, provided they could be immedi-
ately placed upon exhibition, but which they prefer not to place in the
custody of the Museum only to be kept in storage for an indefinite
period.
REPORT UPON THE SECTION OF FORESTRY
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

By B. E. FERNOw, Honorary Curator.

In view of the fact that but small space can be devoted to the exhi-
bition of forestry collections in the Museum, no systematic effort has
been made to increase the materials for such exhibit, and they are
allowed to accumulate as voluntary unsolicited contributions are made.
Hence the exhibits are still more or less heterogeneous and incomplete
in any one direction; the object of the displays being rather to bring
the existence and the diversified ramifications of the subject before the
beholder than to permit an exhaustive study of any one branch.

Besides the donations received during the year, which are in part
illustrations of physiological abnormities in tree growth, some of the
material used by the forestry division of the Department of Agricul-
ture in the Paris Exposition of 1889-has been installed, consisting of a
display of our most important timber trees by means of maps, showing
their botanical distribution, photographs of typical trees, and photo-
micrographs of the wood structure. This collection is by no means any
more complete than the other parts of the exhibit, but gives a fair indi-
sation of what should be done when space permits expansion.

ACCESSIONS TO THE COLLECTION.

The accessions during the year are as follows:

No. 23845: Distorted white pine, coiled.

No. 23897: Girdled pine.

No. 24008: Coco de Mer—double cocoanut palm, fruit and wood, Seychelles Islands.

No. 24338: Bent wood—ash bent into the form of an evolute without showing elas-
ticity.

No. 24337: Natural graft—two separate oaks joined by a branch.

No. 24296: Natural graft—pine branch inarched into its mother trunk.

No. 24336: Forest planting machine (model), intended for planting on the prairie
without previous breaking.

No. 24335: View of Japanese cedars; a painting of an avenue of Cryptomeria
Japonica, planted over two hundred and sixty years in Nicko, Shimotsuka, Japan.
No. 5818: Log of ebony—6 feet long, polished.
No, 24382; Argentine woods—sections of trunks.
: 171
172 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

No. 24533: Distribution charts of tree species from Tenth Census.

No. 24532: Photo-micrographs showing cross, tangential, and radial cuts of various
timbers.

No. 24531: Photographs of trees, accompanying distribution charts and photo-
micrographs.

No. 24700: Cypress roots and knees, showing longitudinal and cross sections.

No. 24765: Corrugated apple wood, a small section of unusual beauty.

No. 25040: Vulcanized wood; treated by the Vulcanizing (preservative) process.

Of these, a few of special interest are described on the labels as fol-
lows:

CIRCULATION OF SAP.—NSection of Girdled Pine (Pinus glabra, Walt.).—This tree
was completely girdled in its eighth year, and was injured by fire in its tenth year,
yet lived and continued to deposit wood above the girdle, but none below, until cut,
twenty-two years after the girdling. Gift of I. Gregor. (Jacksonville, Fla., June,
1885. 23897.)

DOUBLE Cocoanut PALM, ‘‘Coco De Mer” (Lodoicea seychellarum, Labil).—Fruit
and wood. Seychelles Islands, Indian Ocean. 24008. Gift of W. L. Abbott.

Occurs only on two small islands of the Seychelles group in the Indian Ocean.

The trees attain a height of 100 feet, having leaves 20 feet long, 12 feet wide; five
to ten nuts grow ina bunch.

Before the discovery of the trees, nuts picked up at sea led to many fabulous tales.
Medicinal qualities were ascribed to the nuts and extravagant prices were paid for
them.

EsBony (probably grown inSiam); from Centennial Exposition, 1876. 5318. Cubic
contents, 3 feet; weight, 272 pounds.

There come into the market a number of different woods called ‘‘ Ebony,” highly
prized for their deep black color; hard, heavy, and closely grained, and susceptible
of a high polish. They are derived from various botanical families, mostly, how-
ever, from the genus Diospyrus, to which our persimmon (Diospyrus Virginiana)
belongs.

The best ebony woods are found in India, especially Ceylon. ‘The supplies of Di-
ospyrus ebenum, which furnishes the best and to which the name was first applied,
is almost exhausted.

The sapwood of the tree is milk-white, changing with age into black heartwood.

Diospyrus melanoxylon now furnishes the main supply.

The ebony from Abyssinia, called ‘‘ Mozzungha,” is derived from a species of For-
nasinia, of the Leguminos family.

The West Indies, French Guiana, and South Africa also supply the market with
ebony woods of various qualities and shades, undetermined as to species.

The most valuable of the accessions during the year is the collection
of woods of the Argentine Republic, one hundred and eleven species,
a gift of the Museo de Productos Argentinos at Buenos Ayres, which
was secured by Mr. J. F. Thompson. These wood-sections were accom-
panied by a catalogue for their identification, which in somewhat altered
form, for readier reference, is given below.

As far as known to us there does not exist any complete fioral work
referring specially to the Argentine Republic, and certainly none on
the arborescent flora. .

Outside of the well-known “ Flora Brasiliensis” of Martius (C. F. P.
von) begun in 1840, still unfinished, which at least in part is applicable
SECTION OF

FORESTRY. Lt3

to the flora of the Argentine Republic, we note the following more local

or specific treatises :

TULASNE (L. R.) Legumineuses arborescentes de Amérique du Sud, Paris, 1844.

LORENTZ (P. G.) Vegetations Verhzltnisse der Argentinischen Republic, Buenos

Ayres, 1876.
SCHNYDNER (O.)
GRISEBACH (A.)
LORENTZ (P. G.)

1878.

Contributions a la flore Argentine, Geneve, 1877.
Plant lorentziane, Goettingen, 1874.
La vegetation del Nord Est de la prov. de Entre Rios, Buenos Ayres
ba) } ’ a) ;

Paropi(D.) Contribuciones « la flora del Paraguay, Buenos Ayres, 1877-9.

Paropti (D.) Notas

pl. usuales del Paraguay, Buenos Ayres, 1877.

CHRISTISON (D.) Notes on the Botany of Uruguay, 1878.

References to some of the useful trees enumerated in the list may be
found also in “Ferd. vy. Miiller’s Select Extra-Tropical Plants.”

Since a reference to common names is apt to give much trouble to
readers of native literature, an alphabetical table of the same is sub-

Alphabetical table of common names.

[The numbers refer to the current numbers of the catalogue. |

joined.

PANIC TUL OMe iinet a= aero ee (10)
AilcarrobOmmeet Ores. 55 == =e a= - (52)
ANSP TARO) GY TEAR) co cecace sas esae (53)
INT) DE NY ob oSSo Babes HOD OREO eee Be (109)
AnTichiCOnblancOeess = sarees = se (47)
AnchicocoloradoO-- 4. 4---4--5-25-- (46)
AN TOG IDI aaa scenss seeds (1)
JBI R ET oc Sh OOO BGR Eee Samra (41)
@amboata plancor: -2 22-25-4224 - (17)
@amibtyise 2 Sos eos sen eie ees Saas (69)
Camnahistulaes 22 Ss cee ces oer (39)
@amntchamanapee ne ces ane eres ota (16)
@aneladewoLreskOie 25 52222 -e oe (97)
WanelanoualGa ==. 5-20. co. 12.2 ese (98)
(GALAWANV ACA Ree e ee foe 28 soca a See (dD)
CERT WEO DE iS ASS Coes ee a (88)
CayonsdenGalllo-. 222i sos- -(se% ¢ (71)
Clon ears eS Bees ee ae ee (49)
@ebilijaspeado.- 222-25 2.-sS225-- (48) |
(CEOS CR eree ee sie Sider ic, sea aan (19)
(Clechign) Seen eae Peer a eae (20)
Genvovorcurtizerae eee esse. - (32
(CIUGTOIU Sint apo SEE BOSE Soe (24)
Cochimeh on eee sess en ne ee (8)
COC Ot pe See eee Se RE (7)
(Wononillom se se a esas ase (23)
@wentrilloesss sso. eset ese (9)
Guin lCaie nea = te tee hs acer (102)
SWIM O Re ese pee Ses 2 oe eee (56)
(CHEE RET OT hs eee ieee ae creas, See (55)
Guano diets. 2e 20 8k Bae eee ts, (63)
Greate anny ype oe ete ats ten whine oe (85)
Guassatunga blanca ...--.-------- (18)

| Guatambu amarillo.............-- (36)
Guatambneblancope esses eee (35)
(Guay a DOSE) etapa oe Seah! Sen (64)
Gulati aCe sees reer ere eee (43)
Guayubira amarilla..........:-... (83)
Guiayulbiran blanca == 5549-5 se ee (84)
Guay ubitarnegra 25.23.25. 50/25 (82)
IShiSUIGE nM ONENIEY Bases cheno ase once (108)
lhenaepepere = ste se cree a (38)
bina prapunte ee eee (44)
bina putas S== eye m= ae es Says (40)
oleae ee eee eo (45)
Dbiratayemiys 722. s= a eee se ee (13)
STEVEN PIO) 18 -soeanc code csacce (65)
Tew ayaiaGmlO} eee eae eee a (66)
Teuayadolee sits mea. eee ee bea (70)
WTCIEN SOs 5 see ae se ce oe ee ae (33)
WT Oy Se sites ke ea aa, eed oe Ae (60)
Iti: OSs ea eeeseaed eet Sec (42)
IaliGer ss eee. aes, t cee eee (100)
Wapachovamarillos< 22222-22252. 2. = (86)
hapacho negro ss): 522 scss2 (87)
Teaiaieee os Rese mene or ars gene (92)
ot DDR e) le 2 es ek eaten sear pe EO (96)
Wawnelone onOee= = eee eee (95)
[Deno rey LeMay ies ere Se ee oe eee (93
Manneleroscolorado-ce-=s22se5---- (4)
Marnica de cadella negra -...--..- (11)

WAN SOL see secrecy tan. fh eae aie (22)

WMO eee eS S Bee Roe anes ee aoe (26)

i Mollevilam Comsas= ae. ne ae te (29)
Molercolonadoss os 23-25-20 Sees (27)
Molleidulees ice tans 2.5.2.0. 226-5. OU)
REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Alphabetical table of common names—Continued.

MOR osc eee ss ke eae Coes eeee (107)
Naranija Amarvocsco.. ccf Js... 2 (14)
Naranjo Amargo2. = :22-.- 2D. 2cc oct (15)
Nem GH Diye ser = ectercicme ns ore caper (54)
INO males bs be Ss see sae emeee (110)
IN (acl CTR UZ, Wee a ee ene (72)
COU = ee ote eee ge ere (91)
PACA Wien so t2ctise ot ees See eee (58)
RAC UI yt ere srs eee oae Sepa te oes Oe = (2)
Palo; anal Ome sss eese see eee oe (62) |
iP alosplancOy. ee ose eee eaten eee (103)
Paloxdeverand aes. =--seseeeee =. (75)
Ralotdevlan zac? 420 2 -.cee tee eee ee (76)
JER KONG Weyl ER OVALS ep oe nede  Seea (77)
Palo de lanza blanco...----.-.----- (73)
UO See se ke (111)
Per qnuillllam se ate sesctee panier eae (21)
PAGANO caps ae ec Arye ee Ree (68)
Ouebracho blamcozes-22- 2255 sse (78, 79) |
movebrachoiolancoseseeeeses eee aee (80)
Quebracho colorado --_.--2-=2--2- (28)
Quebracho colorado ....-----....- (30)

Québrachoslojo: ease aoe eee Cee (99)
Caine seo ie ee eee (50)
Rabo de macaco blanco...-...-... (34)
RAM Oe cc ee eece oo ese ee ee eee (25)
IRetamo nt =s5) 6. pon oe ene eee (6)
Samo Uses 4e5 ae aoe eer ee eee (3)
SamUAntonloce eee eee ee (74)
Sangre Ged Ray Ol sss ss eee (101)
Pala) 222 cece q cose serosa eee eeere (104)
alas ec ees occ eS ee eee (105)
Tallar sc isan apse ccie sae eee eee (106)
Ware@O sree term act See os eer eee ees (89)
Marae se 2S SOE ee se ode eee (90)
‘Patamee tae5 ye o-ee soe eee eee (57)
Membetanyenit 2: asses eee (12)
| Timb6 colorado... 21.< 20. pose (59)
Timboatar: 5-225 = 252 5. sees (61)
Tipasamarilla = 22s ose seer (37)
Vi RD OLLGY, Aires eset a sere ee (67)
Winall ss23.2n oe 32 see eee (51)
AapiLaneuy 252 -seee sce eee (81)

AS soonas time and space permit, it is intended to work up the speci-
mens for display and give on the labels further notes on the distribution

and value of the different timbers.

It has not as yet been either possible or necessary to make much of
an attempt in carrying out such a classification of forestry collections
as I proposed in my first report in 1889, and a detailed report on the
Status of the collections seems, therefore, superfluous.

WOODS OF THE

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

List of the specimens donated by the Museo de Productos Argentinos at Buenos Ayres.

[The numbers correspond to those used in the Argentine Museum.]

ee | j < | : Cur-
boiho | Natural order. Botanical name. | Vernacular name.) pocaliiyw ere |Height Dim ied
ber.
oa = = ! = = | = ———— —-
| Feet. | Feet.
2398 | Anonacce -.-.--- AMONG Splat ore at Araticu dulce ...} Misiones.....-. 16 1+ 1
1823 Guttiferm....._. Platonia insignis, | Pacuri...--.--..- Peedi tases ee 20 Hoey ‘el
| Mart. |
2239 | Malvacew ...--- | Chorisia insignis, | Samohu.-.-.-.--.- Santa Fe..-.-- 50° 3 16 3
Kth. | |
1775 (eascas pases | Guazuma ulmifo- | Mannelero colo- | Misiones. ...-- | 80 | pers 4
| lia, Desf. rado. | |
WS14s Peal doveeee t-te | (2) | Caray; waca 92) |24-: dO eee > Gay i Se 5
2293 | Zygophyllacee | dulnesia Retamo, Retamo.-.------- | San Luis --.-- 25 | 3 6
| Gy. | | |
2294 || Rutaces.=-.-=5- Zanthoxylun Co- | CGocorsc. sae eee Ose Aree |; 40 | 23 ti
y | 0, Gill. | | |
2113 Oe ee } 200 Bes eee Cochucho. ...--..- Mucumiane ses eeeeee epee 8
1804s ee OOh ter one secs Zanthoxylum sp..| Cuentrillo ...---- | Misiones..-...- | 30 1 9

SECTION OF FORESTRY.

175

List of the specimens donated by the Museo de Productos Argentinos at Buenos Ayres—
Continued.

; Use Natural order. Botanical name.
2078 | Rutacew....---. Zanthoxylum sp-.
LZR AU oct Cee eee 22.5800)... siscisiage ses
TAH || soefth) cosecane ase 30" 5202 escent
1888 AG) SSaeqoner ..| Pilocarpus sp..--.
O50 Ie) f=, -OOlwes ese ses Citrus vulgaris,

| = Risso,
2389 RGOVsterice a aes Citrus aurantium, }|-
Risso. °

1841 | Meliacew --.---- Cabralea Canjer-

| ana, Mart.

ESSA et CO) mrss slates) =e' | Guarea_trichil-

| ioides, L.

AIA ea OS eee ere | (?)

71S) Beeetlicemaee uses | Cedrela fissilis,

| Vell.

2098 |. Son! Oe eeeCeee | Cedrela Brazilien-

| sis, St. Hil. |
2099 | Rhamnacee . -- | Condalia liniata,
| Gr.
2045 i. A pete | Zizyphus Mistol,
1698+), anGun

IER acc Urs eessoasse (4)

2118:| Sapindacem. .... Allophyllus edulis, |

| St. Hil.

MOE doa | Cupania vernalis, |

| Camb.

2296 Anacardiacee _.| SUDMIEE Cp= Soe

Sri | ee mee ee Sehinris latifolia,

Gr.

D28T We: Ome ss asain SCHINUS Spre-c sess
2128 wae a eC Nees Eee Schinopsis Loren-
2087 5 zli, Engelm.

1619) 325-00 Sse Schinopsis Bal-

| ans, Engel.

DOOR OO: se atace oe ei: | Lithriea Gilliesii,

(aes Gules
1799 | Leguminose. . - | Erthrina Crista-
galli, L.

TG lou hae eae | Myrocarpus  fas-

tigiatus, Fr. M1.

USYird erect) Eee re (?)

|
InSite seo eee (2)
1837 : Sdn esos | ()

Cedro

Vernacular name.

wAST COUN GH oes
Marnica de ca-
della negra.
Tembetary-mi --
Ibiratay—mi

Naranjo-Amargo |... .

Camboata blanco -

Guassatunga
blanea.

Piguillin

Mistol

Coronillo
Chalehal

aM Ones tase ee ee

Molletees-sasceee
Molle colorado... -

Molle blanco

Quebracho colo-

rado.

Cebo 6 Curti-

zera.

Inciensos)-2202 4 =

Rabo de macaco
blanco.

co.

Guatambii ama- |....

rillo.

| Guatambil blan- |....

Locality wl D rae
ocality where be iame-| rent
collected. Height ter. jnum-
ber.
Feet. | Feet.
Tucuman..-..- 30 oma
Misiones.....- 50 alee!
|
Santa Fe-..--- 50; || 2 | 419
Misiones...... TS ae — ose
ee COver otncis. 30+ 1 14
iircnmany eee 60 1 15
|
Misiones...-.- 65} 34: 16
aoe Orme Sere 254 1+ 7
ee Oa eee 30+ | 14 18
|
St Ci Ses See 90+ | 6: | 19
Tucuman. --.- | 80+ | 64 20
| |
Sanwhwuis) scee | 20 Zhe ik Pal
Santiago del | 50 14 22
Estero.
Misiones. ..-.- 16 4 23
Tucuman. --.- | 40 14 24
MOUs paiatein sa ; 40 14 25
|
|
Santiinmiseesase 20 1 26
ee OO soso 20 1 27
Santa Fe ..... Nee slice WAR 28
|
Santiago del 6 | 4 29
Estero, Tue-
uman. |
| |
ee dase ese iesoneriiied 30
Ae dOMessceioe B30 = no: 31
|
Misiones. .--.- 150 652) | aoe 32
Be Ome a ee | 80+ | 3+ 33
PecdOW sasee ee | 65 3+ 34
|
|
GW siehoatee 50) W026) 35
|
| |
Tilt) a ee | 60 | 3+ 36
|
1
i

176

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

List of the specimens donated by the Museo de Productos Argentinos alt Buenos Ayres—
Continued.

| |
ee Natural order. | Botanical name. | Vernacular name. | asia OO Tae Height |
| |
| Feet.
2079 | Leguminosie. ...| Macherium Tipa,} Tipa amarilla....) Tucuman.... - | 50
| Gr. |
GSS ued Osean seer Holocalyx Balan- | Ibera-pepé...-.-. | Santa Fe ..... | 30
se, Mx. |
G74) = =O... 5k Peltophornm Vo- | Canafistula ...--- Misiones ....- | 80+
| | gelianum, Bth. |
173 | eee leseaaeniedos IP Baoest sees eo Ibirapuita ....... li Garitas Ble). ccslecansae
| |
PVE ose ti) senesape soe | Cesalpina pre- |} Brea............- WCordovalesee =. | 25+
| | cox, R.P. |
SBP saeco): seeeacd ose | Cesalpina melan- |) Ttims.-.. 2... 2. -- Santiago del | ae = 3
ocarpa, Gr. Estero.
2071 }----do .----.....- |BasseLO cos) aero Guayacan ......- Tucuman..... | 50
| |
1786 ieee (Wy sseaassssbe Apulsia pogoma- | Ibirapiapuna ....| Misiones... -_- | 80+-
na, Fr. M1. | |
LOM oc sQKO oocc55eco5- | Pterogyne nitens, | Ibiraré.......... lee cd Olean ase el [mol
| Ful. |
1782 ----do ..-------.. Piptadenia Angi- | Anchico colorado |-...do ......... Weseonee
| co (Aut. ?). | |
1784 ieee “G(0) soenes¢5500 (?) Anchico blanco. .|..-.do .-.----.- | 65+
2088 |----do .........-. Piptadenia Cebil, | Cebil jaspeado -. | Toucuman\-.-- ; 65+
| Gr. | H
DUBGR eee, here e eas: ed ORR eee Cebil.. eae | Cue «Jee
| |
2384 |----do ...-...-..- | Prosopis sp-.-.--- Qnillinweeeeeeee | Santiago del | 30-++
| | Estero. |
2043 |; se dil) csseeog shee | Prosopis rucifolia, | Vimal...........-. eet once. cee | 30+
| Gr. |
1588 © CNS Owe erates | Prosopis nigro, | Algarrobo negro. | Santa Fe ..... | 40
10701-+5! Hieron. |
2069 Nooseilecscsededosllooes WOveS2 crereeace HdOfoscccaeee | Santiago del |.------
10698+-5) | Estero. |
1587 I ait el eee Prosopis Nandu- | Nandubey ...--.-- | Rocumean se = 40
| | bey, Ltz. |
10698 | MO eee | Mimosa Lorentzii,}| Garrabato .....-- | Santiago del | 20
| |) "Gx: | Estero.
2105 Mligy ft ec foe Pithecolobium tor-} Espinillo ......-. | Tucuman ..--- | 40
tum, Mart.
1590 |. BAG ee ees np RE O erence eae ania Gis Beane sel Santarhe: 222232222255
2097 | BLO eeioree ica et Enterolobiwm ||) Pacara.-..------2 Tuemmnai.\-.- | 100
Timbouva, Mart. |
IGBTS au oett (eee oa kd On Lae eee Timbo colorado..' Santa Fe......|...--.
2240 Woneneligtets fe: Bei Inga uruguensis, | Ingé-...--.....--. eee LOR eee aaer | 50
Hook & Arn. | |
1746 13 (ere he | (?) | imiboutacceesecosee (Oe ee eee 45-4
1737 | Combretacew ...| Faminalia sp Palo amarillo -...\..-. COM aeons 40
1817 | Myrtacew ...--- Myrica  sphiwro- | Guabiroba....---. Misiones.....- 654
| earpa, Bg. (?). |

Cur-

‘Diame-| rent
ter. |num-
ber.

Feet.
3-+- att
344 38
9+- 30
Bemis - 40
2 41
Be Scie ails 42
b+ 43
3 44
3+ 45
Sees 46
14 74
3 48
ERE oes 49
13 50
14 51

|
6 52
aes te 53
3+ | 54
1 | 55
lk | 56

|

|
Sao: 57
6 58
eee 59
23 l 60
1+ 61
Qi HONG,
22 Ge

SM 91, Pr 2

Dac:
12

SECTION OF FORESTRY. ai
List of the specimens donated by the Museo de Productos Argentinos at Buenos Ayres—
Continued.
; | ; | Cur-
ae o, Naturalorder. | Botanical name. | Vernacular name. aod | Height P tort seas
ber.
Feet. Feet.
1691 | Myrtacex ......| Psidium guava, | Guayabo..-..-.-.-. Santa ie.:..-- 20 7 64
| Raddi, von. | |
ERIBHE ce dOte!. «22... | Eugenia edulis, | Iguajaiagrio ....| Misiones...... | 50 3+) 65
| Bth. |
LB OMe Gi) wconcéoased So cRUGY Pee sob oeabaa oot) sescapescaEe Santa Fe....-. gers lost |Secesi= 66
IYO NGOs (ayer rae Eugenia Michelii | Vapority ....-.--. Misiones-....- | 40 1+ 67
| (Aut. ?). |
ICI | nen OIG) Soe ooeecnde Eugenia uniflora | Pitanga ......--- spediipooncaéac 30+ tp Gs
| (Aut. ?).
1825 lee AO secteteeec’ Eugenia Cambuy | Cambuy ..-...--- iG) moe anaes 50. | 1+ 69
| (Aut. 2). | |
ESI ae AC (eeoeetsareace Eugenia sp ..--.--- Ronajandulce ee ss\2—- 001s - =e -ia - 30+ [ee liana
jC 0g eS Ck er eee (?) Cayon de Gallo ..|....do .--..--:: Hs laa ae 71
1832 |. Ado Meese sche: (?) PONiiati-eurneZW 594-01 a sen se ame 50 1+ 72
2238 | Rubiacez....-.-| Calycophyllum | Palo de lanza | Santa Fe-...... 60+ 14 73
| multitlorum, Gr. blanco.
2120 | Myrsinew ...---, Myrsine flori- | San Antonio..... ‘Tucuman ..... 100 3+ 74
bunda, R. Br.
Baga Weeeeig as. < snes. Myrsine margi- | Palo de granada .| Santa Fe-..---- 40 14 75
| nata, Hook &
| | Arn. |
1695 nee 40:  asoacsobsc Myrsime Grise- | Palo de lanza -....|.---do ..-....-. 50) Wiles da 76
| bachii, Hieron. |
D2OSRIE wer dOsthe <tecoe (2) OdOt ses Misiones.....- | ~20 1 17
Aspidosperma |
2023 Quehbracko Cordova ..- | | 78
2388 : blanco, Schls | Tucuman.. | 79
2124 se ere Nate \ Tabernz mon- Quebracho blanco Santiago del ( 50 4 | 80-
| tana Histrix, ( Hstero.  )|
| CDEC
1677 |....do ........-..| Tabernz montana | Zapiranguy...---| Santa Fe....-.-. 25+ Uae || BL
Histrix,D.C. | | |
1789 Boraginacew....| Patagonula Amer-| Guayubira negra. Misiones. -..-- | 50 3+ 82
icana, L. |
DTQOM ase On seer ae ra tee: Patagonula sp - - - | Guayubira amar-|....do ......... 65+ 3+ 83
| illa. | |
TEGE) Te 6ec0lt) pear aoacacalle sod secbsse dontoe | Guayubira blanca|..-.do ....----- | 40 1 84
2117 | Bignoniacew ....| Techoma  stans, | (Gruman caesar | Tucuman..--. 50 ] | 85
Juss.
gor MOO %s soe eeee cee Tabebuia flaves- | Lapacho amarillo.) Misiones. .----) 30-38 | 86
A768 cens, Bth. and |
Hook.
PNG sai) cocdecessoq||525e (OY es catSemoctcs Lapacho negro. | SantanhiGssre. seaeeeee eee = 87
BOS eyeeer CO atsterayar-iatateser | Bignonia Caroba(?), Caroba..-----.---- Misiones. -.--. 60 | 10+ | 88
OL ASS seu Cee ee Jacaranda chelon- Maxvcors sates seers GOs42heesee 50 3+ | 89
Vee Gls | | |
1812 | Verbebacea..... Vitex monteviden- |) Taruma --------- lesa seers eats SON - |) pede eee
| sis, Cham. | | | |
1852 | Phytolaccacez..| Phytolacca doica,| Ombu...-.-.-.... |- ss CON secs oe 25+ 10+ 1 91
2109 | Piperacez .-...- Piper’ Sieberi, Cy | Wata.--...-<-..-- Tucuman..... | 15+ 4 | 92

178

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

List of the specimens donated by the Museo de Productos Argentinos at Buenos Ayres—
Continued.

Cur.
cee ind Natural order. Botanical name. | Vernacular name. Tay Were Height D besa pend
ber.
Feet. | Feet.
1743 | Laurines .-..--. Ocotea suaveolens,| Laurel Sahiji-..-.| Santa Fé....--. 60 3+ 93
Gr.
1870; |a5-.00). 24-2355 er Ocotea sp.....---- Laurel amarillo ..) Misiones... ..- 60 3+ 94
23960|— seaCLOe Soot cee te Nectandraporphy- | Laurel negro. .--. SC eOOgee ase sae 654- 3+ 95
ria, Gr.
DORA eee GO: wares = anise cl sin ere GO)sc22 coesesece Maurellissssseceeee MuegM ane olleeeecee anes 96
WRG i noee OO 2 ceee acces (?) Canda de bresxo -| Misiones. - ---- | . 65 aE 2 97
DAN) El ae ok ae ee (2) Candayruaicéy-ce-|-2 00 -ee ee -| 65+ 2 98
2024 | Santalacezw ..... Jodina rhombifo- | Quebracho flojo ..| Cordova ..-.-.-| 35-4 1+ 99
lia, H. and A.
HGH / Nea scala) sc thss Sabo Acanthosyris spin-| Ivahée.....------ Santa Fe......| 25+ 1s 100
escens, Gr.
1747 | Euphorbiacew ..| Croton  succiru- | Sangre de drago -|....do -..-..--. 254+ 1+ | 101
bens, Pdi. |
RBUES |e Seay encsscpenioe Sapium aucupar- | Curupicay -.----- Misiones.....- 50 1s 103
ium, Jacq., var.
TE hoes Ol aaSsacsocss Sebastiana sp. Palowblancoes-es-|55=- dOveessceee 40 1+ | 103
2395 | Urticacew -..--.-- Celtis Tala, Gill: | Tala ...--.-..:...: SEO OW AAO etree 25-++ g 104
var. Gilliesii.
ZOZT Nee OO eee ete cele = a GW Sssnegscosses Stans scansocgs Santiago del 25-++ q 105
Estero.
2068 Edi) = Stee seacnc Celtis|/Sellouviana, || 2=-do'.--2-22--2--|---- Gomierecaen 50 14 106
Mi.
TY |e eecut) ek aosenee Maclura Mora, Gr.| Mora ......-----. Misiones. ----- 60 24 107
SOG P2200 =- 2 el Ficus subtriplin- | Higuera brava..-.|..-.do .....-..- 50+ 4+ | 108
erva, Mart.
UG | Boeed OY ereceeseace Cecropia peltata, | Ambay --.-a----. 2se0 0,252 s5io5- 30+ 1+} 109
Gr.
2119 | Juglandacew....| Juglans australis, | Nogal....-....--- Tucuman.-=- - } 45-44 6+ 110
Gr.
1847 | Palmacew-...... Cocos) sattstraliss) | PEindo=---e-eee- Misiones....-- 50+ 1+ 111
Mart.

REPORT ON THE SECTION OF MATERIA MEDICA
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By JAMES M. Fuint, U. 8S. Navy, Honorary Curator.

Since the last report from this section was written, the work of
arranging, displaying, and providing with descriptive labels the large
number of specimens comprising the exhibit has been systematically
continued. With the exception of the small collection of medicines of
the North American Indians, and the Chinese and Japanese drugs,
every specimen of drug has now its printed descriptive label attached.
In addition to these, of the 862 illustrations of plants and animals in
the exhibit, 350 have their descriptive labels in place, 460 are printed
and ready for display, and the manuscript for the remainder is in the
hands of the printer.

Accessions to the number of 169 have been received during the year,
mostly from Messrs. Powers & Weightman, of Philadelphia, and Parke,
Davis & Co., of Detroit, in answer to requests for specified articles to
fill vacancies. Some novel and interesting additions have been made
to the botanical illustrations, consisting of herbarium specimens of
indigenous medicinal plants, not otherwise illustrated, with the char-
acters of each plant displayed by drawings of the magnified organs.
These were prepared with g’ zat skill by Mr. Theodore Holm, tempo-
rary assistant in this section. As mounted in the swinging frames,
they make an attractive addition to the collection. One hundred and
two photographs of indigenous plants have also been mounted, and
the descriptive labels prepared and printed.

The collection remains without material change in condition, loca-
tion, classification, or arrangement since the last report. The acces-
sions above mentioned were distributed principally among the ‘ chem-
ical products” and the “indigenous vegetable products.”

The following summary shows the number of specimens in each
series:

Eh IbONESOLIGA ae co eee seem oe eae ee ere sinew sae fe 3, 33D
IROSCIEV.E ROLIOS eee oe cya oe Ae at sre cis ors al eee Sc /ciens 1, 223
Pye eS EPICS ante cites coe ees eric eats eee econ ie oe 815

179
180 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Illustrations :
Colored) plates).:22 2-22 ences: 222s se eee aoe
Photographs: assess eter one eee eer 102
Herbarium) specimens 22225222 = 2eee ee ee 60
Micrographs: =... cicqject.- ee ces beets pores 38
== 862
6, 235
Last catalogue entry in June, 1890.........-...----.---- 142, 056
Last catalogue entry in June, 1891............-...-...- 142, 225

It is proper to say, in explanation of the fact that the total number
of specimens does not balance with the sum of the accessions for the
year and the total of the previous year’s report, that some of the acces-
sions prove to be triplicates and are absorbed in the duplicate list, that
a small percentage of specimens is every year rejected as worthless,
either originally or by unavoidable deterioration, and that the illustra-
tions are not entered in the catalogue.
REPORT ON THE SECTION OF PHYSICAL APPARATUS
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

By W. C. WiIntock, Honorary Curator.

The collection of physical apparatus, consisting chiefly of pieces pro-
cured by Prof. Henry for researches in electricity and sound, was stored,
when first placed in my charge, in the laboratory rooms on the third
story of the east wing of the Smithsonian Institution. In April, 1890,
all of the apparatus was placed, by the direction of the Secretary, though
without much systematic arrangement, in cases in the south entrance
of the building.

The pressure of other official duties has prevented me from devoting
the time necessary to catalogue this apparatus in a thorough manner,
though some progress has been made in laying out the work, and it is
hoped that an opportunity will soon be found to separate the pieces
that are of interest as Museum specimens from those that should be
placed in storage. ;

A careful distinction is made between the apparatus which is intended
for exhibition and that purchased for use in connection with the astro-
physical observatory and for other experimental purposes.

The curator hopes that with a little clerical assistance it will be pos-
sible to draw up a complete inventory of all the apparatus under his
care.

The principal accessions to the Museum apparatus are a collection of
ancient watch movements, made by the Secretary, Mr. 8S. P. Langley,
during a visit to London and Paris in the summer of 1890. These have
been labeled and exhibited, together with several ancient dials and an
interesting astrolabe, under the immediate care of Prof. Mason. Prof.
Mason has added a few watches that have been held in his own depart
ment.

A collection of old surveying instruments has been received from the
surveyor-general of Florida through the Department of the Interior. It
is supposed that these instruments were used by Andrew Ellicott, esq.,
the commissioner, on the part of the United States, in laying the boundary
line between Florida and Georgia in the year 1795 in conjunction with
the Spanish commissioner, Capt. Minot.

A set of bronze weights and the works of an ancient clock, purchased
in Spain at the request of Secretary Langley by Col. F. A. Seely, of the
United States Patent Office, have also been received.

181
re

ie
am
tidy
te:

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By THoMaAs WILSON, Curator.

A general review of the work of the department for the year covered
by this report, will compare favorably with that of the year previous.

The last half of the fiscal year was employed in the new classification
and arrangement of the collection. The changing of cases necessary
upon the removal and grouping of the Pueblo models in the west end
of the hall, the establishing of new synoptical cases, the classification
of arrow or spear-heads or knives, and the entire rearrangement of
specimens according to geographic locality are some of the differences
between the work of this and former years.

During the past year we have been engaged in making series of plas-
ter casts of typical specimens of stone implements, sufficient to make one
hundred sets, each containing one hundred casts, for distribution among
educational institutions. About fifty sets have been completed during
the fiscal year.

I completed during the past fiscal year the report of my visit to Paris
and the French Exposition, and of my attendance as a delegate to the
International Congresses of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archeology,
of Criminal Anthropology, of Hygiene and Demography, and of the
French Association for the Advancement of Science; as well as my
investigations into the Prehistoric Museums of France. The part re-
lating to Anthropology at the French Exposition is to be published in the
Annual Report of the U.S. National Museum, 1890; that on Criminal
Anthropology in the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution,
1890. My report on the International Congress of Hygiene and Demogra-
phy was published in the report of the Commissioners of the District of
Columbia for 1890, and that of the International Congress of Anthro-
pology and Prehistoric Archeology appeared in serial form in the Amer-
ican Naturalist, 189192.

IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR.

THE MOOREHEAD COLLECTION OF ABORIGINAL RELICS, comprising many beautiful
specimens, from Warren County, Ohio. In this collection will be found chipped
flint objects (such as arrow and spear points), polished hatchets, grooved axes,
pestles, discoidal stones, a large number of ceremonial objects, carved stone

183
184 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

pipes, implements and ornaments of copper, hematite, and galena, bone and shell
beads, and clay vessels—about five hundred specimens in all. The collection is
of great value from the fact that it is the result of one person’s (Mr. Simonton)
endeavors for over twenty years, is all from one county, and the genuineness of
the objects can not be disputed. (Ace. 23543). Deposited by Warren K. Moore-
head, of Xenia, Ohio.

O. N. BrRyAN (Marshall Hall, Charles County, Md.), who died July 11, 1890, be-
queathed his collection of one hundred and sixty-four specimens of rude quartz-
ite implements (some notched), arrow and spear points of quartzite, argillite,
and jasper, pierced tablet, stone slabs with mortar-like cavities, fragment of a
potstone vessel and fragments of pottery; from the vicinity of Marshall Hall.
(Ace: 23379:)

FREDERICK S. PERKINS (Madison, Wis.): A collection of prehistoric copper and
galena objects, 422 in number. The larger number of implements are from Wis-
consin, but Ohio, Illinois, New York, and West Virginia are represented. The
objects of galena are all from Ohio. (Purchase.) (Ace. 23617.)

Dr. HILBORN T. CRESSON (Philadelphia, Pa.): A collection of 536 specimens, including
tude chipped implements, quartzite and argillite (Paleolithic), arrow and spear
heads, scrapers, knives, ete., pieces of bone and charred wood, 372 specimens;
and fragments of pottery; from a rock shelter at Claymont, Del. Also,small rude
chipped implements and flakes, principally of quartzite and argillite, charred
wood and fragments of pottery found while digging a well on Christiana Creek,
Delaware, in the year 1848; 4 rude chipped implements of quartz and quartzite
(paleolithie type), and 15 fragments of human bones from the surface of the
marshes at the mouth of Christiana River, Delaware; jar containing charcoal
and ashes from a cave in Chelsea, Pa.; 56 small, rnde implements, and flakes,
mostly of quartzite, from Chickies Cave, Lancaster, Pa.; leaf-shaped implements
and 8 arrow heads from Chester, Pa.; flint scraper, arrow head, and a fragment
of a ceremonial object from Lancaster County, Pa.; 55 leaf-shaped argillite im-
plements from the valley of the Delaware River; carved stone pipe and two
small rude flint implements from a cave in east Tennessee. (Deposit.) (Ace.
24318.)

Dr. HiILBorN T. Cresson (Philadelphia, Pa): A collection of 1,383 archeological
objects from dredging stations A, B, and C, at the mouth of Naaman Creek, Del-
aware. (Deposit.) (Acc. 23766.)

From Dredging Station A.—Arrow and spear points of argillite, ete.; rude quartzite
flakes; spear point or knife; grooved sinkers.

From Dredging Station B.—Grooved axes (one broken); fragments of polished
hatchet; arrow and spear points; rude points; chips, flakes and broken points of
quartzite, etc.; fragments of drilled ceremonial object; fragments of pottery;
fragments of pile ends charred by fire; fragment of one of the wooden struc-
tures; grooved sinkers; oval-shaped implement of jasper; oval-shaped imple-
ment of argillite; human skull.

From Dredging Station C.—Broken knives, arrow and spear points of quartz,
quartzite, jasper, ete.; arrow and spear points of argillite; large spear head of
argillite; grooved sinkers; fragments of shell and bone; fragments of turtle
shell; pottery, bone, charcoal (charred end of stake); chips, flakes and broken
points of argillite, quartz and quartzite dredged.

Prof. E. D. Cope (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.): Two leaf-shaped
obsidian implements from the Equus beds of Fossil Lake, Oregon. (Gift.) (Ace.
24358.)

Prof. H. W. HAYNES (Boston, Mass.): Six rude pieces of quartz (implements?), from
Lisbon, Dublin, and Franconia, New Hampshire, and North Quincy, Mass.; and
14 flint implements (paleolithic) from Egypt. These specimens (20 in number)
arelent to the Museum for one year. (Acc. 23863. )
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 185

Mrs. Gen. J. H. BAxTER (Washington, D.C.): Thirty-seven specimens of ancient
Peruvian pottery collected by William Tryon, and sent to Gen. J. H. Baxter,
Surgeon-General U.S. Army. These specimens are deposited in the Museum with
the request that they be labeled and known as the ‘Tryon collection.” (Gift.)
(Ace. 24195. )

THOMAS HERRAN (Hamburg, Germany): Nine gold ornaments from ancient Indian
graves in the province of Antioquia, United States of Colombia. (Purchased.)
(Act. 23661.)

Capt. JoHN G. BourRKE, Third Cavalry, U. 8. Army (Washington, D. C.): A collee-
tion of 64 specimens of archeological objects from cliff rnins and pueblos in Ari-
zona and New Mexico. (Gift.) (Aéec. 24169.)

Dr. WASHINGTON MarrHrws (Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C.): Five
packages of dyed wool of the Navajo sheep, and three packages of dye stuffs
used by the Navajo Indians of New Mexico and Arizona, and illustrative of his
paper on Navajo weaving, American Anthropologist. (Gift.) (Ace. 24191.)

GEORGE B. FRAZAR (West Medford, Mass.): Collection of 65 rude chipped imple-
ments (Chelleén type), 22 rude knives and points, 15 leaf-shaped implements
(more or less broken), 8 arrow points, and 8 chips and flakes. There were also
received 25 rude chipped implements, and 10 rude knives and points of white
quartz, 4 hammerstones and a fragment of a polished stone hatchet, from Black-
man’s farm, Blackman’s Point, at the mouth of Cut River, Marshfield, Mass.
(Gift.) (Ace. 23756.)

Dr. Fk. H. GoopwIn (Tueson, Ariz.): A carved stone placque which was taken from
an old Indian grave on the bluff bank of the San Pedro River, in Cochise County,
Ariz. (Gift.) (Acc. 24231.)

Dr. CHARLES M. Stuspss (Wakefield, Pa.): Nineteen stone ‘‘ picks” used in the
manufacture of potstone vessels ‘‘by the Shawnee Indians,” and 5 fragments of
potstone vessels, found near Wakefield, Lancaster County, Pa. (Gift.) (Ace.
28752.)

R. M. BARTLEMAN (Secretary of legation, United States of America, Caracas, Vene-
zuela): A small pottery vase found while excavating for phosphate in what had
been a fissure, but now filled to a depth of about 30 feet, on the island of Gran
Roque, 60 miles north from the coast of Venezuela. Also a stone implement or
ornament from a cave in the Cordilleras of Merida, Venezuela; a small painted
stone hatchet and 2 stone chisels (?) from Venezuela, exact locality uot stated.
(Gift.) (Ace. 23968. )

Prof. I. C. RussELL (U. 8. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.): Two stone mor-
tars (ornamented with rude carvings) used for grinding tobacco and also as a
lamp; a stone adze, and a rude pointed stone implement of unknown use, from
Yukatat, Alaska. (Gift.) (Ace. 23735.)

HALBERT Rust (Jeffersonville, Clarke County, Ind.): A collection from an Indian
burial place near Clarkesville, Clarke County, Ind. Human bones more or less
broken (parts of skull, leg, arm, feet, hand, and vertebre). Iron stone nodule
found at the head of the skeleton; a small piece of worked bone found with the
feet bones; a jar containing portionsof the material surrounding and overlying
the body; subsoil, soil, charcoal, ashes, shells, flint chips, limestone, bones,
“lucky stones,” ete.; a flint hammerstone, a stone sinker, 13 bone awls, bone fish-
hook, 6 fragments of worked bone, and 14 fragments of pottery; all from the
immediate vicinity of the burial place. (Gift.) (Ace. 24332.)

GEORGE R. MERRILL (Grand Rapids, Mich.): A human skull (Indian) with three
holes one-fourth inch in diameter, one-half inch apart, drilled in the top. Each
is countersunk. Found two miles west of the city hall, in Detroit, Mich. Also
one perforated and two unperforated skulls, apparently those of squaws. With
these skulls were found bones heaped en masse, some of which were wanting,
indicating that at some time they had been reburied. (Gift.)

,
186 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Byron E. DopGeE (Richfield, Genesee County, Mich.): A stone hatchet with handle
of wood, found in Genesee County, Mich. Also, a spearhead of agate and a cat-
linite pipe from same locality. (Deposit.) (Ace. 24272.)

Epwarp T. INGRAM (Marshalltown, Pa.): Sixty-one leaf-shaped implements of
argillite, found en cache in Chester County, Pa. These are a valuable contribu-
tion to our display, and have been arranged as found and the cache reproduced.
(Gift.) (Ace, 24026. )

JOHN G. WEBB (Osprey, Manatee County, Fla.): Fragment of a human skull turned
to limonite, found in 1868 on section 3, township 37 S., range 18 E., Little Sarasota
Bay, Florida. (Gift.) (Ace. 24115.) :

JOHN G. WEBB (Osprey, Manatee County, Fla.): Two pieces of sandstone rock con-
taining fossil human bones; vertebrie and ribs, found on section 10, township
37 §., range 18 E., Little Sarasota Bay, Florida. (Gift,) (Ace. 23727.)

JOSEPH WILCOX (Philadelphia, Pa.): Fossil human bone, socket of femur inclosed
in limonite, found in 1886 by Col. Wilcox and Prof. Heilprin on section 6, town-
ship 36 8., range 18 E., on Sarasota Bay, Florida. (Gift.) (Ace. 24357.)

G. G. B. GREENWOOD (Minerva Ohio): A mortar made from a sandstone bowlder
found by W. R. Tarbet in the Canal Dover gravel pit, glacial moraine, Tuscarawas
County, Ohio. (Gift.) Ace. 23497.)

STATEMENT OF CHARACTER OF ROUTINE WORK, CLASSIFICATION
AND ARRANGEMENT OF COLLECTION, ETC.

The routine work has been of much the same character as in former
years. It consists primarily of the receipt of specimens, their classifi-
cation, naming, numbering, entering in the catalogue with accession
and catalogue numbers, and marking the number of each specimen,
and, on a considerable portion of them, the locality and donor’s name.
The entering of them in the catalogue books requires also the recording
of all information received or obtainable from the senders, and finally
the distribution of the objects in their proper cases.

The collections, as displayed in the cases of the grand hall, have to
be rearranged according as new specimens are received. Monthly re-
ports and reports upon letters and objects sent for examination, the
giving of information, answering of letters, conducting friends and visit-
ors through the Museum, and explaining the objects to them—these are
the other portions of routine work, and they are more than _ sufficient
to occupy office hours. There have been almost a thousand reports
and letters written during the year, consuming: nigh six thousand
pages of type-written matter, the principal portion of which was dic-
tated into the phonograph by the curator at his home out of office
hours.

Some years ago the curator prepared and submitted to the Director
of the National Museum a proposition for a new classification and rear-
rangement of the departmental collection. The previous arrangement
was according to function; that is, all objects, from whatever locality,
were placed together, as grooved axes together, stone hatchets together,
and so of all kinds of arrow and spear-heads, knives, scrapers, ete.

This I proposed to abandon, and to substitute for it an arrangement
according to locality, all objects of whatever nature from a given local-
ity to be displayed together.
MONDE
| rs ag or MEX/CO. WEST INDIES. — ys Aad

OPTICAL CIASE.

dy
S88 SS
a zea “los
> Te2 Sm
ze> yes

“29

om

> in)
gs [g
See S
m =
zm 5
aS Silo
q =
S
EARTH WORKS, S S
UNION CO, ~ S
(i 8 =
& x
ae
a | C2 ee ae ee
x/CO AWD CENTRAL AMERICA .
cae STEATITE
pee CREOR Me Lo _Jeatrrorna) ~——
IOUTH

‘MENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY, U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
| fren! |

‘

[sya] OPTICAL dase. |
& mn
ry 2
- oS
x
: hd °
2 J
8
&
2
=
5
TERN
WESTE } EASTERN HEMISPHERE.
iy 2,
2 loan
She ~ § xy
Sir] |= = Sue =
s : ee = mh
5 >= Le) m is}
3 3 s Q 8
$ = x
7 2 ™ > N =
: sls! [13 O FR 0 3] [8 : 5
= rn <|o a ns} bs) :
s . ny s .
1 = a
oapooo :
Ane CENTRE AMERICA.
——t fresno — [onecon| — [oneaow| — CALIFORNIA. | catrrorwia. —_| EEA i STEATITE

OUT
i
PLAN OF ARRANGEMENT OF EXHIBITION CASES IN THE . i OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY, U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
4

a ames |

=
‘
:
- WORTH
VTRIANGE ea so SOUTH
| ss a MEX/CO. WEST INDIES. aM E RICA

OPTICAL CIASE.

VAS)
WNIL

a

"9LNIWIT a W/
LNI/IING
‘NN L

iS)
S
~
SI
=

PINOLE TWI/MCAL
SLSVIOWMIASVTS

3
eel ole a
SS ee tar
=m z=la SSh
a IN Qc0
° 2 3S =
1 = ==
S
3 s| {9
: i Y RIN
C. ILL. S $ q
S] |e|s
Q ss
(Se a Ee
x/CO ANVO CENTAAL AMERICA.
LOWER
ALIFORN/A. 5 STEATITE
jaa C. “/ ORNIA aay CALIFORNIA BSS
;OUTH

“MENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY, U. S, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 187

Primarily this division would be by States and Territories, then by
such interior localities as might be found practicable, but with an in-
flexible rule that objects from a given cemetery, grave, mound, earth-
work, or other monument should be kept together. There are but two
exceptions to this arrangement. Some specimens have been taken out
of the spaces assigned to their localities to serve in the synoptical cases.
Some others are banner-stones, bird and beast shaped, the function of
which is unknown. The copper objects have been taken out and
grouped together, but they have all been replaced in their localities
with representative drawings. In April of last year the order was
received to carry this scheme of classification into effect. The ar-
ranged cases had to be entirely changed, and every movable case on
the floor placed in a new position. The trays in each case had to be
changed as well as a large proportion of the objects in each tray. As
the specimens in my department number in the neighborhood of
160,000, it will be seen that this work involved no small labor, and
almost the entire latter half of the fiscal year was consumed in its per-
formance. It was done in great hurry in preparing for the meetings of
the scientific societies and congresses which were to be held in August
and September, 1891, in Washington City. It required the services of
the entire force of the department to the neglect of routine duty, and
was barely completed in time. In the haste consequent upon this,
there will be found a necessity for a continuation of the work in further
re-arrangement and classification, and in the preparation of new labels.
If the science of prehistoric anthropology were well known and firmly
determined, it would not be difficult to effect these new arrangements
and write the new labels, but everything is so strange that one has to
proceed carefully and step by step, as in working out a new invention.

The main body of the hall is occupied by these different cases—tall
uprights, slope-topped, and flat-topped cases—which contain the objects
belonging to the neolithic period of the United States, divided accord-
ing to States and Territories.

A diagram of hall with localities indicated is here presented (Plate 1).
The States are not arranged according to sequence, as it was difficult to
do so. This difficulty will be apparent after a moment’s consideration.
While the New England and Middle States will follow in regular se-
quence, yet, on arriving at Pennsylvania and Maryland, the line may
branch off to the west and go through Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, or go
south through Maryland, Virginia, and the Carolinas. Tennessee and
Kentucky belong, of course, together, but they join equally Ohio, In-
diana, and Illinois on the north, Virginia and the Carolinas on the east,
Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi on the south, and Missouri and Ar-
kansas on the west. They can not be put in juxtaposition with all
these mentioned, and therefore sacrifices must be made. The same is
true of other States, which will be apparent without being mentioned.
The exigencies of display arising from the different kinds of cases and
188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

their positions only added to this difficulty, and it was evaded or ac-
complished by concession on the one hand or the other so as finally to
make the best display possible.

This new classification and arrangement of the department is such a
departure from former procedures as to justify a few sentences of ex-
planation. The arrangement in former times was to exhibit all objects
of one kind together, classifying them according to function, as has
been described. This classification undoubtedly served a good purpose
in its beginning, but it had wrought out that purpose, and Dr. Rau
declares in his last report (Smithsonian Annual Report for 1886, p.
111), that the collection would be ultimately arranged geographically.
Such, therefore, was his intention at the time of his death, and I do but
carry it out.

His conclusion and the present action are correct on principle. All
museums other than prehistoric, proceed upon a different basis, with a
different method of education, and are in pursuit of a different object
(from the prehistoric). In the historic museum the objects displayed
are after the fashion of illustrations in a book. They are only used as
deseriptive of the particular branch of art, science, or civilization to
which they belong. They have nothing, or but little, primarily to do
with the history of the people who made or used them. That history
is given in books and in the descriptions of travelers and visitors. The
books contain the text of the history, while the objects displayed in the
museums are the illustrations of the various branches to which they
belong. Not soin a prehistoric museum, While the objects displayed
also serve as illustrations and are to be studied for their own sake, in
order to determine their origin, mode of manufacture, use and the vari-
ous improvements that may have been made in all these regards, yet
none of these have the primary idea on which the prehistoric museum is
based. The objects belong to a prehistoric age and have no history, or
but little. They were made and used by a people of whose origin, mi-
gration, government, manners, habits, customs, civilization, we have no
history. The articles or objects displayed in the prehistoric museum,
when viewed in connection with their disgovery, association, and strata
of superposition form the only basis of knowledge we have of the peo-
ple. These articles are at once the texts of the history as well as its
illustrations.

In historic museums we study the object displayed; in the prehistoric
museum we rather study the man who made the object, and therefore
the necessity of having all his relics and remains assembled together.
Thus will be shown, side by side and at a glance, all the paraphernalia
of a tribe or the occupants of a given locality, whether the objects be
for use in war, the chase, agriculture, domestic and home life, ceremony,
religion, medicine, or what not. These, together with man’s remains
as found in his graves and tombs, and the monuments he has left form
all our sources of knowledge concerning him. ‘To properly study the
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 189

man in all his phases and to become acquainted with his history, it is
necessary that we combine and study together all these things. For
this reason the arrangement and classification of a prehistoric museum
should be geographical, and according to locality rather than according
to function; and so it has been made.

The Pueblo models which formerly were in irregular and unsuitable
places in the center of the hall, have been grouped at its west end, laid
out and arranged as shown in Plate I. I respectfully report that
the improvement in their appearance and the attraction and interest
they have for the public is so great that I will not attempt to describe
it. Hach individual model is a work of art, and it represents, as noth-
ing else can, the real objects. When these are grouped, as they now
are, in a harmonious and homogeneous arrangement, with the relief
map to serve as a guide and indicator, by which the relative position of
the various pueblos may be easily understood, it may be seen how great
is the improvement. When the industrial objects from these pueblos
shall be assembled so that one can view in juxtaposition the countries
they occupy, the towns and houses peopled with the representations or
reproductions of the Indians who were their actual occupants, repre-
sented in life size and clothed with their original garments, their house-
hold utensils, their thousands of pieces of pottery, their hundreds of
textile fabrics, their objects of ceremony, the sacred blankets, the medi-
cine man’s outfit, and all the objects which figure to such an extent in
the grand ceremonial dances, the rain and prey gods, all of which we
possess in the Museum in such numbers and of such importance: When
to these are added the magnificent photographic transparencies now
shown in the lecture hall of the National Museum, the result will not
be excelled by any other unit display in any museum in the world. I
congratulate myself upon having done in this year’s work what I could
to obtain the excellence of that portion of this display which belongs to
my department, and the pueblo room in the west end of the hall is prov-
ing an increased attraction to the public.

The pueblo models are arranged in three rows, each one grouped
together with aisles on all four sides, convenient for their inspection.
They occupy the entire width of the hall (48 feet and a depth of 33 feet,
area, 1,584 square feet, including aisles), and are separated from the
main body of the hall by upright alcove cases, giving it the appearance
of a separate room, which is indicated by a sign overhead ‘ Pueblos.”
They are so arranged as to present their most favorable view on enter-
ing. The models in front are of lower altitude (29 inches) while those
in the rear are banked each one higher, until the farthest is 45 inches
in height; thus they make the most attractive display possible.

The pueblo ot Zuni, New Mexico (20 by 12 feet), is on the south, and
from its great size nearly fills the row. In its front is Montezuma Well,
Arizona (4 by 5 feet), We-ji-gi, Chaco Canon, New Mexico; Tegua, Ari-
zona (4.2 by 2.3 feet).
190 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The center row is arranged as follows: Relief map of Tusayan, Ari-
zona, 7 by 9 feet; Shimopavi, Arizona, 5 by 9 feet; Mishonivi, Arizona,
5 by 9 feet; Shipaneluvi, Arizona, 6.4 by 9 feet; Penasco Blanco, Ari-
zona, 7.6 by 9 feet.

The north row is arranged as follows: Sechomovi, Arizona, 3.6 by 8.5
feet; Acoma, New Mexico, 3.1 by 3.8 feet; Tewa, Arizona, 5 by 8.5 feet;
Taos, New Mexico, 3.6 by 3.10 feet; Oraibi, Arizona, 9.9 by 13 feet;
Wolpi, Arizona, 5.6 by 14.9 feet.

The smaller models are placed in aleoves and windowseats and on
tops of cases. They are as follows: Mummy Cave, a cliffruin in Cation
del Muerte, Arizona; Cliff Ruin, valley of Rio de Chelly, Arizona;
Cliff Fortress, Beaver Creek, Arizona; Cliff Ruin, Rio Mancos, Colo-
rado; Cliff Ruin, Cation de Chelly, Arizona; Cave town, from the cliffs
of Rio de Chelly, Arizona; restoration of same; Pueblo Bonita (restora-
tion), Chaco Canon, New Mexico; Ruin of Small Pueblo, near Pueblo
Alto, Chaco Canon, New Mexico; Cliff Ruin, Casa Blanca (White
House), Cation de Chelly, Arizona; Ruined Tower, McEImo Creek, Rio
San Juan, Colorado. ;

Framed labels have been prepared, giving full description and placed
on or against each model. Maps of the region are at the entrance,
hinged to the first case, so they can be placed in position for study
when needed, and when not, can be let down out of the way.

The original objects belonging to these models have been and will be
placed in the cases around the walls, so that the entire archeological
discoveries from each locality can be seen at a glance, and compared
with themselves and with each other, according to the desire of the
visitor.

The occupation of this space at the west end of the hall by the pueb-
los necessitated a vacation of the various cases which had stood there.
They were pushed farther to the east and now form the boundary of
the pueblo room. This demanded rearrangement of the cases within
the room, and all of them had to be moved in some way or other. The
necessity for this change was increased by the order given by the
Director on my recommendation removing the 14 temporary tables with
legs. They had been made of soft wood, originally for use in some ex-
position. They are now being replaced by cases inclosed, containing
drawers for the storage of material, the first we have had for such a
purpose. This is a great improvement. I have endeavored to group
the objects from different countries together, and to so employ the taller
upright cases as to divide these countries as by screens, which will be
apparent to the eye and so form the semblance of a room or chamber
adapted to each country.

The room at the extreme east of the hall is devoted to European pre-
historic objects. In the line of wall-cases along the north side of the
hall are displayed the objects from Mexico, Central and South America.
In the foyer in the center of the hall, used as an entrance, are dis-
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 191

played special objects which, owing to their size and condition, could
not be properly displayed elsewhere.

The first display seen on entering is in the synoptical cases, which
are arranged geographically, chronologically, and in sequence; on the
left are six cases representing the prehistoric anthropology of the east-
ern hemisphere, so far as we have objects for that purpose. The first
two cases are occupied with the first epoch of the Stone Age, which —
has been called different names by different scientists corresponding to
the Chelleén Epoch of de Mortillet, the Cave Bear of Lartet, the Mam-
moth of Dupont, and the Alluvium of Solomon Reinach. I have divided
this epoch according to the localities from which the various objects
displayed have come. England is first represented, and the divisions
are made into southeast and southwest of that country; France is rep-
resented in divisions showing the northern, central, eastern, the south-
ern, the central western, and the northwestern; Spain, Portugal, and
Italy have representatives; Africa has a most excellent representation
lent to us by Prof. Henry W. Haynes, of Boston, who was the original
discoverer, and here are displayed many of the original implements found
by him described and figured in his monograph entitled “ Discovery of
Paleolithic Flint Implements in Upper Egypt.” (Mem. Amer. Acad.,
vol. X, Boston, 1881.) For this discovery Prof. Haynes was awarded a
bronze medal by the French Exposition of 1878, where he made the
first announcement of his discovery and his display of the. objects.
Asia is represented by specimens from the laterite beds near Madras.
Each of these displays is accompanied by a map of the country on
which is marked the locality from which the objects come. There is
displayed in this synoptical case outline drawings of the various human
skulls found in different parts of Europe, belonging to the quaternary
geologic formation, supposed to be here represented, and along with
them reproductions and restorations of the various extinct animals
believed to have been contemporaneous with the man of that epoch.

The succeeding epoch, that of the caverns according to the nomen-
clature of M. Reinach, the reindeer of Dupont and Lartet, and that
of Moustier, Solutre, and Madeline of de Mortillet, is in two cases some-
what similarly divided, although the evidences of that epoch have
not been found so widely distributed as the former. Here are to be found
the first improvement in industry and art, the fine chipping of the Solu-
treén leaf-shaped implement, the long flakes used as knives or saws, the
round-ended scraper, the flint graver, and the bone points, harpoons,
and needles. During this epoch these make their first appearance in
the civilization of the world. Along with them are displayed the most
important specimens of the three or four hundred objects of art work
which have been found principally in the caverns of France, showing
the artistic capabilities of the paleolithie man of this epoch. These
specimens are necessarily all casts, the originals not being. obtainable.
The British Museum has lately purchased the collection made by Mon-
192 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

sieur Peccadeau de l’Isle, of Toulouse, for which the latter gentleman
asked in my presence the sum of $8,000.

The other two cases of foreign countries contain the display of the
Polished Stone Age and the Bronze Age.

This case is but a synopsis and contains only a small proportion of
the specimens we possess, and which are shown in the proper part of
. the Museum.

Upon the right-hand side of the entrance, the direction indicated by
arrows, is the same synoptical display made from America. First, the
extinct animals belonging to the quaternary geological period, and
along with them a representative paleolithic implement from each state
of the United States in which they have been found. Adjoining this
isa sample of the discovery of Dr. Cresson at Claymont, Del., in a rock-
shelter, the lower strata of which represents paleolithic, and superim-
posed are the various layers of subsequent human occupation, ending
with that of the Indian as represented by his arrow heads and other
common implements. The other objects from America need not be
mentioned, but they are such as are commonly seen in collections, one
or two of each having been taken out of their cases, the object being
to form a synopsis of the department.

In the last case on this side is an attempt at classification and
arrangement of the arrow or spear-heads or knives, which will be men-
tioned further on.

The rest of the foyer is filled with objects which, from their great size
or other conditions, can not be conveniently displayed in cases with
their respective localities: The Sacrificial Stone, Cuanhaialli of Tizoe
from Mexico; Chac-Mool, the statue from Yucatan; the carved entrance
to the Palace of Palenque; the largest and finest metates from Mexico
and Central America; a large cupstone weighing about 250 pounds,
containing fifty-three cups upon its one side, from Wheeling, W. Va.;
casts of grinding stones from Rhode Island, taken from and forming
part of the original rock in place, which could not itself be moved;
wooden coffins and cedar ladder belonging to and found in the caverns
which were occupied by aboriginal people in northern Alabama, and
the display of the series of coins from the British Museum, beginning at
700 B.C. and coming to the first century A. D.

The hall is 200 feet east and west by 50 feet north and south. Its
total area, counting by outside lines, is 10,000 square feet. Its utilized
area is 13,507 square feet. But we have done better than this. Under
the present arrangement, the exhibition space has been increased from
5,604 to 8,183 square feet, the space occupied by the pueblo models has
been reduced from 1,750 to 1,584 square feet, including passage ways.
The aisle space has been reduced by some thousand feet, and the space
at the entrance has been much increased. Thus it will be perceived that
the rearrangement has been a gain in every way, an crease in exhibi-
tion space, a decrease in aisle space, and a vast improvement in artistic
appearance and scientific utility.
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 193

The increase in drawer space, by means of the seven new table cases,
is such an improvement and convenience tht
words fail to deseribe it. [ am promised that
the other seven will be completed within the

ewrrent year.

I have prepared a
tableshowing the ar-
rangement of cases
and the amount of
space gained for ex-
hibition purposes.
Accompanying it is
a section (here pre-
sented,) Showing
the arrangement of
shelves in one of the
upright alcove
cases by which it
will be seen that
sloping shelves have
been so arranged
that 8 square feet of
exhibition area is
obtained from one
running foot of each

case, and every ob- | Pees
ject in plain sight. BAGS P= section of upright alcove case, showing arrangement of
= shelves without interference of view.

POINT OF
VISION

STATEMENT OF ARRANGEMENT OF CASES AND AMOUNT OF EXHIBITION SPACK.,

Fifty-seven wall cases, 10 feet high, 2 feet 8 inches deep, and 300 feet 6 inches run-
ning measure, Space area, 800 square feet. Seven shelves make additional square
feet, and with the top used for exhibition purposes make 8; 300: 6x10, averaging 10
feet to cach running foot, 3,000.

Seventeen double upright alcove cases, 7 feet 10 inches high, 9 feet 2 inches long, 4
feet 9inches deep. Total floor space, 1,498 square feet. One hundred and fifty-five
feet of running measure of six shelves area in each side of each, twelve in all, 16 feet
area to each running foot of case, 2,480.

Twenty-one single table cases, 9 feet 2 by 2 feet 6, 23 feet 10 inches area for each
ease. Total area for 21 cases, 500 square feet. Exhibition space underneath, 500.

Twelve single table cases, 7 by 2.5. Seventeen feet area for each case. Total area
for 12 eases, 204 square feet. Exhibition space underneath, 204.

Three mahogany cases, 8 feet 10 by 2 feet 10 inches, 25 feet area for each case;
total for 3 cases, 75. :

Fight double table cases, 9 feet 2 by 4 feet 6 inches, 41 feet area for each case;
total area for 8 cases, 328. Exhibition space underneath, 328.

Fourteen double table cases, same superfice, 41 feet area for each case; total for
fourteen cases, 574. The bottom of these are intended for drawers, and not for exhi-
bition. Seven new cases were made during the year.

Seven more are required; when they are completed, we will be well provided with
alrawerspace. Thiswasmuch needed, for we were before practically without such space.

SM 91, pr 2 13

4. REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The space now occupied by exhibition cases is. -..-.---------------+-------- 8, 183
Pueblo:models cc 2sace eect tok ee eee Bee eee aaa 1, 584
Twenty-one window spaces filled with radiators and Central American seulp-
UU Sa oG ieee aa Sac eS ong ee oor iaSEs ao Bienen ac (Sonne sromnmSsoomsoa sop Sa Adee 378
10, 145
Center space filled with statues, models, etc -...-..-----.----------------- 1, 150
TMDL Mech Woy Ed MM OWAMONMS sos hems 8-55) sh ocean essa zest ooe dene Fo58 11, 295
IN GIG ace ea0 asce GaSe Geass Cao on soso CS Sresomrare conc osgedan soe 1, 582
TDi ee HOVE) aot Se ROBO Soci PSE ae Soe ence aa esis noo oct. aot 5 794 2,376
13, 671

REVIEW OF SPECIAL RESEARCHES PROSECUTED UPON MATERIAL
BELONGING TO THE DEPARTMENT.

In the matter of special researches belonging to the department, the
year commenced with fine promise, but was interrupted by the work
of classification and rearrangement before referred to. However, some-
thing not entirely insignificant was done under this head, and the
work of classification and rearrangement was an assistance and aid in
some regard in this direction. The classification of copper implementS
incident to the Perkins collection led to special researches in that re-
gard, which are not concluded. The research into these copper imple-
ments developed the possible fact that while Wisconsin and Michigan
are the richest States in copper implements, and contain the most cele-
brated copper mines in the eastern United States supposed to have
been wrought in prehistoric times, yet this ecllection shows that of
these two States the portions most distant from the copper mines, to
the south and east, yielded the greatest number of copper objects;
and also that the implemenis are materially different in style and
mode of construction and workmanship from those in other states.
They also give color to the claim, easily made and strongly disputed
heretofore, that the Indians of that time knew the art of melting, mold-
ing, and casting.

Special researches have been made upon the jade question, as it is
presented by my prehistoric work. This is one of the most interesting
questions arising in this science. It has been much discussed in Europe,
Asia, and America, and considerable progress has been made in the ac-
quirement of knowledge concerning it. But there still exists among
the people, even those well informed, much misunderstanding and igno-
rance upon this question.

The researches upon the subject of arrow or spear-heads or knives
has been described under the head of new classification. It was prae-
tically a work of invention and had to be gone over and corrected step
by step.

The making of the svnoptical case was also a labor of special research
which I hope was neither impracticable nor unprofitable, but which,
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. £95

ike the former, was also a labor of inventionand had to be wrought out
step by step.

I have continued my investigations upon the subject of implements
belonging to the paleolithic period, and each step has increased my be-
lief in the existence of such a period. I believe we have found the
objects of industry belonging to the man of that period, and have been
able to extend the period of his antiquity greater than has before been
supposed.

Another subject of special research in regard to material in my de-
partment was the investigation into the casts and models of the Aztee
and Maya antiquities from Mexico and Yucatan, as comprised in the
Lorillard collection made by Mons. Charnay, and by the Abadiano col-
lection. In this work I was materially assisted, in fact it was done
almost exclusively by Mr. Gustav Hisen, of the California Academy of
Science, who has given years of serious study and investigation to
deciphering the Maya hieroglyphs. His interest is centered in the
glyphs, meroglyphs, and ideographs of which this Museum possesses
such a rich collection in the form of casts. Mr. Charles Russell, consul
at Laguna, extracted and brought away the stone slab forming the right
side of the altar of the “Temple of the Cross,” and it was deposited
in the Smithsonian Institution many years ago. It is described in
Dr. Raw’s “ Palenque Tablet,” 1879. This slab was unfortunately broken
on its voyage in three pieces nearly equal in size. Upon its arrival at
the Smithsonian Institution it was stored in the basement, where, by
some unfortunate and unlucky accident in the attempt to remove it, it
was again broken into several fragments. It was afterwards put to-
gether and restored. Many small pieces were broken out along the
edges of the fractures and these were filled with plaster, and the attempt
made by engraving in this plaster to reconstruct the glyphs which had
been broken. In this the restorers were not successful, and there are
now found to be many errors, but the valuable portion of the discovery
now made is that some time prior to the fracture of this slab a cast had
been taken and a model made, which is now in possession of the Museum.
This model contains the correct reproduction of these now broken and
destroyed glyphs, so that the plaster cast becomes of greater value
than the original slab. Lam informed by Mr. Eisen that he has been in
communication with Mr. Charnay and that the latter informs him that
the casts from which these sculptures were taken have been so far
destroyed that they can never be used again; that there are no more,
or, at least, but one more set, of these casts of sculptures obtainable,
and that if any of these in our possession should be broken or destroyed
most of them can never be replaced. Consequently, their value is
is greatly enhanced. I feel it incumbent to recommend that the best
means be employed by which these valuable specimens be preserved.
As their value increases in time in accordance with our knowledge of
their importance, rarity, and difficulty of replacing, so we find that they
196 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

not only need the best care for their safety and preservation, but
that they should be so arranged as to make a satisfactory display to
the publie and at the same time be easily studied by those who may
desire. They will come more and more into demand as time progresses.
Their value will become better and better recognized, and it might be
well for the Museum to make provision by which these valuable relics
should be duplicated. The series should be extended to include all other
specimens so as to become as complete as possible, and they should,
according to the general plan proposed by me, be united with all antt-
quities from the same country and displayed in one group or chamber.
The great altar of the “Temple of the Cross” was divided into three
great Slabs of stone. The right half is possessed by our Museum, as
described; the central portion was removed from its place and carried
a short distance in the attempt to transport it to Mexico; the task was
found too difficult and it was allowed to remain exposed to the running
water and the elements for twenty more years, and so damaged as to be
nearly destroyed. It has lately been transported to the city of Mexico,
where itnowis. The left-hand portion still remains in Yucatan.

The decision of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to make
plaster casts of typical stone implements belonging to the prehistorice
age of the United States, for the purpose of distribution among educa-
tional establishments, necessitated a special research into the material
of this department. Typical implements had to be selected. In times
past molds had been made from many of these implements, and the
selection was limited to these molds in order to avoid the expense, use-
Jess and improper, of making molds of duplicate implements. A prep-
arator was employed to make these casts of implements, the Museum
“furnishing the molds and the material. He has been at work during
the greater part of the past fiscal year, and had completed at its close
about 6,000 casts of implements at a cost of about 30 cents each, or
$1,800 for all. The objects chosen had to be described, which was done
with as much brevity as possible, giving for each one its name, locality,
material, by whom contributed, and the number on our catalogue. The
catalogue number had to be marked on each for its identification, and
the rest of the information was given in accompanying lists and labels.
Each set is composed of the following casts:

Paleolithic implements (Europe) : Sinkers, pendants, or charms -..---- 5
OUSIDE ts ae sees eee ares 3 BN OUTCS «ibe 1 22 Eee ea eee 16
IMIGANE Nase 5c Bobo cosocacsubeese 2 Drilled tablets:

Paleolithic implements (United States) : Casts: .ec= cc. eee ee 5
(GEIST HS eee ae eee ee ee eee 2 PYQUITTES.: = cee eset oe 9
GUT OS ye oe cekte ao co epee 16e\einseribed tabletiees=s-5 a4. -es eee 1

Grooved stone axes: Ceremonial objects:

Grooved either wholly or par- Casts: 25-2242 chs odes ee See 3)
tially, some with projecting MOGs see e toes see eee 10
WILDS S CASTS ao seri sane eee 5 | Spade-shaped implement -.-.....--- 1

Flat back for insertion of tight- Boat-shaped objects - 22 2... 2-.2222- 3
CMU O MWCO OC sare eine ee cise ee 5 | Bird-shapéd objects! =>: S22 see oee 2

Dowble-bitted 22222. 2- 2-2-2 Ls) Wulbeshis.4- 32452 se ea eee rene 3
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 197

Polished stone hatchets .......----- Que lal Pes Messe skys ciie oe hee ae eon 4
Coppembavchetse aos] ase eereeeae 2 VONIRGSe see Berets Ge aco eee 18
GOTO R EE mses shi ates ne epg nares ol 82 Ti Wiscordalistonessess 42 ease aes 3
PRU ES reret iets She Me's kim Speen nea 4 | Hammer and ahaa Riatoe
Polished or smooth spearheads or 1 SOLAN eh POU Ns eet ee Oe ee a 3
ISIS Fes Bs ae oh oe a Re ae aS CEA CLS tte teh crate ae Sere eke 2
Digging implements : | ENOTES See ee ee ee oe 5
Oval without notches -....---.- 3 | Perforated club heads:
Ovoid, truneated, notched, ete—- 33 [Cols nieradd eee en- «nie ae OAiee eo a Je See 1
Stone daggers : BN GUING Sis fa Se poae te ah Sh Chae 4
(CENSUSES. 2 oan ee ren ee eS Sa S L | bavu-patt Or mienal.------ 5-2. 5esse. 1
BWIOTUR Gee alee) ae ee IS eheudle mote eden espns ee 1
HOMES WOLGS ase = 45552255222 2 eee 2 PUES S26 ens a ease ee ae 2
JPEIROAUIOIE = SS rea ee eae eae 1 | Stone objects from auriferous erayels
Mortars and pestles: Of Callitonnilarenees ose aes 2
CER Sine Sed SEs SS nei eas ae ress 2 | Stone pick or axe for making steatite
OUR OS ase osteo 20h bes ViGSs elses, = Nae meses a een ee ee 1

Other objects of special research during the year have been the Stone
and Iron man from Sarasota Bay, Florida; shell-engraving of mammoth
or mastodon; stone mortar from glacial drift in Tuscarawas County,
Ohio; cache of leaf-shaped implements from Pennsylvania.

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION.

Number of specimens in the collection, as indicated in the report for the

RU COMM OPV CAL eersats= meter = Aes were or ne an ees nits i ae, en 122, 679
Number of specimens received in the department during the year ae
June 30, 1891, and entered in vol. xXx1, Museum catalogue ..-.. - : 1, O84

Number of specimens from the Bureau of Ethnology and entered in vol:
XXVUI, Museum catalogue, (not counted)—182 specimens received March

2, 1888, and 1,238 specimens received February 9, 1891.............._...- 1, 420

WIR eal ae Se peees Ree ete cree eae end LN gee en mle eS 128, 183

POG Gass e Mibplilee CIENT O Cis mya 5 oe amu me eee eyo oe ee seeds em aan 293
NOM AOTC ATN later sees sre es mete ae See ice Saran Le, BRN meee Mi 127, 890
INT N eI GEIR y teniaey Tha Abbey ICEL) Soe Be ee ease seen eke chee as saeco 147, 199
Numbexoflastventry ain Jmewt edi: 28. es te gs 148, 133

DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATE ARCH ASOLOGICAL SPECIMENS.

Thetfollowing statement indicates the distribution of archeological
specimens by the National Museum during the years 188990 and 189091.
To Edward Lovett, West Burton House, Outram road, Croydon, England, 97 archie-
ological specimens. (Sent November 21, 1889.)

To Prot. Henry H.Giglioli, director of the Zodlogical Museum, Royal University,
Florence, Italy, 12 archeological specimens. (Sent February 27, 1890.)

To Mr. Frederick Shonnard, Yonkers, N. Y., 6 paleolithic implements. (Sent March
11, 1890.)

To Mr. Henry Balfour, anthropological department, Oxford Museum, Oxford, Eng-
land, 7 archwological specimens. (Sent February 18, 1890.)

To Dr. Paulo Mantegazza, professor of anthropology, Florence, Italy, 55 archeolog-
ical specimens, including 9 strings of beads. (Sent March 4, 1890.)
198 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

To W.S. Burt, Youngstown, Ohio, 50 archreological specimens in exchange for fossil
fruits. (Sent November 7, 1890.)

To Johann Buntzen Koch, Bozeman, Mont., 50 archeological specimens. (Sent
November 8, 1890.)

To L. W. Bailey, University of New Brunswick, Frederickton, New Brunswick, 32
specimens. (Sent November il, 1890.)

To M. Ch. Gindriez, director of the Museum Chalons-sur-Sadne, France, 106 specimens,
(Sent January 50, 1891.)

To Dr. C. M. Stubbs, Wakefield, Pa., 50 specimens. (Sent January 28, 1891.)

To Mr. W. H. MeGinnis, Youngstown, Ohio, 5 specimens. (Sent May 12, 1891.)
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS
IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By FREDERICK W. TRUE, Curator.

Although in the number and importance of accessions the past year
will, perhaps, compare favorably with previous ones, many cireum-
stances have conspired to render the year’s work less satisfactory than
it might otherwise have been.

There was much sickness among the members of the office force,
which made it necessary to employ temporary assistants from time to
time, and which interrupted the work of those who remained in the
service throughout the year. The temporary assistants, being unae-
quainted with the work, could not proceed very rapidly. This brought
a great deal of clerical work upon the curator, who might have been
much better employed in matters of a more general character. The
correspondence occupies an increasing amount of time. The latter part
of the year was almost completely occupied by work connected with
preparations for the World@’s Columbian Exposition. For this no addi-
tional clerical aid was granted.

It has resulted that such important matters as the preparation of ad-
ditional labels for the exhibition series, improvements in the installa-
tion and arrangement of specimens, the identifying and assorting of
recently-acquired material, revision of catalogues, etc., have received
little or no attention.

The department of taxidermy was in a disorganized condition at the
beginning of the year, and it was some time before the normal activity
was resumed.

The past year was perhaps exceptional on account of the commence-
ment of preparations for the World’s Fair. It is doubtful whether the
usual conditions will return for two or three years to come.

The chief advances during the year were the large increase in the
number of valuable foreign mammals received, the introduction of new
storage cases for the reserve series of alcoholics and small skins, and
the reorganization of the force of taxidermists under charge of the
curator.

199
200 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS.

Dr. W. L. Abbott supplemented the very valuable collection of Kast
African mammals, mentioned in the report of ‘ast year, by another of
alinost equal interest and importance. These are the first African col-
lections of any nfagnitude which the Museum has received, and Dr.
Abbott’s generosity in presenting them is very highly appreciated. In
addition to the species mentioned in last year’s report, the second col-
lection contains specimens of the river hog, Potamocharus sp.; the ich-
neumons, Herpestes caffer and H. galera; a pygmy antelope, Nanotragus
moschatus, and the rare bat, Megaderma cor. The collection contains
in all 76 specimens, a part of which are preserved in alcohol. In addi-
tion, Dr. Abbott presented the skins of 5 lemurs from Madagascar, and
one bat from the Seychelles Islands.

A specimen of Kelaart’s monkey, Semnopithecus kelaartii, was pur-
chased. One important fruit bat, the type of Pteropus lanigera, H.
Allen, was likewise purchased.

A series of 21 Madagascar insectivores, preserved in alcohol, inelud-
ing a specimen of Oryzorictes, was obtained from Fr. Sikora. The col-
lection contained also a specimen of a species of Nesomys.

Prof. Miles Rock presented two silky anteaters, Cycloturus, from
Livingstone, Guatemala. A specimen of the hairy-nosed wombat,
Phascolomys latifrons was purchased.

Among American mammals, the most interesting accession of the
year was, perhaps, wn adult male walrus from Walrus Island, Bering
Sea, obtained by Capt. W. ©. Coulson, of the U. 8S. Revenue Marine.
It is a fine, large skin of this remarkable but rapidly disappearing ani-
mal.

Mr. William Palner, of the museum, was detailed to collect material
in the Pribilof Islands, Bering Sea, and on the mainland of Alaska.
Heobtained theskin of a large Steller’ssea-lion, Humetopias stellert, from
Walrus Island, a number of fur seals, and many specimens of mar-
mots, shrews, and Arctie foxes.

Dr. W. L. Ralph, of Utica, N. Y., presented a mounted skin of a gray
Florida wolf. The wolf is believed to be almost extinct in that state.

Two pairs of elk antlers interlocked were deposited by the Hon. Clin-
ton L. Merriam, of Locust Grove, N. Y. Interlocking in this species
appears to be of extremely rare occurrence.

The skin of an undescribed species of tree mouse, afterwards made
the type of Phenacomys longicaudus True, was presented by Mr. Aure-
lius Todd, of Eugene City, Oregon. It was obtained at Marshfield, in
Coos County. Dr. J. C. Merrill, U. S. Army, presented a small collee-
tion of mice, ete., from the Indian Territory, a region not well repre-
sented in the collections. Four skins of the ground squirel, Spermoph-
ilus beldingi, were presented by Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, Cal. Mr.
DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 21

J. B. Power, of Kingsville, Ohio, gave a melanistic chipmunk, Tamias
striatus. Melanistie individuals are rare in this genus.

Specimens of other species of chipmunks, Tamias macrorhabdotes and
T. bulleri, were received from the American Museum of Natural History,
New York. Two skins of the hitherto rare kangaroo rat, Dipodops
compactus (True), were purchased. 7

Among bats, the most interesting accessions were two alcoholie speci-
mens of the large Promops perotis californicus, obtained by Mr. ©. R.
Orcutt in San Diego County, California. Mr. Oreutt also presented a:
considerable number of specimens of other mammals from the same
region.

The mammals which have died from time to time in the National
Aovlogical Park have been sent by the acting manager to this depart-
ment of the Museum. Thirty-two specimens have been received from
this source during the year, inost important among which were a young
female Rocky Mountain sheep, a new-born bison, a black bear, and a
young ocelot, Felis pardalis.*

Mr. P. L. Jouy, an assistant in this department, was employed as a
collector for the greater part of the year. He made collections in the
Roan Mountain region, North Carolina, and afterwards in Southern
Arizona and Northern Mexico. His collections contain many inter-
esting species of small mammals, and all the specimens are prepared.
in the most careful manner. Considerable purchases of small North
American mammals have been made during the year to fill gaps in the
study-series of skins. These are all carefully selected specimens of the
best quality.

Three groups were completed and placed in the exhibition hall dur-
ing the year. Most important of these is a group of East African
Guereza monkeys (Colobus caudatus), which was constructed from skins
collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott, in Mount Kilima-Njaro. The species is,
perhaps, the most striking and handsomest known. The monkeys are
represented as standing on the limb of a large tree, which hangs from
the top of the case. The group was constructed by Mr. F.S. Webster.

The group of Prong-horn Antelopes (Antilocapra americana), which
was withdrawn for enlargement, was completed and installed in its
special case. This case had been occupied temporarily by the group of
Proboscis monkeys, mentioned in last year’s report, and as no perma-:
nent case has been provided it was found necessary to put it into one
of the wall-cases (quite out of its proper place), so that it can now
scarcely be said to be on exhibition. The third group completed dur-
ing the year is also without a case, and could not be placed so as to be
seen properly. ‘This group is one of Bornean Gibbons. The specimens
were obtained by Mr. ©. fF. Adams, who also constructed the group.

Besides the groups, the following single mounted skins were added

* A considerable number of additional specimens were made into skeletons for the
Department of Comparative Anatomy.
202 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 189i.

to the exhibition series during the year: Sun bear, Helarctos ; Borneo
marten, Mustela; Small cat, Melis ; Civet, Viverra tangalunga ; Munt-
jak, Cervulus muntjak (two specimens); Chevrotain, Tragulus sp. (two
specimens); Borneo cow, bos; Borneo wild boar, Sus.

Two paintings in oil, representing the destruction of the Bison on
the Western plains, were hung on the walls of the hall over the east
and west entranees. <A table for books of reference for visitors was
brought into use and a number of books placed upon it. During the
reconstruction of the south entrance as a storage-room for the depart-
ment, it was found necessary to place the boxes containing the reserve
series of large skins in the exhibition hall. These were removed as
soon as possible, however, and stored elsewhere. The remarks made
in the report of last year regarding the crowded condition of the hall
are still applicable. The cases now in use are insufficient for the proper
display of the good mounted specimens now on hand, but even if a
sufficient number of cases were provided it is difficult to see how they
could be used in the space now available.

Labels for the gréup of musk-oxen and for the large whale model
were printed and brought into use, and a label for the group of moose
was prepared.

The reconstruction of the south entrance of the Museum building to
form a storage room and laboratory for this department, which was
alluded to in the report of last year, was completed in September, 1890.
The storage cases for small skins consist of fifty tin-lined compart-
ments, 2’ 7’ high, 2’ 2” wide, and 3’ deep. These are provided with
light trays. In addition, one half of the available space in the room is
occupied by covered shelves for the storage of alcoholics. When the
cases for skins were finished all the small skins were transferred to
them, and, as far as time would permit, arranged in proper order. The
North American series has been kept separate throughout, as these are
consulted more frequently than the others. Some additional work has
been done in perfecting and verifying the information on the labels, but
as this must be done with great care to be of any service, it proceeds
slowly. The alcoholics were placed on the shelves and arranged as far
as possible. Much work, however, remains to be done in this diree-
tion.

The ordinary routine work of cataloguing, labeling, and sorting new
accessions was carried on as usual.

Catalogue entries of specimens deposited by the Department of A gri-
culture to the number of 11,704 were made by our clerks. The entries
of previous years were copied together in a single book, and the record
of the deposit under consideration now forms a separate section in the
series of catalogues. Five preparators were occupied in cleaning the
skulls in this collection, either as employés of the Museum, or as con-
tractors. The number of persons so employed has been increased or
DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 203

reduced during the year, as circumstances demanded. Tn addition, the

axidermists of the Museum have made up a considerable number of
skins received by the Department of Agriculture in an imperfect condi-
tion as regards preparation. The Museum has also supplied cases,
wood and paper trays, glass vials and stoppers, and labels as called for.
One clerk has been employed continuously in cataloguing the speci-
mens, and additional assistance has been given on one or two occasions
when the influx of specimens was unusually large. During the month
of April two clerks were emploved continuously.

In September the curator called attention to the unsatisfactory con-
dition of the department of taxidermy, and shortly afterwards was
requested to take charge of the matter and reorganize the force. The
force then consisted of only three regular taxidermists and one volun-
teer, and the number was not increased until spring. One was, how-
ever, designated to take general charge of the work, under superintend-
ence of the curator. Certain appliances needed to facilitate work were
obtained. The skins which had accumulated in the vats—some 400 in
number—were examined and their exact condition and their suitability
for mounting or addition to the reserve series determined. A card
catalogue of the whole, giving the detailed information regarding each
skin, obtained by this investigation, was prepared in duplicate, one copy
being placed in the hands of the principal taxidermist and the other
held by the curator.

In March preparations for a display in the World’s Columbian Expo-
position were begun and have continued uninterruptedly since that
date. A general plan was submitted and approved and steps were
taken to obtain the necessary material for exhibition. The force of
taxidermists was then increased and a special workshop was fitted up
for their use. Mr. William Palmer was appointed chief taxidermist
and the number of regular taxidermists was increased to six. One
special laborer was also added. It is perhaps unnecessary to speak of
this work more in detail in this place, as a full report of what is ae-
complished will be made at a later date.

The last entries in the several catalogues in June, 1891, were as
follows:

Regular series :

Cralocneroiskan sandealcoholicsess ee esate ere ee ee oe enna 19, 482

Crbalocwerot skull sess) ee eee ae os eer Ree eet ae eee POD AAA
Department of Agriculture deposit:

Gaia O GEO TS LGIMS Soe aa e neater eae eae Spey ee ae ee CE leet en cn DAA SO

Catalogue of skulls.--.-....--- Sp Pa Sree sy ey ire ae ee REEL SAD Pre REL | 40, 53

The following papers, based entirely or in part upon the collection of
the Museum, were published in the Proceedings of the National Museum
by the curator and other collaborators during the year:

Observations on the Life History of the Bottlenose Porpoise, by Frederick W. True.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. x11, pp. 197-203.
204 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Description of two new species of Mammals from Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa,
by Frederick W. True. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. xt, pp. 227-229.

Description of a new species of Mouse, Phenacomys longicaudus, from Oregon, by
Frederick W. True. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. xi, pp. 303, 304.

Deseription of a new species of Bat of the genus Carollia, and remarks on Carollia
brevicauda, by Harrison Allen. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. x111, pp. 291-298.

Descriptions of two supposed species of Mice from Costa Rica and Mexico. with
remarks on Hesperomys melanophrys of Coues, by J. A. Allen. Proce. U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol. Xtv, pp. 193-195.

Notes on the habits of the Moose in the far north of British America in 1865, by J.
G. Lockhart. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. x11, pp. 305-308.

Three collectors were in the field for longer or shorter periods during
theyear. Mr. P. L. Jouy made collections in the Roan Mountain region,
North Carolina, and later in southern Arizona and northern Mexico.
Mr. William Palmer visited the Pribilof Islands, Bering Sea, and the
adjacent mainland of Alaska. Mr. Wm. H. Brown, who accompanied
the U.S. Eclipse Expedition to Angola, remained in South Africa to
collect large mammals.

Messrs. B. and H. Geisler were authorized to supply a series of speci-
mens of the mammals of New Guinea. Mr. ©. K. Worthen was author-
ized to colleet North American bats and shrews. No material has
been received from either of these sources during the year. Mr. E.
Wittkugel has collected a small number of mammals for the Museum
in Honduras.

A considerable number of mammals were sent to different institu-
tions and individuals during the year. These were as follows:

LOANED FOR STUDY.

To Dr J. A. Allen, American Museum of Natural History, New York—57 skins, 6
alcoholics, and 16 separate skulls of North American rodents (including 2 types),
and 1 skull of skunk (type).

To Dr. Harrison Allen, Philadelphia, Pa.—9 bats in alcohol (ineluding 1 type).

To Mr. Walter E. Bryant, San Francisco, Cal.—2 skins of rabbits.

To Col. Cecil Clay, Washington, D, C.—1 skin of rodent.

To Dr. E. A. Mearns U.S. A., Fort Snelling, Minn.—102 skulls and 5 skins of skunks,
otters, and badgers (ineluding 1 type).

IN EXCHANGE FOR OTHER SPECIMENS.

To the American Museum of Natural History, New York—4 skins of chipmunks.

To the Australian Museum—1 skin of the prong-horn antelope, 1 skull of the bison.

To the Auckland Museum, New Zealand—15 skins and 1 alcoholic specimen of North
American mammals, large and small,

In addition to replies to correspondents of the institution, asking for
information on minor topics related to the work of this Department,
the curator wrote in full to Mr. Joshua Lindahl, curator of the Hlinois
State Museum of Natural History, regarding the North American
species of opossums. Mr. E. Myer, of Carthage, Tenn., received in-
formation regarding a fossil porpoise-jaw found near that town. Mr.
Aurelius Todd, of Eugene City, Oregon, received a list of the principal
DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 205

works of reference on mammals. Information regarding the Cetaceans
to which the name of “ Cowfish” is sometimes supplied was furnished
to Mr. John Robinson, of Salem, Mass. A considerable number of
mammals were identified for Mr. G.S. Miller, jr., of Cambridge, Mass.
Mr. Richard Rathbun, U.S. Fish Commission, received information re-
garding the mammals found in and about the Galapagos Islands. An
account of the geographical distribution of the American caribous and
the European reindeer was furnished Mr. Chas. F. Danfurth, of Boston,
Mass. Some facts concerning the ‘musk-rat” of Anglo-Indians, were
transmitted to Dr. Elliott Coues.

In July the curator prepared for publication a description of two new
species of mammals from Kast Africa, and revised the proofs of a paper
descriptive of new speices of bats, by Dr. H. Allen, on account of the ab-
sence of the author. In September he prepared a report for the year
1890. He was requested, in December, to examine the condition of the
bats in the custody of Dr. Harrison Allen, and went to Philadelphia
for that purpose.

The collection was found in satisfactory condition. The invoices were
checked up anew. Only one specimen could not be accounted for.
This had apparently been misplaced.

In March the curator began work on a monograph of the insectivora
of North America, and in connection therewith received large collec-
tions of moles from the American Museum of Natural History, New
York, from the private collection of Dr. ©. Hart Merriam, and from the
collection of the department of agriculture, under hischarge. The curator
acted in the capacity of acting curator-in-charge on several occasions.

The general condition of the collection as regards preservation has
not altered materially since the last report. On one or two occasions
insects were found to be at work on the mouited specimens in the ex-
hibition series, but they were destroyed before any considerable damage

yas done.

The number of specimens in the several series June 30, 1891, was as

follows:
Number of mounted skins in the exhibition sertes-.--2.---.------------------ rot
Number of skins and alcoholics in the study and reserve series .......-------- 8, 76

Skins and) alcoholics receivedsdurins the year=-- 5-22-22. --/----------- == - 465
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS
IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By ROBERT RipG@way, Curator.

GENERAL REVIEW OF THE YEAR’S WORK.

Among the more important special matters attended to during the
year 189091 the following are worthy of mention: Five of the exhi-
bition cases, recently remodeled, were filled with specimens properly
arranged and labeled. The stock of printed species labels (3,124 in
number) was thoroughly overhauled and re-arranged, a sample or ref-
erence set being pasted alphabetically on sheets. A very large part of
the study collection of American Passeres and Picarice (filling thirty-
three cases) was transferred to remodeled quarter-unit cases and
entirely re-arranged. A popular illustrated handbook on the Humming-
birds, embracing 130 printed pages, with 39 full-page plates, 7 plates of
structural details, and 87 outline figures (text-cuts) was prepared and
submitted for publication.* A pamphlet of instructions for collecting
and preserving specimens of birds (embracing 27 printed pages) was
also prepared for publication.+

Several collections of birds sent to us for the purpose by the Na-
tional Museum of Costa Rica were carefully worked up, the result be-
ing the description and publication of a number of interesting new
species. A fine collection from the interior of Honduras was also
worked up with similar results. Several collections from Africa, nota-
bly a large and particularly fine one from the Kilima-Njaro district,
made and presented to the National Museum by Dr. W. L. Abbott, has
received as much attention as time would permit.

Many specimens were during the year submitted to the curator for
determination by Dr. Merriam, Ornithologist of the Department of
Agriculture.t

During four days of November the eighth congress of the American
Ornithologists’ Union was held in Washington, the office of the curator
of the department of birds being headquarters for the members, and

* Published in Rep. Nat. Mus., 1890.

t Published as Part A of Bulletin 39, U.S. Nat. Mus.

t This has also been the case during previous years (since the organization of the
division of economic ornithology and mammalogy, but mention of the fact was over-
looked in my reports.

207
208 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1291.

the meeting place of several committees, especially that on species and
subspecies, to the work of which the collections and library of the
department, and in a measure the assistance of the curator, were indis-
pensable.

During a considerable part of the month of March much assistance
was given to Mr. George K. Cherrie, ornithologist of the Costa Rica
national museum, in identifying the specimens in a large collection of
Costa Rican birds which he brought with him for that purpose, free
aceess to the collection and library and every other needed facility
being given him; and in May similar services were rendered to Mr.
Charles A. Keeler, of Berkeley, Cal., while engaged in a special investi-
gation of the origin of color in birds.

The matter of sending exhibits to the World’s Columbian Exposition
at Chicago having come up for consideration, plans and estimates for
an exhibit of birds were prepared and submitted on two occasions, the
first requiring material reduction.

NOTES UPON THE MORE IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS RECEIVED DURING
5 THE YEAR.

The total number of specimens added to the bird collection during
the year is 2,478, the principal accessions being as follows:

Dr. W. L. AsBorT (Philadelphia, Pa.): One hundred and seven specimens (about
60 species) from the Kilima-Njaro district, eastern Africa; 58 specimens (2:
species) from Madagascar, and 59 specimens (22 species) from the Seychelles.
(Gift. )

C.F. ApaMs (Champaign, Ill.): A group of Loggerhead Shrikes, or Butcher-birds,
showing a pair of old birds with their nest and young, with natural accessories,
(Purchased. ) ;

F. B. ARMSTRONG (Brownsville, Tex.): Two specimens of Ferruginous Pygmy Owl
(Glaucidium phalwnoides) and 4 specimens Texas Screech Owl (Megascops asio
mecallii) from Texas. (Purchased. )

EpWARD BartLetr (The Museum, Maidstone, Kent, England): Fifty-one specimens
(38 species) chiefly Fringillida and Ploceida@ from various localities. (Gift. )
WititaM BayLEY (Washington, D. C.): One specimen of Leach’s Petrel (Oceano-
droma leucorhoa) in the flesh, shot on the Eastern Branch, District of Columbia,

(Gift. )

Rotio H. Beck (Berryessa, Colo.): One specimen of a new subspecies of Finch
(Ammodramus caudacutus becki) from California. (Gift.)

J.E. Bexepicr (National Museum, Washington, D. C.): One hundred and forty
specimens (50 species) from South Carolina. A very valuable collection, adding
one United States species to the Museum collection, and very acceptably filling
out the series of some of the rarer species, besides materially extending the range
of 3 species. (Gift.)

Dr. L. G. Brnuinas, U. 8S. Navy: Nineteen specimens (14 species) from Africa,

WILLIAM BREWSTER (Cambridge, Mass.): Three specimens of the recently deseribed
Contopus richardsonii peninsula, trom Lower California. (Gift.) -

HERBERT BROWN (Tuscon, Ariz.): One skin of Peucawa ruficeps boucardi. (Through
Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. 8. Army. Gift.)

GrorcE K. CHERRIE (San José, Costa Rica): Seventy-three specimens (22 species)
from Costa Rica. (Gift.)
DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 209

W. EAGLE CLARK (Edinburgh, Scotland): Nine specimens (9 species), from England,
Azores, Russia, and Japan. (Exchange.)

CHARLES B. Cory (Boston, Mass.): Forty specimens (25 species), chiefly from the
West Indies. (Exchange. )

ARTHUR M. Cox (Chicago, Il.): Twenty-seven specimens (21 species), chiefly from
vicinity of Chicago. (Gift.)

Pror. A. DuG&és (Guanajuato, Mexico): One skin of the rare Picolaptes leucogaster,
from Michoaean, and one Ferruginous Pygmy Owl (Glaucidium phalenoides), from
Vera Cruz, Mexico. (Gift.)

EcuipsE EXPEDIrion: Thirteen specimens (8 species), from Africa. (Navy Depart-
ment. )

Dents GALE (Gold Hill, Colo.): Four specimens (3 species), from Gold Hill, Colo.
(Through Capt. Bendire. Gift.)

H. V. Henson (Hakodadi, Japan): Four hundred and twenty-seven specimens (181
species) from the Island of Yesso (chiefly near Hakodadi), Japan. <A specially
valuable collection containing a number of species entirely new to the collec-
tion, among them a pair of the great Japanese Hagle Owl ( Pseudoptynax blakis-
toni), the first ever received by any American museum. (Purchased.)

P. L. Jouy (National Museum, Washington, D. C.): Fifty-four specimens (33 spe-
cies), from Tueson, Ariz. (Collected by Mr. Jouy for the Museun.)

P. L. Jouy (National Museum, Washington, D. C.): Thirty specimens (17 species)
from Arizona, (Collected by Mr. Jouy for the Museum. )

P. L. Jovy (National Museum, Washington, D. C.): Thirty specimens (10 species)
from mountains of North Carolina; 45 specimens from Tueson, Ariz., and Guay-
mas, Mexico. (Collected by Mr. Jouy for the Museum.)

W. C. KENDALL (U.S. Fish Commission): Thirty specimens (26 species), from South
Carolina. (Gift.)

R. MCFARLANE (chief factor Hudson Bay Company): Sixty-two specimens (40 spe-
cies), trom Moose Fork and Cumberland House, Hudson Bay Territory. (Gift.)

Dr. EpGar A. Mearns, U.S. Army (Fort Snelling, Minn.): One specimen of Western
Evening Grosbeak (Coccothraustes vespertinus montanus), in first plumage, from
Arizona. (Gift.)

TuHos. J. LUTTRELL (Washington, D. C.): One Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaétos), in the
flesh, from the vicinity of Washington. (Gift.)

W. ALLIsoN Merrirr (Washington, D. C.): Two specimens of Least Tern (Sterna
antillarum), from Northumberland County, Va. (Gift.)

Musréo NACIONAL DE Costa RICA (San José, Costa Riea, through Anastasio Alfaro,
director): The unique type-specimen of a new species of Whippoorwill ( Antrosto-
mus rufomaculatus Ridgw.), from the voleano of Irazi, Costa Riea. (Gift.)

Museo NACIONAL DE Costa Rica (San José, Costa Rica, through Geo. K. Cherrie) :
Sixty-five specimens (55 species), from Costa Rica. (Exchange.)

E. W. NELSON (Springerville, Arizona): A young example of Scott’s Oriole (Jcterus
parisorum), from near Santa Fé, N. Mex.; valuable as considerably extending the
breeding range of the species. (Gift.)

WILLIAM PALMER (National Museum, Washington, D.C.): Three hundred and nine
specimens (43 species), chiefly from Unalaska and the Pribylof Islands,
Alaska. (Collected by Mr. Palmer for the Museum. )

Museum oF Natura. History (Paris, France): Forty specimens (36 species), chiefly
from Madagasear. (Gift.)

Dr. A. G. PRILL (Sweet Home, Oregon): Four specimens (adult male and female and
young) of the Ring-necked Pheasant (Phasianus torquatus), from Oregon; two
accessions. (Gift.)

Dr. WILLIAM L. RALPH (Utica, N. Y.): Three skins of young of Syrninum nebulosum
alleni, in various stages, from Florida. (Gift.)

Srl Pr 2 14

210 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

C. W. RicHMonpD (Washington, D. C.): Forty-five specimens (36 species), chietly from
Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil; two accessions. (Exchange. )

ROBERT RipGway (National Museum, Washington, D.C.): One hundred specimens
(56 species), chiefly from DUlinois and Indiana. (Collected for the Museum): 44
specimens (29 species), chiefly from Laurel, Md. (Gift.)

C. B. Riker (New York City, N. Y): Three hundred and ninety-nine specimens (228
species) birds from the Lower Amazon (chiefly from Diamantina and Santarem).
A specially valuable collection, containing types of 19 new species described by
the curator in the Proceedings of the National Museum (Vol. x, pp. 516-528), and
28 species previously unrepresented in the Museum collection. (Purchased. )

W.E. D. Scorr (New York City, N. Y.): One hundred and five specimens (27 spe-
cies), from Punta Rassa and Tarpon Springs, Fla. (4 specimens, and 2 species
from the Dry Tortugas), collected chiefly in 1886. (Gift.)

Percy W. SHUFELDT (Takoma Park, D.C.): Seven specimens (7 species) from Fort
Wingate, N. Mex., and District of Columbia. (Gift. )

Dr. R. W. SHUFELDT (Takoma Park, D. C.): One Evening Grosbeak (Hesperiphona
vespertina) in the flesh. (Gift. )

~ Dr. H. M. Surry (Washington, D. C.): Two specinens ( Pipra aurocapilla and P. cor-
onata) from Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil, and one specimen of Western Horned
Ow] (Bubo virginianus subarcticus) from New Mexico. (Gift.)

WILLIAM G, SMITH (Loveland, Colo.): One specimen of the rare Flammulated Sereech
Owl (Megascops flammeola), from Colorado, Two specimens of Swainson’s Hawk
(Buteo swainsoni), downy young; new to the collection.

Frank W. Sparks (St. Louis, Mo.): One mounted Fulvous 'Tree-duck (Dendrocygna
fulva), shot at New Madrid, Mo. (Gift.)

L. STEJNEGER (National Muse:m, Washington, D.C.): Twelve specimens (9 species),
from Arizona. (Collected in 1889 for the Museum. )

WILLIAM WARREN (Salem, Oregon): Two skins of Megaseops asio saturatus Brewst.
from Oregon, (Purchased. )

Gro. B. WINTON (San Luis Potosi, Mex.): Four specimens (same number of species),
in the flesh, from San Luis Potosi. (Gift.)

EricH WITTKUGEL (San Pedro Sula, Honduras): One hundred and ninety-four
specimens (86 species) from the interior of Honduras. (Purchased. )

ROUTINE WORK, INCLUDING THE PREPARATION OF SPECIMENS.

A considerable part of what might be included under the above head-
ing has already been mentioned and need not be again alluded to.
The following is additional thereto: The number of specimens mounted
for the exhibition series during the year is 395 and of specimens made
into skins, 45.

A considerable amount of minor routine work has also been per-
formed.

REVIEW OF SPECIAL RESEARCHES PROSECUTED UPON MATERIAL
BELONGING TO THE DEPARTMENT.

Under this heading may be mentioned investigations by Mr. Charles
A. Keeler, of Berkeley, Cal., on the subject of origin of color in birds;
by Mr. George K. Cherrie, ornithologist of the Costa Rica National
Museum, aided by material brought with him from Costa Rica for that
especial purpose; by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, on the Japanese bird
fauna, and by the curator, on various groups of birds, The character
DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 211
and extent of these researches, so far as published, is indicated in the
list of papers published during the year and printed in Section rv of
the report.

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION.

So far as preservation is concerned, all the specimens contained in
cases of reasonably modern pattern are absolutely untouched by insects.
The mounted birds, being in remodeled old cases which freely admit
‘both dust and insects, have been subject to more or less injury, but
constant vigilance has kept them free from material damage. A con-
siderable part of the duplicate collection, kept in ordinary open draw-
ers (for want of better), have been to some extent injured by insects.

The number of specimens contained in the collection at the end of
June, 1891, is, approximately, as follows:

|

1889-90. 1890-’91. | Increase. Decrease.

Study series ----------:- cis oa iafaie cies eialan = = cla ae aipie esteiae' 46,543 | *49, 995 Bat: PH aS os so ae

[Os TaN Seah oe re ee ee er 7,133 | +7,4038 O70 eeee cee
ID nner SOEs. Ss aes eres eseese sore ciedse ns ees eam erees 6, 543 | Dy AOS emer ere +], 135

«Number estimated.
+ Number ascertained by actual count.
+ One hundred and sixty-one duplicates distributed, the remainder put back into reserve series.

The actual number of specimens in the study series can not be known
until the more bulky portion of it, now stored in the west basement,
where the specimens are so crowded that it is impossible to count them,
has been rearranged in more convenient cabinets.

The number of the last catalogue entry in the Museum register of
birds in June, 1890, is 118,369, and in June, 1891, 120,752,
ee

hie Hs =i

REPORT ON THE SECTION OF BIRDS’ EGGS
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By CHarLES E. BENbDir», U, 8S. ARMy (retired), Honorary Curator.

The character of routine work has been as follows: Taking the
measurements, numbering and arranging 842 specimens; the revision
and arrangement, in numerical order, of 259 register sheets, and de-
termining the average measurements of each genus thereon recorded.

In addition to the above work I have been engaged in preparing the
manuscript to the completion of Vol. © of ‘Life Histories of North
American Birds,” and also in reading proofs thereof, which have, up to
this time, covered 220 quarto pages of composition. Considerable prog-
ress has also been made in gathering and classifying material for the
second volume.

The following important accessions were received during the year:
FRANK B. ARMSTRONG (Brownsville, Texas): One nest and 2 eggs of dAmazillia

cerviniventris ; 2 nests and 6 eges Sporophila morelleti; 3 eggs Glaucidium phale-
noides; 4 eggs Engyptila albifrons ; 7
The first three species are new to the collection.

Mr. R. MacFarLane (chief factor of the Hudson Bay Company): An interesting
collection of 100 eggs and 9 nests, embracing 21 species, all from the Cumber-
land district, Saskatchewan, Canada.

Mr. DENIS GALE (Gold Hill, Bowlder County, Colo.): A finely prepared collection
of 45 eggs, embracing 11 species.

Dr. C. HarT MERRIAM (Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.): One nest
and 3 ege@s, Dendroica cerulea. Rare.

Dr. WILLIAM L. Ratpeu (Utica, N. Y.): Seventy eggs, embracing 13 species, from
Florida and Texas. All are rare and many new to the collection.

Mr. WALTER F. WEBB (Geneva, N. Y.): Three eggs, Buteo borealis, and 15 eggs,
Buteo lineatus.

Mr. ‘THOMAS H. JACKSON (West Chester, Pa.): Forty-four eggs Callipepla squamata
castanogastris.

Mr. WILLtaM L. BisHor (Kentville, Nova Scotia); Thirteen eggs, Dendrogapus cana-
densis.

Mr. WILLIAM G. SmirH (Loveland, Colo.): Four eggs, Megascops flammeolus ; 4 eggs,
Phalaropus tricolor ; 8 eggs, Vireo solitarius plumbeus. The first and last are new
to the collection.

Mr. G. K. CHERRIE (San José, Costa Rica): One egg of Vireo flavoviridis. New to
the collection.

Mr. WILLIAM PALMER (U.S. National Museum, Washington, D. C.): An interesting
collection, consisting of 10 nests and 112 eges, embracing 11 species, from St. Paul
and Walrus Islands, Alaska.

Mr. W. E. Tratwy (of the Hudson Bay Company): Fifteen eges, Dendragapus frank-
lini, rare; 4 eggs, Totanus melanoleucus, rare; 9 eges, Bonusa umbellus togata.

213

egos Megascops asio ccallii. (Purchased. )
214 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CONDITION OF THE COLLECTION.

During the year 83 nests have been received, of which some of the
rarer species have been mentioned.

Number of specimens in the North American series ....--..---------------- 31, 992
Number of specimens in the duplicate series ..---.-.-. ---.----------------- 11, 548
Number of specimens on exhibition.---.----------.----.----------- -------- 1,491

ROY FEW leet ee eee yA es mols ete, Se iano Pe oe Rake oe Rie oe erst te Ree are 45, 031
Number of species and subspecies in North American series ..---.---------- 760
Number of specimens in foreign reserve series -.---.------.-----------+-.-- 4, 330
Number of specimens im duplicate series. ------------ ---2 --25 --- ==. 2-22 231

EW ee err es ore page cise seen RENE modu se coldcnoade paaataue bosoene 4, 561
Number of species 1m foreiom Series 2 - - = <== 22-5 9- -e n 611
INI erro G MEStS lM TESOmWe SCLC stat es ater ee tera eee 2, 339
INSTA OVS Te Crk soCesnniss Gal Cede OMIT MO Ns ee SS sb ete ses Sots abases oe 235

Rove ee eae pe Ge ann 2) ese ee ers Srey EPO eE Semen Pers ys se cine 2G 2, 574.
Gasteabal Owe embry Wl JUNG WOO 0M es a. oe eer eee ee eee 24, 004
LAS CATO MANTE GINUIAY TWN IANS IM eRe a o5 oeoe sseccoe sen aces aces see" 24, 336

ROTA MIMO ek Ole CINERLES (aI MO hie) \ ene e= rte = se eer =n tee 332

The consignments from the biological expedition, under the direction
of the Department of Agriculture, Dr. C. Hart Merriam in charge,
covering 88 entries, are included in the above total number of entries,
and if all or part thereof should prove to be accessions, they will be
duly acknowledged.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHTANS
IN THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By LEONHARD STEJNEGER, Curator.

The year 1890-91 has been one of unusual activity in the herpetologi-
sal department, no less than 908 specimens having been entered. In
most cases these specimens have been identified, except those for the
determination of which the necessary material for comparison or the
literature has not been accessible.*

The installation of the collection in jars, upon the new shelving pro-
vided during the previous year, has been continued, and the entire
extralimital collection, thus preserved, has been placed on the shelves,
card-catalogued, and arranged according to localities. The number of
jars accommodated was 1,255, containing 2,840 specimens. Many of
these had to be reentered and reidentified, and all have been labeled.

The collection of North American turtles has been similarly attended
to, but the curator has not attempted to arrange it definitely, as it was
understood that Dr. G. Baur, of Clark University, was going to under-
take it. The collection was card-catalogued. however, showing a num-
ber of 460 specimens.

The collection of North American snakes is in the same unsatisfac-
tory condition as in the preceding year and can not be much improved
until all the material which has been and which may yet be sent to
Prof. Cope has been returned by him.

During the early part of the year the entire reserve series of North
American batrachians was transferred from the old quarters in the
basement and arranged in systematic order on the shelves, catalogued
and counted. The number of jars thus transferred and arranged was
1,654, containing 7,020 specimens. Much time was spent in verifying
and correcting the identifications and data on the labels and in the
record books.

First in rank among the many valuable accessions received during
the present year, Mr. P. L. Jouy’s coltections from southern Arizona
must be placed, both in regard to quantity and quality; the copious

- For comparison, it may be mentioned that the number of entries in 1889-’90 was
705; in 1888-’89, 784; in 1887~88, 19; in 1886~87, 138.

215
216 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

field notes, the extensiveness of the series of some of our most difficult
and interesting reptiles, and their excellent preservation makes this
collection one of unusual value and merit. The study of this material
will result in greatly increasing and correcting our knowledge of the
herpetology of our southwestern border.

Dr. C. Hart Merriam’s collection, made during his biological recon-
noissance in Idaho, 1890, and deposited by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, though less extensive, because made in a country less rich
in reptiles, is hardly less valuable or interesting, and for the same rea-
sons. The curator has already published a report upon this material.

Special thanks are due to Mr. Charles R. Orcutt, of San Diego, Cal.,
for a large collection of South Californian reptiles, chiefly from the Colo-
rada Desert, many of which are rare in collections.

Through Mr. Charles K. Worthen another interesting collection, from
Cameron County, Tex., was secured.

Of the exotic collections none exceed in importance those brought
home by Dr. W. L. Abbott and generously donated by him to the Mu-
seum, being, as they are, from localities unrepresented in our collec-
tions, viz, the Seychelles, Madagascar, and Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
Only a portion of this material is as yet identified, but the curator
has already been able to describe two new species from the last men-
tioned locality, viz, Chamwleo abbotti and Lygosoma kilimensis.

Among the many other contributors the following deserve special
mention: Herbert Brown, Arizona; Julius Hurter, St. Louis, Mo.; U.
S. Fish Commission; H. H. and C. 8. Brimley, Raleigh, N.C.; Gustave
Kohn, New Orleans, La.; C. F. Batchelder, Cambridge, Mass.; G. A.
Allen, Parker, Ariz., and Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, Takoma Park, D. C.

During the early part of 1891, Prof. E. D. Cope spent some time in
working up anumber of snake venera as wellas in reviewing the lacertil-
ian genus Cremidophorus.

Dr. O. P. Hay, of Lrvington, In'., spent some time in the department
studying the material at hand bearing on the herpetology of Indiana,
a work which heis now preparing for publication by the geological sur-
vey of the State of Indiana.

The curator during the year was prevailed upon to assume, in addi-
tion to his other duties, the editorship of the new supplement to the
‘“ Nomenclator Zoologicus,” and about one-fourth of his time has con-
sequently been devoted to this work. During the time that could be
spared from the above and the routine work, he continued his studies
of the collection, but the immediate needs of the latter prevented any
special devotion to any one particular subject. The titles of the papers
prepared and submitted for publication will, perhaps, show this better
than anything else, and a list of these is therefore hereby appended,
as follows:

(1) Seebohm’s Birds of the Japanese Empire. (A review.)

(2) Description of a New Genus and Species of Tailless Batrachian from Tropical
America. (Jointly with Frederic C, Test.)
DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS. 217

(3) Annotated List of Reptiles and Batrachians collected by Dr. C. Hart Merriam
and Party in Idaho, 1890.

(4) Crotalus pyrrhus in California.

(5) Description of a New Species of Chameleon from Kilima-Njaro, Eastern Af-
rica.

(6) Description of a New North American Lizard of the Genus Satromaliis.

(7) Deseription of a New Species of Lizard from the Island of San Pedro Martir,
Gulf of California.

(8) Directions for Collecting Reptiles and Batrachians.

(9) Deseriptions of a New Scincoid Lizard from East Africa.

(10) Notes on Sceloporus variabilis and its Geographical Distribution in the
United States.

During the earlier part of the year the curator had the temporary
assistance of Mr. F. H. Garrison, who attended to the work of trans-
ferring the specimens from the basement to the new quarters.

In November, 1890, however, Mr. Frederick C. Test, a graduate of the
Indiana State University, was appointed an aid, and assigned to this
department for one-half of his official time, the other half to be de-
voted to work on the new supplement to the “ Nomenclator Zoologi-
cus.” When time could be spared from the 1outine work he made
some investigations bearing upon the dentition of Desmognathus fuscus
and upon the geographical distribution and variation of Hyla regilla.

He was joint author with the curator of the second paper of the list
given above, and he also prepared the illustrations accompanying it.

Owing to the fact that a great deal of the material belonging to the
Museum is at present in Prot. Cope’s possession in Philadelphia, it has
been found impossible to give accurate census of the herpetological
specimens of the Museum.

In preparing the following estimate, that of last year has been taken
as a basis, deducting those specimens which have been disposed of by
exchange, or otherwise, and adding the number of those catalogued
during the year. Such an estimate would show the status of the col-
lection on June 30, 1891, to be as tollows:

Specimens.

ON CIV CES CLICHE eee eine ets eee fess teens amit cence aU te yen eae ee 14, 878
DT PINGAUENS CRUE Seema etn eke eye cralac od aio Se cisaeerse cine © os lee creams 8, 744
Massonde de smadnexo tl Cees ae eeepc a Aes ok nem iay et Mins Fakes Behe ode ed 6, 313

(CTE O YO MUON FEN Le ae coe es ee. fe SS Seer ee eee ere pean IS eee fm Wee a aye 29, 935

Last catalogue entry in June, 1890, is No. 16228; last entry in June,
1891, 17136.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHES
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By TARLETON H. BEAN, Honorary Curator.

The year 189091 has been an important one to this department.
Many new and interesting fishes have been received and preserved, a
large amount of correspondence has been attended to, and the condi-
tion of the collections greatly improved. The total number of accessions
received during the year is forty-six. These have ail been administered
upon, the specimens catalogued, and the desiderata carefully preserved.
All types of new species, unless too large, are at once bottled and placed
in their proper places.

The assistant curator, Mr. Barton A. Bean, had charge of the depart-
ment during the curator’s absence, and attended to all routine matters,
besides performing special duties mentioned elsewhere in this report.

In the first part of the year the curator made an investigation of
Great South Bay, and reported upon the fishes found in its waters.
This was published in the Report of the Fish Commissioners of the
State of New York for the year 1890. In the fall of 1890, in connection
with the Assistant Secretary, the curator worked upon deep-sea fishes.
During the remaining portion of the year his duties at the Fish Com-
mission were such as to allow no time for Museum work.

The tollowing are among the most important accessions received dur-
ing the year ending June 30, 1891, although by far the larger number
of the contributions made during the year are interesting and constitute
acceptable additions to the collection:

THE Museum or Natura Hisrory (Paris, France): The following types of new
species of deep-sea fishes were transmitted: Neostoma quadriculatum; Bathygadus
melanobranchus; Bathypterois dubius; Halosaurus johnsonianus; Halosaurus pha-
lerus; Nenodermichthys socialis; Macrurus similiophorus; Leptoderma macrops;
Centrophorus squamosus. (Ace. 23545.)

UNITED STATES ECLIPSE EXPEDITION TO WEsT AFRICA (through the coédperation of
the officers of the expedition): Large collections of fishes were made by Messrs.
W.H. Brown and A.H. Brown. These contained many desiderata from the
Azores, St. Vincent, Free Town, Cape Town, Elmina, Ashantee, St. Paul de
Loanda, Quanza River, and Ascension Island. (Ace. 23272.)

219
290) REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, i891.

U. S.Fisu Commission: Large collections of fishes from Missouri, Arkansas, and
a few from Colorado aud Georgia were received. These collections, which were
made by Drs. Jordan, Meek, and others, contained several newspecies. (Acc.
23493. )

U. S. Fis Commission: The following new species were collected in deep
water off the coast of Lower California by the steamer Albatross, and were
transinittted to the Museum: Sathytroctes stomias: Cynoscion macdonaldi; Tha-
lassuma grammaticum; Thalassoma socorroense; Sebastichthys sinensis; Icelinus
tenuis;  ILcelinus fimbriatus; Bathyagonus nigripinnis; Xenochirus triacanthus;
Nenochirus pentacanthus; Nenochirus latifrons; Cryptotrema corallinum; Plecto-
branchus evides; Lycodapus fierasfer; Platophrys teniopterus, and Radulinus asprel-
lus. (Ace. 23787. )

U.S. Fish COMMISSION: A large collection of fishes made by the steamer Albatross.
at Bahia, Brazil, was received. Among others, the following new spec-
ies: Paralichthys isosceles, Verecundum  rasile, and Psammobatis rutrum.
This accession contained also a few fishes from Patagonia, the Straits of Ma-
gellan, and the Abrolhos Islands, collected by the same steamer. (Acc, 24039.)

U.S. Fish ComMission: Large collections of fishes made by the steamer Albatross:
at the Galapagos Islands and Panama, including Pridacanthus serrula (type)
were received. (Acc. 24037.) :

U. S. Fish Commission: A collection of fishes made by William P. Seal and party in
the Chesapeake Bay at Cape Charles City, Va., was received. (Ace, 23900.)

O. P. JENKINS and BARTON W. EVERMANN: A collection of fishes from the Bay of
Guaymas, Mexico, including the following new species, was received: Rhinoptera
steindachneri; Upeneus rathbuni; Menidia clara; Pseudojulis venustus: Citharichthys
gilberti; Hermosilla azurea; Auchenopterus asper; Psednoblennius hypacanthus;
Gobius chiquita and Gobius longicaudus; Gillichthys y-cauda; Gillichthys gquayma-
siw; Gnathypops scops; Opisthognathus ommata, (Ace, 23988.)

Mr. P. H. KirscH and party: A collection of fishes obtained from Alabama. (Ace.
24047.)

ROUTINE WORK.

The number of entries in the register of this department during the
year is 1,542, representing about 5,000 specimens. The types of the
new species received, as well as many others, have been bottled, labeled,
and installed in their proper places. The card-catalogue of bottled
specimens has been carried forward as usual, and a large number ot
jars have been relabeled. A very large number of duplicates have been
selected and a still larger number of entirely worthless fishes thrown
out. A vast amount of old material was identified and many blanks in
the registers filled out. The entire collection of fishes was gone over
and its condition much improved. There yet remains considerable
material awaiting Classification. The accessions have been reported
upon promptly in almost every case. The correspondence has been
much larger than last year, and all letters have been fully and promptly
answered.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES.

Papers describing the new forms received are, for the most part, pub-
lished in the ‘ Proceedings” of the Museum. In the Bibliography
accompanying this Report will be found a list of ninety-two papers,
based mostly upon the material in this department.
DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 221

Dr. Theodore Gill studied various families of fishes, drawing upon
the material here to a large extent; Dr. D.S. Jordan, president of the
Leland Stanford Junior University, wrote a review of the eels, for which
purpose he examined the species in our collection. Mr. B. A. Bean has
been engaged on the work of identifying and classifying miscellaneous
lots of fishes, gathering material bearing especially upon the Chesa-
peake and its tributaries, selecting, and in many cases identifying, speci-
mens intended for distribution; and in April, 1891, commenced to make
a list of the fishes to be found in the markets of Washington, D.C.
Drs. Goode and Bean have continued their work upon the deep-sea
fishes, pushing it forward very rapidly during the fall of 1890.

Prof. C. H. Gilbert continued his studies upon the fishes of the north-
west coast, collected by the steamer Albatross. Dr. C. H. Eigenmann
and Mrs. Migenmann carried on their work upon the fishes of the coast
of California, more especially those of San Diego Bay. Several of the
students of the University of Indiana, under the auspices of the U.S.
Fish Commission, studied the fishes of the West and Southwest, Prof-
B. W. Evermann, O. P. Jenkins, 8S. E. Meek, and others being promi-
nently identified with this work. Prof.S. A. Forbes, of the State Nor-
mal School at Champaign, Hl., has continued his valuable investiga-
tions into the food of our fresh-water species.

EXPLORATIONS.

The U.S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross cruised in Bering Sea
during July and August, 1890. The cod and halibut banks were exam-
ined and many dredgings were made. The collection of fishes obtained
was large and interesting, containing, as it did, many new forms. In
January, 1891, the Albatross proceeded southward and made very large
collections of fishes off Panama, especially through the Galapagos
Islands. The U.S. Fish Commission steamer Mish Hawk was engaged
in an investigation of the oyster beds along the coast of South Caro-
Jina during the winter and early spring of 1891. A small collection of
fishes was made by Mr. W. ©. Kendall, one of the assistants on board.

Mr. William P. Seal, for the U. S. Fish Commission, collected fishes
in the Chesapeake Bay (September 19 to October 5, 1890), at Cape
Charles, Virginia, and vicinity. About sixty species were obtained.
These have been reported upon by the assistant curator in a paper pub-
lished in the “ Proceedings” of the Museum,
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE FOSSILS
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By FrREprnic A. LUCAS, Assistant Curator.

There have been few accessions to this department during the year,
the only one of importance being a partial skull of Bison latifrons from
Florida, presented by Gen. L. W. Colby.

Preliminary steps have been taken for the preparation of a new and
much needed catalogue of the material belonging to this department,
most of the specimens at present being entered in the books of the de-
partment of comparative anatomy, while in many instances no name,
or if any, an incorrect one, appears in the catalogue.

Twenty-seven specimens have been mounted for exhibition during
the year, and a wall case has been built along the east side of the
southeast court for the reception of a large and valuable series of West-
ern fossils being prepared under the direction of Prof. O, ©. Marsh.

The card catalogue, prepared last year, shows 1,080 specimens, many
of them of great value, being the types of their respective species. Of
these 180 have been placed on exhibition and others will be added as
soon as possible. The greater portion will remain in the reserve series,
for the number of duplicates is small.

The specimens have been roughly classified, and arranged in trays,
and although much work is needed to put them in thorough order, they
are now in good condition and are available for further study.

This department is very much in need of more room, both for the
study and exhibition series, the only five cases for which space is avail-
able being completely filled.

A large amount of unclassified material is now in storage, and while
a portion of this is probably of little value, yet much of it is important
for study and exhibition purposes, and owing to lack of space it is im-
possible to examine the specimens and render them available.

A good study series is extremely desirable in order to properly name
the specimens which, from time to time, are sent to the Museum for
identification, and until more room can be obtained thisimportant por-
tion of the collection must sufter.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS
(INCLUDING CENOZOIC FOSSILS)
IN THE U.S, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By WILLIAM H. Dau, Honorary Curator.

The force of the department of mollusks during the past year has, in
addition to the honorary curator, included Dr. R. EB. C. Stearns, U.S.
Geological Survey, adjunct curator; Mr. Charles Torrey Simpson, aid;
Mr. 8. Hazen Bond, copyist, and Miss N.C. Beard, copyist. The three
last mentioned have comprised the paid force of the department, while,
as in previous years, by permission of the Director of the U. 8. Geo-
logical Survey, in addition to the curator, Dr. Stearns, Mr. Gilbert D.
Harris, and Mr. Frank Burns, of the U. 8. Geological Survey, have
devoted more or less of their time to the work of the department in
connection with their paleontological studies, with valuable results.
The writer has, with the permission of the Director of the Geological
Survey, continued to act as honorary curator.

Excellent progress in the routine work of the department has been
made during the year. The number of registrations is about the same
as that of last year, but in other directions the progress made has been
exceptional. The tops of the new cases on the ground floor of the
Smithsonian have been utilized by placing the Lea collection of Unio-
nide on exhibition, and filling the remaining tables with specimens
suitable for exhibition. Owing to the onerous duties of the entire
staff, due to delays caused by an unusual amount of sickness, part of
the central upright cases still remain to be filled and arranged.

It is with great regret that I am obliged to note that the imperfect
health of my coadjutor, Dr. Stearns, has obliged him to seek rest. He has
been able to render services of a kind for which few are qualified. His
energy, devotion, and knowledge have been of the highest value to this
department, and his absence nearly doubles the work of the curator.

GENERAL OPERATIONS.

The general operations of the department, as in previous years, have
comprised: (1) The determination, labeling, proper assorting, and reg-
istration of specimens, old and new; and (2) the preparation of special
reports on Government collections made by other branches of the Hx-
ecutive Departments, such as the U.S, Fish Commission, the U.S. Navy,

SM 91, PT 2 15 225

226 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

the Revenue-Marine Service, the Department of Agriculture, and also
by special expeditions.

The number of registrations shown in the table is about the same
as in recent years, and I am glad to be able to state that we are visibly
approaching a point when we shall be able to see the end of the ancient
arrearages of which such a mass existed afew years ago. Once cleared
away the department, as at present constituted, will be able to keep
abreast of the accessions with ordinary diligence, to systematize our
duplicate material, ascertain what are the important gaps in our collec-
tion, and take the necessary steps for filling them. Already our collec-
tion ranks among the most important in the world, and if two or three
other collections surpass it in some respects, there is no existing collec-
tion which if does not surpass from many other standpoints, especially
as regards the scientific data associated with the material it contains
and the thorough system of registration and identification applied to
the specimens. I think I may say that there is no collection affording
greater facilities for the scientific use of the material it contains. Un-
fortunately, our library lacks many of the most important works on mol-
lusks, and several of those which we possess are practically inacessible
for want of binding. Without the private library of the curator very
little work could be done, and many of the more important recent works
are inaccessible in any of the librariesin this city. Imay call attention
here to the fact that many of the conchological publications of the Smith-
sonian Institution are practically out of print, and that every few days
applications are made, in the vain hope of obtaining them, by students
in the various parts of the country. It is to be hoped that some of
them, such as the ‘Mollusks of Western North America,” by Car-
penter, and Tryow’s “Strepomatide,” may be soon reprinted for the use
of students.

A number of papers have been published during the past year by
the writer and by Dr. Stearns, a list of which will be found in the

sibhography (Section tv). The most important of these, perhaps, is
Part I of the writer’s report on the Tertiary Mollusks of Florida, issued
in September, 1890, by the Wagner Free Institute of Science, Philadel-
phia. Part U1 will follow at a convenient date.

A large part of the curator’s time has been devoted to the prepara-
tion of a general report on the Neocene formations of the United States
for the U.S. Geological Survey. This has been completed, and is now
in the printer’s hands. Dr. Stearns has devoted much time to an
investigation of the mollusks of the Galapagos Islands, and the manu-
script is nearly ready for publication.

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR.

The number of accessions during the year was 79. In 1889-90 the
number was 46. [t will be observed that the number of accessions is
nearly double that of last year, and I may add that the amount of
material is also considerably greater and more valuable.
DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 22

The more important accessions are included in the following e:umera-
tion:

T. H. Aldrich, esq. (Blocton, Ala.), sent a number of typically named specimens of
Eocene Tertiary fossils studied by Otto Meyer.

Hon. Delos Arnold (California) contributed an interesting series of Pliocene and
Pleistocene fossils of that State, chiefly from the southern coast.

Mr. R. L. Bartleman (of United States legation at Caracas, Venezuela), has presented
soine very interesting marine shells of that coast, including a beautiful series of the
Argonaut from the youngest to the adult shell. :

A collection less attractive but scientifically important, in the shape of his types
of American slugs, in alcohol, completing the typical Binney collection of the
Museum, was presented by Mr. W.G. Binney.

From the British Museum a series of 31 species collected by the Challenger expedi-
tion were received, including several varieties new to the collection.

A few interesting Arctic species from the Kara Sea were contributed by the Royal
Zoological Museum of Copenhagen.

From Mr. Hugh Fulton, of London, a number of extremely rare African and other
shells were purchased or obtained by exchange. These were forms needed to com-
plete the series, and which there was no reasonable prospect of obtaining except by
purchase.

A remarkably fine series of Tritonium femorale from the Bahamas was obtained
from Mr. I. Greegor, who has also donated a number of interesting shells from various
localities.

Dr. H. von Ihering of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, sent a number of South American
marine and fresh-water shells from that region, several of which were new to the
collection, and nearly all from localities not represented in our series,

Dr. Robert T. Jackson, of Boston, contributed a series of young stages of oysters
and other bivalve shells, illustrative of his recent memoir on the Phylogeny of the
Pelecypoda.

Mr. William Palmer collected while at St. Paul Island, Bering Sea, a very interest-
ing series of shells and Miocene fossils.

From Miss Ida Shepard and Mrs. M. Burton Williamson, of Santa Barbara County,
Cal., various interesting California species were received on several occasions.

Mr. Frederick Stearns, of Detroit, Mich., sent for exchange the first series of dupli-
cates of his very interesting aud valuable collection recently made in Japan.

From the U. 8. Department of Agriculture, through Dr. C. Hart Merriam, in
charge of the Division of Economic Ornithology, a number of small lots ef land
shells and fresh-water shells, collected by the agents of the Department in Arizona
and other parts of the southwestern United States, were received. These contained
several novelties, which have been described by Dr. R. E. C. Stearns.

From the U. 8. Fish Commission a collection made by the schooner Grampus on
the Labrador coast, and various collections from the North Pacifie coast, dredged by
the Albatross, were received.

Mr. Joseph Willcox contributed several boxes of Pliocene and other fossils, chiefly
from Florida, These contained much that is interesting.

ROUTINE WORK.

The routine work of the past year has not differed greatly from that
of the preceding year. It has been inarked by the completion of the
work on the Lea collection, which is now entirely registered. The
Naiades have been placed on exhibition in the new cases; while the
duplicates are being arranged for easy access by Mr. Simpson with a
view to future exchanges. A large amount of work on fossiliferous
228 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

marl and gravel, yielding many hundreds of specimens, has been accom-
plished by Miss Beard and Mr. Burns during the year. The work of
answering queries on varions subjects connected with mollusks, and
assisting students in different parts of the country to direct their stud-
ies and to identify their local faunie, has always been regarded as
important, and was particularly referred to in the last report of the
curator. About 78 individuals were included in the list of those thus
communicated with during that year, which was nearly double the num-
ber of the year preceding. During the year 189091, to which the pres-
ent report refers, the number of correspondents has been no less than
166, the correspondence including over 300 letters and 600 or 700 pages
of manuscript, besides the identification, or noting, of not less than
1,200 species of mollusks. This work has been performed by the eura-
tor, assisted by Dr. Stearns and Mr. Simpson, without the advantage
of a stenographer or typewriter. It is obvious that if the work contin-
ues to increase in like ratio, additional facilities will be required.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES.

The bibliographical notices under the names Dall, Simpson, and
Stearns (see Section Tv) will indicate the direction of the researches
carried on by the staff during the year. Most of the curator’s time has
necessarily been devoted to a review of the state of our knowledge of
the later tertiary of the United States. This has been completed and
is in the printer’s hands, but will not be included in the Bibliography
accompanying this volume.

Dr. Stearns has continued his work on the shells of the Galapagos
and of the western coast of South America, chiefly from the Albatross
voyage, but his ill-health has prevented its completion.

Mr. Simpson continues to devote much of his leisure to a study of the
Florida Unios, aided by the types of the Lea collection and by material
derived from various sources,

CONDITION OF THE COLLECTION.

In previous reports it has been explained why it is not yet possible to
give the exact number of species, specimens, duplicates, ete., contained
in the collection under my charge. In my last report it was estimated
that the collection contained about 471,500 specimens, of which one-
fourth are preserved in aleohol. About 5,000 specimens are estimated
to have been received during the year, which would make a present
total of about 476,500 specimens.

The number of entries in the registers for 1889-90 was 6, 569. For the
present year it amounts to 5,764, equivalent to about 17,292 specimens.
The total number of registrations to date, deducting all duplications
or omissions, is 100,667, representing 302,000 specimens.

The number of workers and their distribution in different parts of the
DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS.

229

building requires the use of several volumes of the register simultane-
ously. This will explain why the following table is necessary to show
the total registration for the entire year.
the gaps alluded to) terminates June 30, 1891, with number 122524.

The formal registration (with

Volume. From— To—- Total. Remarks.
D.C \Y00 El CES mene ee PIES Se ely ic Sesh eR 87760 | 87850 90 | Volume now full.
SEONG ers hh Eno Si ed he 97462 97500 38 Do.
PRONG UT kava osc saa Sa OS oe ee Ss 106825 106856 31 | Volume in use.
De OCLINY 3S a =e ee eg SR or Be Ae Tn eaten 1 A024 US lee a ei ticl| meres Reserved for fossils.
BRENGVpeeteeefotct Net cra(ciays clos Sots a ated Ws, ote snietew apo stetorets 116920 120825 | 3,905 | Volume now full.
EXONS Vie io rae iri = syn elaiaiw oe bo ate etal slewinnae Sacre 120825 122524 | 1,700 | Volume in use.

RotaliforsB90=! QWs. Soc tyac anc cena cists nee l pas oamoaa asses certs 5, 764

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By C. V. Rinty, Honorary Curator.

During the past fiscal year no important changes have been made in
the exhibit collections of the Department, but the reserve collections
in the laboratory have been steadily improved to facilitate the access,
and increase the attractiveness and utility to students,

Many important accessions have been received during the year, of
which the following are worthy of mention:

About 63 species of insects of all orders collected in Angola and St. Thome, Africa,
from H. Chatelain, 219 Four and a half street, Washington, D.C. (Ace. 23400.)

A large collection of African insects of all orders from Dr. W. L. Abbott, 1926 Chest-
nut street, Philadelphia, Pa. These were collected mostly between Mombasa
and Killima-Njaro, but many on the Seychelles Islands and on Madagasear. Of
special interest is a set of beautiful leaf insects from the Seychelles. (Ace.
23656, 24008. )

Types of North American Geophilide mounted on eight microscopic slides, from O.
F. Cook and G. F. Collins, Syracuse, N. Y. (Acc. 23854.)

Forty species of North American Coleoptera, new to collection, from Charles Palm,
East Sixty-fourth street, New York. (Exchange.) (Ace. 23853.)

North American Noctuidee, including types of ten new species from Prof. J. B. Smith,
New Brunswick, N. J. (Acc. 23933.)

Collection of Lepidoptera, containing 382 North American and 62 Enropean species,
from the curator. (Acc. 23934.)

Fifty-four species of North American Coleoptera, new to collection, from the cura-
tor. (Acc. 23964.)

Through the eurator, 355 species of mounted insects of varies orders from the United
States and Mexico, collected by L. Bruner, Lincoln; Nebr. (Ace. 23974.)

One hundred and sixty-seven species of South African insects, mostly Coleoptera,
from J. H. Brady, Cape Town. (Ace. 23982.)

Sixty species and 425 specimens of Lepidoptera, and 375 species, 2,400 specimens of
Coleoptera, collected in the States of Washington and California by A. Koebele,
and transferred to the National Museum by the eurator. (Ace. 24017.)

A series of 400 species of Coleoptera and 130 species of Hemiptera, collected by L.
Bruner in Western United States and Mexico, and transferred to the National
Museum by the curator. (Acc. 34136.)

Twenty microscopic slides from Prof. J. B. Smith, New Brunswick, N. J., illustrat-
ing his essay on the mouth-parts of Diptera. (Ace. 24135.)

A collection of Tineidw containing 430 species in 900 specimens of North America and
140 species in 500 specimens of Europe. This collection was purchased from
William Beutenmiiller, of New York, by the Agricultural Department, and depos-
ited in the Museum. It contains the original types of all the species described
by Mr. Beutenmiiller. (Acc. 24277. )

231
232 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

North American Tineide and some Tortricide, comprising 240 species in 1,100 speci-
mens, from the curator. (Ace. 24279.)
A miscellaneous lot of dry and alcoholic specimens from R. M. Bartleman, Caracas,
Venezuela, (Ace. 24351.)
Through the curator, 27 species in 217 specimens of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera, co]-
lected by D, W. Coquillett, in San Diego, Cal. (Ace. 24459,)
As in previous years a large number of additions in small lots or sin-
ele specimens have been added by the curator or his assistants in the
Department of Agriculture, without special accession number, ‘

ROUTINE WORK.

The routine work during the year has been:

1. The making up of collections for exchange. Some of these are:
A series of named Coleoptera for Mr. Charles Palm, of New York; a
small series of named Coleoptera for Prof. Paul Noel, Rouen, France;
a large series of named Coleoptera for Prof. A. J. Cook, Lansing, Mich.; a
series of Coleoptera for Mr. Charles Dury, Cincinnati, Ohio; a series
of Hemiptera for Prof. A. L. Montandon, Bucarest, Roumania.

2. The naming of specimens for collectors. Numerous larger and
smaller series of Insects of all orders have been identified for a number
of correspondents.

3. The selection of material to be sent to specialists for study and
determination.

(a) The Coleoptera of the family Cistelide were sent to Capt. T. L.
Casey, New York, who has recently monographed this family.

(b) A series of all the forms of the Buprestid genus Agrilus has been
selected and sent to Dr. G. H. Horn, of Philadelphia, who offered to
identify them according to his newly prepared. still unpublished revi-
sion of this genus.

(c) A large series of the Dipterous family Tachinide, representing all
the species in the collection, except uniques, has been prepared and
sent to Prof. Frederick Brauer, of Vienna, who has published a new
classification of the Calyptrate Muscidie of the world, but probably
from lack of material at his disposal, our North American fauna in this
group has not been satisfactorily elucidated.

(4) The work of arranging in permanent shape all the collections. In
the Lepidoptera the Noctuide fasciate, the Tineina, and the biologic
series have been rearranged and accessions have been incorporated in the
Rhopalocera and Bombycina. In the Coleoptera, which in the last re-
port were stated to have been completely arranged, the incorporation
of the vast accessions has necessitated a considerable expansion of the
collection. In the Hemiptera the accessions have all been incorporated
in the collection. In the Diptera the great bulk of the families have
been arranged during the year, occupying about 220 unit boxes, but a
number of the more obscure and difficult families are still mixed and
unidentified.
DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 233

In the Hymenoptera the whole collection has been rearranged with
the aid of Mr. William H. Ashmead for the aculeate and parasitic fam-
ilies, and with the aid of Mr. C. L. Marlatt for the Tenthredinidw, The
order occupies about 370 boxes,

The Arachnida have been arranged with the aid of Mr, N. Banks,
The collection contains 325 North American and 100 exotic species.
Like the Myriopoda these specimens are preserved in alcoholic vials,
fastened on blocks, and arranged in large cabinet drawers. The North
American Myriopoda have also been rearranged. This collection, in-
cluding the Bollman collection, bought by the Museum last year, ranks
as the largest in existence and contains 160 named species in 325 alco-
holic vials, arranged in twelve large drawers.

During the past year 12,000 specimens, at a rough estimate, have
been added to the collection.

The last catalogue entry for June, 1890, is 572 and for June, 1891, is
746.

The entire collection was examined during the month of June in
search of museum pests, and was found in a highly satisfactory condi-
tion.
Pore ‘ean ene My are ie, Pas 7

7 ee ae Laon tetd + bed yitte Aaa, vil etry Cy: iy eats oh gad ar
Beet f re! hai hs shat» Eide a b; this kponel iter ay (ry my aati rae

i o - ay 7
= "
ae om + . wy i
ae i r all
Be phil OP \ ne ly
o i oy a 7 F "
i Ray
fen) ry
a - %
, A i ; +- =
44 : }
4 LS |
+ ‘
2) vt i
« #.
. 1
i , . » 1 i
oy ;
" g
i) i be —- i |
7 ' " at .
” D ‘
a *
: ; ‘>
i t :
Pe ei, 3 A 7
i PS 6 -
= i i palsy é a 4
a - E yar’ eg a Pe ae
it, a Te 6a) eens
. 4 ib is} ye 5
i ba a" a
a 3] he Roy oy, 4 rats
c ei ¥ : ‘ i —! a
: « 7 a ieee ¥ ie) 7 ras oy
ey Tan are eS oe 4 ran - — =)
: ’ r J
ae , : ® . Te » % 3 ce ce
“7 Aa + a : ee ene Tae a, Ca ia oo

=a “oe : erent) B63 aes, Mieka » sow ae eee

meee a oe Beatin’) a ries)
tine’ robbs a(t wide TY Ee nae en a TY,

7 ; Rarely, ae ’ prs x
was’ a bd ee a Vn ea aaa ak. hs en

Repermns4) Vi sede On} ay ora + Teele
eee. tH bus ane “OP ys Me ee ie Ph m pe ih ¥ i
Bron eee rl Wil Baia aahel ite fs he a or tah Dy: Ay an
aN SREY Tite Eee. tes in en ey iieads Med de "i nik
ies thse thet ae eae ath, We Lg i ut at pele sete iF
epee th: > At iy Ys (ety ai: ay Cer Naas WA eats 2 vt) ey

eR agi hay 4h rat 1 a ait, uy wa} we wragirnu! bre.
: Bin eed My T. enehers, 4) lh otupensies oma “gaR2, il OIG

7 = ‘ om 34 pithy spel ea ie
is uae octerh at ERR eet

1 aa

a dt Ke aie mi oa © eS ee '% i my" A Lonnie

ree apa
7 44 Ta Gee 7 =

NP mine: BS a4 ana ty

A ’ — He

Roe ee tre oh 4)

aa coe

ik Tee a a ;
+X, oan Fit Ga inane aoe j 1

2

SPAN Siac: uk alae te EN, Banat
t : : ime > a «
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES
IN THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By RICHARD RATHBUN, Honorary Curator.

The curator is able to report favorable progress in the work of this
department during the past year. Except for the temporary closing of
the exhibition room, its affairs have never been in better condition, and
much original research has been carried on.

The construction of a new roof over the west hall of the Smithsonian
building has necessitated the removal of most of the collections stored
there and the utilizing of the central part of the fish hall for display
purposes ona small scale. The library and office room has, however,
been accessible, and has been used as heretofore. The gallery assigned
to this department has been better fitted up as a general work room by
the transfer to other quarters of a part of the collections previously kept
there and the introduction of many conveniences for the storage and
assorting of collections. The small room in the west basement, hitherto
used for the unpacking of alcoholic specimens and the storage of the
type collections of that character, has been so darkened by the building
of a large structure alongside its windows that it is no longer adapted
to such purposes, and the overhauling of the alcoholics has to be done
at present in the gallery.

All of the collections have been maintained in good condition, and
the number of specimens has been considerably increased by additions
from many sourees. Much time has been occupied in the assorting, la-
beling, and cataloguing of specimens, and in the preparation of dupli-
‘ate sets for gratuitous distribution and the exchanges. Original re-
search has been limited chiefly to the higher crustacea, respecting which
several papers are in course of preparation.

The curator has been unable to give more than a general supervision
to the department during the year, the credit for the activity displayed
being due to Mr. James E. Benedict, the assistant curator, and Miss
M. J. Rathbun, who are responsible not only for the general conduct of
the work, but also for the increased results herein recorded. Both have
been engaged in working up and describing portions of the collections
under their charge, thereby adding greatly to the scientific value of the
latter, and bringing them to the attention of specialists and students of

92

f
aod
236 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

natural history. During three months Mr. Benedict was attached as
naturalist to the Fish Commission steamer Fish Hawk while making
oyster surveys in Long Island Sound and on the coast of South Carolina,
and in that connetion obtained many valuable additions to our collee-
tion in the way of obscure and little-known crustaceans. Mr. A. E.
McConnell, a young draftsman, volunteered his services to the depart-
ment during June, and was employed in making drawings and in other
work.

The total number of accessions recorded has been 32, aggregating a
much larger number of species and specimens than for the previous
year. The contributions made by the Fish Commission have been
chiefly in the line of the Crustacea, including 56 species of Brachyura
and Anomoura dredged by the steamer Albatross chiefly in the Pacifie
Ocean, a collection of Brachyura obtained by the schooner Grampus on
the red snapper banks of the Gulf of Mexico, and a very large series of
specimens of the genus Panopeus, representing recent investigations by
the Fish Commission vessels along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the
United States. Anumber of Pacific Ocean Hchini have also been depos-
ited by the Commission.

Other large collections have been received as follows: From the Brit-
ish Museum, London, England, 95 species representing several groups of
marine invertebrates, mostly obtained during the voyage of H. M.S.
Challenger between 1875 and 1876; from the Imperial Museum of Nat-
ural History, Berlin, Germany, 86 species of echinoderms; from the
Royal Zoélogical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark, 85 species of marine
invertebrates collected by the Danish Exploring Expeditions of 1882-83,
to the Arctic regions, Kara Sea, and the southern coast of Nova Zembla;
from Dr. E. A. Andrews, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., 57
species of annelids from Beaufort, N. C., and Willoughby Spit, Va.;
from Prof. Henry A. Ward, Rochester, N. Y., a large series of ecrusta-
ceans from several localities.

Many of the smaller accessions have also been of much value, the fol-
lowing among them being worthy of special mention: A series of marine
invertebrates from St. Paul Island, Bering Sea, and Unalaska, col-
leeted by Mr. William Palmer, of the National Museum, and Mr. H. W.
Elliott, during the summer of 1890; a similar collection from Arichat,

Jape Breton, Nova Scotia, presented by Mr. W. A. Stearns, of Cam-
bridge, Mass.; specimens of crustacea from Dr. Charles F. Newcombe,
of Victoria, British Columbia, and obtained in that vicinity; entozoan
parasites of fish-eating birds from Guaymas, Mexico, and ecrayfishes
from North Carolina, donated by P. L. Jouy; a miscellaneous collec- >
tion from ©. R. Oreutt, of San Diego, Cal.; New Zealand sponges,
crabs, and starfishes from Henry Edwards, of New York; Bahama
starfishes from John I. Northrop, of Columbia College, New York;
Samoan sponges, corals, and echinoderms from Lieut. T. Dix Bolles,
U.S. Navy; crustaceans from the Florida Reefs, collected by Lieut.
DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 237

J. F. Moser, U.S. Navy; ascidians, annelids, and shrimps, from Grand
Manan, New Brunswick, presented by Dr. C. Hart Merriam, of Wash-
ington, D. C.; crustaceans and starfishes from the west coast of Africa,
presented by H. Chatelain.

Prof. S. 1. Smith, of Yale University, has sent to the Museum for
study the collection of crustacea made in Bermuda during 1876 and
1877, by Dr. G. Brown Goode, and the specimens of Panopeus obtained
by Fish Commission parties in the West Indies at different times.
Prof. A. KE. Verrill has returned a small lot of Fish Commission speci-
mens, which have been stored in the Peabody Museum at New Haven,
and has supplied for study the speeimens of Panopeus belonging to
that museum.

The Fish Commission collections of the higher Crustacea when re-
ceived in Washington are temporarily deposited with this department
to be assorted, catalogued, and prepared for study, and when identified
are transferred to the Museum.

An unfinished manuscript report on the Decapod Crustacea, contain-
ing many valuable notes and a comprehensive bibliography of the sub-
ject, has been contributed by Prof. J. S. Kingsley, of the University of
Nebraska. It will be of great service in the study of this group.

During the first part of the year the west hall of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, used by this department for exhibition purposes, remained
in the same condition as explained in the last report, but in prepara-
tion for the extensive repairs authorized by the last Congress, it beeame
necessary to close the hall to the public in March, and to make suitable
disposition of the collection which would soon have been damaged by
the weather after the removal of the roof. The necessity for these re-
pairs has been evident for a long time, and during a severe storm in
August, 1890, many of the cases were fairly deluged with water, al-
though fortunately none of the objects they contained were permanently
damaged. The more hardy stony corals and sponges were left in the
upright wall cases, which were closely boxed in such a manner as to
insure the protection of the cases and their contents. The unit cases,
together with the specimens stored in them, and the display collections
of crustaceans, echinoderms, and gorgonians, as well as some of the
stony corals and sponges, and the alcoholics, were transferred to the
fish hall adjacent, where, in the limited space available, as instructive
a display as possible has been made.

The gallery in the main hall, used as a workroom and storeroom,
has been re-arranged so as to afford better facilities for study and the
assorting of collections, while its ventilation has also been improved.
The large number of dried sponges heretofore stored there, together
with some additional specimens not requiring immediate attention,
have been removed to two small rooms on the fourth floor of the south
tower, where, although inconvenient of access, they are safe from in-
jury. All other material has been placed in storage cases on the main
238 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

floor. This readjustment of the collections has made room for seven
unit cases in the gallery, affording the means for disposing of most of
the loose trays which had previously been stacked upon the floor,
Three wall cases for alcoholic specimens have also been built in this gal-
jery, and are now utilized for the type collections of Brachyura being
studied by Mr. Benedict and Miss Rathbun.

The customary routine work of the department has occupied a large
share of the time of the assistants. The collections received have been
unpacked, assorted, and catalogued. Several sets of duplicate speci-
mens for exchange and for gratuitous distribution have been prepared
and sent out. The extensive collection of marine invertebrates made
by the Fish Commission steamer Albatross on its cruise to Panama and
the Galapagos Islands, during the winter of 189091, was also partly
assorted here, preparatory to the assigninent of the different groups to
specialists for study.

The researches made on the Brachyura and Anomoura have necessi-
tated the overhauling of all the specimens belonging to those groups,
and the extension and partial revision of the card catalogue descriptive
of them. The card catalogue of the macruran and lower crustaceans
has also been revised and brought down to date, and that of the anne-
lids has-been taken up for the same purpose. <A few crustaceans have
been mounted for the display cases, rather as an experiment, however,
as it has not been deemed expedient to enlarge the exhibition series
until the west hall is again made ready for occupation.

The amount of cataloguing done during the year is explained in the
following table:

| Number of

1 Entries to | Entries to 7
Group SNS | BN S entries made
19 une 30, 1890. | June 30, 1891. during year.
— ——— —= =: —— — ——— —— ——_ -____—_- -- —--—- --—- —-—— — ——_ — ——— - — | —— ———---
|
Omustaceans s2 ose 0ee oa eee ce sas aoe sE ere Coes 14, 934 15, 814 880
RVEOTINIS teeth cee ce ee eee teens Senet, Cae nmnee sna 4,810 | 4,935 | 125
Bry Oz Gans en eASClC LANs eee eee eee ee eee ea ee 2, 844 2, 869 | 25
Hehinoderms) and Coslenteratess-=----- oes eee eee 17, 459 17, 640. | 181
SPOUres amid) Pe TO LO ZO aT Soe erect = eee alee ei 6, 287 | 6, 815 | 28
Ht CASS Sa ese ans aoa ECe cite Scee Ree FaOS Dap ASE Et OoaS | Srey eee De eye | vs eer ei eens 1, 239
|

Mr. Benedict has continued his studies upon the Brachyura and
Anomoura belonging to the department, assisted by Miss Rathbun.
This collection is one of the largest and most important of its kind that
has ever been brought together, representing all parts of the world,
but being especially rich in specimens from the coasts of the United
States and the deeper waters adjacent to them. Until a year ago, this
rich field had received very little attention in the department, and
much time has naturally been consumed in overhauling and assorting
the specimens, and in identifying those which had previously been
described. It was considered important to complete the general revi-
DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 239

sion of the material before beginning upon the study of special groups,
in order to prepare good reference series and determine the direction
in which the best results could be obtained. This preliminary work
has practically been finished and much progress has been made in the
writing of special monographs, and the description of new and obscure
forms. At the same time the specimens have been placed in good con.
dition, the labels and catalogues perfected, and the collections conven-
iently arranged.

One monograph was completed within the year and accepted for pub-
lication in the Proceedings of the Museum. It is a joint paper by Mr.
Benedict and Miss Rathbun on the genus Panopeus of crabs, a genus
which has long needed the careful revision it has received at their
hands. It is represented in the Museum by about three thousand
specimens, belonging to twenty-four species, of which six were found to
be new and undescribed. Material for the work was also obtained from
other sources, including the specimens belonging to the Yale Univer-
sity Museum, furnished by Prof. A. EK. Verrill, the Bermuda collection
of Dr. G. Brown Goode, and the Brazilian collections of the Hartt ex-
peditions. Hach species was reproduced by means of outline drawings
or photographs, but the latter proving unsatisfactory for engraving,
pen and ink sketches have been madefrom them. A complete bibliogra-
phy of the genus was prepared in connection with the paper.

Mr. Benedict is now engaged upon a monograph of the genus Hupa-
gurus Which already numbers sixty species in our collection, many of them,
especially from recent explorations by the steamer Albatross in the Pa-
cific Ocean, being new to science. All of the principal museums in the
country will be drawn upon for material in the preparation of this
paper, in order that it may be made as complete as possible. Miss
Rathbun is at work upon a descriptive catalogue of the Family Peri-
ceride, represented in the National Museum by eleven genera and forty-
eight species, of which fifteen species have never been described.

The crabs collected by the steamer Fish Hawk on the coast of South
Carolina and in Long Island Sound, in connection with the oyster in-
vestigations of the past two years, have been named, and lists of the
same furnished to the Fish Commission. Mr. Benedict has also given
some time to the preparation of notes to be embodied in a handbook
of instructions for the collecting of marine invertebrates.

The studies of Mr. W. C. Kendall on the zodlogical collections made
by the Fish Commission schooner Grampus in the Gulf of Mexico in
1889, described in the previous report, were continued a short time
into the present year.

A collection of entozoan parasites from fish-eating birds, collected
at Guaymas, Mexico, by P. L. Jouy, was referred to Prof. Edwin Linton,
of Washington and Jefferson College, Washington, Pa., who has re-
ported upon them in a paper which will appear in Vol. xv, of the Pro-
ceedings of the Museum.
240 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

A report by Dr. E. A. Andrews on the marine annelids of Beaufort,
N. ©., and Willoughby Spit, Va., may also be referred to in this con-
nection, although the material described was not furnished by this de-
partment. A full set of the species was, however, presented to the
Museum by Dr. Andrews, and his paper will be printed in its vroceed-
ings.

All of the unnamed specimens of stomatopods in the collection, as
well as some others, have been referred to Dr. Robert P. Bigelow, of
Johns Hopkins University, who is now preparing an extensive paper
on the group. The specimens of the Oniscide have been referred for
study to Messrs. O. F. Cook and H. R. Jaquay, of Syracuse University ;
and also many lots of the Foraminifera from the dredgings of the Alba-
tross and other vessels, to Dr. James M. Flint, U.S. Navy.

Nine of the regular sets of duplicate marine invertebrates belonging
to series No. tv have been distributed during the year. Hach of
these sets contains about one hundred and ten species, carefully pre-
served and labeled, as described in previous reports. The specimens
were selected from collections made by the U.S. Fish Commission on
the eastern coast of the United States, and represent all of the prinei-
pal groups of invertebrates occurring in that region. The institutions
supplied are as follows: Pennsylvania State College, Center County,
Pa.; Brooklyn Training School, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Mount Vernon Sem-
inary, Washington, D. C.; High School, Bridgton, Me.; Missouri Val-
ley College, Marshall, Mo.; Columbia College, New York, N. Y.; Lou-
isiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College, Baton
Rouge, La.; State Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.: High School,
Springfield, Mass.

Special collections have been sent out in exchange tor other speei-
mens or for purposes of study, as follows: To Prof. George S. Brady,
Sunderland, England; the Imperial Museum of Natural History, Berlin,
Germany; the American Museum of Natural History, New York, N.
Y.; Prof. J. P. MeMurrich, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.; John
W. Spencer, Paxton, Il.; Charles S. Beachler, Crawfordsville, Ind.;
Dr. Stephen Bowers, Ventura, Cal.; the Brooklyn Institute, Brooklyn,
N. Y.; Prot. Henry A. Ward, Rochester, N. Y.; Mount Vernon Semi-
nary, Washington, D. C.

The principal explorations during the year by which this department
has been benefited, were those made by the Fish Commission steamers
Albatross and Fish Hawk, the former operating in the Pacific Ocean,
the latter on the Atlantic coast of the United States. The steamer Al-
batross spent the summer of 1890 in Bering Sea, going north in May
and returning to San Francisco in September. The object of this cruise
was to determine the fishing resources of the southeastern part of Ber-
ing Sea, and the location, extent, and characteristics of the cod and
halibut banks. Many dredgings were made over this area, both in
shallow and deep water, and large collections of natural-history speci-
DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 241

mens were procured. The brachyuran and anomouran crustaceans have
been referred to Mr. Benedict for study. In January, 1891, the Alba-
tross proceeded southward, and under the direction of Prof. Alexander
Agassiz, made a careful biological survey of the region lying off Panama
and about the Galapagos Islands, running several lines of deep-sea
dredgings, and carrying the observations over the plateau in shallow
water adjacent to the continent. No similar investigations had been
conducted in this part of the Pacific prior to the visit of the Alba-
tross, except close along the coast, and very important scientifie results
were therefore obtained. The natural-history collections will be studied
under the supervision of Prof. Agassiz, after which the type series of
specimens will be deposited in the National Museum.

The Fish Hawk was engaged during the summer of 1890 in an inves-
tigation of the oyster grounds of Long Island Sound, in which Mr.
Benedict participated for about eight weeks. During the winter and
early spring of 1891, the same vessel made a survey of the natural oys-
ter beds of the coast of South Carolina, Mr. Benedict again being a
member of the scientific party. Neither of these explorations by the
steamer Fish Hawk aftorded opportunity for making extensive collee-
tions of marine invertebrates, but in South Carolina, especially, many
obseure forms were obtained from the brackish waters which had pre-
viously been little studied.

16

SM 91, PT 2
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By FREpDERIC A. LUCAS, Assistant Curator.

During the past year the specimens collected for this department by
the Eclipse Expedition of 188990 have been identified and catalogued,
and some necessary work was done on vertebrate fossils.

A large portion of the time of the assistant curator has been occupied.
in drawing up a tentative plan for a synoptic exhibition series of in-
vertebrates, mounting the specimens, and writing labels for the portion
arranged. Labels needed for the exhibition series of skeletons, and for
the specimens of domesticated animals, have also been prepared, and
the work of labeling the exhibition series of vertebrate fossils was com-
menced.

Nine small lots of specimens of fossil and recent bones have been
submitted and identified. Many specimens have been lent to Dr. R.
W. Shufeldt for study in connection with the preparation of a work on
the osteology of North American birds. Skulls of various fishes were
prepared for the use of Dr. Gill, and a series of bones of Rhytina was
selected for the Museum of Comparative Zodlogy.

The more important accessions during the year were a small collection
of North Bornean birds, containing some important desiderata, and a
collection of birds made by Mr. Wm. Palmer at the Pribylof Islands.
The additions to the exhibition series have been mainly skeletons of
such birds as were needed to complete the representation of important
groups. Three species of Galapagos Tortoises were also mounted. It
is gratifying to report the continued growth of the study series of
osteological specimens, especially of mammals and birds, although it
is to be regretted that, owing to lack of sufficient space and of the
necessary time, it is impossible to properly arrange them. Were space
available, six months’ time, or more, could be profitably spent on the
birds alone, as this part of the collection represents the accumulations
of years, and includes much material still unclassified.

No special researches have been made in this department during the
year, with the exception of a careful study by the assistant curator of

the osteology of the Family Paride and some of its allies. He has also
243
244 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

availed himself of the Museum material to study the structure of the
tongue of humming birds, and has prepared for incorporation in a hand-
book of the Trochilide,* a chapter, with illustrations, on the anatomy
of that group.

The directions for collecting skeletons, published in the proceedings
for 1885, have been rewritten and extended.

The following table shows the increase during the year as indicated
by the catalogues:

=o = rics Es
| Last entry | Last entry oe
June 30, 1890. | June 30, 1891. Increase.

Class.

IMammals'z os22 seo Oeste gas eso see sobs: Sse eee eee 34, 737 35, 144 407

PES TTS porete e are ere sete ees oe SSE ei ss ais tees ete nie ere eeeeinetaee see 18, 743 18, 982 239
Reptiles and batrachians .-.....-...........-...-..-- efees.ce 29, 291 29, 300 9

O —doded : ey eye Ud .
On June 30, 1891, there were 577 specimens on exhibition, as follows:

Skeletons:

Miata sor isae Setters Acne sreictense pve beak epee ve Belo Oe eee 196
Binds 2 4:22 26 bbe. sas be 5 SEM aero Sa eae ree ees 71
Reptiles = eenenvot sets seis ees eee eee oe ee eee eee 47
1 FAUST OVS) We enn ier Ae eerie Meiey ae oa he ihe felis 25
Skulls) ofmammealsa-s5 258 eeecee see eee eee 58
Specimens illustrating points of morphology, struc-
GUT OlCrei. Jae ae hese ae sere tak sens doe ae eerste ae 180
ol Gy eh ae lee ee a ey Bee Fen eR ee Soci ee Me Shoe 577

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF PALEOZOIC INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By C. D. Watcort, Honorary Curator.

The year’s work, in its bearings upon the collections, has been in-
direct rather than direct, owing to the necessity for the completion of
certain publications by the curator for the U. 8. Geological Survey
prior to the meeting of the Geological Congress in August next. A
large amount of material was received from the collectors of the Geo-
logical Survey, but owing to the pressure of other duties it has not
been transferred to the Museem. During the past winter Mr. S. Ward
Loper has been engaged for several months working upon the acces-
sions and preparing them for the exhibition series; and there is now a
large amount of material that will be available whenever case room is
provided for it. Mr. Charles R. Keyes was employed during the spring
to revise the exhibition series of Carboniferous fossils, and to bring the
nomenclature in accord with the latest authorities. Many of the
labels in the general collection had been badly written, and Mr. Osear
Hinrichs has been employed for the past six weeks in rewriting them.

As a whole, the year’s work shows substantial progress, and this
will be more specifically recorded in the report for the ensuing fiscal
year.

The two most important accessions during the year are those from
the Geological Survey of Sweden and Mr. Thomas Ruddy, of Wales.
The Cambrian collection from the Geological Survey of Sweden will be
of great value to all American students who are interested in studying
the Cambrian fauna and wish material from Sweden for comparison.
The collection of Mr. Thomas Ruddy is one of the most noted in Europe
from the Bala series of rocks, and his generous presentation of forty-
four genera and eighty species to the collections of the National Mu-
seum will enable students to make direct comparison between the
English and American upper Ordovician faunas.

The amount of the material in the collections was increased by the
addition of 615 specimens, carrying 84 genera, 153 species, and 1
variety.

245
246 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

The catalogue numbers taken up during the year were from 23843 to
24058, both inclusive.

Notices of the publications by the members of this department dur-
ing the year will be found in the Bibliography (Section Tv).

It is very difficult to handle the large amount of material coming in
from the Geological Survey and other sources, owing to the limited
laboratory room. Over fifty packing boxes of material, collected by the
Geological Survey, have been put in storage on account of the neces-
sity of obtaining room for collections that needed immediate study.
This was in order that reports might be made to the geologists of the
Geological Survey who desired to use the information in connection
with their field work. It will not be possible to make a detailed report
on the collections or to separate the duplicates until much greater facili-
ties shall be had for handling them.

ACCESSIONS TO THE COLLECTION.

HON. JOHN H.GEAR (Burlington, Iowa): A specimen of Crinoid, from Lower Car-
boniferous, Keokuk group, near Keokuk, Iowa. Ace. 23342.

Mas. J. W. POWELL (Director U.S. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.): Two
species of Crinoids (Ordovician System, Trenton formation), presented by John
Stewart, esq., to Maj. Powell, and by the latter to the U. 8. National Museum.
Ace. 23361.

F, H. LUTHE (McGregor, Iowa): Corals: Favosites, Acervularia, and Lithostrotian
(Devonian System, Hamilton formation.) Ace. 23388.

OSCAR POTTER (Scott, Cortland County, N. Y.): Orthoceras (Devonian System, Che-
mung formation.) Ace. 23609.

Mrs. HELENA Bb. Watcotr (Washington, D.C.): One hundred and eighty-six spee-
imens, including slabs with numerous shells, etc., from the Oriskany sandstone
of New York. (Silurian; Oriskany formation.) Acc. 23647.

PROF. ORVILLE A. DERBY, Rio Janeiro, Brazil (through Prof. J. M. Clarke, Albany,
N. Y.): Fossils of the Devonian System: Proetus pullinus Clarke; Crypheus pai-
tuna H. & E. (1 east); Homalonotus acanthwrus Clarke (1 cast); Homalonotus
ciara H. & Rathbun (1 cast); Homalonotus derbyi Clarke (1 cast); Phacops bra-
zilliensis Clarke (1 cast); Phacops menurus (1 cast); Phacops macropyge Clarke
(1 cast); Dalmanites tumilobus Clarke (1 cast); Dalmanites gemellus Clarke (1
cast); Dalmanites australis Clarke (cast); Dalmanites scirpeus Clarke (cast);
Dalmanites maccurua Clarke (4 casts); Dalmanites galea Clarke (2 casts). Ace.
23682.

FP, LINSLEY (Farmdale, Trumbull County, Ohio): Ten specimens of fossils (Silurian
System, Hudson formation) from upper beds of the Cincinnati group, at Rich-
mond, Ind.; Monticulipora, Orthis, Rhynchonella, Streptelasma, and Protaria. Ace.
23683.

JAMES W. ROGAN (Amis, Hawkins County, Tenn.): Two blocks (Silurian, Hudson
formation), one containing Scolithus borings, the other casts of worm holes or
of marine alge (Fucoid). Ace. 23696.

Pror. R. T. Hitt (Austin, Texas): Fossils representing the Lower Carboniferous
from historical localities in Burnet County, Tex. Ace. 23700.

UNiversIry or New BRUNSWICK, (Fredericton, New Brunswick): Specimens from
the Devonian, Carboniferous, and Ordovician. Ace. 23713.

W. R. Burns (Concord, Lewis County, Ky.): Calymene senaria (Silurian; Cincin-
nati formation). Acc. 23886.
DEPARTMENT OF PALEOZOIC INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 247

JOHN W. LANGDALE (48 K street, Washington, D. C.): Two Oriskany fossils (an-
identified). Ace. 23907.

ADAM FISHER (Moorfield, Hardy County, W. Va.): Silurian Oriskany fossil (un-
identified). Ace. 23908.

J. MILTON FINCH (217 Bainbridge street, Dayton, Ohio): Silurian segments of Crin-
oid columns. Ace. 23917.

Dr. C. HART MERRIAM (Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.): Nine frag-
ments of corals. Ace. 23920.

U. S. GroLoGicaL SuRVEY (through Charles D. Walcott, in charge of Division of
Paleozoic Invertebrate Paleontology): This accession contains one specimen of
Glyroceras, from the Lower Corboniferous, and four specimens of Devonian fish
remains, from Scotland. Ace. 24211.

J. H. Lemon (New Albany, Floyd County, Ind.): Referred to Prof. H. 8. Williams,
Ithaca, N. Y., for identification and report. Ace. 24233.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF SWEEDEN (Stockholm, Sweden): Cambria Fossils: Medu-
sites radiatus; Medusites lindstromi; Medusites favosus; Mickwitzia monilifera; Pro-
tospongia fenestrata; Dictyonema flabelliforme; derothele coriacea; Acrothele granu-
lata; Lingulella nathorsti; Hyolithes socialis; Hyolithes tenuistriatus; Leperditia
primordalis; Beyrichia angelini; Agnostus nathorsti; Agnostus parvifrons; Agnostus
pisiformis; Agnostus gibbus; Agnostus fallax; Agnostus punctuosus; Agnostus inter-
medius; Agnostus lavigatus; Agnostus glandiformis; Agnostus fissus; Agnostus rex;
Agnostus regius; Solenopleura brachymetopa; Solenopleura parva; Solenopleura cris-
tata; Conocoryphe dalmania; Conocoryphe exsulans; Conocoryphe agraulus; Lios-
tracus linnarssoni (Hyolithes socialis); Anomocara excavatum; Anomocare limbatum;
Arionellus primavus; Ellipsocephalus nordenskioldi; Ellipsocephalus polytomus; Cy-
clognathus micropygus; Parabolina spinulosa; Olenus truncatus; Paradoxides sjog-
reni; Paradoxides tessini; Olenellus kjerulfi; Orthis lindstromi. (Ace, 24324),

Tuomas Ruppy, Esq. (Pale Cowen, Wales): Ordovician Fossils: Orthis biforata;
Orthis actonie; Orthis alternata; Orthis ascendens; Orthis calligramma; Orthis
elegantula; Orthis flabellulum; Orthis hirnantensis; Orthis sagittifera; Orthis spife-
roides; Orthis vespertilis (alternata); Orthis vespertilis; Strophomena deltoidea;
Strophomena depressa; Strophomena expansa; Strophomena grandis (deltoides); Stro-
phomena pecten; Pterinea pleuroptera; Modiolopsis inflata; Modiolopsis modiolaris;
Modiolopsis pyrus; Euomphalus sculptus; Glyptocrinus basilis; Cyclonema crebristia;
Holopea conica; Holopea exserta; Holopea striatella; Holopella sp.; Ctendonta
varicosa (Bellerophon carinatus); Murchisonia simplex; Trochonema tripocata;
Orthisina ascendens; Favosites asper; Favosites gothlandica; Stenopora fibrosa;
Stenophora lycoperdon; Halysites catenularius; Heliotites interstinctus; Heliotites
tubulatus; Petraia equisulcata; Petraia subduplicata; Echinospherites balthicus;
Echinospherites granatus; Nebulipora lens; Spheronites pyriformis; Sphwronites
punctatus; Spheronites munitus; Cythere umbonata; Asaphus powisii; Serpulites
sp.; Calymene sanaria; Enerinurus sexcostatus; Trinucleus concentricus; Trinucleus
seticornis; Homalonotus bisuleatus; Lichas laxatus; Pinnatoporo sedqwickii; Phyl-
lopera hisengeri; Ptylodictya costellata; Ptylodictya dicholoma; Ptylodictya expla-
nata; Crania divaricata; Leptena quinquicostata; Leptena sericea; Leptwna scissa;
Leptena transversalis; Leptwna tenuicincta; Lingula ovata; Meristella crassa; Bel-
lerophon bilobatus; Bellerophon nodosus; Conularia sowerbyi; Cytoceras sonax;
Retiolites geinitzianus; Annelid burrows; Graptolithus priodon; Glauconome disticha;
Orthoceras ibex; Orthoceras primevum; Orthoceras vagans. (Acc, 24525).

Examinations and reports were made upon the accessions carrying
the following numbers: 936, 949, 1051, 1071, 1076, 1092, 1119, and 1186.

Work upon accessions Nos. 19896, 21286, and 23249, which belong to
previous years, was completed, and they were transferred to the Mu-
seum collections.
248

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Recapitulation of accessions.

Accession number. genera, |eponee! | svicdeelieneeeeam

DOBAD fe aic.cine aisdis cimslars clase sears aisle cela eia es oe eee Ginelele omic eae 1 Did seers a
VGA OI Ue een SAN Orr eS oer aE Set Tet ZO OA EOC Se IESE 1 Pa eters acer 2
DOO See ayes Sis 6) o:ayai nie eels Miz lays See Sie elniatate oie einieitoee srerlore were Sieecrae 4 ba | ene S ee i
Ce ee eh Crier tae tal, Reh ct aes 6 ee eR aS ees 1 11S PAS aean 1
yy a PAR, teak Gat ews Oot TR Nami re (aa yl eirc ela. Sree 186
BOGE savas a teraeyaia aiste rave eis ein erwin eioiaio tm ate mies aye efata erereiste aps tee Gales 5 | 14 1 37
ROG ae eter ars Soe ee ale set Sec ete Sele oe See Eee ero Sete il les vee Sees 2
DOUG emcee oa se ees eae seeds eee saree eee Sete ee Fema ee | 2 2 |(2 blocks) 2
DSTOOME a cl. SEA a Dae tA eh RR eNenrene. kee | (C3 ml eee eu Nee
Dal ee ee ia Syne sie ale alate ele sos Sete shee eek aiae se Sesiee Se wena es | (We Nesspdehccelspeaascneas 10
PBI Noy BD AR SAI SOE BEGETS INIA ats eee iene Ae te Pe 1 | ALA oe ees 1
DSOATE Maat (rahe SU Mee PMT rbaRe 38 (a) | PAE ooh dpe) ie fk 10
DOV Baa ec iais eles sicictels aes Cie Ae ene ejehic cme ceeiae dame oee (a) Joeceeceeee| esses eee it
DIG Tear a A ete erik 356 Mew eee Sues apes eral (a) Tae:
DBOZ0 meerstayae a ate ters sia \see Ste De Seles ole s ae See eee eae f (O) Ra ieee oa eee 9
A ie ae Ate rote Sala ote Sai ea Stale ie SE eats ee ot Sate eee Seas 2 Poe eee 5
70 OR EB ape PASeEe Rata O ete Od aco se aoO SARC AOSEE Che bee oe oa ss eth Die, crams ls ae ara eeieie he Saar | See eee
DAB OE tere oye lsjasis siege oes 2e/< aise aie semte = Be mee Nee ees | 22 BAP lee eae ee 109
ADD Sees Seem oe cj Aotarajaelale a siete <\etetse separ eters eee 44 SOU eeoeres 252
EO Gall & eae ar ers hs SS aks Sees SE $4 153 1 615

(a) Not examined.

(v) Of little paleontological value.

REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MESOZOIC FOSSILS
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By C. A. Wuitr, Honorary Curator.

Since the whole personnel of this.department are members of the
U.S. Geological Survey, their labors have been primarily devoted to
that organization, but all the work which has been done on the fossil col-
lections has been in direct line with that of the Museum. Besides this,
a considerable amount of routine work, pertaining specially to the
Museum, has been accomplished.

The fossil collections of this department are steadily increasing, and
have now become very important. They also have been lately rear-
ranged in the cases, with reference to the installation of the exhibition
series. They are now in better condition for examination and study
than they have ever been before.

Because of the nature of the collections, and of the little time for
that purpose at the disposal of the members of this department, it has
been impracticable to satisfactorily divide the specimens into reserve,
exhibition, and duplicate series. Some attention, however, has been
given to the selection of a series for exhibition, as already indicated,
but much study must be given to all the material before any further
division can be made.

The entries in the Museum catalogue range from 20263 to 21751,
making 1,488 entries, and adding 8,449 specimens to the Museum col-
lections during the year.

It has already been stated that all the work of this department has
been performed by members of the U. 8S. Geological Survey. The
resignation of Dr. C. B. Boyle, who for the past seven years has done
the greater part of this work, will make it impracticable in the future
to bestow so much time upon this work as has been done in the past.
unless more assistance is obtained from the Survey.

In the Bibliography (Section Iv) will be found references to three
papers published by the curator during the year, the first two of which
have reference to Museum material.

249
‘ i‘ > . i ; ; . Paty . aa ;
; : ts a Ls Avi a
| ae eet Re eg 2 Ne LN iene .
. AGES UR eect) Len oes ibs

. fare si cancel ali het ee ete Oita ae
Rexiervrsty air iatoiey dik Veet RL aot eee re

} [ ow

Sepia ioctl oA \ ica oye i pst opin etna ahceay/ ait Seg aa
a reas eM aes 7H +cat dyfor Wil 3 ORI ieee eee
Me ys. eh leit ep Sh are” Phat aie et eae
' | Prixtahice ara y eras it aif ‘erode ang
jl ie eee, eather i Sait. Soe) it i. pu eee ae ein? halres Fe
Sete Picxht Bselnawart ¥ ik Stier 2s, Gale vdles
rer te Ail ba et IY EP a tae: alts o ates ae

ois hcty Dadian ts bea haa
m can Te ean ee we d in ,
nite TA deal ate Stee Laker Wet) yee er
inde. 93 eg SLs Wesley rT Paisae Aid ag
Beech ia ade stile Waieiuel ieee olesenct
: , eet ie Pe ue oo nent has {
deat tase Eee hal pitta itits Ge ata feta ACRES wit Oe
PTD psf) ae aly u ihe MED ge he te Paes “gel Lea, ate ;
a alt At e tis shy ot eee
MRL ES, Gh VAD fo ewrs, whitney es) a ee) sates as || a
ee a8 > bid nae vat ai Tt a ehis ig ahd hs ae ee tet 0 doo

1% ? | ee
a | Pa: | eyo ee ae Re:
meme FFs sf) oft ty Marve wad Oi tet) rte ‘aad ete
eee. yrs eh, Seeeercmen ae o> Et a ota ¥e aca
oa ioe term fhudf’ df. pat da ee oabgath AL Ab houtl
bs: oh anh ft? alts yar de may iw ey wets 1 Preea

Stee al i!) pote ceed aoe at doer elit] rend ie Tite unm
ey 7 aaa ait (‘ral ipadelieiades: ats 4ingy r
Ae BRD cP perngse ri iivys fia ho, wet: €or as eats ia
4 a! oa Ce i oyu ag, “teu ree ae ee We
| | . | Ns we, tg he: Wiha ot

te praia P os

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY
IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By GrorGE VASEY, Honorary Curator.

The report now presented constitutes my third annual report relating
to the National Herbarium. The growth of the Herbarium during the
past year has been very marked, the number of mounted sheets added
being 50 per cent more than last year, and the accessions both in num-
ber of packages and of specimens having been doubled.

ACCESSIONS.

The accessions received during the year ending June 30, 1891, num-
ber 622, of which 44 were received through the National Museum, the
rest chiefly from collectors employed by the Department of Agriculture.

The following are among the most important:

A collection of 10,000 specimens made by Dr. Edward Palmer, who was employed
as special agent of the division of botany in western Mexico, mostly in the States of
Sonora and Colima.

A set of 276 species from Capt. J. D. Smith, collected by him in Guatemala and
donated to the herbarium.

Two sets of 300 species each, collected by C.G. Pringle in Mexico, one obtained by
purchase, and one through the Smithsonian Tustitution.

A collection of 1,243 specimens of east Florida plants, collected by J. H. Simpson, a
special agent of the division of botany.

A collection of 1,249 specimens of plants from western Texas, made by G. C. Nealley,
a special agent of the division.

A collection of 1,985 specimens of South American plants obtained by purchase
from Dr. H. H. Rusby.

A collection of 1,707 species, mostly from Minnesota, obtained by purchase and
donation from J. M. Holzinger.

A collection of 2,216 plants made by Jesse Holmes, aspecial agent in eastern Mary-
land and New Jersey.

A collection of 7,600 specimens from the Death Valley region, of California, and
of Nevada and Arizona, made by Frederick V. Coville and Frederick Funston, who
were special agents of the division of botany.

A set of 300 species of South American plants obtained by purchase from Dr.
Thomas Morong.

A iniscellaneous collection of about 850 plants obtained by donation and exchange

from Dr. N. L. Britton.
251
252 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

A collection of 2,318 specimens from Minnesota made by Dr. J. H. Sandberg, who
was employed as special agent.

A set of 130 species of Washington plants from Mr. Suksdorf, obtained by pur-
chase.

A collection of about 200 specimens obtained by Mr. L. H. Dewey in Texas and
Arizona. ;

A collection of about 300 specimens from F. W. Thurow, of Texas.

A collection of about 200 species received in exchange from the California Acad-
emy of Sciences.

A set of 300 species obtained by Mr. Dan. MeDougel in Arizona, who was em-
ployed as special agent.

A large collection of mosses and hepaticer, numbering above 2,000 specimens, has
been received from Dr. L. M. Underwood; also ten decades of United States hepati-
ce

Accessions received during the year through the Sinithsonian Institution.

Acces- Number Acces- Number

Date. sion Sender. of speci- Date. sion Sender. of speci-
number. mens. number. | mens.
1890. 1890
July 2 ‘796 | A. G. Sanders..... 3 | Dec. 30 | 23871 | Mrs. 8S. E. Stein- 133
12 23356) | (C.Bobleass------- 7 weg.
12 *803 | A.J. Williams. -.. 1 1891.
19 23390 | H. M. Smith -..--. 10
23 savin || 18h (Cheviainin.-.- 3 | Mar. 24 24131 | Miss B. C.Grinman 1
Aug. 5 SORTA TE SCO thre cas 1 Apr. 4 24161 | G. A. Allen ....... 47
9 #996 | BOR Beale.....__- 99 | May 12 *1117 | F.C. Van Vliet. -- 1
9 «8397 | G. M. Miller ...... 1 13 *1127 | E. Stevenson. ...-- 6
15| 23446 | F. E. Engelhardt 1 13} *1182 | A. A. Everts.-.-.. 1
15 93445 P 1. Jouy: .-..<.<- 97 118} 24307 | Mrs. C. M. Ferry... 7
19 “g47'| W.A. Coffe .-..--- 1 | June 1 **1159 | J. W. Meeker .-.-- 1
19| 23461 | H.M. Smith ...... 22 | 2| 24404 | R. B. Olat --.-.---- 1
Sept. 44 OB GTNS We evs Cig ee hoes ee 19 | 4 24330 | E.M. Tauber..---- 1
11| 23515 | C.B. Bagster...... 1 | bil) e118 | NU Pagesee-eea: i
19 23537 | Thomas Christy - . 2 | 6 *1141 | C.S. West.-------- 1
25 «987 | J.S. Romer .....-- 1 6 24436 | Elmer Rambo. -.-. 3
26 «901 | F.C. Knowles...-. 4 11 *1193 | E. W. Serevers - --- alt
Oct. 8| 23619 | W.d. Spillman. -.. 55 12 24453 | Otto Vesterlund -- {25
15 PBLEB LA | Oe 8351 6 yb eee it 13 *1199 | E. Stevenson. -..-- 16
18 | «990 | J. F. Oliver .....-- 1 | 23 *1227 | J. L. Mitch -----.-
27 23662 | W.A. Stearns .... 3 23 1223 | C. L. Rogan ...----
Nov. 14 «938 | J. W. Meeker ..--. 1 30 1243 | J.S.Marsh.....-..
Dec. 1 23778 | I. Hagen....-..-.. 37 aaa 1387
12 23818 | R. E. Giebner .--...
27 23857 | Government Gar- 910 | |
dens, India. | |
1 ———————— et

“Primarily sent tor examination and report.

Of these forty-four accessions from the Smithsonian Institution the
following are the most important:

No. 23857, a collection of 910 species of dried plants from the Royal
Botanic Garden, Calcutta, India, sent through Dr. G. King, superin-
tendent of the garden.

No. 23778, a collection of 37 species of Norwegian mosses from Dr. I.
Hagen, Trondhjem, Norway.
DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY. 253

No. 24453, a collection of 25 species of Florida plants from Dr. Otto
Vesterlund, Edepors, Sweden.

(No. 23871 was a collection of Washington State plants sent for
identification and returned.)

The total number of piants received from all sources is 40,963. The
number of specimens mounted and distributed into the collection is
8,945, of which 2,538 are mosses and liverworts. The number of pack-
ages sent out from the Herbarium was 155, containing 8,059 specimens.

The number of plants remaining in the duplicate collection is about
40,000.

A list of the botanical papers published by the curator and by other
collaborators will be found in the Bibliography (Section rv).

Statement of the number of specimens distributed since July 1, 1889, from the duplicates
of the National Herbarium.

July 1, 1889 to July 1, 1890:

FE Ouae CLCUULUPa CONS SCRn. cae cio ay. ea Sate aejs Sete = ee faeces 2, 019
Polother institutions and! botamists —..2----=-2--5--2..22.25-----5-2- ee 5, 932
AM Ontiallleerrs etee teate ela ere Sai a nis Sone HA eros Soe Se Nel voeen ae ce eee Goa

July 1, 1890 to July 1, 1891:

ioarcieultucal, collereswco.-2 (a6. slcs0se cess: - Ak eee oe 3, 694.
ROLOLNeLANStibIONS and. botanists: seers eee = ane see eee eee ee 4, 762
BING titer ere rece aie. eiciars ae eats Sire aie SR eee ps Se oe ees 8, 456

7, 951

Grande to ball meee etek os ae tee a ae eles te Rate Saye Semen ee ol arate 16, 407
a
‘al Mal»
iy:

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS
IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By Lester F. WARD, Honorary Curator.

The work during the year has been devoted almost entirely to the
installation and care of specimens, and the collections are now in better
condition, for purposes of consultation and study, than ever before.

IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS.

Undoubtedly the most important accession during the year is a col-
lection of Dakota plants sent by Prof. F. H. Snow, of the University of
Kansas. This collection, which embraced 135 specimens, representing
75 species, consists of especially fine specimens from the Dakota Group
of the central and western counties of Kansas, and had all been deter-
mined by Prof. Leo Lesquereux. A few are type specimens and many
are duplicates of types used by Prof. Lesquereux in preparing his elabo-
‘ate flora of the Dakota Group about to be published by the U.S.
Geological Survey.

Another highly important collection was that made by Capt. Bendire
in 1885, but now for the first time studied and identified. This collee-
tion, which embraces over 700 specimens and 150 species, was made
by Capt. Bendire, at Bridge Creek, Wasco County, Oregon, and had
been placed in the hands of Prof. Lesquereux for determination. Sev-
eral new species were detected among them, as well as others of con-
siderable interest. While notin the strictest sense a new accession, this
collection may be so regarded, since it first became available for study
during this year.

Collections or specimens of more or less Importance were also received
from Mr. John N. Sage, Mr. G. van Ingen, Mr. Thomas Charlton, and
Messrs. J. 8. Diller and J. Stanley-Brown.

ROUTINE WORK.

During the early part of the fiscai year the Museum was without an
assistant for this department.
The first week in August I spent in company with Mr. David White
255
256 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

in the study of the Cretaceous fossils of Martha’s Vinyard and adjacent
islands. Ithen joined Prof. William M. Fontaine, and with him made a
careful examination of the Triassic formation in the Connecticut Val-
ley, extending the investigation to the northern limit of the Trias at
Gill, Mass., and returning to Washington on September 1. During
the spring months much time was spent in studying the Potomac
formation, as exposed in the vicinity of Washington. The office work
has been mainly the determination of fossil plants, being especially a
continuation of my investigation of the flora of the Laramie Group.

Early in November, 1890, the services of Mr. Benedict Juni were
secured, and from that time until May 1, 1891, he was constantly en-
gaged upon the collections. The first work was a thorough rearrange-
ment of all the Cretaceous and Tertiary specimens. These had at first
been arranged systematically without regard to horizons, but are now
arranged geographically and also systematically under each geological
group, so that a student wishing to see all the specimens from any one
locality can now find them together. The species were carefully fitted
into small pasteboard trays, and these economically into the regular
unit drawers. A complete label was printed on the typewriter for each
species, which was supplemented by a card catalogue arranged alpha-
betically under localities, so that it is now possible to find, by the aid
of the catalogue and the clearly printed labels, any specimen or species
that may be desired.

Similar work was also begun for the Carboniferous material, and
many labels were written, but this was not completed.

For a short time during the early part of the year Mr. Th. Holm was
engaged in making an exchange of plants with the Stockholm Museum,
selecting for this purpose some 800 species; but this important work
was discontinued, as he was later transferred to another department.

The months of July and August were spent by Mr. David White in
working out the stratigraphy of Martha’s Vineyard, especially that
portion proved by him to be Cretaceous, and in tracing the connection
between the eastern outcrop of the Cretaceous clays through the inter-
vening islands to the Amboy region of New Jersey. The remainder of
the year has been occupied by him chiefly in work on the Carboniferous
plant collections of the U. S. Geological Survey and U.S. National
Museum. The report of the extensive collection made by Dr. W. P.
Jenney, of the Geological Survey, is nearly finished, and will be pub-
lished as an illustrated bulletin of the Survey. In addition to eur.
rent work on other collections, a portion of his time has been engaged
in increasing and perfecting bis “ Bibliography of Paleobotany.” He
has published numerous reviews of paleobotanical memoirs in the
American Journal of Science and the Botanical Gazette.

Mr. Charles 8. Prosser spent part of July and August in field work
on the Devonian of eastern New York, and determined that the Hamil-
ton fauna of that region is succeeded by the fauna and flora of the
DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS. 257

Catskill, the Portage and Chemung faunas being absent. He also spent
November and December in field work in the novaculite area of west-
ern central Arkansas. In the office his time has been devoted largely
to the preparation of a paleobotanical species index. During the year
he has published two papers, which are based upon U.S. Geological
Survey and Museum material.

Mr. F. H. Knowlton spent the months of July, August, and Septem-
ber in the Gallatin Valley, Montana, near Yellowstone National Park,
where he made collections of fossil wood and plant remains from the
Cretaceous. He has also continued his studies on fossil wood, and has
in preparation a paper on Paleozoic woods. During the latter part of
the year he devoted considerable time to the study of the cryptogams,
conifers, and monocotyledons of the Laramie Group, especially as rep-
resented in a large collection made in the vicinity of Denver, Colo.

Prof. William M. Fontaine, of the University of Virginia, has examined
and reported upon a small collection of Triassic plants from New
Mexico, detecting among them 3 new species. He has also completed
his studies of the Potomac flora, and the very large series of specimens
will soon be turned over to the National Museum.

SM 91, PT 2 1 tf

af Bron. t::' rain eh ree peat oe AST
ae hikes Te o8! peck ee cisde BEL AD RET
ate ab, Pye! Rave lille Sig piliss Soave rt ae
mere 0. Unie ie eer ‘ed oh? ea yY “i ere ev
ie rie iste Aa abies het pe
dts ee Sanaieee carat ear iy Bee)  Aaaghas aa teaeteae ae eeeaty
bn ice Lae Adecnbarnts tue Sewine wt aiden oe Sulbwed ieee ned
las Pepe! | e pure eae Tet eit APE ak, ot 2 ae pe wine 4
: tz Piety (2 ve - ie Liss naa ta ox nar rae yao ele eat Ld ‘ait ae
: me as es? ol ad rae (i pine aaa ae eh Beles, reer sre
eee ator Beptve srt -ieah 3 nti j RA Tet GL EL, eae eae eee
is 1 eet eB eee Tears sate hie eae RO ev sepshad eure ine

mr ~ Mad Pes as ten or ee ; thee rca eoery rity?) aeebeak Aig pratt AE ;
He é pee Pana’ tant } fhidy Wii Stoesie ue ae Fire s* aes

a) ee en ee NT ron a er aie ce Te ad 22 Saye Lh F
erie, Pie eet Gircis Yea dae? Cheeta ire eben zul siete sf AGES
“ek ; spalyinneh tl ta seattare-: ee ee Gasca ate
ad i ‘ \ ) ie

MRP Pt! Sp pS) ant sj Lugo Viton Ty Windy woe hand Pertdea) Cainy a e ee hei.
* :
[.

tre, 7
io n
“
ies : ’ eo) i
he a
i
z
‘
‘
a = ‘ ; ALO,
- iets
" 4 ; de by 7 yee OES
- - u ws F Ay

a | iSong le ot eae
é . ' ‘ ; P i ~ TS er me o) he

=
r
*
)
A.
‘
*
Of

it >on on ll. AL ie
j

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS
IN THE U.S, NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

By PF. W. Ciarker, Honorary Curator.

The growth of this department during the year has been satisfactory
and steady, although no very great additions were made to the collec-
tion.

The routine work of cataloguing, labeling, packing, etc., has occupied
most of the time of the assistant curator, Mr. W. 8. Yeates. In addi-
tion to this, a nearly complete rearrangement of the systematie exhibi-
tion series was carried out during the early spring. In rearranging
the collection the miscellaneous minerals bequeathed to the Museum by
the late Isaac Lea were distributed throughout the regular series, and
the entire mass of material was thoroughly culled over. The display

ras thus rendered much more effective than it had been, and the appear-
ance of the mineral hall is greatly improved.

Technically speaking, the accessions to the collection have been only
moderate. A reasonable number of additions were made by exchange,
gift, and purchase, but only three accessions were particularly notable.
These are, first, a collection of 171 Russian minerals, presented by Mrs.
Mary I. Stroud; secondly, 53 Freiberg minerals received in exchange
from the depository of the Royal Saxon Mining School; and, thirdly, a
superb series of specimens from the Broken Hill mines in Australia,
given by Mr. Walter J. Koehler. The last-named collection consisted
mainly of the species silver, copper, bromyrite, cerargyrite, cerussite,
and chrysocolla, the bromyrite and cerussite being finer than anything
of the kind that I had previously seen.

Outside of the legitimate increase in the collection proper, several
quasi additions to it may be fairly noted here, consisting of minerals
bought for use in the proposed exhibit of the Museum at the World’s
Columbian Exposition. The most important of these was the gem col-
lection of the late Joseph Leidy, containing about 400 cut stones, some
of them of exceptional beauty. Other fine lots were obtained from
dealers, but none of this material can be regularly absorbed into the
collection until the object of the purchases has been fulfilled.

The present state of the exhibition series of minerals may be sum-
marized statistically as follows: Meteorites, including the Shepard collec-

; 250
260 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

tion, 617 pieces and 9 casts, with 258 falls represented. Gem collection,
1,486 specimens, mostly cut stones, and 17 glass models. Systematic
mineral series, 3,728 specimens. In special cases outside of the regular
system, 976 specimens. In all, 6,824 specimens are now displayed. The
number in the duplicate and reserve collections can not be easily esti-
mated, for part of the material is in storage and other portions are as
yet not definitely assigned to either series.

In all, 1,132 entries were made in the catalogue of the department
during the year, covering 7,315 specimens.
LAR CAA ane Tbe) tere Word MNINe, WNW so. 5 eats oc5e poss so sags shes dss coeomcce 49, 056
Last catalogue number in June, 1891 -.-- --2- 3-22-25 - = eee ee 50, 188
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY
IN THE U. & NATIONAL MUSEUM, [891.

By GrEorGE P. MERRILL, Curator.

Work on the economic section of the department has consumed a
very large share of the energies of the curator and the assistants through-
out the entire year, though during the month of June we have been
able to devote a little attention to the systematic series. This work
has been in many cases discouragingly slow, partly from the fact that
we have for years been burdened with a vast quantity of undesirable
material, which has been along time accumulating, though in large
part an inheritance from the International Exhibition at Philadelphia
in 1876.

Matters had at last arrived at that stage where no satisfactory prog-
ress could be made, owing to the congested condition of storage and
exhibition space. I have, therefore, gone systematically through the
entire collections, so far as contained in the Museum building, carefully
sifted out the undesirable material, identified, labeled, and classified such
as was to be retained, and after trimming, cleansing, and numbering,
had it installed in its proper shape. The amount of routine gone through
with in this work can be appreciated by no one who has not had a simi-
lar experience. We have, however, the satisfaction of feeling that the
department has at last emerged into a systematic series of collections,
designed to show something regarding the earth’s structure and _his-
tory and the extent to which its resources are utilized by man. It is
not meant by this to claim that the department is thoroughly organized,
or by any means in a perfectly satisfactory condition, but we have at
least arrived at that stage whereby the public may gain some tangible
idea of the work we are trying to do. The system employed in arrang-
ing these collections has been given in sufficient detail in a preliminary
handbook published in the Report of the National Museum for 1890,
and need not be further referred to here.

One hundred and nineteen accessions and one hundred and thirty-
two lots of specimens forwarded for examination have been received
during the year, the former comprising upwards of 1,000 specimens.
With a few exceptions, noted below, these have been comparatively
unimportant. This may be explained by the fact that no money has

261
262 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

been devoted either to purchasing or collecting, and we had to rely on
donations and exchanges. Of those who have exerted themselves to
obtain for us material, and to whom especial thanks are due, Mr. J. H.
Huntington, of Hyde Park, Mass., and Mr. F. W. Crosby, of this city,
should be mentioned. Mr. J, P. Iddings, while in Italy, kindly arranged
for us an exchange of materials with Dr. H. H. Johnston-Lavis.

The principal accessions are given in the subjoined list:

A collection of some 98 eruptive metamorphie rocks and yoleanic products from
various European sources, received in exchange for other materials from Dr. TH. H.
Johnston—Lavis, of Naples, Italy.

Some 45 specimens European volcanic rocks received in exchange from Mr. W. H.
Hobbs.

Some 117 specimens of general geological materials received in exchange from B.
Sturtz, Bonn, Prussia.

A collection comprising phosphates, and gold and platinum ores from Colombia,
South America, and Grand Connetable, French Guiana, Gift of Mr. Charles Bull-
man, of Plainfield, N. J.

A fine series of Black Hill tin ores, the gift of Titus Ulke, jr.

Ten samples of manganese ores from Crimora, Va., the gift of William Carnegie.

A small series of natural hydrocarbons from Utah, the gift of G. C. Hewett.

A beautiful voleanie bomb from the islands of Lipari, showing the so-called bread-
crust structure. Gift of Mr. J. P. Iddings.

A small series of phosphates from the Navassa Islands. Gift of Mr. Kk. V. D’In-
villiers.

A small series of eruptive and stratified rocks from the De Beers diamond mine,
South Africa.

A fine large series of phosphates from Dunellon, Fla. Gift of Dr. C. N. Shep-
pard, jr.

A collection of ores and building stones from New Mexico. Gift of Prof. J. H.
Huntington.

Samples of infusorial earth from South Beddington, Me. Giftof Mr. C, E. Mitchell.

A large study series of ores and rocks illustrating the quicksilver deposits of the
Pacific slope as described by G. IF’. Beeker and colleagues. Received from the U. 8.
Geological Survey.

A series comprising nearly 200 eruptive and other rocks from Michigan. Received
from Dr. M. E. Wadsworth, State geologist.

Samples of nickel ore from the Algoma and Sudbury districts, Canada, given, re-
spectively, by R. P. Travers, Commander William H. Fogler, and Prof. W. O. Crosby.

A series of sample lead ores and fluorite from Rosiclare, 1. Gift of Dr. R. P.Mullin.

A fine sample of folded gneiss. Gift of S. Ward Loper.

Samples of gold and silver ore, and building stone, from near Deadwood, 8. Dak.
Gift of Mr. Theo. Kuntzen.

One hundred and eleven photographs from the series of negatives in possession
of the Geological Society of America, and illustrative of the various geological
phenomena. Gift of the U. 8. Geological Survey.

A fine large lot of onyx marble from the newly discovered deposit near Prescott,
Yavapai County, Ariz. Gift of Mr. William O. O’Neil.

A large series of ores and economic minerals from Texas, Mexico, New Mexico,
California, and other States, collected for the Museum by Mr. F. W. Crosby of this
city. This collection has not as yet been entered upon the Museum catalogue, but
should be mentioned here as it is one of the most important thus far received.
Mr. Crosby is especially entitled to our thanks, inasmuch as the collecting is entirely
yoluntary upon his part, the Museum paying only the bare cost of boxing and trans-
shipment.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 263
ROUTINE WORK.

The character of the routine work has not varied materially from
that of previous years. About 1,696 labels have been written, copy of
which has been sent to the Public Printer; up to date, 1,585 of these
have been returned to us in printed form. *

Duplicates have been sent out mainly in the way of exchanges as
below:

To Prof. P. Groth, Munich, Bavaria, 3 samples of peridotite and pyroxenite.

To. Prof. William Hobbs, Madison, Wis., 44 specimens miscellaneous eruptive
rocks.

To B. Sturtz, Bonn, Prussia, 863 specimens of rocks and ores from miscellaneous
American sources,

To Loren B. Merrill, Paris, Me., 12 specimens of rocks and ores.

To L. H. Merrill, Orono, Me., 1 specimen phonolite from the Black Hills, 8. Dak.

‘o Dr. H. H. Johnston-Lavis, Naples, Italy, 66 specimens of eruptive rocks.

To Prof. H. A. Green, Chester, 8. C., 14specimens of rocks and ores.

To Prof. J. A. Udden, Rock Island, Ill.,6 samples of voleanic dusts.

To Dr. E. M. Edwards, Newark, N. J., 17 samples of lake bed deposits and infusorial
earths,

To Prof. William North Rice, Middletown, Conn., 4 specimens of eruptive rocks.

To the Columbian University, Washington, D. C.,52 specimens of rocks.

On three occasions collections of rocks have been lent for study, as
noted elsewhere.

The work of identifying material sent in by those not connected with
the Museum continues, as heretofore, to consume its full share of time.
The following list of “special reports ” will serve to give some idea of
the extent of this practice. As stated previously, the Department can
not make analyses or assays on such occasions, but whenever possible
without too great an outlay of time the mineralogical nature of the
material has been ascertained and the applicant referred elsewhere for
information not attainable here. These reports were as follows:

Supposed tin ores; sent by W. D. MeComb, San Bernardino, Cal. No, 793.

Rock supposed to be indicative of coal; sent by J. 8. Lupton, Winchester, Va.

No. 797.

Supposed lava from the ‘ Wakulla Voleano;” sent by A. W. Barber, ‘Tallahassee,

Kla. No. 798.

Quartz supposed to contain ore; sent by D. B. Harris, Payson, Ariz. No. 800.

Supposed petrification; sent by P. B. Jacobs. No. 801.

Calcite, gypsum, and conglomerate; sent by S. P. Wright, Elkano, Kans. No, 804,

Galena; sent by 8S. H. Wright, Longview, Tex. No. 805.

Chloritic mica schist; sent by Hon, F. B. Stockbridge, U.S. Senate. No, 810,

Magnesian limestone; sent by the D. H. Ranck Publishing Company, Indianapolis,

Ind. No. 811.

Siliceous rock carrying iron sulphurets; sent by Geo. W. Watkins, Moriah, N.Y.

No. 812.

Ochers and clays; sent by J.T. Hamilton, Spokane Falls, Wash. No. S14.

Bog iron ores; sent by Thos Jackson, Plymouth, Mass. No. 815.

Granite; sent by J. W. Baker, Belvedere Hotel, Washington, D.C. No. 824.

Supposed gold ore; sent by F. A. Zeigler, Boyd’s Station, Md. No. 828.

Supposed tin ore; sent by N. W. Parrish, Wenatchee, Wash. No. 830.

Supposed tin ore; sent by Emil Wilvert, Sunbury, Pa. No. 835.
264 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Ore for assay; sent by W.A. Fletcher, Rhodelia, Tenn. No. 840.

Material for assay; sent by Jas. Darling, Alpine, Tex. No. 844.

Zine and lead ore; submitted by S. Fletcher, Phebe, Tenn. No. 845.

Black limestone with pyrite; sent by Emil Wilvert, Sunbury, Pa. No. 846.

Supposed tin ore; sent by Emil Wilvert, Sunbury, Pa. No. 848.

Caleareous sandstone and sulphide of iron; sent by Eugene Beebe, Montgomery,

Ala. No. 23470.

Sulphide of copper; sent by J.M. Werth, Stockton, Va, No. 855.

Stone for testing; sent by Montgomery Marble Company, Blacksburgh, Va. No.
860.

Magnetic iron ore; sent by H.G. Hodge, York, Ill. No. 864.

Material for assay; sent by J. R. Dabbs, Chelan, Wash. No. 871.

Kaolin; sent by J.H. Ledy, Marion, Pa. No. 876.

Iron ore; sent by Hon. L. E. McComas, Hagerstown, Md. No. 887.

Clay; sent by E. H. Zipp, Capon Bridge, W. Va. No. 893.

Clay; sent by Geo. Hilton, Coral, S. Dak. No. 899.

Chert nodule; sent by E. C. Bruce, Winchester, Va. No. 902.

Pyrite; sent by G. J. Boruff, Rhodelia, Tenn. No. 905.

Pyrite; sent by S. Fletcher, Phebe, Tenn. No. 906.

Rock; sent by Hon. C. H. Grosvenor, House of Representatives, city. No. 911.

Clay; sent by M. A. Baker, Weston, Oregon. No. 913.

Supposed tin or nickel ore; sent by G. W. Watkins, Moriah, N.Y. No. 916.

Supposed ore; sent by J.C. Chesney, Northumberland, Pa. No. 917.

Material for analysis; sent by Alpine Plaster Co., Los Angeles, Cal. Returned.
No. 921.

Fossil-bearing chert; sent by Carter and Rangan, La Fayette, Ga. No. 922.

Rock; sent by Albert Wood, North Bristol, Ohio. No. 924.

Supposed gold and silver ore; sent by J. B. Noyse, Lawrenceburg, Tenn. No. 927.

Limonite; sent by I. E. Welch, Alpine, Ala. No. 928.

A supposed ore; sent by Emil Wilvert, Sunbury, Pa. No. 930.

Siliceous sand colored by iron oxide; sent by J. W. Ragan, Amis, Tenn. No. 23696,

Material for assay; sent by G. W. Hayward, Los Angeles, Cal. Returned. No. 946.

Material for assay; sent by Wright and Hemne, Salina, Kans. No. 948.

Aluminous phosphates; sent by John Miner, Brooklyn, N.Y. No. 953.

Samples of marble; sent for opinion, by Judge W.H.Trescott. No. 954.

Material for assay; sent by J. A. Harris, Provo City, Utah. No. 958.

Material for assay; sent by Becker Brothers, Baltimore, Md. No. 960.

Material for assay; sent by C.G. Garrison, Santa Ana, Cal. No. 961.

Supposed nickel ore; sent by G. W. Watkins, Moriah, N.Y. No. 964.

Supposed aluminum ore; sent by P. L. Jouy, Tueson, Ariz. No. 966,

Material for assay; sent by Wm. T. Cessna, Chicago, Ill. No. 968.

Supposed gold ore; sent by E. B. Kennedy, Amicus, Va. No. 969.

Ferruginous clay and travertine; sent by J. C, Chase, Wenatchee, Wash. No. 974.

Material for assay; sent by C. E.G. Burch, Wenatchee, Wash. No. 976.

Supposed onyx marble; sent by J. M. Withrow, La Luz, N. Mex. No. 978.

Chromite; sent by C. H. Camptield, Magdalena, N. Mex. No. 981.

Supposed ore; sent by S. B. Henshow, Stanardsville, Va. No. 984.

Material for assay; sent by John Treweck, Salt Lake City, Utah. No. 986.

Quartz porphyry; sent by Dr. W. Scott Hill, Augusta, Me. No. 987.

Phosphate; sent by the Alexandria Phosphate Co., Alexandria, Va. No. 989.

Material for assay; sent by J. A. Hyde, Nephi, Utah. No. 991.

Supposed petrification; sent by Geo. Coulson, La Hope, Ill. No. 994.

Material for analysis; sent by Ervin Brooks, Crown Point, N. Y. No. 1002.

Iron ores; sent by L. K. Yeatts, Etna, Va. No. 1004.

Graphite; sent by E. R. Threlkeld, Los Angeles, Cal. No. 1007.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 265

Tron pyrite; sent by Miss J. E. Lee, Richmond, Ala. No. 1010.

Tron pyrite; sent by F.C. Fisher, Middleboro, Ky. No. 1011.

Material for assay; sent by D. Kreisher, Johnson City, Tenn. No. 1012.

Supposed ore; sent by T. C. Kennedy, Baltimore, Md. No. 1013.

Siliceous limestone; sent by D. Kreisher, Johnson City, Tenn. No. 1014,

Voleanie dust; sent by R.N. Hess, Arkansas City, Kans. No. 1016.

Material for identification; sent by I. K. Rice, Holly Brook, Va. No. 1017.

Iron pyrite; sent by P. V. Reynolds, Copenhavers Mills, West Va. No. 1021.

Voleanie sand; sent by W. A. Barrington, Toole City, Utah. No. 1024.

Cale tufas; sent by J. Marjenhoff, Charleston, 8. C. No. 1029.

Materials for analysis; sent by H. C. Allen, Buckley, Wash. No. 1031.

Rock from Montana; sent by A.C. Murphy. No. 24086.

Material for analysis; sent by Philip Scharf, Tueson, Ariz. No. 1083.

Supposed ore; sent by Henry Warren and Company, Oregon, Tenn. No. 1035,

Material for analysis; sent by Wm. Eppley, Zanesville, Ohio. No, 1040.

Iron pyrites; sent by Alex. Bishop, Teges, Ky. No. 1041.

Fungus; sent by L. K. Yeatts, Etna, Va. No. 1045.

Supposed limestone and marl; sent by Wm. Nelson, Sally, S.C. No, 1054.

Clay; sent by Chas. Metealf, Las Cruces, N. Mex. No. 1060.

Material for analysis; sent by Christian Nelson, Virginia City, Mont. No. 1062.

Impure limonite; sent by R. Bennett, Eureka Springs, Ark. No. 1065.

Concretionary nodule of pyrite; sent by Edw. Cornell, Pomeroy, Ill. No. 1066.

Mineral for determination; sent by J. W. Ragan, Hawkins County, Tenn. No. 1069.

Eruptive (?) rock carrying epidote; sent by G. N. Trusell, Shepardstown, W. Va.
No. 1070.

Supposed fossil; sent by Frank Meddock, Mainsville, Ohio. No. 1071.

Clay; sent by C.R. Richey, Abbeyville, S.C. No. 1079.

Material for assay; sent by J. H. Heyens, Ogden, Utah. No. 1084.

Clay ironstone concretion; sent by C.C. Tread, Des Moines, Iowa. No. 1086.

Lead ore; sent by J.C. Connor, Powells Station, Tenn. No. 1093.

Quartzite; sent by J. W. Ragan, Rogersville, Tenn. No. 1094.

Clay; sent by J.C. Taylor, Springer, N. Mex. No. 1095.

Supposed ore; sent by L. K. Yeatts, Galveston, Va. No. 1097.

Ferruginous clay; sent by H. A. Green, Chesney, 8.C. No. 1098.

Ores for determination; sent by Hon. Chas. T. O’Ferrall, Harrisonburg, Va. No.
1101.

Hematite; sent by J. W. Hilton, Ackworth, Ga. No. 1104.

Chert with iron sulphides; sent by E. Vawney, Goshen, Ark. No, 1106.

Limonite; sent by W. J. Anderson, Hartmansville, W. Va. No. 1107.

Ores for assay; sent by Antonio Cunha, Big Pine, Cal. No. 1108.

Supposed aluminium ore; sent by 8. P. Roberts, Big Pine, Cal. No, 1112.

Hematite; sent by W. R. Bond, Custer, S. Dak. No. 1123.

Fire clay; sent by H. D. Fuller, Winchester, W. Va. No. 1124.

Gypstn and supposed tin ore; sent by F. Griffith, Glendive, Mont. No. 1125,

Supposed fossil; sent by W. Lane, Wild Rose, Wis. No. 1126.

Ores; sent by Henry Clause, Phebe, Tenn. No. 1127.

Manganese ore; sent by O. H.Swingle, Dudleyville, Ariz. No. 1130.

Limonite; sent by L. P. Halley, Biloxi, Miss. No. 1131.

Infusorial earth; sent by D.G. Martin, Eagle Rock, Idaho. No. 1133.

Material for assay; sent by S. Heymann, Fayetteville, Tenn. No. 1150.

Rocks for identification ; sent by M. L. Marvin, Goodrich, Mich. No. 1157.

Supposed aluminum ore; sent by S. P. Roberts, Big Pine, Cal. No. 1158.

Impure infusorial earths; sent by M. M. Faught, Idaho Falls, Idaho. No. 1160.

Material for identification; sent by J. H. Claitonie, Walls Springs, Tenn. No. 1166.

Pumiceous sand; sent by J. H. Robinson, Lewiston, Idaho. No. 1170.

Ores for identification; sent by W. A. Fletcher, Rhodelia, Tenn. No. 1172.
266 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Supposed kaolin; sent by E. Watrous, Weiser, Idaho. No. 1173.

Ores for identification; sent by Henry Clause, Phebe, Tenn. No. 1179.

Graphite; sent by J. D. Schneider, Allentown, Pa. No. 1180.

Material for determination; sent by Marion Moyers, Compensation, Tenn, No.

1186.

Supposed phosphate; sent by F. M. Westerfelt, Rural, Fla. No. 1201.

Ores for determination; sent by I. Bradon, Phebe, Tenn. No. 1203.

Material for assay; sent by W. Rk. Findly, Hoodsport, Wash. No. 1211.

Supposed fossil; sent by W. 8. Danforth, Boulder, Colo. No. 1220.

Material for assay; sent by L. Ballard, Lindside, W. Va. No. 1221.

Ores for determination; sent by O. P. Sybest, Ravenwood, W. Va. No. 1225.

Supposed tin ore; sent by Emil Wilvert, Sunbury, Pa. No. 1256.

It will be seen from the above that out of a total of 452 accessions
coming to the entire Museum for examination, this department alone

2oO

received 152, or nearly 50 per cent. The curator is often called upon

to give information regarding material brought to the Museum for iden- -

tification.

A new ease has been built across the east end of the west south range
and which affords accommodations for the collections of rocks forming
minerals, structural, color, and specific gravity series, as well as the
larger collections in historical geology.

The work of installing the exhibition series is always more or less
experimental, and the curator is, or should be, continually striving to
introduce methods whereby the most pleasing effects are produced, as
well as each object brought into such position as shall render its points
of interest most readily seen. Thus
a considerable amount of time is
consumed in what may be ealled
experimental work. In those cases
where economy of space demands
two or more rows of specimens on
each shelf, it is often a matter of
some difficulty to so place the ob-
jects in the back row that they can
be readily seen. The prevailing
method has been to simply raise

_Diacram 2.—Bent-wire holder and block — {hese specimens a little above those
for exhibiting specimens of rocks. : 7 >
in the front row by means of blocks
of wood. ‘This, however, proved scarcely sufficient in the case of the
ore and petrographic collections, and therefore a bent wire bracket
was devised, which, by means of a small wire staple, is readily at-
tached to the wooden block, and which then lolds the specimens stand-
ing, inclined at an angle of 60 to 80 degrees, as shown in the acecompany-
ing diagram. The specimens on the front rows being laid flat, both
series are thus rendered equally conspicuous.

The cost of these wires in Washington is but from 1 to 2 cents each,

and they have been found of the greatest utility.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 26H.

In the wall cases oceupied by the geographie series of economic ma-
terials, it has been found advisable to largely do away with the loose
blocks and substitute in place of them narrow shelves of an equal
thickness, but raised by brackets a few inches above the lower, wider
shelf. This allows a little variation in the size of specimens on the
lower shelf, and permits the placing of the label directly against the
edge of the narrow shelf itself, where it is not obscured by the speci-
men in front and can be readily seen.

How to so mark a specimen that its identity can under no ordinary
circumstances become destroyed has ever been a source of trouble to
those engaged in museum work. After considerable experimenting,
the method of procedure given below has been adopted.

As soon as the specimen is catalogued, a blue rectangular stripe of
sufficient dimensions for receiving the number is painted upon it in oil
colors, the material used being dry ultramarine blue mixed with white
lead and sufficient hard oil finish to thin it for applying with a brush.
This dries quickly, giving a firm, glossy surface, upon which the cata-
logue number is then painted in white, Windsor and Newton’s flake-
white tube paint, thinned with turpentine, having been found best
adapted for this purpose. This gives a practically indestructible num-
ber, sufficiently conspicuous to be readily found on specimens of any color
or texture, and which at the same time does not, if neatly applied, in the
least mar their appearance. This method is of course applicable only
to substances of considerable firmness of texture. Pulverulent or
liquid materials must be marked upon the box, bottle, or tray in which
they are exhibited.

I may say, further, that the use of the maroon color for background
and shelves has, so far as the curator is concerned, been condemned
and the practice discontinued. This for the double reason that the
color is too dark and gives rise to too much reflection from the glass
doors of the cases, and that it is too easily soiled. The color found to
be most serviceable and generally satisfactory is light, with a faint
tinge of yellow or cream, the specimens themselves being placed on
blocks painted a dull, lusterless black.

Owing to the pressure of routine work no time has been given to
research with a view to immediate publication. The titles of such
papers as have so far appeared are given in the bibliography (section
Iv). As will be observed, this includes, with two exceptions, merely
matter furnished to one of the industrial journals.

The collections have been frequently consulted by others not officially
connected with the Museum, and in three instances material have been
lent for study.

In this way a portion of the collections of the Fortieth Parallel Survey
were lent to Mr. C. R. Van Hise, a small series of Arkansas syenites
to the Geological Survey of that State, and some fifty specimens of
Mesozoic eruptives to Prof, H. D. Campbell, of the Washington and
268 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Lee University, Virginia. All of these except the last named have
been returned. Mr. L. J. Boettcher has for some weeks occupied a
table in this office and has had free access to the collection of thin see-
tions for purpose of study.

The present state of the collection is sufficiently set forth in the pre-
liminary handbook already referred to. The numbers given below
are substantially the same as therein given:

A. Systematic geology:

Gi) SE xhilbitlon SOLOS =. cp an ae ee oe ser eee ee 4, 800
(2) “Study Series) s2a-2ce as oe ates te eee eeeee tee 12, 000
B. Economie geology :
(@) Exhibition seriés-22.-2 226-22 52 eae eee 10, 600
(2) sStdyyseries fs. {22 5226 26 Soe ee ance coe see 4, 000
NO tall eer aes Gee hd Ye a oe See 31, 400

The apparent discrepancy between this and the statements given in
previous reports is due to the fact that much of the foreign material
there mentioned as forming a portion of the exhibition series is being
gradually overhauled and much of it condemned or sent to storage.
Matters are, therefore, still in a transition stage.

No attempt is made at estimating the amount of duplicate material,
nor that included in some three hundred boxes still lying in storage
and concerning the contents of which the present curator has little
accurate knowledge.

The exact disposition of their contents is a matter yet to be decided
upon. In fact, the figures are intended to include only such material as
has been finally administered upon and assigned to some definite posi-
tion in the collections. It should be stated, further, that indiscriminate
collecting has been discouraged, and the tendency has been constantly
in the line of condensation.

As with other departments of the Museum, there is great need of
additional exhibition space. Aside from the erection of a new building,
I can see but one method by which this space nay be secured. This
consists of building a narrow balcony around the southwest court, and
just above the present wall cases. This will allow the utilization of the
spaces between the piers for cases, and will be sufficient to accommo-
date the entire building-stone collection now comprised in the fourteen
screen cases of the west south range. There will therefore be gained
for the geological exhibit a floor space some 25 by 60 feet, besides the
advantage of having the entire economic series by itselfin the court.

The general arrangement of cases and their contents in the west
south range may be best understood by reference to the accompanying
diagram. The smaller objects mounted on special bases are not here
indicated, inasmuch as they are subject to change at any time.

The regular working force of the department, aside from the cura-
tor, has been as follows: For the entire year, Mr. W.H. Newhall; since
October 30, Miss C. Hurlbut, and since March 6, My, G. C. Neale.
DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 269

, on & vance
Wine SETA.

270 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

EXPLANATION OF DIAGRAM.

1, Wall case containing collection of elements, rock-forming minerals, color, structure, and fracture
series; 2 to 10, inclusive, table cases with slope-top cases containing systematic series of rocks; 11, table
case with slope-top case containing) volcanic materials; 12, floor upright case with calcareous and silice-
ous deposits from hot springs, geysers, and extinct lakes; 18, half unit table case with model of Vesu-
vius; 14, table case with slope-top case containing lavas from Ice Spring Buttes, Utah; 15, table case with
special top containing collections illustrating stratification’and its accompaniments; 16, door-screen
case with type collections, rocks of Comstock Lode and Washoe district, Nevada; 17, door-screen case
with collections illustrating the geology and mineralogy of the District of Columbia; 18, special base
with large concretions from Cannon Ball River, Dakota; 19, table case with large masses of obsidian;
20, half unit table case with blocks of glacial polished and striated limestone; 21, wall case containing
series illustrating joints, faults, veins, and pressure effects; 22, wall case containing concretions; 23,
wall case containing collections illustrating (a) formation of pebbles by wave action on a beach, (b)
the drifting power of water, (c) effects of lightning (fulgurites), (d) rock decomposition and the for-
mation of soils, (e) sand blast erosion, (f) drifting power of wind, and (g) contact metamorphism; 24,
25, and 26, door-sereen cases with building and ornamental stones; 27, special case with large geyser
cone; 28, floor upright case with stalactite and stalagmites; 29 and 30, table cases with relief maps;
31,: 32, and 33, door-screen cases with building and ornamental stones; 34 and 35, table cases with
building and ornamental stones showing styles of dressing; 36, 37, and 38, door screen cases with
building and ornamental stones; 39, 40, 41, and 42, table cases with ripple marks, mud cracks, foot.
prints, ete.; 43 to 48 inclusive, door-screen cases with building and ornamental stones; 49, large block
of glaciated limestone; 50, table case with slope-top case containing glacial exhibits; 51, relief map of
Grand Uanyon district; 52, table case with wing frames for pictures; 53 and 54, relief maps of the
Uinta and Wasatch mountains, Yellowstone Park, high plateaus of Utah, and Mount Taylor, New
Mexico; 55 and 56, pier cases with foreign building and ornamental stone; 57, pier cases with collec-
tions showing reproductive and constructive effects of plant and animal life, the geology of Bermuda;
58, pier cases with collection illustrating the origin of serpentinous rocks; 59, wall case with rocks of
New Hampshire; 60, wall case with historical series included type series rocks of Canada; 61 and 62,
columns of grindstones; 63, table with books for reference.
SEHCTION IE.

PAPERS DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM,

The Genesis of the National Museum. By Dr. G. Brown Goode..-.-...-----

. Ethnological Collections in the U. 8. National Museum from Kilima-Njaro,

Has tPA Come Vara le wADDOlLsa sce soe ose. aces = ne See mee ee
. The Bernadou, Allen, and Jouy Korean Collections in the U.S. National
MUSEIINE Dye. Dite my O UO Nes Men cons cues 2 aes cies Stove doe ciceen ae
. Shinto, or the Mythology of the Japanese. By Romyn Hitcheock ....-..--
. The Ancient Burial Mounds of Japan. By Romyn Hitchcock -.-......-..-
- some Ancient Relics im Japan. By Romyn Hitchcock. 2-2--.--5.-.2--2--.--

. Prehistoric Naval Architecture of the North of Europe. By George H.

EXO GENEL Trae ee cee et: Sh eae Skee SS EP sm A ie EAN ea Se cs

. First Draft of a System of Classification for the World’s Columbian Exposi-

MON CAE PLING.) bye DTG tO wn GOOd Oa2= sss e2-5 2-245 sae eee

649
—s

7 ‘
bee i Ls
. Ae
- ig : ;
7 ey i . lua 9) 4 4 ah 2 ve ae a
= (OO ls es Ses es ee a ee ee yh
= be es : af ’ : « 4 bi 1 | . e ®@ ey 5%, if a a i.
; : ws 4) P aa
i -- A
pe: oy ¥ Ae = tie tr... ca oe nA
: be = ft f
- a oe 0: Te ees Loa , aS, ate re

a

~ es d ’ Orntty 4 ih at cs en
n

me a ara 7 Gof Ud = Capone ete
: = y : a +E. ory a?
; ,

SH tee ; a. et fot ibe ley ph eit | satis Ff. ™r hoe ‘ahve Cie ae ue
” WG Jai rtink ’ i@jase* Ave Leo te i me
SS ae Si Massie pain yt a aula irale

.
a ‘ a hd er oie he Te} a | rem ee er its a yids tok + B44
Ee Pa on : av vy Ca 2 7 Pee OM AE
¥
| Pe Pao ll hilo e Obey, oh We pie ligt
Tm j tn ; - 7 ;
~ v? : vo) ; Ah v} Age a5 ‘“ ’
5 oi - ¥ ad 7 ar 7 é -yorr™ 5

De 5 _— a © ae sak ly . clans (Ms) Sere

: : i --@ ji - nie @¢ ee hers WS DA At aot, Bre
ary —- ’ ‘ Pr Oud Led ' ak Le

‘aol ; hs

THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

By G. BROWN GOODE,
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution, in charge of U.S, National Museum.

When, in 1826, James Smithson bequeathed his estate to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men,” he placed at the disposal of our nation two
valuable collections, one of books and one of minerals.

In the schedule of Smithson’s personal etfects, as brought to America
in 1838, oceurs the following entry:

Two large boxes, filled with specimens of minerals and manuscript
treatises, apparently in the testator’s handwriting, on various philosoph-
ical subjects, particularly chemistry and mineralogy; eight cases and
one trunk filled with the like.

This collection and the books and pamphlets mentioned in the same
schedule formed the beginnings, respectively, of the Smithsonian library
and the Smithsonian museum. The minerals constituted, so far as the
writer has been able to learn, the first scientific cabinet owned by the
Government of the United States. Their destruction in the Smithsonian
fire of 1865 was a serious loss. Our only knowledge of their character is
derived from the report of a committee of the National Institution, who
in 1841 reported upon it as follows :*

Among the effects of the late Mr. Smithson is a cabinet which, so far
as it has been examined, proves to consist of a choice and beautiful
collection of minerals, comprising probably eight or ten thousand speci-
mens. The specimens, though generally small, are extremely perfect,
and constitute a very complete zeological and mineralogical series, en-
-bracing the finest varieties of crystallization, rendered more valuable
by accompanying figures and descriptions by Mr. Smithson, and in his
own writing. The cabinet also contains a valuable suite of meteoric
stones, which appear to be suites of most of the important meteorites
which have fallen in Europe during several centuries.

* Proceedings of the National Institution, July, 1841, u, p.95. Francis Markoe,
jr., Secretary of the National Institute, in a letter written to the American Philo-
sophical Society in 1841, described as a part of this cabinet ‘* a superb and very large
collection of precious stones and exquisite crystallized minerals * decidedly
the richest and rarest collection in the country.”

For a catalogue in general terms see Alfred Hunter's ‘Popular Catalogue of the
Extraordinary Curiosities in the National Institute, ete.,” published in 1855, and
William J. Rhees’s ‘‘ Account of the Smithsonian Institution, ete.,” 1859.

273
18

sm. 91, pt. 2
274 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

This report was made in July, 1841, at the time when, by order of
the Secretary of the United States Treasury, the minerals, books,
manuscripts, and other articles forming part of the Smithson bequest,
were deposited in the custody of the National Institution, where they
remained until 1858,

A room had been planned for their reception in the Smithsonian edi-
fice, which was to be made fireproof,* but if this was ever constructed
it was not occupied, and the collections having been displayed for some
years in the Regents’ room, were destroyed by fire January 24, 1865.

The National Institution was for nearly eighteen years the official
custodian of these and other museum materials belonging to the nation.
This organization, ten years before the Smithsonian Institution was
prepared to receive any collections whatever, fourteen years before its
buildings were ready for the exhibition of museum objects, and in
after years, until its charter expired by limitation in 1862, held many
objects whose proper place was in the National Museum. Indeed,
the retention of many historical objects in the Patent Office hall until
1883, was an evidence of a lingering uncertainty as to the proper loca-
tion of responsibility for the care of the national collections. °

In order to understand the genesis of the National Museum of the
United States it seems necessary to examine the history of this society,
at one time so enterprising and influential.

The National Institution for the Promotion of Science, organized in
Washington May 15, 1840, was for some years the most prominent ex-
ponent of the idea of a national museum.t The establishment of this
society was doubtless to a very great degree due to the stimulating and
inspiring effects upon public opinion of the Smithson bequest. The
germs of the idea which it represented seem, however, to have been
existing in Washington at a much earlier period, for in 1816, or before,
a similar society had been organized in the capital under the name of
The Columbian Institute for the Promotion of Arts and Sciences.t

The Columbian Institute received on May 20, 1818, a charter from Con-
gress which expired in 1838, after which its members ‘were invited to
become members of the National Institution, and to deposit in its eabi-
net their effects, books, and papers.” §

*Report of the building committee to December 1, 1847, in Report of the Board
of Regents, January 6, 1848, Thirtieth Congress, first session, Mis. Doc. 23, p. 8.

t The National Institution was organized at the seat of government on the 15th of
May, 1840, by the adoption of a constitution and the declaration of the objects of
the institution, which are to promote science and the useful arts, aiding to establish
Bulletin of the Proceedings of the Na-

5)

a national museum of natural history, ete.’
tional Institute, 1840, 1, p. 3 (introduction).

{ Before 1816 an organization known as ‘‘The Metropolitan Society
ence in Washington, and the Columbian Institute was an outgrowth of it or re-
placed it. The United States Military Philosophical Society met in Washington
and New York as early as 1805.

§ Proceedings of the National Institution, July 12, 1841, Vol. 1, p. 94.

? was in exist-
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 2715

This invitation was accepted July 17, 1841,* in a letter from Asbury
Dickins, secretary, and although no record of any transfer is to be
found in the Bulletin of the National Institution, I have before me a
letter from Messrs. John J. Abert, A. O. Dayton, and F. A. Markoe, com-
mittee of that society, addressed to the Secretaries of the War and Navy
Departments, January 1, 1842, in which, among the other collections
in their custody, they mention ‘the books, minerals, and works of art
belonging to the late Columbian Institute,” and also the “books,
papers, and proceedings of the late American Historical Society,” an
organization to which also the National Institution stood in the posi-
tion of an heir.

To Dr. Edward Cutbush is due the preservation of the only state-
ment extant of the objects of the Columbian Institute, embodied ap-
parently in its constitution, and quoted as follows in his address as its
president, delivered January 11, 1817, in Congress Hall, Washington.t

To collect, cultivate, and distribute the various vegetable productions
of this and other countries, whether medicinal or esculent, or for the
promotion of arts and manufactures.

To collect and examine the various mineral productions and natural
curiosities of the United States, and to give publicity to every discov-
ery that the institute may have been enabled to make.

To obtain information respecting the mineral waters of the United
States, their locality, analysis, and utility, together with such topo-
graphical remarks as may aid valetudinarians.

To invite communications on agricultural subjects, on the manage-
ment of stock, their diseases, and the remedies.

To form a topographical and statistical history of the different dis-
tricts of the United States, noticing particularly the number and extent
of streams, how far navigable, the agricultural products, the imports
and exports, the value of lands, the climate, the state of the thermometer
and barometer, the diseases which prevail in the different seasons, the
state of the arts and manufactures, and any other information which
may be deemed of general utility.

To publish annually, or whenever the institution shall have become
possessed of a sufficient stock of important information, such communi-
cations as may be of public utility, and to give the earliest information
in the public papers of all discoveries that may have been made by, or
communicated to, the institute.

A remark significant in this connection may be found in a letter
witten by Edward Cutbush, M. pD., dated Geneva, N. Y., January 20,

* Proceedings of the National Institution, July 12, 1841, Vol. I, p. 113.

+ Cutbush, Edward. An address | delivered before the | Columbian Institute, | for
the Promotion of Arts and Sciences, | at the City of Washington, | on the 11th January,
1817. | —— | By Edward Cutbush, M. D., | Hon. Member of the Philadelphia Medical
and Chemical Societies; | Corresponding Member of the Linnean Society of Phila-
delphia; | and President of the Institute. | | Published by the request of the
Colunbian Institute, | | Washington, | Printed by Gales & Seaton, | Six parts |
1817. 8vo. pp. 1-29.

A copy of this rare pamphlet is in the library of the Surgeon-General’s Office, as
well as a nearly complete series of the publications of the two brothers Cutbush.

276 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

1842, accepting his election to corresponding membershipin the National
Institution. After thanking the institution “for this memento of their
friendship and recognition of past services in the cause that had been
so favorably revived at the seat of government,” he continued thus: “I
most sincerely hope that all the objects which engaged the attention of
Thomas Law, esq.,* and myself in 1816 in establishing the Columbian
Institute will now meet the approbation and support of the Govern-
ment and of the scientific men of the District of Columbia.” +

4 Thomas Tae was a eae of an Ha enan erie of P talent ia influence. His
father, Edmund Law, pb. D., born in Cartmel, Lancashire, in 1703, educated at St.
John’s College, Cambridge, was author of several theological and philosophical works,
and in 1769 became Bishop of Carlisle, holding this office till his death in 1787. Of
his younger brothers, one was Bishop of Elphin, another, George Henry Law, D.D.,
(1761-1845) was Bishop of Chester, 1812, and later, 1824, of Bath and Wells.  [Bio-
graphical Sketch in Gentleman’s Magazine, 1845, Part U1, p. 529.] His elder brother,
Edward Law—Lord Ellenborough—(1750-1818) was an eminent lawyer, principal
counsel for Warren Hastings in the great impeachment trial before the House of
Lords, Attorney-General and Lord Chief Justice of the King’s Bench, and was father
of Edward Law, Earl of ENlenborough (1790-1871), Governor-General of India.

Thomas Law was born in 1756, and in 1773, at the age of 17, entered the service of
the British East India Company in Bengal, and was rapidly promoted, becoming mem-
ber of the revenue board of Hueli before he was 21, later judge of Poonah, and in 1783
collecter, judge, and magistrate of Behar, a province with more than 2,000,000 in-
habitants, an office which he administered for six years with great success, after-
wards, at the request of Lord Cornwallis, the Governor-General, then engaged in his
campaign against Tippoo Saib, serving for two years on the revenue board at Cal-
cutta. Jn 1791, his health having failed, he sailed for England, where he remained
until 1793, the year of his removal to America.

While in India he was the friend and associate of Lord Cornwallis, Lord Tergue-
nett, and Sir William Jones, and was the author of what was known as the Mocur-
rery system and permanent settlement, a great legislative reform, the accomplishment
of which was the principal feature of Cornwallis’s administration, which the board
of control of the East India Company described as ‘forming a new epoch in Hin-
dostan, from which, they predict, will be derived security and permanent prosperity,
and consider it as an important and most beneficial change to 50,000,000 of people,
and full of beneficial consequences.”

William Duane, the editor of the Philadelphia Aurora, who had known Mr. Law
in India, wrote thus concerning him in 1815:

“We have known Mr. Law now more than thirty years. We knew him when he
was inferior to no man in eminence and in power, the third or fourth in degree in a
great empire; and this was at a time, too, when, by his own generous efforts, pursued
with zeal and talent that commanded general admiration and esteem, he brought
about a revolution, the influence of which now extends to one hundred and twenty
millions of people, as great in its moral and political influences as the extinction of
the feudal system. In Hindostan, under the Mogul government, the tenure of land
was in the Empire and reverted upon the demise of the holder. The afflictions pro-
duced by such a system can not be conceived by those who have not been eye wit-
nesses of them. Upon the death of a zuinndar, or landholder, where polygamy
preyails and the children and females are numerous, the death of the head of the
family, where no provision has been otherwise made, can not be well imagined. Mr.
Law, who held the government of a rich and populous province under the Bengal
administration, proposed what has been called the Mocurrery system, that is to

t Proceedings of the National Institution, 1, p. 156, 1842.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. EG

The idea of a subsidy from the General Government seems to have
been prominent in the minds of the founders of the Columbian Institute.
In the closing portion of the same address Dr. Cutbush naively remarked
as follows:

T cannot refrain from indulging in the pleasing hope that the mem-
bers of our National Government, to whom has been confided the guard-
ianship of the District of Columbia, will extend their fostering care to
this establishment, and that a part of the public grounds, reserved for
national purposes, may be vested in the Columbian Institute. I would
also with due deference suggest that a small pecuntary aid would en-
able the Institute at an earlier period to extend its benefits to all parts

make the land personal property and not to revert to the sovereign. This plan, pur-
sued through several years of zeal and devotion to humanity, he accomplished. The
Norman conquest, the revolution in England in 1688, were great events and they
mark epochs in history and are treated as such, while Mr. Law’s revolution without
bloodshed eventually changed the whole moral and social condition of Hindostan,
settled estates in persons and as personal property, and put an end to all the calam-
ities which were consequent of the old system; yet the event is scarcely heard of;
perhaps there are not three men in this country who ever heard of it yet.”

In a letter written to Law by Marquis Cornwallis in 1796 he said: ‘‘We labored
together for the security of person and property to the subjects of the British Goy-
ernment in Asia,” and referred to ‘that plan of which IT shall ever with gratitude
acknowledge you as the founder.”

Another reform suggested by Mr. Law was in connection with the commercial
relations of India with England. Concerning this Mr, Law writes in 1824:

“The augmented wealth and prosperity of many of the natives of India since I
quitted Bengal is evinced by commercial events and improvements, some of which
have fulfilled my anticipations, when I proposed to the company, and was urgent
with them, to throw open and enlarge new branches of trade originally in India.
Cotton and sugar are now imported thence into England, and British manufactures
have been exported to pay for these new and rich Asiatic cargoes, and this to an
amount that in 1815 was estimated at £870,177. Five years afterward, in 1819, the
value of such manufactures exported to India exceeded three millions sterling.”

One of the results of this Indian reform was doubtless the abolition at so early a
day of negro slavery in the British West Indies.

Another of his reforms was that effected when at an early age he was governor of
Behar, and which was perhaps his chief popular title to the appellation of ‘‘ Father
of the People.” The Capital of Behar is as much venerated by the Hindus as Mecca
by the Mohammedans. Pilgrims annually resort to it from all parts of India.
These pilgrims had been oppressed by heavy taxes ever since the establishment of
the Mohammedan government—taxes imposed according to the apparent dignity of
the pilgrims, which was rated by the number of their animals, and the palanquins,
horses, or elephants which accompanied them. When Mr. Law became collector
the exactions were so onerous that many Hindus were deterred from fulfilling their
religious usages, but through his efforts the taxes were diminished to a moderate
sum, a greater number of pilgrims would pay it, and, while the demands of the reve-
nue were fulfilled, ‘‘ purposes of humanity were forwarded and the pious feelings
of the natives were gratified.” [Law’s ‘‘ Reply,” p. 7.]

Mr. Law’s removal from England was due in part to an act of injustice on the part
of the East Indian Company, which resulted in considerable financial loss to himself,
and in part to his ‘decided disapprobation of an impolitic and exhausting war that
the administration was then carrying on against France.”

He conceived a great admiration for the character of Washington, and when he
218 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

of the United States, and to render an essential service to the nation
by perpetuating an establishment worthy of the metropolis bearing the
name of our illustrious Washington, where at some future period the
youth of our country will repair to complete their education at the na-
tional seminary, to which the Botanical Garden and Mineralogical
Cabinet would be important appendages.

Cutbush’s address before the Columbian Institute, nearly three-
quarters of a century ago, is well worthy of study at the present time.

knew of the efforts being made to establish a national capital he became anxious to
indentify himself with its growth from the very beginning,

He invested all of his property in houses and lots in Washington, and for forty
years was one of the most zealous and enlightened citizens.

8S. L. Knapp (Ignatius Loyala Robertson, LL.D.) wrote of him in 1830 in his
Sketches of Public Characters:

“ He purchased largely of the soil, built on an extensive scale, suggested ten thou-
sand plans for the improvement of the city and for the prosperity of the nation; but
the slow, doubtful, and often strange course of Congress came not only in his way,
but in the way of all those deeply interested in the welfare of the city; and he has
spent the days of his maturity and wisdom in unavailing efforts for the improvement
of it. Itis happy for him, however, that he has lived to see the dawn of a better
day for Washington. and, if he cannot stay here long to enjoy it, he will rejoice in
the hopes of his friends and descendants.”

Among the enterprises in which he participated at an early day was the erection
of the great building south of the capitol which has for so many years borne the
inscription ‘‘ Law House.”

Three sons, born in India, accompanied Mr. Law to America, one of whom, Mr.
John Law, a lawyer in Washington, died before 1824, and all before 1834.

Mr. Law married, as second wife, Miss Custis, daughter of George Washington
Parke Custis, the stepson and adopted son of Washington, thus allying himself by
family ties with the man whom he so much revered.

Mr. Law was a zealous advocate of a national paper currency and published a
book on currency.

He also wrote poetry and contributed to general literature.

He was one of the leaders in the intellectual life of the infant capital, and not-
withstanding his personal eccentricities was universally respected, As one of the
founders of the first learned society in Washington, he is worthy of our veneration;
and since he has been ignored by the biographical dictionaries this notice of his
life has been written.

He died in 1834.

Reference to Mr. Law’s character and career may be found in an obituary in the
National Intelligencer, 1834, quoted in the New England Magazine, September,
1834, in Sketches of Public Characters, by ‘Ignatius Loyola Robertson” (S. L.
Knapp) in the biographical sketch of William Winston Seaton, by his daughter, and
in Faux’s Memorable Days in America, the review of which in No. 68 of the Quar-
terly Review evoked Mr. Law’s ‘‘Reply” which contains much autobiographical
matter.

The following are titles of some of Mr. Law’s publications, for the verbal accuracy
of which no responsibility is taken, since they are usually given second-hand:

1792. Law, THomMas. Sketch of some late arrangements and a review of the rising
resources of Bengal. London, 1792. 8°. Lib. Cong.

1794. Law, Tuomas. ‘On Bengal,” etc. Perhaps another ed. of that printed in
1792. Quoted by Allibone.

1806. [Law, THomas.] Ballston Springs. [A poem.] New York, 1806. Boston

Ath.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 269

It is full of enlightened patriotism and of hopeful prophecy for the
United States and for Washington. ‘ Where genius and talent are re-
spected, rewarded, and promoted,” wrote he “the arts and sciences will
Hourish and the wealth and power of the nation increase.”

The wisdom of such men as Cutbush opened the way for the organ-
ization of the National Institution, which in its turn, as we shall see,
had an important influence toward shaping the course of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Indeed the germ of the Smithsonian idea may be found in Cutbush’s
address—and his spirit was kindred to that of Henry and his associates,
who worked under more favorable conditions thirty years later.*

1820. Law, Tuomas. Remarks on the report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
March 1, 1819. Wilmington, 1820. 8°. Boston Ath.

1824. Law, THOMAS. A reply to certain insinuations, published as an article in the
sixty-eighth number of the Quarterly Review. Washington, 1827. 8°. pp.
1-27. (1.) Lib. Cong. Refers to a libelous article; a review of Faux’s
Memorable Days in America.

1827. Law, THOMAS (and others). Report of the proceedings of the committee ap-
pointed in Washington in 1824 to present a memorial to Congress, praying
for the establishment of a national currency. Washington: Way & Gideon.
1824. 8°. 40 pp. Lib. Cong.; Boston Ath.

1825. Law, THomas. Address before the Columbian Institute. Washington, 1825.
8°. Boston Ath.

1826. Law, THomMaAs. Considerations tending to render the policy questionable of
plans for liquidating, within the next four years, of the 6 per cent stocks of
the United States. Washington: 8. A. Elliott. 1826. 8°. pp. 22. Lib.
Cong.; Boston Ath.

1827. Law, THOMAS. Propositions for creating means for commencing the Chesa-
peake and Ohio Canal, with report of committee thereon. [Washington,
1827?] 1 folio sheet. Lib, Cong.

1828. Law, THomaAs. Address to the Columbian Institute on a moneyed system.
Washington, 1828. 8°. Lib. Cong.; Boston Ath.

1830. Law, Tuomas. Address to the Columbian Institute on the question, ‘‘ What
ought to be the circulating medium of a nation?” Washington, 1830. 8°.
Lib. Cong.; Boston Ath.

~ 1833. Law, THomas. Synopsis of a plan for a national currency. Washington, 1833

So. lib. Cong.

The two brothers James and Edward Cutbush were among the most active of the

popular teachers and promoters of science and education at the beginning of the

present century, and it would be unjust to allow their names to drop out of the his-
tory of American science.

Both were physicians, both teachers of chemistry, both enthusiastic m the work
of founding schools and learned societies. They were born, certainly in Pennsylva-
nia, probably Philadelphia, somewhere between the years 1750 and 1770. Edward
entered the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in 1790 and grad-
uated in 1794, and his brother James at about the same time or alittle later. James
Cutbush at the beginning of the century, and for a few years subsequent, was en-
gaged in delivering courses of chemical lectures in Philadelphia, presumably for the
benefit of medical students.

He appears to have enlisted as a volunteer in a Pennsylvania regiment at the
beginning of the war of 1812, and at its close, on the 12th of August, 1814, was
appointed Assistant Apothecary General in the regular army of the United States,

¥
280 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The National Institution began its career at a time when the country
was chafing under the irritation of the delays of Congress in organizing
the institution of learning provided by Smithson, whose legacy had for
some years been deposited in the Treasury.*

which position he held until 1820, when he was appointed post surgeon and chief
medical officer of the Military Academy at West Point. In November, 1821, he was
made assistant surgeon and acting professor of chemistry and mineralogy in the
academy, in which capacity he served until his death, which occurred on December
15, 1823.

His most important work, A System of Pyrotechny (8vo, Philadelphia, 1825, i-xliv,
1-612), was published in Philadelphia after his death by his widow, aided by a sub-
scription from the cadets of the Military Academy.

Another work, entitled ‘‘The Philosophy of Experimental Chemistry,” in two
volumes (Philadelphia, 1818, 12mo, (1) pp-xii, 1-356 (2) i-vili, 1-539) appears to have
been the earliest general work or text book on chemistry written in America,
although Benjamin Rush had printed a syllabus of his lectures which gave him the
title to be considered ‘‘the father of chemistry in America,” and James Cutbush
himself had, as early as 1807 or 1808, prepared an Epitome of Chemistry, for the use
of St. John’s College, in which he was a teacher, of the publication of which, how-
ever, I have found no record.

In 1812 he delivered an ‘“ Oration on Education” (Philadelphia, 1812, 8vo, pp. 1-50),
before the Society for the Promotion of a Rational System of Education, of which
he was vice-president—an enlightened and eloquent address full of historical infor-
mation. He also published in 1808 a book called ‘‘ The Useful Cabinet,” a treatise
“On Hydrostatics and Specific Gravity,” and also certain papers in the American
Journal of Science. ;

Besides holding a corresponding membership in the Columbian Institute at Wash-
ington, which was founded by his brother, he was president of the Columbian Chem-
ical Society and member of the Linnzean and Agricultural Societies of Philadelphia.
Rafinesque, enumerating in 1817 those of the American scientific men whom he con-
sidered entitled to rank as philosophers, mentions the name of Cutbush along with
his own and those of Jefferson. Clinton, Vaughan, Bentley, Winthrop, Patterson,
Williamson, Griscom, Wood, Dupont, Woodward, Rush, Mitchell, Ramsay, and
Priestly.

Edward Cutbush, after his graduation at the Philadelphia Medical School in 1794,
became attached to the militia of Pennsylvania, first as hospital surgeon and sub-
sequently as surgeon-general. On the 24th of June, 1799, he was appointed a sur-
geon in the U. 8S. Navy, in which capacity he served until June 20, 1829, when he
resigned. In the years 1816 and 1817 he appears to have been stationed in Wash-
ington, and at this time participated in the foundation of the Columbian Institute
for the Promotion of Science. I can find no record of his whereabouts after 1829
until 1835, when he was a resident of Geneva, N. Y., and participated in the estab-
lishment of the medical institute of Geneva College, in which he became professor
of chemistry. On the occasion of its formal opening. on February 10, 1835, he deliv-
ered a discourse ‘‘On the history and methods of medical instruction” (Geneva,
1835, 8vo, pp. 1-24). In 1842 he appears to have been still at Geneva, and at this
time was probably a man seventy or eighty years of age. His Washington address
and his Geneva address appear to be his only literary remains, with the exception ot
a book which was published in Philadelphia in 1808 entitled ‘Observations on the
Means of Preserving the Health of Soldiers and Sailors,” ete. (Philadelphia, 1808,
8vo, pp. i-xvi, 1-316, 1-14).

*Smithson had died in 1829, but the legacy did not become available until after
the death of his nephew, the residuary legatee, in 1835, after which, in August or
September of that year, the Government of the United States was first apprised of
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. r-feyl |

It has already been suggested that the National Institution owed its
origin to the influence of the Smithson bequest. Indeed it may not be
altogether impossible that it was founded with special reference to some
plan looking toward securing the control of this bequest.

Although less than fifty years have gone by, I can not learn that any
of those who were active members at the time of its organization are
still living, and unfortunately no one seems to have left any written
record of the secret history of this very significant movement.

It seems possible, however, to read between the lines, in the official
publications of the society, and the utterances of its friends, and thereby
to acquire a certain additional insight into their meaning.

With this in mind, it is instructive to review brietly the history of the
discussions which preceded the final organization of the Smithsonian
Tnstitution—not with reference to its entire policy, for this has already
been well done by others, but in connection with its relations to the
national institution, and the custodianship of the National Museum.

In 1835, as we have seen, the fact was first made known that Smith-
son, who had died in Genoa, six years earlier, had bequeathed the re-
version of his whole estate to the United States of America ‘to found
at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an estab-
lishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The bequest was communicated to Congress by the President on the
17th of December, and was accepted by Congress by an act approved
July 1, 1836, pledging ‘“‘the faith of the United States” to the due ap-
plication of the fund to the purposes of the bequest.

On the first of September, 1858, the proceeds of the estate, amounting
to $508,318.46, was paid into the United States mint, and shortly after
the convening of Congress in that year, in a message dated December
6, President Van Buren informed both Houses that the amount received
having been invested, he deemed it proper to invite the attention of

Jongress to the obligation devolving upon the United States to fulfill
the object of the bequest.

Hight sessions of Congress passed by before any definite plan of
organization was decided upon, and suggestions from all parts of the
country were liberally forthcoming. Strange to say nearly every sug-
gestion, no matter how humble its source, seems to have had its weight
in the deliberations, and almost every one was embodied in one or more
of the provisions of the numerous bills brought up for the consideration
of Congress.

In 1836, when this matter first came to the notice of the Senate, it
seems to have been the generally accepted opinion of those who took

the fact of the existence of such a bequest. The legacy was brought to New York in
August, 1838, but no definite action was taken concerning its application until eight
years later, when on August 10, 1846, the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian
Institution was passed. The Regents held their first meeting September 7, 1846, and
elected a secretary, who accepted the trust on December 14, and entered upon his
duties a week later.
282 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

part in the discussion that the intentiou of the testator was the estab-
lishing of a university.

In this direction, too, was the tendeney of the advice of those “ per-
sons versed in science and in matters relating to public education,” to
whom in July, 1838, the Secretary of State addressed letters, asking

advice as to the most advantageous mode of applying the proceeds of

the bequest.*

Of these, three favored a school of high grade. President Wayland,
an institution which should occupy “the space between the close of a
collegiate education and a professional school; Dr. Cooper, ‘an insti-
tution of the character of a university;” President Chapin, “an insti-

tution for liberal and professional purposes and for the promotion of

original investigations—to carry through a range of studies much
above those of the ordinary collegiate course.”

Horatio Hubbell, of Philadelphia, also in a letter to President Van
Buren urged a university on the German plan, with numerous protessor-
ships, chiefly scientific, and Prof. Dungleson, of the University of Vir-
ginia, in two very favorable letters in the “Southern Literary Messen-
ger” (under the signature “4,” Vol. v, 1838, p. 828, Vol. v1, 1840, p. 25),
proposed the foundation of ‘a central school of natural science,” to be
supplemented in time by a botanical garden, an observatory, a zodlog-
ical institute, or analogous means (including, doubtless, in his mind,
museum collections), for prosecuting in a proper way the great sciences
of astronomy and general physiology—‘ a school where natural philos-
ophy, chemistry, geology, mineralogy, philosophy, and all other sciences
could effectually be taught—a school which, so far from clashing with
others, would aid them—which, although it might be helped by a gift
of funds from the nation, could nevertheless go into operation without
them—which under a wise management could be speedily brought to
yield results of the utmost practical importance, and fulfill to the very
letter the wishes of the testator.” t

Mr. Rush objected to a school of any kind, and proposed a plan which
more nearly than any other of the early ones corresponded with that

which was finally adopted. In a shadowy way he outlined a system of

scientific correspondence, of lectureships, of general codperation with
the scientific efforts of the Government, of a liberal system of publica-
tion, and even of collections of geological, zodlogical, botanical, ethno-
logical, and economical objects.

The fifth response was from the venerable Senator and ex-President,
John fuiney Adams, who, from 1835, when he was sees Louse cel oben

These are the names of the persons thus addressed:

The Hon. John Quincy Adams, Senator and ex-President; Thomas Cooper, M.D.,
Columbia, 8. C.; Hon. Richard Rush, Sydenham, near Philadelphia, Pa.; Prof.
Francis Wayland, President of Brown University, Providence, R. I.; Hon. Albert
Gallatin, Rev. Stephen Olin, Phelan Lindsley, and others.

t Southern Literary Messenger, /. c., and also Rhees, ‘‘ Documents,” ete., pp. 864-890.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 283

of the select committee of the House, to report upon the Smithson
bequest, appears to have taken a deep interest in its fate, and to have
felt personally responsible for its judicious administration. In his letters
to the Secretary of State, October 5 and 11, 1838, he brought forward
with great vigor the proposal that the first use to be made of the fund
was the establishment of a great national astronomical observatory,
and in January, 1839, as chairman of the House committee, acting
jointly with a similar committee from the Senate, he reported a bill
(House bill 1161, Senate bill 293) providing for the establishment of an
observatory fully equipped, with provision for the publication of its
observations, and the annual composition and publication of a nautical

almanac.
~ This bill, which was evidently a minority report of the joint commit-
tee, was reinforced by two sets of resolutions, proposed by Mr. Adams
in the House, one reported from the committee, January 26, providing—

That the first appropriation from the interest or income of the Smith-
sonian fund ought to be for the erection and establishment, at the city of
Washington, of an astronomical observatory, provided with the best
and most approved instruments and books, for the continuing observa-
tions, calculation and recording of the remarkable phenomena ot the
heavens, for the periodical publication of the observations thus made,
and of a nautical almanac for the use of the mariners of the United
States and of all other navigating nations.

The second, reported February 6, recited the opinion—

That the education of the children of these United States is a duty
of solemn and indispensable obligation incumbent upon their parents
and guardians, not for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men, but to qualify them for the enjoyment of their rights, and the
performance of their duties throughout life (and therefore), that no part
of the Smithsonian fund ought to be applied to the education of the
children or youths of the United States, nor to any school, college, uni-
versity, or institute of education.

The latter resolutions were evidently intended as a counterpoise to
the view still held by many members of the Senate, which was brought
forward by the speech of Senator Asher Robbins, of Rhode Island,
January 10, 1839, in which he urged ‘that this institution should
make one of a number of colleges, to constitute a university, to be es-
tablished here, and to be endowed in a manner worthy of this great
nation and thus increase resources.”

On the 18th of February Senator Robbins produced an antidote to
Mr. Adams’s anti-university resolution in the following:

1. Resolved, That it is the duty of the United States, they having
accepted the trust under the will of Mr. Smithson, of London, to exe-
cute that trust bona fide according to the true intent and meaning of
the testator.

2. Resolved, That the trust being to found an institution in the city of
Washington for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,

the kind of institution which will have the effect intended: aati dese ribed,
in the most eminent degree, will be the kind of institution which ought
284 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

in good faith to be adopted as being most in accordance with the true
intent and meaning of the testator.

3. Resolved, That all experience having shown scientific and literary
institutions to be by far the most effectual means to the end of increas-
ing and diffusing knowledge among men, the Smithsonian Institution
should be a scientific and literary institution, formed upon a model the
best calculated to make those means the most effectual to that end.

4. Resolved, That to apply said trust fund to the erection and support
of an observatory would not be to fulfill bona fide the intention of the
testator, nor would it comport with the dignity of the United States to
owe such an establishment to foreign eleemosynary means.

Neither of the bills was received with favor, and the Twenty-fifth
Jongress came to an end without any decision having been reached.
Senator Robbins retired from public life at this time, and the university
idea was not subsequently brought promptly forward. During this
session, however, various petitions were received. One was from Prof.

Walter R. Johnson, urging the foundation, advocating the claims of

“an institution for roseanenee in practical science.”*

Another was from Charles Lewis Fleischmann, of the United States
Patent Office, proposing the establishment of an institution for the
promotion of agriculture, with experimental farms of 1360 acres, manu-
factories, mills and workshops, a considerable staff of teachers and in-
structors, and one hundred students at the commencement. f

The Kentucky State Agricultural Society petitioned for the endow-
ment of an agricultural school or college out of the legacy, and the
Superintendent of the Coast Survey, Mr. Hassler, was urging the founda-
tion of an astronomical school.

In the meantime publie interest was becoming awakened. The mat-
ter was agitated in the newspapers and reviews, petitions were coming
in from individuals, urging speedy action, and the corporation of the
city of Washington, through their mayor, Peter Force, presented a
vigorously worded memorial to Congress.¢

Early in the first session of the Twenty-sixth Congress, 1839-41, Mr.
Adams again brought up the Smithson bequest, introducing again his
bill for the establishment of a national observatory and reénforcing it
by his famous report of 1540§ and a speech of considerable length, supple-
mented by an elaborate statement from the astronomer royal of Great
Britain concerning the observatories at Greenwich and elsewhere.

Mr. Adams seems to have been alone in his advocacy of the observa-
es and his bill and report produce’ no results.

Seracened to the Hiike of Repeecne tives Mee 21, 1838. —See eaheee Dowrene

pp. 171-186.

i Reported to the House of Representatives January 9, 1839.—See Rhees’s Docu-
ments, etc., pp. 186-198.

{ Rhees’s Documents, ete., pp, 200, 201.

§ First session, House of Representatives Report No. 277. Smithson bequest. (To
accompany amendatory bill H. R. No. 1). May 5, 1840. Washington: Blair & Ross,
printers. 8vo., pp. 155.

en
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 285

It was just at this time that the National Institution was organized
ou the 15th of May, 1840, by the adoption of a constitution and a dee-
laration of its objects, ‘‘which are to promote science and the useful
arts and to establish a national museum of natural history, ete.”

The constitution of this society in its first form was somewhat mea-
ger, but as printed on the cover of the second bulletin of proceedings
is decidedly prophetic of the future act of incorporation of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Its plan, however, was conceived in a broad and liberal spirit, its
membership was a strong one, including at the beginning about ninety
representative men of Washington, members of Congress, scientific men,
clergymen, and prominent citizens, and as many more corresponding
members, among whom were all the leading men of the country. Among
its principal piieurs were the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the
Navy, ex-President Adams, the Chief of Kngineers of the Army, and
other prominent officials. The meetings were well attended, the mem-
bership was enthusiastic, gifts of books and specimens hee to flow in,
and the prospects of the society looked very bright.

In his discourse* on the objects and importance of ‘the National In-
stitution, delivered January 5, 1841, its president, Mr. Poinsett, referred
pointedly to the Smithson bequest, saying that it offered a favorable
occasion for carrying into effect all the important objects connected
with a national institution, such as that just being organized in Wash-
ington, enabling the Government to afford all necessary protection to
the promotion of science and the useful artst without the exercise of any
doubtful power, ete.

Soon after this, in February, Senators Linn and Preston, both mem-
bers of the National Institution, proposed new bills for the organiza-
tion of the Smithsonian Institution, at the same time reporting a bill
to incorporate the National Institution for the Promotion of Science.

By these bills the entire Iinanagement of the Smithsonian fund was

to be intrusted to the National Institution. Its officers, a superin-
tendent, and six professors were to be nominated by that society, which
was also to prescribe their duties. Provision was made for joint occu-
pancy by the two institutions of buildings to be erected at the cost of
the Smithson bequest, and finally it was required—
That all collections of works of art and of natural history owned by
the United States, not otherwise assigned (or “all works of art, and
all books relating thereto, and all collections and curiosities belonging
to the United States in the possession of any of the Executive Depart-
ments and not necessarily connected with the duties thereof”) shall be
deposited in said buildings (or “shall be transferred to said institution,
to be there preserved and arranged”).

In these bills, drawn up in 1840, may be found the germ of the Na-
tional Museum idea, even to the extent of a propo son for an appro-

* Discourse, p. 49.
t The avowed objects of the National Institution.
286 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

priation from the National Treasury, to be expended under the diree-
tion of the officers of the National Institution, the president and di-
rectors of which were the prototypes of the Smithsonian Chancelor
and Regents for purposes connected with the administration of the col-
lections such as it was not deemed proper to pay for out of the Smith-
somian fund.*

The object of the National Institution was the promotion of science
and the useful arts, but the principal agency chosen for accomplishing
this object was a national museum of natural history, ete.

This was stated clearly in its declaration of objects at the time of its
organization in 1840, as well as in its constitution.t

The sections relating to the Museum in the proposed act of incorpora-
tion of the Institution of 1841 corresponded precisely to Articles XIV
and XVI of the constitution of the society, except that the provision
for the appointment of curators by the Institution is omitted.

It was evidently the intention that the Board of Managers should
control the national collections by virtue of the authority vested in
them in their proposed control of the Smithsonian Institution.

The act to incorporate the National Institution did not receive the
approval of Congress until 1842, when new proposals for the organiza-
tion of the Smithsonian Institution were brought forward, very similar
in many respects to those which had developed within the National
Institution.

The idea of a national museum to be administered in connection with

* And for the transportation and arrangement of the same, the sum of $5,000 is
hereby appropriated out of the Treasury of the United States, to be expended under
the direction of the president and directors of the National Institution. (Senate
Bill, No. 245, Twenty-sixth Congress, 1839-41., Section No. 4.

t Constitution, May,1840, January, 1841:

ARTICLE XIV. The resident and corre-
sponding members shall exert themselves
to procure specimens of natural history,
etc., and the said specimens shall be
placed in the cabinet, under the superin-
tendence of a board of curators to be
appointed by the directors. All such
specimens, etc., unless deposited spe-
cially, shall remain in the cabinet, and in
case of the dissolution of the Institution,
shall become the property of the United
States.

Constitution, February, 1842:

ArticLE XIV. The Institution shall
have power to appoint curators and
others for the preservation and arrange-
ment of its collections. The resident
and corresponding members shall exert
themselves to procure specimens of nat-
ural history, ete., and the said specimens
shall be placed in the cabinet under the
superintendence of a curator or curators,
All such specimens, ete., unless deposited
specially, shall remain in the cabinet,
and in case of a dissolution of the Insti-
tution, shall become the property of the
United States.

ArvicLE XVI. The various collections
of the Institution shall be placed in the
apartments which may be designated for
that purpose by a majority of the direc-
tors.

tSenator Preston, April 11, 1842, reintroduced his bill of the previous year.

ee
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 287

the Smithsonian organization had been suggested by no one in the tive
years of discussion which preceded the organization of the National
Institution.

It is true that there had been plans proposed, especially those of
Dunglison and Rush, which might have led up to the development of
a museum, but the value of the museum as an educational agency and
as an aid to research was not understood in those days. In its former
aspect, it needed the teachings of the great exhibitions from 1851 to 1876,
in the latter the vivifying influence of the Darwinian scientific renais-
sance of 1859.

The subject of the Smithsonian legacy and its proper disposition was
henceforth one of those most frequently discussed by the founders of
the National Institution, and for years it was the opinion of many in-
fluential men that this society should be made the custodian of the
Smithson fund, and that the interests of the two establishments should
be united.

A suggestive indication of the sentiment of the officers of the Insti-
tution is found in the letter of the committee of management to the
Secretaries of War and the Navy in 1842, in which they remark that the
object of the National Institution is ‘ to increase and to diffuse knowledge
among men”—making prominent the words of the Smithsonian bequest
instead of the official definition of the objects of their own society, and
deliberately indicating the fact of quotation, by the customary symbols.

The influence of this society was strongly and continuously.present
in Congress, for the six years which followed its organization, until the
Smithsenian act was finally bound, and it seems very appropriate to try
to ascertain whose was the master mind which not only prevailed in
finally ingrafting the development of the National Museum upon the
Smithsonian project, but which directly or indirectly led to the forma-
tion of the various features of organization which have become such
characteristic elements in the Smithsonian plan.

The controlling mind was evidently that of Joel R. Poinsett, of South
Carolina, who was Secretary of the Navy in 1840, and at whose house
the society was organized, by eight persons, among whom were, of course,
Mr. Poinsett, Col. Abert, Mr. Markoe, and Col. Totten. Mr. Poinsett
was senior director, ieee the first plan of organization, and occupied
the chair at every meets until, under the amended ¢ onstitution, he was
elected its first president in 1841. The amendment to the constitution
was doubtless made in order to retain his official leadership, for he be-
came director ex officio while Secretary of the Navy. With the close
of Van Buren’s administration he became a private citizen, but the
constitution was amended before his retirement from the Cabinet, and
the position of presiding officer was never proffered to his successor.

Although from this time on absent from the city, he was retained in
the presidency and reélected in 1841, the vice-president of the society,
Col. Peter Force, continually presiding in his absence.
288 REPORT .OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Although the society elected its officers annually, Mr. Poinsett told
Mr. Adams soon after his election that he should for two years come
to Washington to preside over the National Institution for the Promo-
tion of Science. He was in fact reélected to the presidency at every
annual meeting until that of 1845, when, having declined candidacy,
Senator Levi Woodbury was chosen president and Mr. Poinsett was
unanimously elected an honorary member of the Institution.

From this period the decline of the society’s prosperity was marked.
It is more probable, however, that Mr. Poinsett’s lack of interest was
a result of the weakness of the society than that the weakness resulted
from his lack of interest.

Perhaps, however, if Mr. Poinsett had been a resident of Washington
rather than of South Carolina during the four years of his presidency,
the result would have been different.

That Mr. Poinsett, as early as 1838, was thinking seriously about the
disposition of the Smithsonian bequest is evident from an entry in the
diary of John Quincy Adams, under date of December 8.* Mr. Adams

yas evidently suspicious, and believed that Mr. Poinsett did not give
him his entire confidence. In April, 1839, he talked to him again, and
in 1841 he wrote again in his diary: “April 17. Mr. Poinsett called upon
me and now fully disclosed his project, which is to place the investment
and disposal of the Smithsonian funds under the management of the
American Institution for the Promotion of Literature and Science. t
* * * He said that he had at present no other occupation on hand,
and would be willing to devote two years entirely to organizing the
establishment and getting it into full operation.”

“T know not,” continued the aged statesman, “that it could be
accomplished more effectively, and think I must acquiesce in this
arrangement and endeavor to carry it through.”

Since the bills of Messrs. Linn and Preston had been already for two
months before the Senate, it seems strange that Mr. Adams should have
looked upon Mr. Poinsett’s communication as a revelation—still more
so when it is remembered how clearly he had expressed himself in his
“Discourse” in January.t

;

*“Kixtracts from the Memoirs of John Quincy Adams”: Rhees, Documents, ete.,
p. 769.

t Evidently meaning the National Institution.

{ Mr. Poinsett was not only the first to publicly suggest the union of the Smith-
sonian with the National Institution, but was constant mm his advocacy of the proj-
ect. (See remarks, March &, 1841, Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, ». 69, and letter, February 7,
1842, Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, p. 157.) Dr. Peter S. Duponceau, president of the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society in a letter to the institution in November, 1840, remarked:
‘Congress can not find a better opportunity to execute the will of that beneficent
testator than by laying hold of your institution and making it its own.” (Proce., p.
12.) The Hon. Virgil Maxey, Charge d’Affaires at Belgium, wrote in December,
1840, that in his opinion no better use could be made of the bequest than ‘‘ to place
it under the direction of a society organized for the proper carrying into effect views
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 289

Poinsett, when elected to the presidency of the National Institution,
was a man sixty-two years of age, who had lived an eventful life, full
of opportunities for observing the institutions of Europe, Asia, and
South America. His culture was broad and sympathetic, and he was,
perhaps, better fitted than any of the public men of his time to appre-
ciate the necessity of organizing our public institutions on the most
liberal and comprehensive plan.

In his interviews with those who advocated the establishment of an
observatory as the first result of the Smithsonian legacy, he showed
full appreciation of the value of such an institution, but seems to have
kept before his own mind a much more comprehensive ideal.

Poinsett was the first to suggest the idea of a great national museum
at the capital of the nation.

In his address upon “The Objects and Importance of the National
Institution for the Promotion of Sciences,” delivered at the first anni-
versary meeting of the society, January 4, 1841, he advocated boldly
the formation of a national museum as one of the most important fea-
tures of a “central establishment at the seat of government, such as is
maintained in every country in Europe for the advantage of those who
cultivated the arts and sciences.”

To one who reads this address it will become evident that it was
Poinsett who put in words the definition of the objects of the National
Institution—“ to promote science and the useful arts, and to establish
a national museum of natural history.” ;

The following is an extract from this address:

The lovers of science, literature, and the fine arts residing in the
District felt sensibly the absence of those resources which are found
elsewhere and are necessary for the attainment of knowledge. They
were mortified to perceive that the great advantages possessed by the
public authorities at Washington were neglected, and that, at the seat
of government of this great nation, there existed fewer means than in
any other city of the Union of prosecuting those studies which, while
they impart dignity and enjoyment to existence, lead to the most use-
ful practical results. They believed it to be their duty to arouse the
attention of Government to these deficiencies, and, at all events, to
address themselves to the task of supplying them, as far as could be
done by their individual and combined exertions. For these purposes
they have formed an association and applied themselves to collect

identical with those contemplated by the philanthropical and philosophical testa-
tor.” (Proc., p. 46.)

See in this connection letters from Richard Rush, on the Smithsonian Bequest
(Second Bulletin of Proceedings Nat. Inst., 1842, pp. 201-204); from Peter S.
Duponceau, on the Smithsonian Bequest (op. cit., 204-208); from Hon. Virgil
Maxey, chargé affaires of the United States to nem (First Bulletin, pp. 46-47) ;
Opening Address by John Tyler, President of the United States, patron of the
Nationai Institute (Second Bulletin, pp. 437, 438); letter from the Hon. Levi Wood-
bury, United States Senate (op. cit., pp. 451-453); Smithsonian Bequest, by the Hon.
Richard Rush (op. cit., pp. 455-460) ; address of Hon. Mr. Preston, of the United States
Senate (op. cit., p. 236); letter of John Pickering, of Boston, September 1, 1841 (op.
cit., pp. 109-110).

SM

290 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

specimens of geology and mineralogy and other objects of natural his-
tory, and, for the short period of its existence, the efforts of the Insti-
tution have been eminently successful.

They have entered into correspondence with other learned societies
aud have been encouraged to proceed by their approbation and profited
by their generous codperation. They have invited the assistance of
their fellow-citizens in the most distant States and Territories, and hope,
by their aid, to collect documents and facts illustrative of the early
history of our country, specimens of its geology and of its mineral and
vegetable productions, and, if not to preserve the animals and plants
themselves, which are passing away before the progress of settlement
and cultivation, at least to perpetuate their forms and the memory of
their existence. They hope to be able to illustrate these subjects and
others connected with them by a series of gratuitous lectures, and en-
tertain a confident expectation that numbers whose duties compel
them annually to assemble here will view with interest collections of
the natural productions of America, drawn from every State and Ter-
ritory in the Union, and, becoming sensible of their utility, will con-
tribute on their return to swell their amount and to spread throughout
the country a taste for literary and scientific pursuits.

In another place in the discourses of Mr. Poinsett we find avowals
of plans and ambitious aspirations for the future of the National Mu-
seum which would satisfy the most ambitious of its supporters of to-
day. He spoke thus:

Specimens of natural history are rapidly accumulating. The explor-
ing expedition has already sent home a large collection, which remains
packed away in boxesin a room belonging to the Philadelphia museum,
generously loaned by the company for ‘that purpose; and we may antici.
pate from the ability and well-known zeal of the naturalists who ac
companied it by order of Government that the squadron itself, shortly
expected, will return richly freighted with objects of natural history.
I can not believe that after all the labor, pains, and expense incurred in
procuring them these specimens are not to be brought to Washington,
to be arranged and exhibited here. A geological survey of the Terri-
tory of Iowa was made a few months since by order of the Govern-
ment, and numerous valuable specimens collected by Mr. Owen. Mr.
Nicolet has brought with him interesting collections made in the coun-
try he visited, and Dr. King, of Missouri, lately sent to the lead region
on business connected with the ordnance office, while there collected
specimens of minerals which are likewise destined for Washington.
The ordnance officers who have lately returned from Europe have
brought with them numerous specimens of the iron ores used in the
foundries there, and measures have been taken to procure, as objects
of comparison, those of the United States.

Several individuals have transmitted donations to the Institution,
while ethers have deposited their collections with us from a desire to
have them preserved and, at the same time, to benefit science. We
have reason to believe that this will be extensively done as soon as the
Institution is firmly estabiished. There are many of our countrymen
who, like Sir Hans Sloan, the founder of the British Museum, look
forward with regret to the sale and dispersion of their collections, made
at great cost and pains, and, desiring to have them preserved entire,
would deposit them with an "institution which will be as stable as the
Government that protects it.

In every country in Europe those who cultivate the arts and sciences
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 291

enjoy the advantage of finding in each capital a central establishment,
such as we propose.

In London, the Royal Museum, which was commenced by the enlight-
ened liberality of an individual, and subsequently enriched by similar
bequests, and now liberally patronized by Government, possesses all
that is necessary to protect and encourage literature, science, and the
arts.

The Society for the Promotion of Science and the Useful Arts in Dublin,
having an extensive museum of natural history, a botanic garden, and
school of design, fulfills effectually the objects of its institution and
justifies the very liberal patronage of the British Government. There
students in every branch of science find the means of improvement, and
some of the most accomplished artists in England have been instructed
in this school.

In this country we are best acquainted with the museum, botanical
and zodlogical gardens, and liberal course of instruction at the Jardin
des Plantes, in Paris, where strangers resort from every quarter of the
world to consult the collections and listen to lectures, which are open to
all who choose to attend them. These courses of lectures are delivered
by the ablest and most eloquent men in France, on every branch of
science. In the summer botany is taught in a gar den abounding in all
the vegetable productions of the world; zoology in the midst of speci-
mens of every known animal, and other branches of natural his-
tory, with the advantage of extensive collections, which are augment-
ing daily by an enlightened and active system of exchanges; chemistry
and technology are ‘illustrated by well-conducted experiments and ad-
mirably adapted apparatus, and every branch of natural philosophy
taught with clearness and precision and explained by the most ample
means of illustration. These lectures are attended by students who
have completed their academic course and by men of science who seek
to increase their knowledge.

There can be no doubt that a national institution, such as we con-
template, having at its command an observatory, a museum containing
collections of all the productions of nature, a botanic and zodlogical
garden, and the necessary apparatus for illustrating every branch of
physical science, would attract together men of learning and students
from every part of our country, would open new avenues of intelligence
throughout the whole of its vast extent, and would contribute largely
to disseminate among the people the truths of nature and the light of
science.

A fortunate occurrence of circumstances offers a favorable occasion
to carry all these important objects into immediate effect. A liberal
and enlightened Englishman, foreseeing the benefits which would re-
sult to science throughout the world by its successful cultivation in the
vast and extensive field offered by these States and Territories, with
enlarged views and praiseworthy philanthropy has bequeathed a fund
to be employed for the sacred purposes of increasing and diffusing
knowledge among men. This bequest will enable the ‘Government to
afford all necessary protection to the promotion of science and the use-
ful arts, without the exercise of any doubtful power, by the application
of the annual interest of this fund to the establishment of an observa-
tory, the erection of suitable buildings to contain the collections, and
for lecture rooms, the purchase of books and instruments, and the sal-
aries of professors and curators.

Poinsett’s enthusiasm was contagious, and his arguments, based as
they evidently were upon careful observations and judicious reasoning,
292 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

and inspired by hopeful patriotism, brought him many sympathizers.
Among these the Hon. Levi Woodbury, who had been a member of the
same Cabinet with Mr. Poinsett, and subsequently was in the Senate,
Senator W. C. Preston, one of the directors of the Institute, Senator
R. J. Walker, of Mississippi, Senator S. P. Linn, of Missouri, correspond-
ing members, appear to have been especially friendly to the plans of Mr.
Poinsett, and on various occasions promoted the interests of the National
Institution on the floor of the Senate from 1841 to 1846.

In June, 1842, Mr. Poinsett was again in Washington, and on the
11th presided at a meeting at the home of Mr. Francis Markoe for the
purpose of connecting the organizations of the National Institution
with that of the Smithsonian Institution.

“Mr. Preston,” wrote John Quincy Adams, ‘has introduced into the
Senate a bill for combining these two institutions, and now stated to
the meeting his views on the subject, embracing an appropriation of
$20,000 and the occupation by law of a large portion of the Patent
Office building for the preservation and arrangement of the objects of
curiosity collected by the exploring expedition under Lieut, Wilkes,
now daily expected home; and he called on me to say how far my pur-
poses may be concurrent with these suggestions.

‘‘T said I had the warmest disposition to favor them, and thought
there was but one difficulty in the way, which might perhaps be sur-
mounted. I had believed that the whole burden and the whole honor of
the Smithsonian Institution should be exclusively confined to itself, and
not entangled or commingled with any national establishment requir-
ing appropriations of public money. I exposed the principles upon
which all my movements relating to the Smithsonian bequest have been
founded, as well as the bills which at four successive Congresses [ have
reported, first, for obtaining the money and then for disposing of the
fund.

“At the motion of Mr. Walker, of Mississippi, the president, Mr.
Poinsett, was authorized to appoint a committee of five members of the
Institute, to confer with Mr. Preston and me upon the means of con-
necting the Smithsonian Institution with the National Institute.”

Nothing seems to have resulted from these deliberations.

On the 13th of June, ata stated meeting of the National Institution,
Senator Preston was present, and delivered, as the records inform us,
‘Can eloquent speech, in which he descanted at length on the history
and labor of the Institution, what it had done, and what it proposed
to do, its capacity to be eminently useful to the country and Congress,
the advantage of uniting the Smithsonian Institution with it, ete., and
appealed to Congress and to the liberal citizens of the United States to
come forward in aid of a glorious cause and in the accomplishment of
the great national objects which the Institution has in view,” * ete.

a * Proceedings of the National Institution (3d Bulletin, 1845) vol. Ie p. 236. “A copy
was requested for publication (l. ¢., p. 241) but I can not learn that it was ever put
in type.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 293

Senator Preston’s bill for the union of the two institutions came to
naught.*

During this session, however, the act to incorporate the National
Institute, as it was henceforth to be called, passed in a much modified
form, and was approved July 27, 1842,+ and the society now seems to
have felt much more secure in its project of retaining the control of the
National Museum, and either of gaining eventually the management
of the Smithson fund or of obtaining an appropriation from Congress.

Senator Woodbury,{ in commenting upon the form of the charter, re-
marked that—

Care was taken originally to make the institute different from all
other chartered bodies even in the District, so as to elevate it above
every motive of personal gain, dedicating its labors exclusively to ob-
jects of a public character and vesting all the property possessed for
this purpose in the Government itself; and thus by rendering it na-
tional in substance as well as in name, to obviate any constitutional
objection which might arise against measures in its behalf.

The change of the name from Institution to Institute seems to have
been made in deference to a suggestion by Dr. Dupouceau in a letter
written April, 1842, in which he said:

I have seen with great pleasure the bill brought into the Senate by
the Hon. Mr. Preston. It fully coincides with the views that I have
expressed. The object, in my opinion, is to preserve the superiority of
the National Institution over the Smithsonian, and of the Government
over both.

I would beg leave to suggest whether it would not be advisable to
make some small alteration in the name of the National Institution so
that it should not bear exactly the same name with the Smithsonian,
but one expressive of some degree of superiority. I would recommend,
for instance, that of Institute, whichappears tome more dignified than
that of institution, which is equally applicable to a school or college as
toa great national establishment for the promotion of science. My
idea would be to call the national establishment the “ National Insti-
tute for the Promotion of Science,” and the subordinate one the “ Smith-
sonian Institution,” without more.

No appropriation came, however, andthe charter and changed name
failed to make the society more prosperous.

At a meeting June 20,§ 1842, a resolution was passed appointing a
committee to solicit private contributions of money and property.

*Tt was laid upon the table July 18, 1842, and never again taken up.

tSee Charter of Incorporation, Constitution and By-Laws in Appendix to this
report and in Proc. Nat. Inst., 1. pp. 388-392. See also ‘Bill to incorporate the Na-
tional Institution,” etc., reported by Senator Preston (S. No. 258) February 17, 1841,
in Rhees. Documents, etc., pp. 239-341. See also Memorial of the Officers of the
National Institution for the Promotion of Science, January 21, 1842 (House Docs.
No. 59, Twenty-seventh Congress, second session, 11), submitting draft of a bill of
incorporation.

¢ See remarks of Senator Woodbury in full, Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, pp. 336, 337.

§ Evidently not June 13, though so stated in one portion of minutes. See Proc,
Nat. Inst., 1., pp. 236, 241, 335.
294 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

At another meeting, August 8, 1842, a report* was made by this com-
mittee in which they proposed to institute an annual scientific conven-
tion at Washington, during the session of Congress, and under the
auspices of the institution, and also recommended an extensive system
of exchange of specimens for the benefit of the museum.

At the meeting of September 12, 1842, Mr. Poinsett, the president,
proposed a series of resolutionst intended to put the recommendation
of the report into effect.

All of these resolutions and reports were issued in the form of cireu-
lars (October 15, 1842, and February 24, 1843), but the appeals “to the
liberality and public spirit of our countrymen,” were without avail.

Consequently a special meeting of the board of management was held
December 23, 1848, at the office of the Secretary of State. That the
society was regarded at that time as one of national importance is shown
by the presence at the meeting of Mr. Upshur, the Secretary of State,
who took an active part in the proce snes the Hon. John Quimen

*The committee Se tisul to devise and execute such measures as should be
deemed expedient to obtain contributions and other aid to the Institute would make
an informal report.

They propose making an appeal to the public, by disseminating an account of the
Institute, its past efforts, its condition, and its prospects, and an exhibition of the
many reasons why it should be sustained and encouraged by the citizens of the
United States. In their judgment the best means of doing this will be the publi-
cation of the remarks addressed to the Institute by the Hon. Mr. Preston, Senator
from South Carolina, on the evening of the 13th of June last.

They also propose to address circulars to prominent individuals in the different
States, inviting their codperation, particularly in receiving and transmitting con-
tributions.

They recommend that the Institute authorize the president and secretaries to
sauction their circulars by their official signatures.

They propose that a meeting of the learned men of our country, distinguished for
their attainments in the different sciences, particularly in those termed physical,
should be held annually at the seat of the General Government, at some early period
of the session of Congress, under the auspices of the Institute, to communicate the
results of their inquiries, to compare their observations, and to promote the general
interests of scienee. It has seemed to the committee that this Institute affords an
opportunity, which ought not to be neglected, of concentrating the genius and
learning of our country at a common center, from which the beams of intelligence
will radiate to gladden and bless the land.

They recommend that, in addition to the powers already conferred, the committee
be authorized to make arrangements for such a meeting, at a day as early as may be
found practicable, and to invite the attendance of those who desire to participate in
its proceedings.

hey think that a system of exchanges of mineral and geological specimens, and
perhaps of other articles, with the private and public collections in different parts
of the Union, may be established with reciprocal advantage; and that the Museum
of this Institute may, by these and other means, be enabled in time to exhibit the
various treasures of our different soils; and they would suggest the appointment of
a committee to whom this subject showld be given specially in charge.—Proc. Nat.
Inst., 1, 335.

t Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, 336.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 295

Adams, who presided; Senator Levi Woodbury, late Secretary of the
Treasury, who agreed to represent the meeting in Congress; the Hon.
J. R. Ingersoll, who acted as secretary, and who wrote out in his pre-
amble to the minutes of the meeting a forcible statement of the needs
of the society; the Hon. C. J. Ingersoll, Senator R. J. Walker, besides
Col. Peter Force, Col. Albert, Col. Totten, Lieut. Maury, and the offi-
cers of the society.

The issue of this meeting was the decision “to memorialize Congress
on the subject of the condition and wants of the Institute.”

The memorial was presented in due course of time, and in June, 1844,
Senator Choate presented a report upon the character and uses of the
institute, recommending that its property should be vested in the United
States and an appropriation made for its benefit.

I have not been able to find a copy of this memorial, but since it was
evidently prepared by Mr. J. R. Ingersoll * it is safe to assume that the
erounds for asking aid were essentially those named in his “preamble”
read to the society December 28, 1843.+

In the meantime, on the occasion of the first annual meeting of the
National Institute (under its new name and in its capacity as a cor-
poration) in April, 1844, the meeting of the friends of science, includ-
ing, besides all the members and patrons of the National Institute, the
members of the American Philosophical Society and of the ‘“‘Associa-
tion of American Geologists and Naturalists ” (the predecessor of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science), had been held
in Washington. The occasion was a brilliantly successful one. The
President of the United States presided at the first meeting and some
prominent public men at each of the others.

The National Institute received its full share of encomium.  Presi-
dent Tyler lauded it highly, held out the hope that the Government
would ‘“ continue to it a fostering care,” and expressed in a general way
the hope that it should be identified with the future National Museum
and the fature Smithsonian Institution.

“ Where can the Government find,” said he, ‘a safer depository for
the fruits of its expeditions, fitted out to explore distant and unknown
regions, than the National Institute? What can it better do for the
‘increase and diffusion of knowledge among men’ than by patronizing
and sustaining this magnificent undertaking ?”

Senator Walker, of Mississippi, one of the directors of the institute,
delivered a very appreciative introductory address on the present con-
dition and history of American science, ending with an appeal to scien-
tific men to come forward and unite with the people in sustaining and
advancing the National Institute.

* At the meeting of May, 1844, the Hon. Joseph R. IngersoH offered remarks upon
the pecuniary embarrassments of the Institute, and expressed a hope that Congress
would furnish the required aid. Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, p. 359.

t Proc. Nat, Inst., 1, p. 332.
296 _ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Senator Woodbury, in a letter to the secretary of the institution,
expressed: himself strongly in faver of making the society the agent
of the Government in the matter of caring for collections, patents, and
copyrights, and also in the execution of the Smithson trust.

John Quiney Adams closed his address in these words:

I avail myself of this occasion to express my regret that, having
taken an humble part in the establishment of this Institution from its
first foundation, under the auspices of Mr. Poinsett, I have been able
to contribute so little to its promotion and advantage, and to add my
heartfelt satisfaction at the prosperity which, by the untiring exertions
and fervid zeal of its executive officers, it has attained. I believe it
eminently deserving of the fostering care and liberal patronage of the
Congress of the United States, and ‘could anticipate no happier close to
my ‘public life than to contribute, by my voice and by my vote, to

record the sanction of the nation’s munificence to sustain the National
Institute devoted to the cause of science.

The Hon. Richard Rush, in a paper on “The Smithsonian Bequest,”
submitted to this meeting, urged that the Smithsonian fund should be
“engrafted upon the National Institute,” and submitted an elaborate
argument in favor of his proposal.

It was a gala week for the National Institution. The meeting was
in every respect a success, and there was every reason to believe that
Congress would share in the general enthusiasm, and take the society
under its patronage.

In the circular of invitation dated March 5, 1845, the objects of the
meeting aS a means of strengthening the position of the society had
been boldly stated, and the committee did not hesitate to say that
‘“‘ should the meeting prove as successful as the hopes of the managers
in relation to it are ardent, they will expect hereafter to welcome all
who may visit the association in apartments peculiar to itself, stored
with the objects of its honest pride and worthy of its distinguished
visitors.”

Such a paper signed by such influential names as those of John C.
Spencer, Secretary of the Treasury, R. J. Walker, W. C. Rives, Rufus
Choate, of the Senate, J. R. Ingersoll and W. C. Preston, of the House
of Representatives, A. D. Bache, Superintendent of the Coast Survey,
and Abbott Lawrence, of Boston, was surely a powerful campaign
document.

None the less weighty was the ‘Memorial of the Friends of Science
who attended the April mecting of the National Institute,” signed by
nearly forty representative scientific men and college presidents from
all parts of the United States, speaking in terms of high commendation
of the National Institute, and particularly of the extent and value of
its museum material, and expressing the hope “that the enlightened
and intelligent members of Congress will distinguish the present ses-
sion by the appropriation of funds to an object so truly national and so
truly republican.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 297

This indorsement of the museum work of the institute is very cor-
dial and comprehensive, and very significant; is indicative of a de-
cided growth in public opinion in regard to museums—a growth largely
due in the first instance to the suggestions and later to the fostering
care of Mr. Poinsett and his society, the National Institute.

The hopes of the promoters of the institute were doomed to disap-
pointment. Congress adjourned without making any provision for its
needs.

On the 12th of July a new scheme was proposed for collecting money
from private sources by the efforts of trustworthy agents, and in De-
cember a committee was appointed to again memorialize Congress.*

The movement had received its death blow, however. The failure
of the tremendous effort of April, 1844, disheartened all its friends. At
the next annual meeting Mr. Poinsett declined reélection to the presi-
dency. The society’s publications were discontinued, and even the
annual address of Senator Woodbury, solicited for publication by the
society, seems to have remained in manuscript unprinted.

No more meetings were held, no more bulletins printed, the magnifi-
cent list of 350 resident and 1,250 corresponding members began to grow
shorter. An effort was made to revive it in 1847, and a meager report
was made once afterward by the corresponding secretary. In 1855 it
was brought into existence for a time as a local scientific society, and
issued a new series of proceedings.t Its glory departed, however, with
the first annual meeting in 1844, and the attention of Congress was
directed toward the organization of the Smithsonian Institution.

The influence of the National Institute upon the history of science in
the United States, and particularly in educating public opinion and
the judgment of Congress to an application of the proper means of dis-
posing of the Smithsonian legacy, can not well be overestimated.

If the Smithsonian had been organized before the National Institute
had exerted its influences, it would have been a school, an observatory,
or an agricultural experiment station.

In 1846, however, the country was prepared to expect it to be a gen-
eral agency for the advancement of scientific interests of all kinds—as
catholic, as unselfish, as universal as the National Institute.

The National Institute, after nearly five years of activity, suddenly
ceased to be a center of public interest. The struggle over the Smith-
sonian bequest, however, still continued. During the Twenty-seventh
Congress, 1841-43, the Senate did nothing. The House of Representa-
tives appointed a select committee on the subject, and Mr. Adams as
its chairman reported a new bill, providing still more thoroughly for
the erection of an observatory and the publication of a nautical almanac
to be called the Smithsonian Almanac. Petitions continued to come

*Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, p. 375.
t Prof. Henry was for a time an officer, and endeavored to have its name changed
to ‘‘ Metropolitan Institute.”
298 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

in, Some wrging action, and asking for the establishment of prizes for
scientific essays, another for the establishment of an agricultural school
and farm in the District of Columbia. The National Institution had
perhaps fallen somewhat into disfavor with Congress—or, it may be,
had become so prominent as to awaken feelings of opposition.

The Twenty-eighth Congress (1843-45) brought their deliberations
more nearly to an issue.

The astronomical observatory bill (H. &. 418, Twenty-eighth Con-
gress) was again presented by Mr. Adams, but not acted upon. In the
Senate, both in the first and second sessions, a bill for the Smithsonian
Institution was reported, June 6, 1844, by the Committee on the Li-
brary, through Senator Tappan, which, before it was finally brought
to a vote, was brought into a form somewhat resembling that which
finally was adopted. It provided, however, for the appointment of
various professors and lecturers for a school of agriculture and mechani-
cal arts, as well as for experimental gardens, a library of science and
economics, and a museum,

The museum clause of this bill was much the same as that finally
agreed to, and contained a provision that the natural history objects,
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United .
States, ‘in whosoever custody the same may be,” should be transferred
to the custody of the board of managers of the Smithsonian Institution.

This was evidently worded with the purpose of withdrawing from the
possession of the National Institution the various collections, including
those which had belonged to Smithson, which had fallen into the hands
of that society between 1840 and 1845. Indeed, the national institution
seems to have already become the object of some distrust and preju-
dice. A proposition that two of the seven “ managers” not ex-officio
members of the board should be selected from the membership of the
national institution caused a vigorous debate in the Senate, in the
course of which at least two Senators objected strongly to placing the
administration of the Smithsonian Institution, even to so slight a
degree as this, in the hands of a private corporation.

The act finally passed the Senate, but was not acted on by the House.

In connection with Mr. Tappan’s bill, in January, 1845, Senator
Choate, of Massachusetts, first appeared in advocacy of the establish-
ment of a great library, and delivered his famous oration upon the
influence of books. The amendment at that time proposed, together
with the amendments urged by Mr. George P. Marsh, in connection
with the Owen-Hough bill, brought forward in the following session,
had a great influence upon the final adjustment of the plan of adminis-
tration.*

To the Twenty-ninth Congress (1845-47) belongs the honor of finally
formulating the act of incorporation by which the Smithsonian Insti-

THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 299

This was done through Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana, who reported
the bill nearly in its final form. John Quincey Adams was a member of
the select committee to whom it was referred, together with Mr. Owen,
chairman, Mr. Jenkins, Mr. George P. Marsh, Mr. Alexander D. Sims,
Mr. Jefferson Davis, and Mr. Wilmot.

Mr. Adams was now for the first time willing to omit his advocacy
of a Smithsonian Astronomical Observatory, the Naval Observatory
having now been organized, and being,as Mr. Owen remarked, “ at
least equal in everything but the experience of its observers to the
Royal Observatory at Greenwich.”

It is not my purpose to describe the growth of the Smithsonian plan
of organization, except in its bearings upon the development of the
museum idea.

In the bill proposed by Robert Dale Owen in 1846 the National In-
stitute was recognized to the extent of placing two of its members on
the Board of Managers, an arrangement which was continued in the
Board of Regents in the Hough bill which finally passed.

An amendment to the Owen bill, proposed by Joseph R. Ingersoll,
and passed, and which, had it not been superseded in the Hough bill,
would have given the National Institute a strong and perhaps perma-
nent hold upon the national collections, read as follows:

Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That, in proportion as suitable ar-
rangements can be made for their reception, all objects of art and of
foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging or hereafter to
belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington,
in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such per-
sons as may be authorized by the Board of Managers to receive them,
and shall be arranged in such order, and so classed, as best to facili-
tate the examination and study of them, in the buildings so as afore-
said to be erected for the institution; and the managers of said insti-
tution shall afterwards, as new specimens in natural history, geology,
or mineralogy may be obtained for the museum of the institution, by
exchanges of duplicate specimens belonging to the institution (which
they are hereby authorized to make), or by donation, which they may
receive, or otherwise, cause such new specimens to be also appropri-
ately classed and arranged. And the minerals, books, manuscripts,
and other property of James Smithson, which have been received by
the Government of the United States, and are now placed in the De-
partment of State, shall be removed to said institution, and shall be
preserved separate and apart from the other property of the institution.

SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That the managers of said institu-
tion shall appoint a Superintendent, whose duty it shall be to take
charge of the ground, buildings, and property belonging to the institu-
tion, and carefully preserve the same from injury; and such Superin-
tendent shall be the Secretary of the Board of Managers, and shall,
under their direction, make a fair and accurate record of all their pro-
ceedings, to be preserved in said institution; and the said Superinten-
dent shall also discharge the duties of librarian and of keeper of the
museum, and may, with the consent of the Board of Managers, employ
assistants; and the said managers shall appoint a professor of agricul-
300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ture, horticulture, and rural economy; and the said professor may hire,

from time to time, so many gardners, practical agriculturists, and labor.

ers as may be necessary to cultivate the ground “and maintain a botani-
cal garden; and he shall make, under the supervision of the board of
management, such experiments as may be of general utility through-

out the United States, to determine the utility and advantage of new
modes and instruments of culture, to determine whether new fruits,
plants, and vegetables may be cultivated to advantage in the United
States; and the said officers shall receive for their services such sum
as may be allowed by the Board of Managers, to be paid semi-annually
on the first day of January and July; and the said officers, and all
other officers of the institution, shall be removable by the Board of
Managers, whenever, in their judgment, the interests of the institution
require any of the si aid officers to be chang ed.

In the Hough bill there was an attempt of another kind to weld to-
gether the fate of the Smithsonian Museum and the National Cabinet
of Curiosities, by giving to the Board of Regents the authority to erect
a building by the side of the Patent Office, so as to form a wing of that
structure, and to connect it with the hall then containing the National
Cabinet, so as to constitute that hall in whole or in part the depository
of the cabinet of the institution.

This was discretionary, however, with the Regents, who fortunately
did not look upon the plan with favor.

Reference has been made to the marked similarity between the plans
of organization of the National and Smithsonian Institutions. In addi-
tion to the feature of museum custody, which has already been dis-
cussed, there were others no less significant.

The National Institution, like the Smithsonian Institution, had a
superior board of officers, composed of the President of the United
States and the members of his Cabinet. It had also a board of direc-
tors, which included in its membership delegates from the Senate and
House of Representatives, corresponding in function to the Smithsonian

-Board of Regents. In other respects, still more markedly than in the
constitution of its governing board, the Smithsonian seems to have
been organized with the plan of the National Institution in view. The
objects, as defined in the Congressional act of establishment (sections
5 and 6), correspond very closely to those announced in the early pub-
lications of the National Institution.

The institution at its foundation divided its members into eight
classes, as follows:

I, Astronomy, Geography, and Natural Philosophy ;
II. Natural History;
III. Geology and Mineralogy ;
IV. Chemistry;
V. The application of same to useful arts;
VI. Agriculture ;
VII. American History and Antiquities;
VIII. Fine Arts;

a
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 301

and in all these classes, except the fourth, made plans for the collection
of museum material. Ethnography was grouped by Mr. Poinsett with
geography, with which he states that it is ‘intimately connected, and
indeed forming a part of it until it was lately erected into a separate
science.”

It is worthy of remark that the term ‘“manager,”* to desig-
nate a member of the governing board, was employed in every bill, ex-
cept in the substitute which was proposed only a few hours before the
final action, and that when the election of the first Secretary was held
Francis Markoe, jr., who had been for six years Secretary of the Na-
tional Institution and was more than any one else perhaps identified
with its interests, received four votes against seven cast for Prof. Henry.
Dr. Charles Pickering, the Curator of the National Institution, also
received one vote.

The term “ curator,” as applied to an officer in charge of the national
collections, then came into use for the first time.

THE NATIONAL CABINET OF CURIOSITIES.

The formation of a ‘national museum” was one of the professed ob-
jects of Poinsett and his associates in the National Institution, but it
does not appear that they ever dignified with that name their collee-
tions, which were usually modestly referred to as constituting the
‘ecabinet”t of the Institution, both in the constitution and in the
proceedings of the society.

In the Hough bill for the organization of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion in 1846, the collection in the Patent Office was officially designated as
the National Cabinet of Curiosities, aname which though never in general
use iS very SD EOpEL ite and convenient for use in STA) ITS the @ as:

*The ea regent was naa oubeedie ye sented by ane organization of fie U Miver-
sity of the State of New York, a term peculiar to Mr. Hough, the mover of the sub-
stitute, who was a representative from that State and who in all probability had
been one of the board of regents of that University.

The Hon. W. J. Hough was the first Secretary of the Institution. Having been
elected to that office September 7, 1846, he served until the election of Prof. Henry
on December 3. Mr. B. B. French was ees assistant secretary, and appears to
have served until the election of C. C. Jewett, and at a meeting of the board in
December submitted a report for the BaD

tIn 1790 a law was passed by Congress ‘‘to promote the progress of science and the
useful arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries.” [Sec. vit, par. VIII. ]

In this was gathered a collection of models, which was sometimes by courtesy
called ‘‘The American Museum of Arts,” but which had no title to the name either
by law or by courtesy. This was destroyed by fire December 15, 1836.

In “ An act to promote the progress of the useful arts, ete.,” approved July 4, 1836,
provision was made for the preservation and display, under the charge of the Com-
missioner of Patents, not only of models, but of ‘specimens of compositions and
of fabrics and other manufactures and works of art.” [Sec. xx.]
302 _ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

semblage of miscellaneous objects for a time exhibited in the Patent
Office building.

From 1847 to 1851, however, there was no use of the term National
Museum, the collections of natural history which were accumulating
under the care of Prof. Baird constituting for the time being the “ Mu-
seum of the Smithsonian Institution.”

The National Cabinet of Curiosities, carrying with it a certain offi-
cial atmosphere as well as an annual appropriation, was, however, one
of the parents of the greater establishment yet to come. Of its marriage
with the Smithsonian Museum, the National Museum of the United
States was the offspring.

The Smithsonian cabinet of minerals and meteorites was, as we have
seen, the first scientific collection which belonged to the United States,
coming into the custody of Mr. Rush in June, 1838.

Of all the expeditions sent out by the Government, none previous
to the Wilkes exploring expedition, sent out in 1838, was instructed to
bring back collections of natural history.

In the earliest days of our Republic the cabinet of the American
Philosophical Society of Philadelphia was doubtless the official muse-
um, and this was enriched by the efforts of the only naturalist Presi-
dent, Thomas Jefferson.

The first exploring expedition, that of Lewis and Clarke, in 1803, was
sent out by Jefferson, who twenty-three years before, in 1780, began to
agitate the question of exploring the unknown West, and who at that
time offered to raise 1,000 guineas for the purpose from private sources.
Lewis and Clarke returned in 1806, bringing with them some valuable
scientific material, zdological and ethnological. Some of the animals
appear to have found their way to Peale’s Philadelphia Museum. God-
man in his American Natural History mentions a sable which had been
obtained from this source and was to be seen there in 1823, I have
been told that within a few years Indian garments and weapons,
brought back by this party, were to be seen in St. Louis. Pike’s ex-
pedition in 1805, the second of the exploring enterprises, yielded little
in the way of scientific material. Whatever there was went undoubt-
edly to the Philadelphia Museum, and in 1808 there were still on exhi-
bition at that place two grizzly bears which as cubs had been brought
by Maj. Pike from the region of the Rio del Norte and presented by
him to President Jefferson, who gave them to Mr. Peale for his museum.
Other specimens appear to have found shelter in the University of
Virginia, where two sets of antlers, brought back by Capt. Lewis, are
still preserved.

In 1820 a third expedition was sent by the General Government to
explore the Northwestern Territory, especially the region around the
Great Lakes and the sources of the Mississippi. This was under
charge of Gen. Lewis Cass, at that time governor of Michigan Terri-
tory. Henry R. Schoolcraft accompanied this expedition as mineralo-
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 303

gist, and Capt. D. B. Douglass, U.S. Army, as topographical engineer ;
and both of these sent home considerable collections reported upon by
the specialists of the day, most of whom were at that time concentrated
in Philadelphia.

The fourth and fifth expeditions were those under Maj. Long, in
the far West; the first, or Rocky Mountain, exploration in 1819~20;
the second, to the sources of the St. Peter’s in 1823. In the first ex-
pedition Maj. Long was accompanied by Edwin James as _ botanist
and geologist, who also wrote the narrative published in 1823. The
second expedition was accompanied by William H. Keating, professor
of mineralogy and chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, who
was its geologist and historiographer. Say was the zodlogist of both
explorations, and the results of his labors went to the Philadelphia
Museum.

The sixth Government expedition was that by G. W. Featherston-
haugh, in 183435, to explore the geology of the elevated country
between the Missouri and Red rivers and the Wisconsin territories. I
have found no record of the disposition of his collections, but it is not
improbable that he may have carried them with him to England.

The seventh expedition was that under Lieut. Wilkes, already re-
ferred to as having been sent out in 1838, under the direction of Presi-
dent Van Buren, who seems to have intrusted the plans very largely
to Mr. Poinsett, who was the first to urge the formation of a national
museum, and to whom was doubtless due the insertion of the clause
instructing the officers to preserve and bring back collections in natural
history, a precaution which might easily have been overlooked, since
the expedition was organized professedly in the interests of the Ameri-
van whale fishery.

It was, perhaps, the fact that there was no suitable depository for
collections at the seat of government that stimulated Mr. Poinsett to
immediate action in 1840, when he founded the National Institution,
the arrival of these collections from the Pacific being at that time
expected.

The purpose of Mr. Poinsett’s efforts is shown clearly in his first an-
niversary address.

‘There are many of our countrymen,” said he, “who, like Sir Hans
Sloane, the founder of the British Museum, look forward with regret
to the sale and dispersion of their collections, and desiring to have
them preserved entire would deposit them with an institution which
will be as stable as the Government that protects it. For these pur-
poses, and especially if the National Institution be intrusted, as we
hope it will be, with the specimens of natural history collected by the
exploring squadron, it will be necessary that measures should be early
adopted to have erected on a suitable site a plain, fireproof building,
where the increasing and valuable collections may be displayed and
examined by the scientific inquirer. We cherish the hope that they
will form the foundation for a national museum and contribute to shed
the light of science over our land.”
304 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

‘The exploring expedition,” he continued, “has already sent home
a large collection, which remains packed away in boxes in a room be-
longing to the Philadelphia Museum, generously loaned by the com-
pany for that purpose; and we inay anticipate, from the ability and
well-known zeal of the naturalists who accompanied it, that the squad-
ron itself, shortly expected, will return richly freighted with objects of
natural history. I cannot believe that, after all the labor, pains, and
expense incurred in procuring them, these specimens are not to be
brought to Washington to be arranged and exhibited here.”*

Mr. Poinsett was at this time still Secretary of War, and had the
power to effect at least the beginning of what he desired to see done,
and one of his last official acts was to persuade his colleague, James
K. Paulding, the Secretary of the Navy, to order these collections for-
warded from Philadelphia.

In February the Institution was informed “that about one hundred
and fifty boxes, the results as far as have been received of the exploring
squadrows exertions, containing a variety of interesting objects of nat-
ural history, and destined for the cabinet of the Institution, have been
shipped at Philadelphia, and are expected as soon as the navigation
opens.” t

Here, again, Mr. Poinsett’s prompt action told in the interest of the
future national museum. if he had waited till the navigation opened
he would have been obliged to treat with the Secretary of the Navy.

The entirely unorganized condition of affairs in Washington and the
lack of experience in museum administration is shown by the fact that
Mr. W. MeGingan, curator of the Philadelphia Museum Company,
thought it necessary to write the following amusing cautionary letter,
which was printed in the bulletin of the Institution:

It would be unadvisable to break open the cases containing the ar-
ticles collected by the South Sea exploring expedition until such period
as they are unpacked to be prepared for exhibition. The immense
quantity of arsenic and corrosive sublimate necessary for their preser-
vation requires, respectively, that very great caution should be ob-
served, and that the handling and arrangements should be under either
the immediate inspection or personal attention of one fully adequate
to all the details connected with this subject.

In the hands of inexperienced persons, death might be the result.

W. McCGINGAN.

PHILADELPHIA, February 6, 1841.

Still another step was taken on March 3, 1841, the day before the
final adjournment, which I am also disposed to attribute to the fore-
thought and interest of Mr. Poinsett, which was the appropriation by
Congress of $5,000 ‘‘for defraying the expenses of transporting to the
city of Washington and of arranging the collections made by the ex-
ploring expedition.”

The committee, consisting of Col. Abert, Mia Markoe, Mr. Dayton,
and Dr. King, appointed under a resolution passed at the stated meet-

<= = = z a

* Discourse, et aie Dp. 50.
t Procee ene = 48,

THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 305

ing of the National Institution on the 13th December, 1841, which is in
the following words:

Resolved, That a committee of four members be appointed by the
chair to examine the subject of exchanges, to propose a plan for that
purpose, and to report fully thereon to the institution for its further
consideration and action—

beg leave, in pursuance of the directions of the said resolution, to report:

That the duty devolved on the committee by the resolution is, first,
to examine the subject of exchanges; second, to propose a plan of ex-
changes; and third, to report thereon to the Institution. In reference
to the first point, viz, ‘the examination of the subject,” the committee
state that they have examined the subject, and that the result has been
a full conviction of mind that a system of exchanges is of very great
importance in the accomplishment of one of the primary objects for
which the National Institution has been declared to be formed, viz.
“the establishment of a national museum of natural history,” ete. Ex-
changes enter essentially into the plan of every society constituted as
the National Institution and having like objects in view, and no oc¢a-
sion has been omitted to acquaint societies and individuals, whose cor-
respondence has been sought by or offered to the National Institution,
that a system of general exchanges would be entered upon as soon as
the Institution should be able to mature a plan for that purpose. Under
this assurance, and independently of it, also, it should be added, valu-
able collections of various kinds have already been received by the
institution, which is thus already placed in a position which makes it
incumbent on us to redeem the pledge that has been given. The com-
mittee consider it superfluous to dwell upon the advantages of ex-
changes, but they wish the members to know that for this objec ‘t they
have already in hands the most abundant materials—materials which
are increasing and will continue to increase every day. ‘These materi-
als consist of contributions made by members, by individuals who are
not members, by societies and institutions at home and abroad, and by
foreign governments, as well as of those accessions that have been made
by the exploring expedition, which has already sent home an inex-
haustable quantity and variety of duplicates. . It is well known to the
institution that the collections received from all these sources are
equally and absolutely the property of the Government, and that there-
fore the permission of the Government is indispensable to enable the
Institution to part with the duplicates derived from all these sources.
This permission, it is believed, will be cheerfully accorded. At the same
time the committee, for obvious reasons, do not think it proper to ask the
Government to allow the Institution to part with any of the duplicates
of the exploring expedition until the squadron shall have returned.

In reference to the second point, viz: A plan of exchanges, the com-
mittee do not feel called upon or competent to enter into details. These
must be left in a good degree to those whom the Institution may see
fit to charge with the execution of the plan, in which of course they
will be governed by the practice of other institutions, and by such
reg ulations as it may become expedient to adopt from time to time to
suit our own convenience and peculiar circumstances. Here, however,
on the threshold of the plan which the committee mean to propose, they
regard it of consequence to suggest for the sanction of the Institution
that in exchanges of all kinds ‘the natural productions of our country
shall first and alw ays have a decided preference. A great and leading

8M 91, PT 2 20

306 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

design of the National Institution is to explore and develop our own
resources, and to study and describe the natural history of the United
States. To this end our exertions must principally be directed. It
should be the pride of all connected with or interested in a National
Institution, to see every State in the Union fully represented in a na-
tional cabinet established at the seat of government. This method,
while it recommends itself to us and our interests, is calculated to ex-
tend benefits and encouragement to the societies and naturalists of our
own country, who will thus have a central depository from which they
may enlarge and vary their own collections; and thus, also, in due time,
the duplicates of the exploring expedition may, with the greatest ad-
vantage, be diffused throughout the land, thereby fulfilling, in the am-
plest manner, the intentions of those who projected, and justifying the
liberality of the Government which sanctioned that noble project.

With these preliminary remarks, and under the restrictions which
are embraced in them, the committee recomnmend—

First. That a system of exchanges be entered upon without delay.

Second. That the curator and assistants be directed, for this purpose,
to separate all duplicates, except those from the exploring expedition;
and that they select and label such specimens as are to be sent to indi-
viduals or societies.

Third. That the first step taken be to discharge the obligations of
exchange already incurred by the Institution.

Fourth. That a committee be appointed, to whom the curator shall
submit all sets of specimens thus set aside for any given exchanges,
who shall decide upon the equivalency before said specimens shall be
boxed up and sent off.

Fifth. That in all cases of difficulty which may arise, reference must
be made to the president or vice-president of the Institution for de-
cision, who will, if they conceive it necessary, submit the question to
the Institution.

Sixth. That a book be kept by the curator, subject at all times to the
inspection of the committee, in which must be noted the contents of
each box or package; lists of the articles for which they are the equiv-
alents; the name and place of the society or individual to whom one
set is to be sent, and from whom the other has been received.

In what the committee have now submitted, they conceive that they
have done all that it was possible or necessary to do at present in ref-
erence to the third point of the resolution, viz: “reporting fully on the
subject”; although they are perfectly sensible that in their report they
have presented the subject in the most general manner, believing that
experience and practice alone will enable the Institution gradually to
settle upon a complete system. The committee beg leave to add that
the present report is not to be regarded as final, but that it is sub-
mitted, with all due deference to the institution, to use the concluding
words of the resolution, ‘“ for its further consideration and action.”

Shortly after this, on March 8, in order to provide for the reception
of these collections, Dr. Henry King* was elected curator of the Na-

*Henry King, M. D., was a geologist and mining expert who had been a resident
of Missouri, who had lately been employed in an exploration of the lead mines of
the West, and who at this time was employed by the War Department in Washing-
ton. He was the author of amanual of “ Directions for making collections in Natural
History,” published in 1840 by the Institution, the first part of a long series of
pamphlets of scientific instructors, printed at the capital. [1840, King, Henry.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 307

tional Institution, the first in Washington to bear an official title which _
has since been the designation of a goodly number of worthy workers
in science.

The curator, although an elective officer of the Institution, received
his pay from the Congressional appropriation already referred to, an
arrangement not unlike that which prevails to this day in the National
Museum, where the officers, chosen by the Smithsonian Institution, are
paid by the General Government.

The collections arrived some time in March, and in response to its re-
quest Mr. Badger, the newly made Secretary of the Navy, placed them
under the care of the National Institution, and in April, as we learn
from the unpublished letters of the curator, the taxidermists were pre-
paring about fifteen bird skins a day, a rate of speed which quite ex-
plains the atrocious condition of the preparations which have come
down to us from those days of the infancy of the National Museum. In
May additional collections, brought by the ship Suzanne to New York
and thence trans-shipped by the schooner Palestine, were received in
Washington.

A new danger now threatened the integrity of the collections, which
was that the curator found many of the boxes ‘“‘marked in such a man-
ner as to indicate that they belong to and are claimed by private per-
sons,” these constituting a large part of the whole.

Here, again, Mr. Poinsett had foreseen and provided against the dan-
ger, having instructed the curator, on a previous occasion, to pay no
attention to private marks on collections received from a Government
expedition.

The question was submitted to the Secretary of the Navy, who at once
replied that, in his opinion, ‘all specimens collected by officers attached
to the expedition belonged solely to the United States.”

In April, 1841, the collections and library of the Institution were
installed in the new Patent Office building, where they remained until
removed to the Smithsonian, in 1857.

Extensive plans were made for a system of international exchange,
and a committee formulated the policy of the society in an elaborate
report.

Another Government collection soon came in consisting of the mine-
‘als and geological specimens gathered by David Dale Owen, during his
survey under the direction of the United States General Land Office,
also a collection of “Indian portraits and curiosities” transferred by
the Secretary of War, and the Smithson cabinet, books and minerals,
deposited by the Secretary of the Treasury, and a bill was passed by
Congress, less important by reason of the appropriation of $500, which

Directions for making Collections in Natural History. Prepared for the National
Institution for the Promotion of Science; by H. King, M. D.—Washington. Printed
by Gales & Seaton. 1840. 8vo., pp. 1-24.]

Dr. King was elected curator March 8, 1841, and held the office until September
12, 1842, when he was succeeded by Dr. Charles Pickering.
308 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

it makes, than from the fact that it justifies the Secretaries of War
and of the Navy in transferring collections in their possession to the
Institution.

On the 1st of January, 1842, a letter was written by a committee of

the National Institution to the Secretaries of War and the Navy.

In February, 1842, another important paper was presented to the
Institution by the same committee—important as marking the beginning
of the system of exchanges and distribution of duplicates which had
for nearly forty years been so important a feature of the work of the
National Institution.*

With the exception of the papers already alluded to, which had refer-
ence to the relation of the society to the Government, and to the Smith-
sonian bequest, the bulletin of proceedings from this time on contained
little more than the record of the receipt of donations of specimens
and of letters asking information or proffering advice. The society
retained the control of the exploring expedition collections, and in June,
1842, Lieut. Wilkes having returned to Washington, he, at three sue-
cessive meetings of the Institute, gave a history of his voyage and
its results. He was at first subjected to some opposition, and until
after a court-martial, held in New York in August, seems to have been
disposed to say very little. He, however, wrote, under date of July 16,
1842, a lettert to Senator Preston, in which he indignantly protested
against the manner in which his officers and men had been received on
their return.

When he was restored to favor and influence he at once took steps to
gain control of the collections made by his squadron, provisionally under
the charge of the National Institution, with results to be studied later.

* This is printed in Note A from the MS. report i in the archives of the National Mu-
seum.

t This letter, now in the archives of the Museum and never published, is of so much
interest historically, that after the lapse of nearly fifty years it is printed, in the
certainty that its harsh significance has all vanished.

WASHINGTON City, 76th July, 1842.

My Dear Sir: Agreeably to your desire, I hasten to give you the information rela-
tive to the remaining duties of the expedition, and that are absolutely necessary to
carry out the intention of Congress in passing the act authorizing the expedition,
viz, ‘‘for the promotion of the great interests of commerce and navigation, and to

extend the bounds of science and promote the acquisition of knowledge.”
For the accomplishment of these great objects, there was required persons to attend
to the different departments of science, and the following was the organization which
I proposed, and was adopted by the Government, and the most economical one that
could have been arranged to carry out the great view intended, and that the accom-
modations of the fossils would permit, viz:
The department of astronomy, hydrography, magnetism, meteorology, and physics,

including the experiments with the invariable pendulum, was contided to myself

with the officers under my command as assistant. Besides the above I was charged
with the history or narrative of the voyage.

This at once greatly reduced the se ientific corps which had been organized, viz,
from 23 to 9. I felt the Nav y was justly entitled to all these departments, embraced
as they were within the limits or scope of the profession, and that they ought not to
be attached to such an undertaking to act as the “hewers of wood and drawers of
water,” as was the case in its original organization.

Charles Pickering, naturalist; Titian R. Peale, philologist; Horatio Hale, geolo-
gist; James D. Dana, botanist; William Rich, horticulturist and assistant; William
Brackenridge, botanist; Joseph Drayton, artist; Alfred Agate, artist; J.G. Anthony,

™ ‘Spavctatiun ? uM, “out roy
HK Tunis io 60 nConceowly Macencake © Cost BoubN on Kye ere

— > € oO - ' >
Renre WOS YNayre ONG, Se) ae, gu:s ove Sy os, one Aso °o ra ~

THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 309

In September, 1842, Dr. Charles Pickering became curator. He had
been a member of the Wilkes exploring expedition and was occupied
during his connection almost entirely in the work of unpacking and
arranging its collections.

conchologist, who was with the expedition until the end of November, 1839, after
which period his duties were divided among the rest and successfully performed.
These formed the nine; to these was added a mechanic for the repair of instruments
and their proper preservation.

In all the above departments much remains to be done; indeed, I view the services
of the above gentlemen as necessary now, and even more so than at any other period
of the cernise, nor can their services be dispensed with, or the work concentrated,
without great loss to the expedition and the reputation of the country. For my own
departments I require the services of Mr. Stewart, who was aclerk in the expedition,
but whom I have made hydrographical draughtsman, and some few of the officers,
who have been my principal assistants. Mr. Stewart will be enabled also to assist
me in copying, etc. He is one of my own scholars and is now engaged in the duties
assigned him.

I truly regret that anything should have occurred to dampen the ardor of those
who are attached tothe expedition and absolutely necessary to the bringing out the
results. The ardor that has been felt during the cruise has been all-important to our
suecess, and has been in every way encouraged by me, and I did hope that it would
have been kept alive until all had been accomplished. Thereputation of our country
is at stake, andif what has been attempted and succeeded in is not now finished,
from any motive of economy, or derangement of the organization will be ruined, and
it shall become the laughing stock of Europe, and all the praise that has been
lavished on our Goverment for its noble undertaking prove but ‘satan in disguise.”

What will be the reputation of those who have had the ordering of things since its
return, on their becoming known on the other side of the waters? For the reception
of myself I can easily account; but that of the officers and crews is truly unaccount-
able, particularly the want of any expression of thanks from the department to the
latter on their discharge; it was felt by every officer and remarked by every man.
On minor duties I have been gratified by it formerly, and I have with pleasure seen
its effects upon many of the men that formed a part of the crew of this expedition
when on other service with me. I have urged it all in my power, but without effect;
every day develops some new opposition to the expedition. [am aware you think I
want cause for this opinion; perhaps Iam mistaken, but I cannot but feel myself
bound up init; indeed it would be strange if Iwasnot, and I must say it is heartsick-
ening to me to hear those who have shared its dangers and troubles complaining of
a want of attention and courtesy and exhibiting the unceremonious discharges from
their duties, with little or no prospect of consummating the labors in which they
have been engaged for the last four years, and before they have even seen their fam-
ilies. Some are suffering under sickness contracted from their exposure in the serv-
ice of their country. They are now suddenly cut off and destitute of support for
themselves and families. These facts are well known. Such treatment is without
precedent in the service of this or any other country.

Contrast our expedition with those of the French and English engaged in the same
service and at the same time; honor and rewards are heaped on all at and before
their return. Examine our results, compare them with theirs, contrast us in every
way with them you please, or with expeditions that have gone before us, and then
ask if we have not reason to feel mortified.

Do not misunderstand me. Jask nothing for myself at present, and will not as
long as this mist hanging over me exists, but which any fairand candid examina-
tions into my actions and conduct would have long since dissipated, neither do I ask
impossibilities or undeserved praise; no greater punishment can be inflicted on the
head of one who receives it. But I would ask: Is it not fully apparent and placed
beyond cant that the men of the expedition have done their duty, and did deserve
the thanks of the Department before they were disbanded?—it was openly com-
plained of when they were paid off.

I have greatly to complain of the course the Department has pursued towards my-
self, but I forbear to touch on this subject at present.

In conclusion, my dear sir, I beg you will excuse this long letter and its tone.
Whenever these subjects are brought to my mind I feel it acutely. All I do hope is
that for the credit of the expedition, the honor and reputation of the country, you
will not lose sight of what ought to be done. Fully confident I am that there is no
subject in which the reputation of our country is so much at stake as the develop-
ment of the results of the exploring expedition and on which its conduct will be so
closely scrutinized abroad, I have the honor to be, with great respect,

Yours, most truly,
CHARLES WILKES.

Hon. WM. C. PRESTON, Senator, U. S., Washington.
anOe REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

In the meantime, in February, 1842, Dr. J. P. Couthouy, one of the nat
uralists of the expedition, having been detached from duty by Capt.
Wilkes, was employed by the committee of the Institution to aid in the
work upon their collections and in September Mr. W. D. Brackenridge,
horticulturist of the expedition, was also taken upon the Museum staff
and given charge of the plants,* and a little later Prof. James D. Dana
seems to have been given charge of the arrangement of the geological
and mineralogical collections, not only of the exploring expedition, but
of the Institution cabinet, including the Smithson, Owen, Locke, and
Totten collections, and Horatio Hale was performing a similar work
upon the ethnographical collections of the Institution, which he re-
ported upon as “chiefly fiom the exploring expedition.”

The force at this time engaged upon the national collections, under
the direction of the National Institution, consisted of Dr. Charles Pick-
ering, principal curator, J. P. Couthouy, J.D. Dana, Horatio Hale, and
W. D. Brackenridge, curators and assistants, and J. K. Townsend’ and
John Varden, assistants. Thomas Nuttall, the well-known botanist,
had in 1841 been engaged upon the herbarium, but had now gone away.

Here, then, in 1842, we find a strong museum force at work on the
collections, a force fully as effective thirty years later, in 1875, when
the writer first became acquainted with the operations of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

The report prepared by them at the end of the year 1842 was essen-
tially the second official report upon the national collections, and since
it has never been published it is printed in Note B, at the end of this
memoir.

At the meeting of September 12 a resolution was passed in these
words:

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to wait upon the Secretary
of the Navy, and upon the joint committee of the Library of Congress,
and to proffer to them the co-operation of the Institute in carrying into
effect the intentions of the law lately passed by Congress, for the ar-
rangement and preservation of the collections made by the Exploring
Squadron, and for the publication of the results of that expedition;
and that this committee be authorized to act in the name and behalf of
the Institute in all matters relating to this subject.

' In reply to the letter transmitting this resolution, the following
letter was received : 3
NAvy DEPARTMENT, September 17, 1842.

Str: I have received your letter of the 15th instant, transmitting a
copy of the resolutions of the National Institute passed on the 12th
instant, in relation to the arrangement and preservation of the collec-
tions made by the exploring squadron, and informing me that Dr. C.
Pickering had been unanimously elected curator of the institute.

*Mr. Brackenridge, on the return of the expedition in 1842, brought the live plants
and seeds to Washington, and there being no place for their reception hired a green-
house and eared for them, apparently on his own responsibility, for several months.
Eventually they were provided for at the Botanic Garden about 1859, after having
been for many years kept in greenhouses in the rear of the Patent Office.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 314

I shall be happy to receive the suggestions of the committee as to
the proper course of proceeding.
IT am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
ee. OPSsimuin:
GARNETT Rh. BARRY, Esq.,
Recording Secretary National Institute, Washington.

In the meantime a changein the status of the Government collections
had been effected by the passage of an act of Congress, August 26, 1842,
providing for the publication, under the supervision of the Joint Library

Jommittee, of an account of the discovery made by the exploring ex-
pedition, the third section of which was as follows:

That until other provisions be made by law for the safe keeping and
arrangement of such objects of natural history as may be in the posses-
sion of Government, the same shall be deposited and arranged in the
upper room of the Patent Office, under the care of such persons as may
be appointed by the Joint Committee of the Library.

By act of August 4, 1842 (Stat. v., 501), the sum of $20,000 had already
been appropriated for the transportation, preservation, and arrange-
ment of these collections.

In the charter of the National Institute, passed a month before, there
was a provision that all trusts “are vested and confirmed to the said
corporation,” and the supporters of the Institute were disposed to
urge that this was applicable to the collections of the “ exploring squad-
ron” at that time in the custody of the Institution. The question did
not come up in a troublesome way at this time, for the Library Com-
mittee, at that time unfriendly, simply confirmed the choice of curator
made by the National Institute, and appointed Dr. Pickering to the
position, Dr. Pickering being thenceforth subject to the Congressional
committee, and only by courtesy acting for the National Institute.

Trouble was brewing, however, for it was evident that the links bind-
ing together the interests of the National Institute and the exploring
expedition were not very tenacious. There was in fact no legal authority
for the agency of supervision which the Institution was now exercising,
the whole being the outgrowth of a very informal understanding be-
tween two or three successive Secretaries of the Navy and a committee
of the Institution “appointed to correspond with the Departments of
Government.’”*

This committee, compesed of two of the most active directors and the
corresponding secretary, soon began to perform the functions of a gen-
eral executive committee—no doubt with the sanction of the society, but
without direct authority.

The recent acts of Congress had taken the control of the collections
away from the Navy Department, by whose act alone they had been placed
in charge of the Institute. The committee of the Institute still believed
itself responsible in an advisory way for the disbursement of the ap-
propriation, but soon found expeditions in progress of which they had
no knowledge. The committee filed a protest with Mr. Poinsett, their

* Proceedings 1, 71.
312 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

president, who seems to have at once taken steps to secure the only
possible relief from the embarrassment that—of special legislation.

The following bill was accordingly introduced in the Senate by the
honorable Robert J. Walker:

A BILL for the preservation of the collections of natural curiosities furnished by
the Exploring Squadron, and from other sources

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Renreseiinines of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the board of manage-
ment of the National Institute be, and is hereby, invested with the
custody of the specimens of natural history, and other curiosities, which
have been received, or which may have been received, or which may,
hereafter. be received, from the Exploring Squadron, and from other
sources, with authority to make all necessary arrangements to pre-
serve and exhibit the same, to regulate the number and compensation
of persons employed on said duty, and to superintend the disburse-
ments relating thereto.

Suc. 2. And be it Jurther enacted, That the said board is hereby au-
thorized to exchange any of the duplicates of said collections, with
other institutions, or with State authorties, or with individuals.

At the request of Senator Walker two of the members of the com-
mittee had drawn up a statement of the relations which they deemed
it desirable to have established between the Institution and the General
Government in respect to the national collections. This statement was
submitted by Senator Walker, not as an official document emanating
from the Institute, but with the heading ‘“‘ Remarks submitted by Mr.
Markoe and Col. Abert to the Hon. Mr. Walker.” This was certainly
an unfortunate form of introduction to Congress, and the opponents of
the National Institute made the most of it. The bill with the accom-
panying statement was referred to the Joint Committee on the Library,
and on the 28th of February was made the subject of a report presented
by Senator Tappan*,in which he ridiculed the idea of placing the results
of a great Government expedition in the hands of a ‘private corpora-
tion,” and advised members of the National Institute to disabuse them-
selves of the idea that regular appropriations would ever be made for
its benefit. ‘The case presents” he remarked “two officers of the Gov-
ernment, one the head of a bureau, the other aclerk in one of the public
offices, who ask as a matter of right that they should have the super-
vision of a very important literary and scientific work, the publication
of which Congress has thought proper to intrust to one of its regular com-
mnittees.” The recommendation of the committee was that the respon-
sibility of this work remain in the hands of the Joint Committee on the
Library, where it had originally been placed by law. Senator Tappan’s
attack was evidently based upon a partial misunderstanding of the views
of the members of the National Institute, who simply asked the custody
of the collections and the authority to supervise their arrangement. Col.
Abert and Mr. Markoe were indignant at the injustice, and addressed
to Senator Walker a letter, in further explanation of their views.

This letter, with the Pane upon it by Senator Walker and Sena-

‘Senate Document, 233 , see note to this pz ape rD.

THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 318

tor Preston, is printed in a note appended to this memoir,* accom-
panied by a hitherto unpublished letter from Senator Woodbridge, of
Michigan, who, as a member of the committee, was able to explain the
real significance of its action.

All of thesu papers’are given in a pamphlett published at the time,
which is, however, now exceedingly rare, and almost forgotten.

The versions of the papers here given are for the most part from the
originals or verified copies in the archives of the National Museum.

Senator Tappan’s speech and the subsequent action of Congress did
much to undermine the foundation of the Institute, which was evidently
searcely solid enough to sustain the structure which it had been pro-
posed to rear upon them.

After this it was inevitable that there should arise contlicts of author-
ity, and they were not slow in coming.

It is possible that they were precipitated by Capt. Wilkes, who
naturally may have felt some irritation at the manner in which the con-
trol of the collections made by his expedition were taken out of his con-
trol while he himself was for a time under charges. -

The Commissioner of Patents too seems to have been irritated by the
occupation of a hall in the Patent Office controlled by alien authority.

In July, 1845, Dr. Pickering resigned his curatorship, and the Li-
brary Committee, now hostile, and acting in the spirit of their report,
made use of the authority vested in them by the act of August 26, 1842,
and appointed to the custodianship of the Government collections the
Sommissioner of Patents, Mr. Ellsworth, and in August placed Capt.
Wilkes in special charge of the gatherings of the exploring expedition.

The action of the committee does not appear to have been known to
the officers of the Institute, except by rumor, but they were left to find
out the change of policy by an unpleasant series of experiences.

The first serious friction was in connection with Capt. Wilkes. Its
character is shown by the following correspondence, which is here
printed on account of the new light it throws upon the condition of the
National Cabinet of Curiosities in the years 1845-44 and upon the other-
wise inexplicable circumstances which led to the collapse of the Na-
tional Institute shortly afterwards:

Letter from Col. Abert to Capt. Wilkes, September 5, 1843.

DEAR Sia: Reports of a painful character, involved in the questions
of the inclosed letter, have reached the ears of many of us, and I have
been urged as chairman of the committee having charge of these mat-
ters to bring them before the directors. But I refused, on the ground
that I would not be the medium of bringing forward misunderstood or
exaggerated facts, for discussion or action, preferring the course of the
enclosed letter, as it will procure the desired infor mation from the best

authority and under its true aspect. It seems to me that the Institute
is s the last which should receive unkindness from any one whose fame is

“Note By IU, WOOL We
+1843. [Abert, John J., and Francis Markoe, jr.] Reply | of | Col. Abert and Mr.
Markoe | tothe | Hon Mr. Tappan, | of the | United States Senate. Washington ,—
Wm. Q. Force, printer. | 1845. | 8 vo. pp. 1-18.

tee
R
314 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

connected with the results of the exploring squadron, for without the
interference of the Institute where would these results have been.
And without its future eare what will become of them, for what other
body in whose care they can be placed has a permanent domicile at
Washington.
J.J. ABERT.
Capt. WILKES.
SEPT. 5th, (1843.)

Letter from Col. Abert to Capt. Wilkes, September 5, 1843.

Srr: It is contemplated soon to have a meeting of the directors of the
National Institute, at which matters of much interest to the Institute
will be brought up. Understanding that you have been placed in
charge of the room in which both Institute and ex. expedition curios-
ities are deposited, and anxious that at our meeting the directors should
be fully and correctly informed, allow us to beg of you the favor of an_
early answer to the following queries:

1. Have directions been given to remove the property of the Institute
and that under its care, except exploring expedition specimens, from
the room in which they now are or from the cases in which they have
been deposited, or are such directions contemplated ?

2, Are the persons employed at the room and paid by the U.S. pro-
hibited from bestowing any attention upon any other than ex. exp.
specimens, from opening the boxes of presents sent to the Institute,
cleaning, arranging, and attending to the same?

3. Will any of the persons employed at the room and paid by the U.
S. be allowed to bestow any of their time and talents upon the preser-
vation and arrangement of the collections, except those of the ex.
squadron ?

4, Can the Institute count with sufficient certainty upon the services
of any person so employed so as to invest him or them as curators or
assistants with the requisite authority from the Institute?

You will readily perceive the importance of these questions to the
Institute, and how eminently they invoke the security and preservation
of the valuable and extensive collection under its care, you will, there-
fore, | hope, pardon us in the request of an early answer.

J.J. ABERT.

Capt. CHARLES WILKES,

U.S. Navy, Washington.

SEPT. 5, 1843.

Letter from Capt. Wilkes to Col. Abert, September 16, 1843.

WASHINGTON City, 16 Sept., 1845.

My DEAR Str: Your friendly letter was received on my retura to the
city after a short absence, which will account for your not having an
earlier reply.

I can not acknowledge any right in a committee of the Nat. Inst. to
call upon me for any explanation whatever relative to my official duties
or actions, particularly when such a call is based upon (as you inform
me) painful reports of which [ have no knowledge and little regard, and
can not help expressing my astonishment that any members of a scien-
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 315

tific society should have given credence to them, to have authorized an
action on the part of one of their committees before they had ascer-
tained that they were true.

I cannot but admire your course in refusing to act, or to the wisdom
of bringing them forward for discussion or action before an appeal
was made to the best authority. | therefore feel much pleasure in
answering the questions aS coming from yourself, and do it partieu-
Jarly with a view that you may communicate it to any of the gentlemen,
your associates. who may have been instrumental in getting up and
giving currence y to the reports which you inform me are in circulation.

Ist. The law places the collection of the United States exploring
expedition in the upper hall of the Patent Office building and under
the care of the Joint Library Committee of Congress for the purpose of
arranging the whole for description, publication, and exhibition. The
Library Com’ ee have appointed me to superintend them to this end. In
pursuance of my duties the avhole is undergoing arrangement. When
I took charge on the 1st of August a few specimens and articles were
pointed out to me as belonging to the Nat. Inst.; those have not been
disturbed further than became necessary in the arrangements, and an
equal care has been bestowed upon them that others have received.

2d. All the persons employed and paid by the Government are re-
quired to devote themselves entirely to the Government work; when
there is no longer employment for them, or they do not give satisfae-
tion, they will be discharged. It is believed that their time is now fully
employed, and that their duties require all their attention and talents
to be devoted to the collection of the expedition in order to perform
them to the satisfaction of the Library Committee and myself. They
are under the same system as if employed elsewhere by the Govern-
ment. From thisit follows that their time and services for which the
Gov’t pays can not be devoted to or divided with any incorporated asso-
ciation.

Although believing that the above embraces an answer to all the en-
quiries made of me I will go further and assure you that there is every
disposition on the part of the Library Com’ee of Congress and myself
to have things belonging to the Nat. Inst. that are now in the hall
taken care of, and due notice will be given to the Institute should the
little room they occupy be required for collection of the exp’g expd.,
which it is now confidently believed will entirely fill the hall when
they are fully arranged. I will now close with a few words respecting
the last clause of your letter relative to my feeling any “unkindness”
towards the Nat. Inst. It is rather improbable that any unkindness or
hostility would exist on my part considering that the labour of the ex-
pedition, combined with the exertion of your gifted president (Mr.
Poinsett), were the origin of it, and that in all probability it may one
day become the depositor y of the large and valuable collection of the
exp’g expedition, therefore I can not but feel deeply interested in
its welfare—everything compatible with the performance of my public
duties will always be done to accommodate and assist its rise and prog-
ress.

Believe me, with great respect, your obt. svt.,
CHARLES WILKES.

Col. J. J. ABERT,

N. 1. Corp..Top. Engrs., Washg.
316 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
Letter from Col. Abert to Capt. Wilkes, September, 1843.

DEAR Str: Your letter has been duly received. As well for our
own justification and for your satisfaction, I will go into some length in
a reply.

Abstractly speaking there may be no right in the Institute to enquire
into the course of your official action, but if under any circumstances
this action be hazardous to the property of the Institute, or to that
deposited and placed under its care, there can be no doubt, I think,
that the Institute has a right to enquire if such be the case and why.

You can, if you choose, give us a very short reply—that what you
have done was in the execution of your official duties for which you

can account only to your official superiors. Yet, nevertheless, the In-
stitute would have the right to make the enquiry and to expect an
answer of some kind. But allow me to call your attention to the reflee-
tion that it is in your civil relation of an agent of the Library Com-
mittee, in which you are now temporarily acting; and it is only in that
capacity that any accountability can attach to you, or that any was
supposed by the committee of the Institute to exist.

As an officer of the Navy you can not now be acting; your course is
not by virtue of your commission or rank in the Navy, or orders from
your constitutional or legal superiors, or of any duties connected with
your profession. No official responsibility can exist between Capt.
Wilkes, of the Navy, and the Library Committee; or official penalties
be incurred by a neglect of its directions. Your position, if I under-
stand it correctly, is by virtue of the authority in the Library Com-
mittee, to place the collection under the care of such persons as they
may appoint. ‘The executive or the constitutional session of the Army,
as well as Navy and War, ete., to assign you to a ship to-morrow, you
would have to go and abandon the care assigned to you by the Libr ary
Committee, wach. shows, I think, that it is Ae the official relations of
the offices which are involved in your present position. Dr. King once
had the place, then Dr. Pickering, to whom you succeeded—both of
these gentlemen were civilians, and as you succeeded them in your
present place, it is clear, I think, that it is not in any official relation
which Capt. Wilkes can claim, or to which he can be assigned, that he
is now acting, but in the civil relation of a person appointed by the
Joint Library Committee to take charge of matters the publication of
which has been made a duty of that committee. I make these expla-
nations of our views, that you may feel relieved from the supposition
that we had the most remote idea of encroaching upon your official
rights, for which I assure you, as well as for your well established pro-
fessional abilities, we all entertain the greatest respect.

The specimens of the exploring squadron are to be deposited and ar-

ranged in the upper room of the Patent Office. This, however, does
not, we think, give the exclusive possession of that room for that pur-
pose, unless such exclusive possession be necessary. Whether it be or
not I am willing to admit is the right of the Library Committee to de-
cide, and if they so decide others must give way. The sign lately put
over the door would seem to indicate that such decision was in contem-
plation. The Institute has also possession of part of that room of the
eastern half by direction of the Secretary of State, under whose care
the whole building was then placed. The Institute has property there
of great amount, and in our judgment of great value, and if it has to
move its property, by virtue of a decision by the Library Committee,
the courtesy of notice from the agent of that committee is not, I think,
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 317

too much to expect, and our right to enquire, if we shall have to move,
should be viewed as a duty on our part as the curator of so much prop-
erty. lL assure you the enquiry was made with these impressions only,
your assurance that notice will be given, if we should have to move,
leaves us Satisfied in this respect.

All that belongs to the exploring squadron is under the care of the
Library Committee or its agent. But the Institute is a legal body,
regularly chartered with defined right over its property, gifts, and
deposits. (See Law of 27 July, 1842.) Now, what is this property?
Gitts and deposits from ener from foreign governments, from dis-
tinguished foreigners, from our diplomatic agents, from foreign socie-
ties, from domestic societies, from departments of our own Government,
from our own citizens. In a word, all the property in the room, except
that of the exploring squadron and that of the Patent Office, which
(Institute) property, unless I am very much mistaken, far exceeds the
impression you have of it, and judging from some remark about the few
things of the Institute.

Now, this property requires care, watching, and cleaning.

I have at this time in my office twenty-four cases of the most valuable
specimens sent from Asia and Mexico to the Institute which we have
not sent up, because we were informed they would probably not be
received, and would certainly not be allowed to be opened and exhibited,
as some 60 boxes or more of Institute specimens are now in the room
unopened and unattended to. Surely it was proper that such matters
should be enquired into if only for the future government of the course
of the Institute. We can not be without anxiety for our valuable col-
lection nor unmindtul of our obligations to preserve it.

I feel satisfied you will see with me only matter of lamentation in
such a state of things. Science and national pride must bitterly regret
any seeming necessity for it.

All the labor, all the contributions, from whatever branch of service,
civil, diplomatic, navy, military, are for the scientific reputation of
our common country, and a hearty union of all is necessary to form a
good collection. Deprive it of the charm of being national, deprive it
of that halo of interest with which the name national has already
covered it, and it will soon cease to increase, will be no longer worthy
of a thought, and will rapidly degenerate to the insignificance of a
local collection.

Such are at least my views, and such were also the views which
brought the National Institute into existence, when about eight of us
had our first meetings at Mr. Poinsett’s. We then digested a scheme
in which we thought all persons could unite, because it was national;
which all parties could befriend, because it was national; to which all
conditions and branches of service could contribute, because it was
national; to which the Government might extend its patronizing hand,
because it was national, because it aided and elevated the national
character, and because it would furnish a broad platform of national
feeling upon which all parties, all sects, all conditions of life could, on
principles cherished by all, meet and unite in erecting a temple to
national fame. And how charmingly have we gone on; look at our great
accumulations for so short a time, and yet it is all but a good begin-
ning; look at the feeling which exists throughout our country and
throughout the world in our favor evidenced by contributions and let-
ters from all quarters, and then ask the question whether to aid or to
embarrass a design so glorious and so free from objections will give the
most individual fame?
318 - REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

But we must know our condition, and what we have to depend upon.
It is essential that we should, and you, as the agent of the Library Com-
mittee, are the only person from whom we can obtain the desired
information. Therefore, of necessity, we had to address ourselves to
you, and if I understand your answer correctly it is: That you do not
consider yourself at liberty to allow any of the persons receiving pay
from the United States to give any of their time or attention to the
affairs of the Institute, to overhaul or arrange or look after its specimens.

Both of your predecessors, Dr. King and Dr. Pickering, were also,
with the approbation of the executive, curators of the Institute, and
gave some attention to its affairs. We did not, of course, expect that
you would take a similar trouble upon yourself, and one question in
my previous letter was to ascertain if you would allow any of those
under you to attend to the Institute collection and property. I under-
stand you also as thinking this beyond your power. Under these cir-
cumstances the Institute must act, and promptly, or its valuable col-
lection will be injured. The board of management will soon meet and
the matter will be brought before them.

If in anything I have misunderstood you, I beg that you will not
delay to correct me, for be assured that I have no desire to put anyone
in the wrong, and least of all the eminent commander of the exploring
expedition.

Je Dace

Soon afterwards a more serious conflict of authority began—this time
with the Commissioner of Patents, who was actually the official guar-
dian, not only of a portion of the collections, but of the hall in which
the entire cabinets, both of the society and the Government, were
lodged.

The correspondence referred to in Mr. Elisworth’s first letter evidently
related to the great mass of native copper of the Ontonagon (still a
prominent feature in the National Museum), which the Secretary of
War had placed in the custody of the Institute at its meeting in Octo-
ber previous. Mr. Ellsworth was evidently bent upon dislodging the
National Institute from the Patent Office. To effect this he pursued the
not altogether ingenuous course of belittling the Institute, its work, and
the extent of its cabinet, and laying claim to the official possession of
more important collections of models, fabrics, manufactures, which, in
accordance with the act of 1836, reorganizing the Patent Office, he
designates as the “National Gallery,” a name which he also applied to
the great hall im which all the collections were deposited.

The Commissioner of Patents was evidently legally in the right, and
the Institute found itself bereft not only of its command of Government
collections, but also of its hall.

The correspondence is here printed.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. S19

Letter from the Commissioner of Patents to the Secretary of War, Decem-
ber 7, 1843.

PATENT OFFICE,
Washington, December 7th, 1843.

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a letter from the
Secretary of War of the 2d inst., communicating the information that
my letter to his Department of Ist inst. had been referred to a commit-
tee of the National Institute for answer.

Permit me to enclose a copy of the correspondence with said commit-
tee. I have ventured to say in my reply that I did not believe their
letter to myself had met your approval.

The Hon. Sect. will imagine my surprise at the letter of the committee
when he is informed that the Commissioner of Patents has the custody
of the Patent Office building; that he holds a special appointment un-
der the Joint Committee of the Library to take charge of all the property
of Government mentioned in the act of August 26, 1842, and more
especially as the National Institute has omitted to appoint a curator to
protect the other articles received from the War and Navy Departments,
or even their own effects in this building since July last, and hence the
care has devolved upon myself as an act of courtesy if not of duty.

Under these circumstances, and having interested myself in the exhi-
bition of the copper rock at the seat of Government, I offered to take
charge of it, under the direction of the Secretary of War, if he desired it.

The disappointment expressed by many members of Congress at not
finding this beautiful specimen in the National Gallery prompted me,
at the date of my letter, to make, as [I hoped, a respectful offer to the
Hon. Secretary of my services. Nor would I have replied to the com-
mittee had I not supposed that silence might seem to admit that I had
been guilty of great presumption.

Let me add that I am a member of the Institute and cherish its wel-
fare.

LT remain, with highest respect, your’s, obediently,
H. L. ELLSWORTH.

Hon. J. M. PORTER,

Secy. of War.

Letter from Col, Abert to the Commissioner of Patents, December 5, 1843.

WASHINGTON, Dee. 5, 1843.

Sir: The honorable Secretary of War has referred to the committee
of the National Institute your letter of the 1st inst.

Being uninformed by any law or regulation of the existence of a
“ National Gallery” or of any other collection under your care than the
models of the Patent Office, you will pardon me if I do not fully ap-
preciate the views or reasoning of your letter.

At one period, by order of the Executive, the upper room of the Pat-
ent Office was made the place of deposit for the effects of the ‘ Na-
tional Institute,” a society known to our laws and regularly chartered
by Congress. This room thus became the hall of the Institute. In
this room the Institute had deposited the collections from the explor-
ing squadron, and those from all other sources which were placed un-
der its care by order of the Executive. But from asupposed necessity,
Congress vested the care of the deposit from the exploring squadron
320 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

for the purpose of preparing an account of it, in such person as the
Joint Library Committee should appoint. This committee appointed
Capt. Wilkes, of the Navy, tor that purpose, who is now exercising the
functions of his office, and who may with propriety be considered as in
the regular official possession of the room.

In all this one sees nothing of the Patent Office or of the “ National
Gallery” or of any charge direct or indirect of the Patent Office over
the deposits referred to. If therefore by “National Gallery” is in-
tended to designate the room in which are now placed the deposits of
the Institute and of the exploring squadron, it isnot a room over which
the head of the Patent Office can exercise control.

By a law of the 20th July, 1840, the Secretaries of the War and Navy
Departments were placed in char ve of the specimens of natural history,
received and to be received by them, and funds were appropriated for
their preservation. The officers have deposited such articles as were
then in their possession, and such have since been received in the care
of the National Institute, as that law and the practice under it are con-
sidered as prescribing the course on these subjects, and in the 2d sec-
tion of the law of July 27, 1842, all these deposits and the principle
upon which they were made were confirmed and legalized. When
therefore the copper work arrived, to which your letter refers, the hon-
orable Secretary of War, in conformity of law and usage, placed it un-
der the care of the National Institute.

As it was understood to be rather an inconvenience to Capt. Wilkes
from the want of space to receive any more articles of the Institute in
the hall under his care, and as the Institute has at present no curator
there, those boxes and articles which have come to hand within the
last few months have been temporarily deposited elsewhere, and among
others the copper rock. The committee of the Institute which received
this rock had it deposited in the War Office yard, where it is accessi-
ble without impediment to all who are disposed to examine it, and
where it is under the efficient protection of the guard of the War and
Navy Department buildings.

Very respectfully, your obt. svt.,
J. J. ABERT,
h. Com. Nat. Inst.

H. L. ELLSwoRTH, Esqr.,

Commr. of Patents, Washington.

Letter from the Commissioner of Patents to Col. Abert, December 7, 1543.

PATENT OFFICE, December 7, 1843.

Str: I have to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 5th inst.

The Honorable Secretary of War has, it seems, referred to the Chair-
man of the Committee of the National Institute the answer of my letter
to his Department, offering to receive for exhibition at the National
Gallery the ‘‘ Copper rock”.

I can not withhold my surprise or the expression of my regret that
the Committee of the Institute on the reference of my letter deemed it
necessary to declare their unwillingness to recognize any such place as
the ‘‘ National Gallery” under my care and to question the right of the
Commissioner of Patents to the use of the large Hall in the Patent
Office building, and still more at their claim of right to use that Hall
when their accommodations were only enjoyed at the convenience of the
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. sya

Commissioner of Patents. To this unexpected reply to my letter Lean
not believe the Hon. Secretary of War has given his approval.

Permit me to refer the Committee to the Act of July, 36, reorganiz-
ing the Patent Office. The first section gives the Commissioner of
Patents the care of the models of Patents. records, books, &e., &e.

The 20th section establishes a ‘“‘ National Gallery,” in which the Com-
missioner of Patents is bound to exhibit not only models but fabries,
manufactures, &e,

To carry out the design of this law cases have been erected at great
expense and many articles collected, while additions are daily made.

It is true that the National Institute did seek to obtain the entire
control of the large room in the Patent Office. A refusal was given be-
cause the Patent Office building was by law placed under the care of
the Commissioner of Patents and because the room was needed, at least
in part, by the office.

The law of August 26th, 42, to which you refer, simply enacts:

* Phat until other provisions be made by law for the safe keeping and
arrangement of such objects of natural history as may be in possession
of Government, the same shall be deposited and ari anged i in the upper
room of the Patent Office under the care of such person as may be ap-
pointed by the Joint Committee of the Library.” The act evidently
did not contemplate the exclusive control of the room, but a supervision
of the articles entrusted to the care of said Library Committee.

This Committee on advisement with the War and Navy Department
appointed Dr. ©. Pickering, who enjoyed the use of the Hall in common
with the Patent Office in a manner | had supposed entirely satisfactory
to all concerned.

To relieve this Bureau from care and responsibility I propose to the
Hon. Secretary of State to transfer to Dr, Pickering the custody of the
archives, jewels, etc., received from the Departinent, but the Secretary
declined, observing the Commissioner of Patents was a branch of the
State Department, and he could not consent to place the articles con-
fided to him under care of a corporation or a stranger over whom he had
no control.

In July last Dr. Pickering resigned his trust. The Joint Committee
of the Library, upon whom alone devolved the right of filling the va-

eancy, entirely unexpected to myself, conferred the ‘appointment on the
Commissioner of Patents. Of course the Commissioner of Patents has
now by law the custody of the large Hall, which in all official corre-
spondence has been called the *‘ National Gallery.”

I will remark that the Hon. Secretary of State expressed a wish in
the letter giving directions as to the large hall that the National Insti-
tute might be permitted to occupy any ‘‘empty cases” so long as this
could be done without inconvenience to the Patent Office. In this re-
quest I most heartily acquiesced, and have permitted the Institute to
enjoy from time to time a very considerable portion of the upper and
lower stories. And while the Commissioner of Patents has the sole
custody of the building the Institute may be assured that the articles
deposited by them will receive the same care and watchfulness as those
belonging to the Patent Office or those received from the Government.

It has given me pleasure to try to accommodate all parties, hoping
that Congress would make further provisions as appeared to be neces-
sary. _ the pumice has now arrived tee the Walls ue the Patent Office

ig eee ms ait
Bo 91, PY 2——21
o22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

[ regret your correspondence has compelled me to say thus much in
defense’of the position I have the honor to hold.
Yours, respectfully,
H. L. ELLSworRtTH
Col. J. J. ABERT,
Chn. Com. Nat. Inst.

Sull another blow was in reserve. Statements were made in public
to the effect that the collections of the Institute were of very trifling
value, and one which appears to have been printed, though I can gatn
no information as to 1ts nature, made certain charges in connection with
the portraits in the possession of the Institute, intended to show that
the Institute was ‘unworthy of the patronage of the Government.”

This happened apparently during the great meeting of the friends of
the Institute in April, 1844, evidently with the intention of counteract-
ing any effect which the assemblage might produce upon Congress.

Mr, George P. Marsh, M. C., at this time (April 4) addressed a letter
to the corresponding secretary of the Institute stating that its memorial
had been referred to him asa member of the Library Committee of Con-
gress, and asking for information to enable him to meet objections made
by persons unfriendly to the Institution. The information given in the
following letter in fact constitutes a third report upon the national col-
lection, a little more than a year subsequent to the date of those already
quoted:

Letter from Messrs Markoe and Abert to the Hon. George P. Marsh, April
8, 1844.

WASH’N, 8 April, 1844.
To Mr. Mars, H. R.

DEAR Str: Your letter of the 4 inst. has been received. It found me
occupied by numerous & pressing engagements, and left so short a space
of time for reply that I have been compelled to call for aid upon a friend,
Col. Abert, with whom I was for a long time associated a member of an
important committee of the Institute, whose business if was to under-
stand its affairs.

It is to be deplored that there are persons so unfriendly to the Insti-
tute, as to state “that its collections are of very trifling extent and
value, and that for this and other reasons not necessary now to be
specified, the Institute is unworthy the patronage of the Government.”
Some consolation, however, is derived from the assurance, that you do
not entertain these opinions, and from the opportunity which is now
offered of correcting at least one of these erroneous opinions the only
one that has been presented with sufficient distinctness to be met,
namely, that which refers to the extent and value of the Institute’s col-
Jections We should have rejoiced if “the other re asons” had been as

candid specificaily and, so we seize this occasion to assure you of our
readiness, our anxious desire, to meet any unfounded report or misrep-
resentation which may have led to the assertion, that the Institute is
unworthy the patronage of the Government. We are the more anxious
as the assertion seems to have grown out of other considerations than
the supposed trifling extent and value of the collections of the Institute.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. wee

The property of the Institute is of two kinds: That which it owns,
the result of donations & purchases , and that which it holds by Deposit.
The latter kind, by our Charter cannot be withdrawn, even by depos-
itors, till after due notice has been given. The statement which fol-
lows, made by Col. Abert, & wh. embraces a very indequate description
of the report, embraces gifts, purchases & deposits is taken from the
records of the Institute, and it may be verified at any time by reference
to the records, an attentive examination of wh. would show that the
property of the Institute is of immense value, & of great American as
well as general interest; & that it is increasing every day in a wonder-
ful manner—a perusal of the two Bulletins of the proceedings of the
Institute wh. have been published will give you the details for two
years of these accumulated & accumulating materials, & the unpub-
lished Records wh. go back for two years will supply the rest—Mr.
Markoe nese leave ‘to add that the MS. matter wh. accompanied the
memorial to Congress, & wh. has happily been placed in your hands,
embraces a very condensed view, wh. he preparea with great care &
toil of all the contributions, donations & deposits which have been
made to the Inst. since its foundation in May 1840, up to March 1844,
& of the names of the contributors, donors, & depositors. For a refu-
tation of such misstatements we refer you to these exact details, &
sincerely hope that Congress, will publish for its own information as
well as for the information of the world & as an act of justice to the
Institute

The collections referred to are in the great hall of the Patent office,
at the Treasury, War & State Depts., at Col. Abert’s office & at the
house of the Secretary of the Inst. Besides wh. letters have lately
been ree’d. announcing the approach of great quantities of boxes of
specimens of natural history, & other miscellaneous presents, from For.
Govts. Ministers & Consuls of the U. 5. from officers of the Army &
Navy, & from many Societies & individuals both at home & abroad.

In conclusion, while we invite serutiny in any shape, we take the
liberty of suggesting our earnest & anxious wish to meet a committee
wh. whenever appointed will find or prepare to explain the character
& merits of the Inst. & effectually to defeat unfounded & irresponsible
surmises.

With true regards, Yr. obt. humble svts
FRANCIS MARKOE.
J. J. ABERT.

r Imperfect & hasty statement of the collections & specimens, being
either the absolute property of the Institute, or specially deposited
under its care. It is believed, that the greater part of these, will
eventually become the property of the Institute; many of them having
already become so.

Minerals—1st. About 6000 miscellaneous specimens from all quar-
ters; 2d. A complete collection of about 10,000 specimens; 3d. In addi-
tion there are about 190 boxes or collections, not examined or opened.
They are spoken of as ‘“ boxes” or “collections,” because the donors
used these terms in their letters presenting them and they are accord-
ingly so entered upon the Journals of the Institute. 4th. There are
also 4 boxes of splendid minerals of Mexico, presented by His Exe. Mr.
Tonsel the Minister of War & Marine of "Mexico, and one box.Mex.
Antiquities,

Fossils.—Upwards of 30 boxes and seven or 8 thousand miscellane-
ous specimens & casts of rare fossils.
324 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Birds.—1st, 1368 separate specimens; 2d. nine large boxes, one of
which contains 27 dozen skins of rare birds from Brazil.

Quadrupeds.—Between 4 and 500 specimens. Insects 74100 speci-
mens, and more than a dozen boxes besides not opened. Most of these
in a deplorable condition for want of funds to preserve & arrange
them.

Shells.—1638 specimens, & more than 20 boxes and one barrel.

An immense number of fishes, reptiles mollusca, et cetera. One
donor, Lt. Gedney, U. S.N. gave upwards of 600 specimens & a large
& rare collection of reptiles, fishes &e. which composed a part of the
munificent gift of Prince Momfanio, of Spain.

Coins, medals & medallions, antique & modern, embracing very
many extremely rare & valuable series gold, silver & copper &e. Ist.
573 specimens; 2d. seven boxes.

Maps and atlasses in great numbers; books & pamphlets, between 4
& 5000, many very rare, sent by the Russian, French, Belgian, Brazil-
ian & other governments, & from Societies invarious countries. About
1000 engravings, many extremely choice, by the first Artists in the
world, and several large boxes & engrav ings not opened.

Specimens of woods, marbles, domestic manufactures, fossil teeth,
megatherium bones, Anc ient vases & vessels, electrotype pictures,
mosaics, Egyptian & South Sea idols, large collections of human quad-
ruped & bird crania, antique masks, rare collection of Indian dresses
&c., daguerreotype pictures, corals & coralines, large collection of dried
plants from all parts of the world. Specimens of art implements & an
infinite diversity of contributions of every description too complicated
& various to enumerate.

The Columbia Institute’s collection consisting of a large number of
books, works of art, specimens of Nat. Hist.. all which are now the
property of the Nat. Institute. Models of monuments, & of works of
art etc. ete. Several hundred Indian Portraits, and other paintings,
many very rare & valuable & some the production of the best masters.

Skeletons, Antlers, Horns, Teeth, Bones & casts of various quad-
rupeds & other animals.

Indian Musical & other lustruments & implements & Lithographic
portraits & drawings in great numbers.

Large collection of obje cts of Natural History, idols, fabrics, antique
work of art &c. from Egypt and Africa, many of great curiosity &
rarity, from various persons, Xe.

Collection of Statuary, busts & casts.

Large collection of tribolites & rare fossils

Dr. Franklin’s printing press.

A collection of Bedowne war instruments, & a variety of oriental
curiosities. —.

A series of fine Electrotype medals, embracing the British & yee
Sovereigns, from William the Conqueror to Victoria, and from Phare
mond to Louis Philippe.

It is scarcely possible, in reply to your note wh. calls for an imme-
diate answer to enumerate further, but we don’t depend on so secant a
list, given in terms necessarily somewhat vague. We call special
attention to the minute & exact detail given in the abstract of the
proceedings of the Inst. prepared by Mr. Markoe, & wh. accompanies
the memorial to Congress, where every thing will be found exhibited
& described. We believe that if the collections of the Inst. are not
already as great in value as those brought’ home by the Exploring
Expedition, they will become far more sa in a very short time. In
Ameticun interest the Institute’s collections far transcend the other,
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 325

In answer, apparently to a subsequent inquiry from Mr. Marsh, as
to the amount of the subsidy desired by the Institute, the following
schedule seems to have been prepared. There is nothing, however, to
indicate that it was ever submitted to Congress. It is of interest as
showing the state of expenditures contemplated for the National Mu-
seum nearly half a century ago:

{Memorandum in Col. Abert’s hand. |

DEAR Sir: In answer to your inquiry of this morning as to the
probable amount and the division of it which will be requisite to pre-
serve and arrange the various articles of natural history belonging to
the National Institute, | have the honor to submit the following views
to your consideration:

One taxidermist, who should also be a scientifie ornithologist and well versed

inenatiEal history, cenerally peLsyeale so. oe sacs ac ances) eeeioee = $1, 400
OmecASSISHAMU AC esas Neti ss tae en eae ne ene aes Ste a eiats Bice a osha s Ohlone Boe oa 600
One entomologist, who should also be capable of arranging and naming the

MO acess set ae ae ok aaa cis ae Se Ss Ae seis ae wislsancs Wacis, as Seek. See eaete 1, 200
OMeVASSIB GAM eels Soe the tice Nonna SEN cpa tne Mactan ara teva tas avatars 600
Wee MIM EV ALO CIS wesc yee ei ceeisre fa 2p a laye' toe wisaore a oye Sieisyalsle eis 4 alee aber omer 1, 000
OWNS MESA 520 Se cSt eats Se nei Sees ica See ee Ree ate 500
One person in special charge of the articles, to watch over them, exhibit

nhem seLc Wao Should-alsonpera mechanics. s4-— ss--s55 224-4455 55-- ee 600
Two laborers—these should be men of some ability in using tools, $1 per.day

NOP QC SOLA Le SRB SR A ae Oa Eee eee Ro er rere eee ee 730
Tools, implements, preserving liquors and ingredients, apparatus cases, and

BUN CERIO Me mee mpate eh Teele eee Wt yk ee ee SS See eR Ra woes 2, 500
Freight, postage, stationery, and other contingencies.-.......---..----.---- 1, 200
Arrearages due for freight, postage, printing, etc...-......... Says eateieiite tas 1, 500

11, 830

Hon. Mr. MARSH, May 18, 1844,
House of Representatives.

Notwithstanding the extraordinary efforts at this time made ¢ 1

Notwithstanding the ext linary efforts at this time made and the
favorable report of Senator Choate, Congress adjourned in the spring
of 1844 without making any provision for the care of the collections of
the Institute.

Another effort was made in 1845, Senator Levi Woodbury, president
of the Institute, in the annual address delivered by him on January

5 in the Hall of the House of Representatives, made a most impressive
i the Hall of the H f Rey tat : 1 t impressi
appeal to Congress. After urging prompt action in the matter of the
Smithson trust—*a trust so sacred and imperative that a longer delay to
execute it might prove not a little derogatory to our national honor”—
he continued :

Showld the plan for this not be speedily matured, including the use
of the Institute or its officers, then a grant at once of enough to defray
the expenses attendant on the good preservation and collection of the
public materials in our charge seems indispensable, and is believed also
to be free from every doubt connected either with expediency or the
Constitution, as many of the collections now belong to the Govern-
ment and all of them are vested in it when the charter expires, and
may be forthwith if desirable. What small sum then is granted for
this object by the Government is granted for taking care of its own
property, the title of which is public, the one public, the whole end and
aim public; and that act of duty done, we hope, by the further help of
e
rc

~~?

26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

C

our own contributions, with those of liberal frjends of science elsewhere;
by the continued and generous assistance of the officers of the Army
and Navy, of our foreign ministers and consuls, as well as the members
of Congress and many in private life, I think it may be safely said we
hope to advance still further and faster, till we render the Institute in
many respects worthy its unrivaled position and the growing country
to which it belongs.*

This was followed up by a memorial to Congress, which, having never
before been published, is here presented,t and which was favorably
acted upon by the Library Committee, who adopted the report sub-
mitted by Senator Choate coneerning the similar memorial of 1844.
No action was, however, taken.

Still another appeal was madet{ to the Twenty-ninth Congress, which
was presented to the Senate by Lewis Cass, and to the House of Rep-
resentatives by John Quincy Adams. This, too, was fruitless.

In 1846 also, as we have seen, Mr. Ingersoll, always a faithful friend
of the Society, endeavored to establish a connection between it and the
Smithsonian Institution in the administration of a National Museum,
but the effort failed at the last moment, and the Regents of the Institu-
tion were not inclined to take advantage of the privilege of putting
this building as a wing to the Patent Office, as they might have done.

In the organization of the Smithsonian Institution the National In-
stitute was practically left out of account, and the hopes of many years
were blasted. What was still more discouraging was that power had
been given to the new corporation to take possession of all Govern-
ment collections in the custody of the Institute, om the possession of
which its chief claim to a subsidy was founded, and in connection with
which a considerable debt had been contracted,§ as is indicated by Mr.
Rush’s letter of July, 1846.

In the “Notice to the Members of the National Institute” which
served as an introduction to its fourth Bulletin, dated November 25,
1846, a pitiful statement of the condition of the society is given:

More than a thousand boxes, trunks, etc., embracing collections of
value, variety, and rarity in literature, the arts, and in natural history,
remain on hand unopened—the liberal contributions of members at
home and abroad—of governments, of learned and scientific societies
and institutions of foreign countries and of our own, and of munificent
friends and patrons in every part of the world. For the preservation,
reception, and display of these the Institute has neither funds nor a
suitable depository.||

This was a fatal condition of affairs, for the formation of a museum
was the one object which, out of the many specified, seemed to have

* Annual address, pp. 33, 34.
t Note I’.
t Note G.
§Col. Abert estimated the amount in 1844 at $1,500 and it was now doubtless
greater.
|| Proceedings I, p. 481. (Fourth Bulletin.)
HE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 527

finally absorbed the energies and the limited income of the Natioual
Institute.

It had evidently been the belief of its chief promoters that if a mit-
seum under the patronage of the Goverhment and under the control of
their society could be firmly established in Washington, all the other
ends sought by them would follow in necéssary sequence.

In accordance with this policy circulars had been sent out to the
otticers of the Army at distant ports asking their aid and pointing out
the manner in which they might be useful in carrying out the objects
of the Institution, ‘and others to the governors of States and to the dip-

lomatic and consular representatives of the United States in foreign
- countries, announcing that they had been made corresponding mem-
bers, and inviting their aid in the promotion of the objects of the In-
stitution,” and to each member of Congress, with a request that he
bring specimens of the natural productions of his district on his return
to Washington.*
WASHINGTON, February 9, 1841.

Sir: The National Institution for the Promotion of Science and the Useful Arts,
established at the seat of government, is desirous of procuring specimens of the
natural productions of every portion of the United States, and for that purpose re-
spectfully asks your aid and coSperation. The district you represent doubtless pos-
sesses many important minerals and vegetable productions, which might prove of
great value to the arts if they were generally made known. Specimens of such pro-
ductions being brought to Washington will not only advance the objects of the
institution, but will prove advantageous to the country whence they come. They
will be described by the scientific members of the institution, and their uses and
advantages pointed out, and the specimens exhibited to the public in its museum.

You are respectfully requested to bring with you, on your return, such specimens
as you may collect during the ensuing recess. Even a single specimen from each
member will be of great advantage to the Institution, and be thankfully received
as a tribute to science.

We have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servants,

J. he ROINSE TT:
J. K, PAULDING,
Directors.
To the Hon, ———.

The assumption by a society of the important duty of organizing
and condueting a national museum would seem at the present time
somewhat strange, but it should be remembered that from the begin-
ning it was announced that all the collections made were the property
of the General Government, and that in the incorporation of the society
by Congress all the property of the corporation at the time of the ex-
piration of its charter, limited to twenty years, should belong to and
devolye upon the United States. Still more important a factor in the
influence of the society was the character of its membership, which in-
cluded most of the leading men in political, scientific, and literary cir-
cles, and had upon its list of officers and directors such names as that
of John Tyler, President of the United States, and his Cabinef, an ex-

— = = = = a

[* Cireular letter to members of Congress. |
328 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Secretary of War, two leading Senators, Levi Woodbury. Peter Force,
Col. J. J. Abert, Col. J. R. Totten, and Lieut. M. F. Maury, Rufus
Choate, Abbott Lawrence, and A. D. Bache. Our Government functions
were less centralized at that time, and the policy of allowing more
scope to private effort in publie matters was similar in this instance
at least to that which prevails in Great Britain at the present time.
It was not to have been expected, however, that its authority
should have remained long unquestioned, and in the end its lot was
that which very frequently befalls those who out of disinterested-
uess undertake, unasked, to forward the interest of others. This,
as Rush aptly put it, the merit of the Institute was turned to its
misfortune, and its “voluntary zeal” was thought totally unworthy
of recognition.

The various invitations to members of Congress, army and Navy
officers, consuls and citizens to collect and send in materials had, how-
ever, begun to bring in great quantities of material, and the inability
to care for these properly was the cause of the appeals for Government

said which as time went on grew more frequent and urgent till 1846,
when discouragement took the place of anticipation, and the society
_ tell into a condition of inactivity and apathy.

The real cause of the decline of the National Institute was simple
enough. Failing to secure grants of money from Congress, the society
was overwhelined by the deluge of museum materials, which in response
to its enthusiastic and widely circulated appeals came to it from all
quarters of the world. The annual receipts from the assessment of
members were insufficient to pay for the care of the collections, and
although by virtue of the long term of its charter the collections were
kept together until 1861, there was little science and little energy
manifested in this administration.

In the archives of the National Museum there are a number of un-
published papers which are of value as constituting a partial history
of the collections during this period, and some of which appear to be
worthy of permanent peservation are here presented.

One of them possesses a melancholy interest of its own. It is a list
of the active members of the National Institute in arrears for dues up
to December 12, 1843. The delinquents were one hundred and sixty-
eight in number, including nearly one-half of the names on the mem-
bership roll, and the total arrearage amounted to $1,300. No wonder
that the managers were discouraged, for this sum represented a like
deficit in the assets of the society, its only income being derived from
membership fees.

From this time on, as we have already seen, the society languished.
In 1848 its cabinet was almost the only evidence of its existence. At
that time, however, an effort was made to resuscitate it, which seems
to have been partially successful. The coming in of a new adminis-
tration was in some degree beneficial—the President, Taylor, having
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ou0

accepted the position of patron of the society, and some members of
the Cabinet proving to be friendly.

About this time the society seems to have regained its control of the
hall in the Patent Office, an apartment which now came to be known
properly as “The National Institute ”—a name which it retained until —
the hall was finally dismantled.

A visitor to Washington at the time of the inauguration of Taylor,
in 1849, has left a record of his impressions of the capital city—at
that time still very crude and unfinished. ‘ All that meets the gaze
in Washington, except the Capitol and the Departments, seems
temporary,” he wrote. ‘The city appears like the site of an encamp-
ment, as if it were more adapted for a bivouack than a home.” And
then he goes on to describe some of the principal characteristies of the
city:

Inthe National Institution, like nearly all of our scientific and literary
establishments, as yet in embryo, sea-quadrupeds from the Arctic zone,
birds of rare plumage, the coat in which Jackson fought at New Or-
leans, the rifle of an Indian chief, plants, fossils, shelis and corals, mum-
mies, trophies, busts, and relies, typify inadequately natural science
and bold adventure. * * * The foundation of the long delayed mon-
tment to him of whom it has been so admirably said that ‘* Providence
made him childless that his country might call him father,” the slowly-
rising walls of the Smithsonian Institution, the vacant panels of the
rotunda, the sculptured deformities on the eastern front of the Capitol,
and the very coin, freshly minted from California gold, awaken that
painful sense of the incomplete, or that almost perplexing conscious-
ness of the new, the progressive, and the unattained which is peculiar
to our country.*

President Taylor placed in the custody of the Institute the Washing-
ton relies, and some other hopeful things occurred. The members,
gained courage and proceeded to revise its constitution and by-
laws to vote to print a quarto volume annually, to be entitled “The
Transactions of the National Institute,” + and to memorialize Con-
gress for financial aid, and to offer its services to the Government
‘as a referee in matters which involve scientific knowledge and investi-
gation.”

In 1850, at the request of the Secretary of State, the Institute under-
took the appointment of the ‘Central Authority,” a committee of
twenty-one members to pass upon ES proposed to be sent to the
World’s Fair of 1851 in London.

The needs of the Institute in 1850, as summed up in the Secretary’s
report, were not extravagant—a medium of publication, a curator and
librarian, who were to be paid sufficient salaries to enable them to give
a considerable portion of their time to the work, new bindings for the
WEES a more room tor library and meetings.¢

*1849, ackonian, W. T. The Inauguration. < The Soot Literary ie ssenger,
XV, pp. 256-40. Richmond, April, 1849.

t This series was never begun.

tNone of these, however, were realized, save for a short time the publication of
Proceedings in octavo in 1855~57.
330 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 189i.

At this time there were twenty-seven paying members of the society,
aud its income was less than $150 yearly. *

Mr. ©. F. Stansbury, the Secretary of the Institute, acted as its
agent for the World’s Fair, and obtained there some spécimens for its
museum, and in 1856 others were received from the New York Exhibi
tion.

It would appear from the records of this time that there was still a
“Gallery of Curiosities” in the Patent Office not in the custody of the
National Institute. t

In 1854 the Commissioner of Patents, for many years vested with a
measure of authority by the Library Committee, was given by Con.
eresst the administration of the collections and authorized to employ
keepers, and a trifling appropriation was made to be expended under
the Department of the Interior—an arrangement which continued for
three subsequent years.

In 1857, the Smithsonian Institution having definitely accepted the
responsibility of caring for the national collections, all the articles
deposited with the National Institute were removed. In addition to
these there were numerous objects directly under the control of the
National Institute which the officers would not permit to be removed.
There was evidently still a lingering hope that Congress would make
provision for the care of the collections. In this same year, 1558,
another memorial was sent to Congress, asking for an appropriation for
preserving the collections of objects of natural history intrusted to
their care. This was unfavorably reported upon by the Senate com-
mittee (see Bibliography under Brown) and in the House was referred
to the Committee on the District of Columbia, whose report showed
that “the collections are now in the Smithsonian listitution” [Rhees,
Documents, p. 653).

Some of these were, it is true, but there was still a miscellaneous
collection, including many valuable objects, in the hall of the Patent

The following letter will serve to explain the nature of the ties, by which a part
at least of the members were held to the organization :
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, January 5, 1852.

My Drar Sir: I bee leave through you to thank the members of the National In-
stitute for the honor they conferred upon me by my election as one of the vice-presi-
dents, and to request that [may not be considered a candidate for reélection.

T shall continue to be a member and hold myself responsible for my portion of the
debt unavoidably incurred by the executive committee. It is my opinion that under
its present organization the Institution can not advance the cause of American science,
and that it may be productive of much eyil.

I remain, very truly, your friend and servant,
JOSEPH HENRY.

PETER FORCE, Esq.

P. S.—I think it would be best te appoint a committee to inquire into the state of
the Institution, and to advise as to what is to be done, and how the debts which
have been incurred are to be paid. day

t Proc. Nat. Inst., new series, 1, pp. 47-48.

tAct of August 4—Statutes x, 552,
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 331

Office, and known as “the National Institute.” Of these a catalogue
was published by Alfred Hunter in 1859.*

They were afterwards placed in some old cases in a passageway in
the Patent Office, and many valuable specimens and books were de-
stroyed or stolen, there being no one responsible for their safety.t

Prof. Baird told the writer that the books and specimens were placed
on top of some file cases in a basement corridor, near an outer door,
and that a person with a cane could at any time dislodge an armful
and carry them away without impediment.

In 1861, shortly before the charter finally expired by limitation, the
birds and insects were almost completely destroyed, and the library
reduced to broken sets of periodicals and transactions. Such as they
were, they were delivered by the Secretary of the Interior to the
Smithsonian Institution;

This was the end of the National Institute and its efforts to found a
national museum, the end of the National Cabinet of Curiosities, and
of the National Gallery except so far as if continued in the possession
of the Washington relics and the Franklin press exhibited in one of
the halls of the Patent Office.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND THE NATIONAL CABINET OF
CURIOSITIES.

After ten years of discussion, a bill to incorporate the Smithsonian
Institution received the approval of Congress and the President. The
charter, in its final form, does not appear to have represented fairly the
views of any one party, except that which favored the library and inci-
dentally the museum. Several special provisions, not from our present
point of view, harmonious with the spirit of Smithson’s bequest, were
eliminated, and the act, as finally passed, while broad enough to admit
upon the foundation almost any work for intelkectual advancement, was
fortunately expressed in such general terms as to allow a large share ot
liberty to the trustees or regents.

The Smithsonian Institution has had upon its governing board many
of the noblest and wisest of the men of the nation, and the Regents to
whom, during the first four years of its corporate existence, the decision
of its policy and its future tendencies was intrusted, were chosen from
among the very best of those at that time in public life.

Among them were George M. Dallas, the first chancellor, at that time
Vice-President of the United States; Chief Justice Taney; Rufus
Choate, of Massachusetts; Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana; George P.
Marsh, of Vermont; Lewis Cass, of Michigan; Jefferson Davis, of Mis-

*“Hunter’s Bibliography.

tIt is said that some enlightened Commissioner of Patents, in power between
1850 and 1860, was annoyed by the presence of .a collection of fossil vertebrates in
one of the rooms in his building, and without consulting any one sent them to a
bone mill in Georgetown, where they were transformed into commercial fertilizers—
once for thought, they now became food for the farmers’ crops,

t Smithsonian Report, 1862, p. 15,
332 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Sissippi; James A. Pearce, of Montana; James M. Mason and William
Winston Seaton, of Virginia; John McPherson Berrien, of Georgia;
William ©. Preston, of South Carolina; William J. Hough, of New
York; Alexander Dallas Bache, Superintendent of the Coast Survey,
and Gen. Joseph G. Totten.

The Regents soon realized that in order to carry out efficiently the
trust which had devolved upon them, it would be necessary to decide
upon a definite course of policy, and to settle for themselves the inter-
pretation of certain of the provisions in the act of incorporation.

A committee was appointed at once to digest a plan to carry out the
provisions of the “Act to establish the Smithsonian Institution,” and
on January 25, 1847, this report was made, signed by Robert Dale
Owen, Henry W. Hilliard, Rufus Choate, and Alexander Dallas Bache,
after having made a preliminary report December 1, which was reeom-
mitted to the committee December 21.

These dates are mentioned in order to afford opportunity for the re-
mark that in the interval between December 1 and December 21 Prof.
Joseph Henry had been elected to and accepted the Secretaryship of
the institution, and that previous to his election he had submitted to
the Regents a sketch of a proposed plan of organization, which appears
to have been acceptable to the majority of the Board, and that in this
sketch were printed opinions which had from that time on a most pow-
erful, and in time a controlling, influence upon the policy of the Insti-
tution.*

The election of Professor Henry was in accordance with the view
held by the Regents, and expressed in the report of the committee, and
even more forcibly in the resolutions of the Board, that the Secretary
must of necessity become the chief executive officer of the Institution,
and ‘that upon the choice of this single officer, more probably than
on any one other act of the Board, will depend the future good name
and success and usefulness of the Smithsonian Institution. t

The choice of Prof. Henry was by no means the unanimous act of the
Regents, and since in respect to personal qualifications he undoubtedly
fulfilled the requirements of the resolution passed by the Board previous
to the election of a Secretary, it is clear that some of the Regents did
not look with favor upon his plan of organization.

* At ame ae of the Joint C een on Public Balan i ie in Febru-
ary, 1865, Prof. Henry said: ‘I have been from the first, now eighteen years, the
Secretary or Executive Officer of the Smithsonian Institution. * * * Before my
election I was requested by one of the Regents to give a sketch of what, in accord-
ance with the will of Smithson, I considered should be the plan of organization, and
after due consideration of the subject there was not the least shadow of a doubt in
my mind that the intention of the donor was to found a cosmopolitan institution, the
effects of which should not be confined to one city, or even to one country, but should be ex-
tended to the whole civilized world.”—(Rep. Com., No. 129, Thirty-eighth Congress,
second session. ) ‘

+1847. Smithsonian Institution. Report of the Organization Committee of the
Smithsonian Institution, ete. Washington, 1847, pp. 18-19.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 333

Of the twélve votes cast at the election December 3, 1846, seven were
in favor of Prof. Henry, five for persons who. had been officers of the
old National Institute, and closely associated with its policy.

A bare majority—for the change of one vote would have made a tie—
then placed itself on the side of the Henry policy. In its report the
Committee on Organization speaks plainly of “two great conflicting
opinions” in the Board, for the harmonizing of which the ‘compro-
inise” so often referred to during the struggle of the following six
years.

One party was in favor of devoting the larger part of the income to
the library and museuin.

The other party favored rather the publication of scientific memoirs,
grants for the promotion of original researches, and the maintenance of
a lecture system.*

The ‘‘compromise” consisted in the division of the annual income
into two nearly equal parts, to be applied to the two classes of expend-
itures, $15,000 to library and museum and the remainder ($15,910) to
publication, research, and lectures. t

On one subject, however, the Regents seem to have been unanimous,
and to have given their opinion in the following resolution :

Resolved, That it 1s the intention of the act of Congress and in ae-
cordance with the design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will,
that one of the principal modes of executing the act and the trust is
the accumulation of collections of specimens and objects of natural
historyt and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of a library of
valuable works pertaining to ail departments of human knowledge, to
the end that a copious storehouse of materials of science, literature,
and art may be provided, which shall excite and diffuse the love of
learning among men, and shall assist the original investigations and
efforts of those who may devote themselves to the pursuit of any
branch of knowledge.§

The great building which, by the terms of this charter, the Smith-
sonian Regents were requested to erect and pay for was to be “of suf-
ficient size and with suitable rooms or halls for the reception and
arrangement upon « liberal scale of objects of natural history, inelud-
ing a geological and mineralogical cabinet, a chemical laboratory, a
library, a gallery of art, and the necessary lecture rooms;” and this
was coupled with the accompanying provision, that, ‘in proportion as
suitable arrangements can be made for their reception,” all objects

~To the library and inuseum party belonged without doubt Senator Choate, Mr.
Owen, and probably Mr. Rush and Gen. Totten, who were both devoted to the inter-
ests of the National Institute. Mr. Bache was, I suppose, the leader of the
opposition.

t Report of Committee on Organization, p. 21.

{ In this resolution for the first time the term natural history is given its proper
scope, as including not only zodlogy and botany, but geology, mineralogy, and eth-
nology, although in the report of the committes a distinction seems to have been
made, probably for the purpose of hetter definition,

§ Report of Committee on Organizition, p, 20,
334 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

suitable for a museum or gallery of art which the United States at any
time might possess shall be delivered to the Regents and shall be ar-
ranged in the building.

The national collections then existing and those afterwards to ac.
cumulate, were thus transferred to the governing board of the Smith-
sonian Institution as a contribution from the United States to the
resources of the Institution, and were evidently intended in a certain
way tocounterbalance the gift of James Smithson for the same purpose.

The intention of Congress is evident, and the law was almost manda-
tory in character. There was one phrase in the law, however, which
gave opportunity for adjustment of terms.

The provision that the delivery of these objects should take place
“in proportion as suitable arrangements could be made for their recep-
tion,” was, it may be, intended to give the Institution time for careful
and thorough preparation. This placed no limit upon the time for
completing the buildings, and indeed gave to the Board of Regents
the right to indicate the time when “suitable arrangements” could be
made.

It was undoubtedly the wish of the members of the Twenty-ninth
Jongress that the expense and responsibility of organizing and main-
taining a national museum should be transferred forever to the Smith-
sonian Institution, and if was quite far from their intention that the
public treasury should ever be called upon for aid.

Not only the National Museum, the National Library, and a national
chemical laboratory were thus assigned, but also the expense of keep-
ing up the previously neglected public park in which the Smith-
sonian buildings were to be erected. It was only by accident that a
national observatory and an institution corresponding to the present
Department of Agriculture were not added to the burden.

That was the day of small beginnings. The theory of our form of
government had not been settled in the minds of our public men, and
every new project brought up for discussion in Congress became the
subject of long and tortuous discussions. There were Congressmen
who ten years after the acceptance of the Smithson legacy were in
favor of returning the money to England to be given to anyone who
could legally take it, while Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, in 1845
endeavored to overthrow what had already been established and to
substitute a “ Washington University for the benefit of the indigent
children of the District of Columbia in memory of and out of respect
to George Washington, the Father of his Country.” *

The will of the Twenty ninth Congress was: not necessarily that of
the Thirtieth. Mr. Hilliard, of Alabama, made a bold and successful
stroke for the independence of the Board of Regents, and defeated a
motion to appoint a regular Congressional committee to supervise and
report upon their proceedings. This was a step toward securing the

orn

a re

*Rhees. Documents, p. 489.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 30D

recognition of the right of the Regents to interpret for themselves the
true meaning of the charter.

The next Congress was still less disposed to exercise a minute sys-
tem of control, and the Regents, through Senator Jefferson Davis,
boldly asserted that it was improper for Congress to interfere with the
administration of a fund which it has confided to a Board of Regents
not entirely formed of members of Congress and not responsible to it.”*

The attitude of Prof. Henry from the beginning to the end of the
thirty-one years of his secretaryship was singularly independent and out-
spoken. Having before his election submitted to the Board of Regents
a plan of organization which met with their approbation, he was
elected with the understanding that he was to carry this plan into
effect.

He was from the beginning in a certain way the authorized inter-
preter of the Smithsonian bequest, and, as every one knows who has
studied the history of the Institution, his earnest and steadfast policy
and the wonderful clearness and force with which he explained his
views, Supported by his scientific eminence and his grandeur of char-
acter, gave him a wonderful influence with the successive bodies of
men who acted as regents.

His influence from the very start was on the side of publication and
original research and in opposition to constant expenditure of what
in time he began to designate as “local objects.”

His attitude toward museum and library, especially the former, was
at first a nonecommittal one. He proceeded slowly, evidently not from
lack of courage, but with the methods of a man of science, studying
the results of different courses of policy, and, when he expressed an
opinion, speaking from the standpoint of experience.

The history of the National Institution and its fate, hopelessly in-
volved and crushed to death by the weight of the collections and books
which had been given or lent to it, was constantly brought to his mind,
for the Institution was expected to take up this burden, with the pros-
pect of unlimited additions to its weight, and to bear it alone and per-
haps forever.

To him, and to the Regents also, it must have been evident that this
burden once assumed, the fate of the Smithsonian Institution would
eventually be similar to that of the National Institute.

More directly threatening was the evil of the immediate absorption
of a large part of the income, to the detriment of the plans which
seemed to him more likely to accomplish the wishes of the Institution.

The wisdom of Profs Henry’s policy has been almost universally
conceded, and the success with which for thirty-one years he directed
the resources of the Institution toward the increase and diffusion of
knowledge compels the admiration of everyone who studies the history
of his life in connection with that of the Institution, and had done so
for many years before his death.

—_ —

* Rhees, Documents, p. 590,
336 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

It is now evident that but for his conservative policy the history of
the Institution would have been comparatively insignificant.

In the light of subsequent events, it is safe to assert that, in all prob-
ability, had the Smithsonian Institution taken charge of the “National
Museum” in the inanner proposed in 1846, the result would have been
even more detrimental to the Museum than to the Institution.

It did not seem so at the time, however, and for ten years the course
of the Institution was under the subject of criticism of a very serious
kind,

It is of course not essential to review at length the discussions which
took place within the first ten years between the officers of the Institu-
tion, in the meetings of the Regents, in Congress, and in the publie
journals, as to the authority of the Board of Regents and the Secretary
to deviate from a strict interpretation of the act of incorporation, which
was presumed to embody the will of Congress, There was a party who
was of the opinion that a large part of the income should be devoted
to the accumulation of a great general library, and who fought boldly in
defense of this project. The conflict culminated in 1856, with the dis:
missal of the librarian by Prof. Henry, a Congressional investigation,
and the resignation of two of the most active Regents. The Board up-
held the Secretary, and successfully maintained both in House and
Senate the position that they as trustees of the Smithson bequest were
not amenable to the advice or instructions of Congress, and were the
only authorities qualified to interpret the meaning of the act of ineor-
poration and the intention of Smithson, the founder.

The immediate cause of this final outbreak was the repeal in 1855 of
the resolution passed in 1846 dividing the income of the Institution into
two nearly equal parts for two specific objects, the advoeates of a great
library being of the opinion that the spirit of this resolution had not
been regarded.

The resignation of Senator Choate and Mr. Meacham, and the un-
qualified indorsement of the Secretary by the other members of the
Board greatly strengthened his position, and enabled him to cope more
successfully with the question of the admission of the Government
museum to the Smithsonian buildings, for the transfer provided for in
1846 had not up to 1856 been definitely arranged for.

The history of the treatment of this matter is very important, since
it leads up to the origin of the present relationship existing between the
Government, the National Museum, and the Smithsonian Lnstitution.

The delay in the completion of the Smithsonian building afforded to
the Regents an opportunity for a gradual development of the plan of
organization. Until the building should have been furnished the reso-
lution giving half of the income to library and museum was not, obli-
gatory, nor was it possible for the custody of the Government museum
to be finally transferred,

r
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. Breil

_ The corner stone was laid May 1, 1847, but the work was in progress
until 1855,

The delay was evidently intentional, for in 1848 Prof. Henry, in an
exposition of Smithson’s bequest before the New Jersey Historical
Society, spoke as follows:

He regretted that in order to make provision for the accommodation
of the museum of the exploring expedition, as directed by act of Con-
gress, so large an amount of money was required for the erection of the
buildings. The evil, however, which would result from this is in a
measure obviated by the plan proposed by Prof. Bache, and adopted
by the Regents, viz, that of deferring the time of completing the build-
ing, So that it might be erected in considerable part by means of the
interest of $240,000, which had accrued in interest on the original fund
previous to the year 1846.*

As early as 1847 Prof. Henry seems to have entertained the hope of
escape from the full acceptance of the terms of the charter, for in his
first plans, as finally submitted to the regents, he expressed the hope
“that in due time other means may be found of establishing and sup-
porting a general collection of objects of nature and art at the seat of
the General Government with funds not derived from the Smithsonian
bequest.” t

In the report for the year 1849, presented in 1850, Prof. Henry gave
the result of his later observations and reflections, and for the first
time took his stand in opposition to the transfer, advancing the theory
that it was not obligatory on the regents to take charge of the Govern.
ment collections. He wrote:

This law evidently gives to the Smithsonian Institution the museum
in the Patent Office, the conservatory of plants, and all specimens of
nature and art to be found in the several offices and departments of the
Government. The act, however can not be construed as rendering it
obligatory on the regents to te e charge of these articles, if, in their
opinion, it is not for the bes. imterests of the Institution that they
should do so. Though one of the reasons urged upon the regents for
immediate erection of so large a building was the necessity of provid-
ing accommodation for this museum, 1 have been, from the first, of the
opinion that it was inexpedient to accept it.

This museum was collected at the expense of the Government, and
should be preserved as a memento of the science and energy of our
Navy, and as a means of illustrating and verifying the magnificent vol-
umes which comprise the history of that expedition, If the regents
accept this museum it must be merged in the Smithsonian collections.
It could not be the intention of Congress that an institution founded by
the liberality of a foreigner, and to which he has affixed his own name,
should be charged with the keeping of a separate museum, the prop-
erty of the United States. Besides this, the extensive museum of the
Patent Office would immediately fill the space allotted for collections
of this kind in the Smithsonian edifice, and in a short time another ap-
propriation would be required for the erection of another building.

~ Henry, Smithson, Bequest, p. 8.
t Report for 1847, p. 184; Report for 1848, p. 33; Rhees Documents, p. 958.
SM 91, pr 2——22
338 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Moreover, all the objects of interest of this collection have beer de-
seribed and figured in the volumes of the expedition, and the small
portion of our funds which can be devoted to a museum may be better
employed in collecting new objects, such as have not yet been studied,
than in preserving those from which the harvest of discovery has al-
ready been fully gathered.

The answer made to some of these objections has usually been, that
the Government would grant an annual appropriation for the support
of the museum of the exploring expedition. But this would be equally
objectionable, since it would annually bring the Institution before
Congress as a supplicant for Government patronage, and ultimately
subject it to political influence and control.

After an experience of three years, [ am fully convinced that the true
poliey of the Insiitution is to ask nothing from Congress except the safe-
keeping of its funds, to mingle its operations as little as possible with
those of the Gene) ral Gov ernment, and to adhere in all cases to its own
distinct organization, while it cooperates with other institutions in the
way of promoting knowledge e; and on the other hand, that it is desira-
ble that Congress should plac e as few restrictions on the Institution as
possible, consistent with a judicious expenditure of the income, and
that this be judged of by a proper estimate of the results produced.

The regents and their secretary were in harmony.

In the Senate, April 15, 1850, the discussion of the bill for the com-
pletion of the Patent Office building elicited the following statement
from Senator Jefferson Davis:

Mr. PRESIDENT: What the wants of the Patent Office are 1low is one
thing, and what those wants will be in a few years is another and an
entirely different thing. Not only from the report of the last Commis-
sioner of Patents, but from imspection, if anyone choose to make it,
and see the condition of things in that department, I think it may be
denied that there is room enough in the present building for the wants
of the department. If I understand the report of the present Commis-
sioner of Patents or the Secretary of the Interior, the argument against
the want of further room by the Patent Department is based upon the
supposition that all which now belongs to the National Institute, all
connected with the exploring expedition which now fills the museum of
the Patent Office, is to be transferred to the Smithsonian Institution.
That seems to be the basis of the conelusion. Now, sir, | wish to state
to the Senate that Congress has no power to impose upon that imstitu-
tion the duty of taking charge of this collection of the exploring expe-
dition, we may infer from their act, nor did they ever intend to do so.
They gave to that institution the right to take all sueh curiosities
brought home by the exploring expedition as might be desired for that
institution, and I will inform the Senate that it is not the intention of
the present Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to take
charge of the museum of the Patent Office, and the room appropriated
to these curiosities will be required hereafter as now.

By its action in directing at this time the enlargement of the Patent
Office, Congress appears to have accepted the ideas of Senator Davis,
or,as Prof. Henry expressed it, “concurred in the opinions expressed in
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. JOU,

the Senate by the Hon. Jefferson Davis, that it was a gift which ought
not to be pressed upon the institution.” *

In his report for 1851, Prof. Henry, sure of his position, spoke still
more boldly. ‘It is to be regretted,” said he, “that Congress did not
leave the entire choice of the plan of organization to those who were to
be intrusted with the management of the bequest.”

These plain words were called forth by the fact that the building
was still unfinished, and that a large additional appropriation from
the fund was required to make it ready for occupation.

It is worth while to remember that his previous tnpressions of
museums, or at least of recent years, had doubtless been founded upon:
the cabinet in the National Institute, which, before Prof. Henry came
to Washington, had become completely torpid. Its collections, housed
in a hall not under its control, belonged to it only in name. The mis-
cellaneous assemblage of specimens in the hall of the Patent Office had
been well described in the Smithsonian charter by the name ‘“ National
Cabinet of Curiosities,” for it did not deserve to be called a museum.

Prof. Henry evidently had that in mind in protesting against ‘a
promiscuous collection,” but for the first time explains that he does
not underrate “the (scientific) importance of collections in themselves.”

The following quotation will show, however, that he was not so
averse to the museum idea as he had formerly been, although very
doubtful as to the advisability of accepting aid from Congress:

The museum is to consist, according to the law of Congress and the
terms of the compromise, of ‘‘objects of art, of foreign and curious
research, and of natural history; of plants, and geological and min-
eralogical specimens.” It would, however, be unwise in the Institution
to attempt the formation of full collections of all these objects, or, in
other words, to form an establishment similar to that of the British
Museum. The whole income devoted to this object would be entirely
inadequate. The portion of the main building appropriated to the
museum consists of a single room 200 feet long by 50 feet wide. This
space may be entirely filled in the course of three years, without the
purchase of a single article, if the means be adopted which present
themselves at the seat of Government for making collections. But
when this space is filled the accumulation of specimens must cease, or
an addition be made to the building, which, to harmonize with the
present edifice, would involve a large expenditure. The question then
arises, from what source is this money to be obtained? It can not be
derived from the annual income of the capital, for this would cripple
the more important operations. It may be said that Congress will

~The National Museum, although the designation proposed in Mr. Ingersoll’s
amendment to the Owen bill for the Smithsonian Institution was never legally
sanctioned, was understood to be under the charge of the Smithsonian from the
time of its incorporation. The museum clauses of the charter were so understood
by thefirst regents and by Prof. Henry, who, in his first programme of organization,
in 1847, wrote: “When the building is completed, and when in accordance with
the act of Congress the charge of the National Museum is given to the Smithsonian
Institution, other assistants will be required, ”
340 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

furnish the means; but this is relying on a very uncertain source, and
the policy of applying to Congress for any aid is doubtful.

Having said this much, it was easy to continue by expressing the
opinion that the Regents had been in error in supposing it necessary
to put up a building for the reception of the great museum of the
exploring expedition presented by Congress.

The next year made some change in the views of Prof. Henry. The
presence of his new assistant secretary, Prof. Baird, and the evidence
of the collection that was now growing up under his own eyes, that
museums may be made important agencies for scientific discovery, had
perhaps increased his personal interest in such matters.

And again:

Though the formation of a general collection is neither within the means
and province of the Institution, it is an object which ought to engage
the attention of Congress. A general museum appears to be a neces-
sary establishment at the seat of goverument of every civilized nation.
* * * Indeed, the Government has already formed the nucleus of
such a museum in the collection now in the Patent Office.

An establishment of this kind can only be by Government, and the
proposition ought never to be encouraged of putting this duty on the
limited though liberal bequest of a foreigner.

The Smithsonian Institution will readily take the mental direction
of an establishment of this kind, give plans for its organization and
arrangement, provided it be requested to do so, and the means for
effecting the object be liberally supplied.*

In the report for the year 1852 Prof. Henry definitely stated that the
Regents had concluded that it was not advisable to take charge of the
great museum of the exploring expedition,t and also expressed the
hopeful opinion that “there can be little doubt that in due time ample
provision will be made for a library and museum at the capital of this
Union worthy of a government where perpetuity depends upon the vir-
tue and intelligence of the people.”¢

In the report for the year 1853, presented January 14—March 11, 1854,
another step toward the transfer of the museum is chronicled. The
Secretary wrote:

I have been informed by the Commissioner of Patents that the space
now oceupied in the building of the Patent Office by the National Mu-
/ seum is imperatively required for the display of models; and he sug-
gests that a part or the whole of the Smithsonian building shall be
purchased for the deposit of this collection. If Congress will entirely
relieve the Smithsonian fund from the expense of collecting and main-
taining a museum, a large portion of the present building would be un
recessary, and the proposition to purchase a part or the whole of it
might be properly entertained. [The Smithsonian Institution, if re-
quired, would take the supervision of a Government museum, and would
turn over to it all the specimens collected after they had been examined
and described. The importance of a collection at the seat of Govern-

* (Report for 1851, p. 25.)
+ Sixth Annual Report, p. 258,
tI, ¢., p. 253,
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. b41

ment to illustrate the physical geography, natural history, and éthnol-
ogy of the United States, can not be too highly estimated. But the
support of such a collection ought not to be a “btrthen upon the Smith-
sonian fund:

The year 1854 Was the stirring one in the history of the Institution,
ind little was done towards the transfer of the museum. The great
lower hall, having been conipleted, Was lying idle. The Smithsonian
collections were rapidly increasing ttider the management of Prof.
Baird, of whose work in this direction titore will be said later, and a
considerable number of Government collections had come directly into
the custody of the Institution—in bulls and value more extensive than
those in the Patent Office, those of the exploring expedition excepted.

In this year, too, the custody of the Patent Office collection was
transferred to the Commissioner of Patents, and an apprepriation made
for their support.

In 1855, in his report, presented March 1, 1556, the Secretary said:

The lower story of the main building consists of one large hall, to be
appropriated to a museum or library. It is at present unoccupied, but
will be brought into use as soon as the means are provided for furnish-
ing it with proper cases for containing the objects to which it may be
appropriated.

In another place he expressed the hope that Congress would in due
time relieve the Institution from the support of the building, and ulti-
mately appropriate the greater part of it to a national museum.*

This was the first time that the term National Museum was publicly
used by Prof. Henry or in the reports of the Smithsonian Institution—
a significant fact, and one which shows a step in the progress of the
museum idea and a revival of the plan promoted by the National In-
stitute from 1840 to 1846,

The fact that the Smithsonian museum, in itself, could now claim to
be the best general collection of natural history so far as North Amer-
ica was concerned probably stimulated the Secretary’s enthusiasm, for
he announced the fact in the report with evident pride.

In March, 1856, the subject of the removal of the collections from the
Patent Office was presented to the Regents by the Secretary, but the
minutes contain no record of their decision.

In the Secretary’s report for 1856, presented to the Regents January
26-28, 1857, the matter came up again for remark, and Prof. Henry, as
was his custom, spoke of the obstacles to the progress of the Insti-
tution caused by the restriction of the charter, and recurring to the
museum, said:

The adverse effects of the early and consequently imperfect legislation)
ought, therefore, as far as possible, to be obviated; and this would
readily be done if Congress would relieve the Institution from the care
‘of a large collection of specimens principally belonging to the Govern-
ment, and purchase the building to be used asa depository y of all the

aoa 1855, p. 16.
342 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

objects of natural history and the fine arts belonging to the natioil.
If this were done a few rooms would be sufficient for transacting the
business of the Institution, and a large portion of the income would be
free to be applied to the more immediate objects of the bequest. In-
deed, it would be a gain to science could the Institution give away the
building for no other consideration than that of being relieved from the.
costly char ge of the collections; and, for the present, it may be well to
adopt the plan suggested in a late report of the Commissioner of Pat-
ents, namely, to remove the museum of the exploring expedition, which
now fills a large and valuable room in the Patent Office, wanted for the
exhibition of models, to the spacious hall of the Institution, at present
unoccupied, and to continue under the direction of the Regents the ap-
propriation now annually made for the preservation and display of the
collections.

Although the Regents a few years ago declined to accept this mu-
seum as a gift, yet, since experience has shown that the building will
ultimately be filled with objects of natural history belonging to the Gen-
eral Government, which, for the good of science, it will be necessary, to
preserve, it may be a question whethe rY, in consideration of this fact, it
would be well to offer the use of the large room immediately for a na-
tional museum, of which the Smithsonian Institution would be the mere
curator, and the expense of maintaining which should be paid by the
General Government. The cost of keeping the museum of the explor-
ing expedition, now in the Patent Office, including heating, pay of
watchmen, ete., is about $5,000, and if the plan proposed is adopted
the Institution and the Patent Office will both be benefited. The bur-
den which is now thrown on the Institution, of preserving the specimens
which have been collected by the different expeditions instituted by
Government during the last ten years, will be at least in part removed,
and the Patent Otlive will acquire the occupancy of one of the lar cest
rooms in its building tor the legitimate purposes of its establishment.
It is believed that the benefit from this plan is so obvious that no ob-
jection to it would be made in Congress, and that it would meet the
approbation of the public generally.

I can find no record in the minutes of the Regents, but have been in-
formed by Mr. W. J. Rhees, of the Smithsonian Institution, that an
urgent request for the use of the hall was made by the Commissioner
of Patents and the Secretary of the Interior, and that the Board de-
cided to grant this request on the condition that Congress should appro-
priate money for the construction of the cases and the transfer of the
collections, and that the Secretary of the Interior should provide for
the expenses of the care of the collections after their transfer in the
same manner as before.

The question of the legality of the transfer of the collections was
submitted by the Secretary of the Interior to the Attorney-General,
by whom it was held that the provision in the eighth section of the act
of August 4, 1854 (10 Stats., 572), placing the collections under the
control of the Commissioner of Patents, and authorizing the employ-
ment by him of keepers therefor, was designed to be temporary only, °
and that the act establishing the Smithsonian Institution, as well as
that making the appropriation in 1857, were to be regarded as indicat-
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 343

ing the purpose of Congress respecting pone zene provision for these
collections.*

The appropriation of 1857, referred to by the Attorney-General, was
one giving $15,000 for the construction of cases and $2,000 for the re-
moval of the collections. (March 5, 1857. 11 Stats., 219.)

In commenting upon this action, Prot. Henry, in his report tor 1857,
remarked :

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for the
construction and erection of cases to receive the collections of the
United States exploring expedition and others in Washington, and
also for the transfer and arrangement of the specimens This appro-
priation was granted in accordance with the recommendation of the
late Secretary of the Interior and the Coimmissioner ot Patents, in
order that the large room in the Patent Office occupied by the museum
might be used for the more legitimate purposes of that establishment.
We presume that the other part of the recommendation will also be
carried out, namely, that the annual appropriation be continued which
has heretofore been made for the care of this portion of the Govern-
ment property. While, on the one hand, no appropriation should be
made which would serve to lessen the distinctive character of Smith-
son’s bequest, on the other it is evident that the Government should
not impose any burdens upon the Institution which would impair its
usefulness or divert its funds from their legitimate purpose.|

In 1853, by the act of June 2 (11 Stats., 501), an appropriation of
$4,000, “for the preservation of the collection of the exploring and sur-
veying expeditions of the Government,” was made as a contingent ex-
pense in the office of the Secretary of the Interior.

The management of this appropriation and of all which followed it
from year to year was always placed entirely in the hands of the See-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution.

In the report for 1858, Prof. Henry gave the following concise his-
tory of the relations of the Smithsonian Institution to the national
collections:

{t will be recollected that by the law of Congress incorporating this
Institution “all objects of art and of foreign and ee research, and
all objects of natural history, plants, and geological and mineralogical
specimens belonging to, or hereafter to belong to the United States
which may be in the city of Washington, in whoses soever custody the
same may be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized
by the Board of Regents to receive them.”

The law thus giving to the Smithsonian Institution all specimens
illustrative of nature and art to be found in the several offices and de-
partments of Government was not construed as rendering it obligatory
on the Regents to accept these objects if they ¢ onsidered. it expedient
to do so. “Inasmuch, then, as this collection was neither essential to
the plan of organization nor directly subservient to the comprehensive
purpose of the donor in regard to a world-wide benefit, it was the ulti-
mate decision of a majority of the Board that 16 ought not to be ac-

ig Latics of Wen William IF. V ae. Secret: wy of the Interior, to the Secretary of re
Smithsonian Institution.
t Smithsonian Report, 1857, p. 14.
344 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

cepted and that no part of the donation ought to be expended in the
care of property belonging to the Government of the United States.

Previous to the discussion of this question it had been assumed that
the Regents were under an obligation to take charge of the museum,
and, on this account principally, a large and expensive building had
been thought necessary. After it was settled, however, that the Re-
gents were not bound to accept this trust the work of constrne tion was

carried on more slowly with a view at once to secure certain advan-
tages to the building itself, and to inerease the principal by funding
the interest of the money which would be absorbed by its completion.

In the meantime a very large amount of specimens of natural history
had accumulated at the Institution from numerous exploring parties,
sent out by the General Gevernment; and as these collections had been
made under the direction of the Institution, and their preservation was
of the highest importance to the natural history of the country, it was
finally coneladed that if Congress would make an appropriation for the
transfer and new arrangement of the articles then in the Patent Office,
and continue the annual appropriation previously made for their care
and exhibition while in charge of the Commissioner of Patents, the In-
stitution would, under these conditions, become the curator of the
national collections. This proposition was agreed to by the Govern-
ment, and the contemplated transter has accordingly been made.

It is believed that this arrangement will be mutually beneficial to
the Patent Office and the Institution, since the former will be relieved
from a duty scarcely compatible with the design of ifs est iblishment,
and will gain possession of one of the largest rooms in the city for the
exhibition of a class of models to which the public lave not previously
had ready access; while the Smithsonian Institution will be able to
present to the strangers who visit Washington a greater number of
objects of interest, and appropriate that portion of the large building
not required for its own most important operations to a useful purpose.

The cost of keeping the collections at the Patent Office, including
fuel, was about $4,000 annually, but the Regents might, with justice,
have asked for an additional amount sufficient to pay the interest on
the cost of that portion of the edifice oceupied by the museum. — If was,
however, thought more prudent. to restrict the application to the sum
above me ntioned, and to request that the appropriation might be con-
tinued wider the charge of the Secretary of the Interior, thus obvi ating’
the necessity of an aunnal application to Congress by the Institution
itself.

The cases at present required for the accommodation of the collections
have been constructed at a cost within the pp Ee ition made for that
purpose; and the Institution is indebted to Hon. J. Thompson, Seere-
tary of the Interior, and Hon. J. Holt, Commissioner of Patents, for the
use of glass, sash, and shelving no longer needed in the room which
formerly contained the museum in the Patent Office, but which have
been applied to good purpose in supplying deficiencies in the Smith-
sonian building. The Regents are also indebted to Thomas U. Walter,

esq., Architect of the U nited States Capitol Extension, for the beautiful
design of the cases, and to Edw. Clark, esq., architect of the Interior
Depar tment, for the inspection of the work during its progress, and the
examiné ition of the accounts presented by the contractor.

In order to increase the capacity of the large room appropriated to
the collection, the cases have been arranged in two stories, forming a
series of alcoves, and a gallery on each side. By the adoption of this
plan space ean be prov ide d for double the number of specimens which
were exhibited at the Patent Office.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 345

A considerable portion of the collections has been arranged, and <
taxidermist employed to repair the: specimens of zodlogy which nea
been damaged, and to prepare for exhibition others which had not pre-
viously been mounted. The museum will soon be an object of continued
and increasing interest to the inhabitants of the city and to strangers
who visit the capital of the United States.

An assent to the arrangement above stated for taking charge of the
Government collections is by no means inconsistent with the regret
expressed in previous reports that the law of Congress directed pro-
vision to be made from the Smithsonian fund for a public museum and
library. It must be evident to any one who attentively studies the past
history of the operations of the Institution that the interest of the money
expended on the building intended for this purpose would have been
much more efficiently applie din the development and publication of
new truths. But, in all cases where many views are to be consulted,
the question is not merely what ought to be, but what can be accom-
plished. From the first there has existed a clear conce ption of the means
by which the idea of the donor could be best realized, and the aim of
the majority of the regents has continually been to approximate, as
nearly as the restrictions of Congress would allow, to the plan origin: ally
proposed. ‘The policy has been invariably the same, and the present
reputation and gene rally acknowledged success of the Institution are
the result of this undeviating course.*

The portion of the Smithsonian income which can be devoted to a
museum and the 44,000 per annum appropriated by Congress would
not together be sufficient to establish and sustain a general collection
of specimens of the natural history of the world. It will therefore be
the poliey of the Institution, mless other means-are provided, to con-
line the collections principally to illustrations of the products of the
North American continent, For this purpose efforts have been made,
principally through the various exploring expeditions, to obtain a large
ntimber of specimens of all the species of the different kingdoms of
nature found in North America; and at this.time the collection under
charge of the Institution is more extensive in number and variety than
wny other which has ever before been made relative to this portion of
the globe. It is not in accordance with the general organization of the
Institution to form a museum of single specimens, interesting only for
{heir rareness, but to collect a large number of specimens of each Sspe-
cies, particul: uly of such as have not been deseribed, and to distribute
these among the several naturalists who may have the mdustry, abil-
ity, and the desire to study them; the primary object of the Institution,
namely, the increase of the existing sum of knowledge, in this case as
in all others, being kept prominently in view.

The Institution has now become the curator of the collections of nat-
ural history and ethnology of the Government, and by law is empowered,
as it appears to me, to make the same disposition of the materials con-
tained in these collections as it does of those procured at its own ex-
pense. The design will be to render the specimens in the greatest degree
serviceable to the advance of knowledge. The Museum now consists
ot the following collections, of which, according to Professor Baird,
about one-fifth were brought from the Patent Office,

First, those of the naval expeditions; second, those of the United
States geological surveys; third, those of the boundary surveys; fourth,
those of surveys for railroad routes to the Pacific ; fifth, of miscellaneous

B Suuthonian heen 1358, pp. 13-16.
346 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

expeditions under the War and Navy Departments; sixth, those of
miscellaneous collections presented or deposited by societies and indi-
viduals; and lastly, of an extensive series of the results of explorations
prosecuted by the Institution itself. By far the greater portion of the
whole has been made under the stimulus and immediate direction of
the Smithsonian Institution. A number of the special collections are
still in the hands of those to whom they were intrusted for scientific
investigation and description. The arrangement of the cases and the
disposition of the articles intended for public exhibition has been a sub-

ject requiring considerable thought and experiment. It was not only
desirable to obtain the largest amount of space for the accommodation
ot the articles, but also to arrange the whole so as to harmonize with
the architectural embellishments of the large hall, and thus to produce
a proper vesthetical effect.*

In 1859, the Guide Book, unofficial yet ened by an official of the
staff, was published with the words Guide to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and National Museum on its cover, and about this time the words -
National Museum of the United States were painted over the door of
the exhibition hall.

Congress did not, however, give legal sanetion to the use of this
name until nearly twenty years later, when providing for the erection of
the new building to receive the collections given to the Smithsonian
Institution at ay close of the Centennial of 1876,

WASHINGTON, February, 1891,

NOTE A.
JaNuARY i, 1842.
‘To the Hon. J. C. SPENCER and
The Hion. A. P. UPSHUR:

GENTLEMEN: The undersigned, a committee on behalf of the National Institution
for the Promotion of Science, have the honor to submit to your consideration the fol-
Jowing facts and remarks.

In a law of the 20th July, 1841, there is a provision in these words: “ For the pur-
pose of enabling the Secretaries of the War and Navy Departments to place in a state
of safe preservation the specimens of natural history which are now deposited in
their respective offices, or which may be brought there resulting from surveys of the
unexplored regions of our own country, or from the exploring expeditions now in
tthe South Seas, by the authority and at the expense of the United States or other-
wise, a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars.”

And in a law of March 3, 1841, there is another appropriation ‘‘ For defraying the
expense of transporting to the city of Washington and of arranging the collections
made by the exploring expedition, five thonsand dollars.”

These laws are considered as having determined the principles which should govern
in such cases.

First, that the expenditures should be made under the direction of the Secretaries
of the War and the Navy Departments; and

Second, that the collections should be brought to Washington and arranged there.

In the discharge of these duties, the Secretaries of the two Departments named
directed the collections referred to to be delivered to the care of the National Insti-
tution, for the ice of being arranged under its supervision, :

* Op. cil., 1858, pp: 40, 44.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 347

On thesé accounts, as well as because of your position of directors of the Institu-
tion, we have now the honor of addressing you.

The first appropriation of $500 was expended under the personal superintendence
of the Secretary of War, he approving all accounts; the second, under that of the
Secretary of the Navy. But in the course of the business this duty assumed the fol-
lowing form:

The society appointed a committee to supervise the arranging of the collections.
It was the duty of this committee to suggest the expenditures and employments
which it considered necessary, to examine into the accounts, and if it found the
same to be correct, to recommend them to the approval of the Secretary. Under
this system the appropriations have been expended, and the Institution is now with-
out further means.

It is proper to remark that the entire collections of the Institution, as well in books
as in specimens of natural history and of the arts, and as well those deposited by
the Government as those given by individuals and other institutions and trom for-
eion governments, will in the end helone to the United States, there being a pro-
vision to that effect in the constitution of the Institution, The whole can therefore
with propriety be considered as public property.

With this brief exposition we shall now lay before you the state of the affairs of
the Institution in reference to the collections, deposits, eifts, and expenditures,

The entire collection is deposited in the upper rooms of the Patent Office; it con-
sists of: :

Donations trom foreign governments.

Donations from other institutions, foreign and domestic.

Donations from ministers and consuls abroad, and from officers of our Army and
Navy.

Donations froin individuals and from members of the Institution.

The Iowa collection of mineralogical and geological specimens, made by R. R.
Owen, esq., under the direction of the Treasury Department.

The collection of mineralogical and geological specimens which had been in de-
posit in the burean of the Corps of Topographical Engineers.

The collection of portraits of distinenished Indians, and the collection of Indian
curiosities which had been on deposit in the War Department.

The minerals, books, papers, and personal effects of the Smithsonian bequest.

The two shipments which have been received from the exploring squadron, con-
sisting of minerals, specimens of natural history, works of art, implements of war
and curiosities.

The books, minerals, and works of art belonging to the late Columbian Institute.

The books, papers, and proceedings of the late American Historical Society.

Cabinets and specimens, deposited by members in trust, for public use.

It can not be said that these materials are now arranged. The space which has
been appropriated to the temporary use of the Institution—the eastern half of the
upper room of the Patent Office—is entirely insufficient for such a purpose, as well as
the means and time which have been devoted to them. But as more just conception
in those respects, as well as the value of the collections, will be derived from an
exhibition in detail of the latter, it will now be laid before you:

About 1,000 volimes of books and numbers of pamphlets.

About 50 maps and charts.

About 500 castings in plaster, medals, and seals.

‘en pieces of statuary, marble, or plaster.

One hundred and sixty-eight paintings.

About 1,600 bird skins, of which rather more than 400 have been cleaned, stuffed,
and mounted, and deposited in cases, but which yet require eyes and to have labels
properly written fand affixed. They also require to be scientifically arranged, the
first labor being necessarily limited to the preparing of the skins and putting them
348 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

under the protection of cases. It may be proper to remark that to clean, stiuff, and put
in position 6 bird skins a day, is the greatest result from the labors of an expert and
experienced taxidermist, and that so much ¢an be done only with skins in good order
and of moderate-sized birds. Much less is the most that can be done with skins that
have been twisted and for a long time closely packed, or with skins of large birds
or of quadrupeds; a single skin of a large bird often requifing from one to two
days.

About 160 skins of quadrupeds, about 50 of which have been stuffed, set up, and
put in cases.

About 200 glass jars have been filled with mollusca, fishes, and reptiles, but these
yet require to be divided into more jars and to be arranged, classified, and n med;
and there yet remains two barrels and ten kegs of wet and soft specimens, which
have not been opened, except to replenish, when necessary, the preservative mate-
rial.

There are about 50,000 botanical specimens, embracing many that are extremely
rare and entirely new. An able botanist, Mr. Nuttall, who has had the examination
of this collection, pronounced it equal, if not superior, to any in the world of the
kind and from the same regions. He was for a short time employed to aid in the ar-
ranging of the specimens, and assigned them to orders and genera, but they yet
require the greater labor of specific distinctions.

There are about 3,000 specimens of insects, the greater part of which have been
arranged in genera, but yet require the further and more laborious arrangement into
species, A large collection of insects, said to be one of the finest of Europe, has
lately arrived in New York to be placed in deposit in the Institution for the benefit
of the public. It is from that well-known and eminent naturalist, C. F. Castelnean,
esq., a member of the Institution. We have also notice of a collection of minerals
being on its way from the School of Mines of Paris, as a present to the Institution.

There are probably several hundred thousand shells, constituting a mass of from
30 to 40 bushels, all valuable and many of them very rare, entirely new and ex-
tremely beautiful. With these nothing has yet been done but to open the boxes
and clean a few of them. Many conchologists have pronounced this the finest col-
lection in the United States. It will require much labor and time to arrange it.

About 500 corallines have been cleaned and partially arranged. About 300 star-
fish, echini, radiati, etc., have received a like attention; also about 100 sponges and
about 2,000 crustacea, And there are yet many more specimens of these, several
hundred, which have not been examined.

About 50 fish skins. These are yet in the same condition as when received.

About 7,000 specimens of minerals are placed under the protection of cases, but
require a great amount of labor to arrange and label. There are also upwards of 50
boxes of mineralogical and geological specimens which have not been opened.

Accessions are daily made to the collections of the Institution in the form of dona-
tions, and we are now looking with some anxiety for additional shipments from the
exploring squadron. Nor can it be doubted that when the squadron returns it will
be freighted in value and number of specimens equal to all it may have sent home
during its long and interesting voyage.

Already the specimens which have been placed in cases nearly fill the space, one-
half of the upper room of the Patent Office, which the liberality of the Secretary of
State assigned temporarily to the use of the Institution; but these specimens are of
necessity in a crowded state of imperfect arrangement. And the specimens now on
hand, when put up and properly displayed, will fill the whole of the room. We
already, therefore, and with much reason, anticipate being straitened for space.

The occupation of our present place is also merely temporary. The room will ina
few years be require’ for the purposes for which it was erected. This consideration
necessarily affects the character of the labors of the Institution in’reference to the
collection, which can not fail to partake of the character of its occupation of the
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 349

room, and in consequence its labors are limited to such as are necessary and prelim-
inary, to a permanent and scientific arrangement.

The same consideration has influenced the employment which has been authorized.
The committee to which this matter was intrusted by the Institution, did not feel
authorized to recommend to the Department having charge of the appropriation any
system which should involve the Government in a liability for one day beyond the
enduring of the appropriation.

The appropriation has become exhausted, but the persons employed have contin-
ued their labors under the hope that the great work upon which they have been
engaged and which has progressed with such flattering activity will not now be
abandoned. ‘These persons ate:

H. King, esq., curator of the Institution, who has the general care of the collections
which have been intrusted to the Institution, and who is held responsible to the
Institution for their safe-keeping. His particular attention has been devoted to the
minerals, mollusca, echini, racdiati, spongia, and crustacea, and to the construction
of the cases, procuring of the glassware, and other requisite materials. His compen-
sation was fixed at first at $3 per day, but afterwards, in consequence of his being
at much expense for trips he had to make to Philadelphia, New York, and Boston,
and being liable to such trips in the execution of his duties, it was raised to $5 per
day.

J. RJ Townsend, esqy., taxidermist, His duty is to dress, stuff, prepare, and ar-
range the skins. His compensation is $5 per day.

My. Nuttall, who was employed on the botanical specimens at $3 per day. He is
not at present in employ, having other engagements,

One assistant, Mr. Pollard, at $1.50 per day. %%

One other assistant, who is also a good mechanic and arranger, Mr, Vardin, at
$1.50 per day.

One messenger and laborer at $1 per day.

The occasional employ of laborers and mechanics,

All of the appropriations not required for these employments have been expended
for cases, glassware, and other necessary contingencies to such an establishment,
the accounts and vouchers for which have been duly rendered,

As before remarked, these arrangements are but temporary, nor are they com
mensurate to the mass of labor which has to be done, or to the just expectations
which are entertained in reference to it. More force must be employed and more
varied talent than the means appropriated have enabled the institution to command.
With the experience which has been acquired, the committee will if desired, under
the correcting hand of the Institution, submit to your consideration thew views in
reference to the expenditures of any future appropriation.

The funds of the Institution are of two kinds.

First, the amount derived from the annual tax upon members

Second, the amounts appropriated by Congress.

The first is necessarily small, from the few members liable to the tax, and the
amount of it, for each, $5 perannum; and itis expended forrare and necessary books,
necessary printing, cases, and other contingencies.

The second has as yet been no more than $5,500 and has been expended in the man
ner and for the purposes before indicated. We are now, however, without means, ani
were it not that the individuals employed continue at the labor in the hope that the
Government will continue its patronage to its own property, the work of prepara-
tion and arrangement would be suspended, as the most the Institution could do
from its own funds would be to employ some one to take care of the collection.

The object of the Institution is to “increase and to diffuse knowledge among meu.”
Its time and whatever talent it possesses are faithfully devoted to it. But its mem-
bers have occupations, private and public, which can not be neglected, and they
have not the wealth for voluntary contributions, We are therefore obliged to look

_, We aX “4 } J : tA ¥ \A 5 A
390 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

to the Government for aid in funds. In other countries, where, although public spirit
may not be, individual wealth is so much greater, no institution of the kind has ever
succeeded without Government patronage. How much more necessary, then, is such
patronage with us. And the more justifiable and necessary will this patronage ap-
pear when the reflection is made that the greater part of the property under our care
already belongs to the Government, and that all donations, collections, and pur-
chases by the funds of the Institution must by our constitution eventually take the
same course. The Institution is but a curator for the Government, voluntarily be-—
stowing its time and talents to objects which can not fail to increase national fame,
to elevate national character, and to promote the design of the great philanthropist
to “‘inerease and to diffuse knowledge among men.”

We therefore respectfully but confidently address you as directors of the Institu-
tion and as heads of the departments under which former appropriations were ex-
pended and solicit your efforts to obtain further Government aid.

There are two points to which we are anxious to draw your particular attention.
One is an appropriation from Congress for preparing and arranging the Government
collection; the other for additional space. The first is absolutely necessary, for, as
before remarked, former appropriations are exhausted, and the work must be aban-
doned if more is not granted, We consider that about $20,000 is required for the
active and correct prosecution of the work during the year 1842. More labor must
be applied, and more varied talent be employed; and we believe it will not be ex-
pected that these requisites are to be obtained without a proper consideration. ‘The
committee pledge themselves to a faithful superintendence of the expenditures, and
to a faithful account of it.

The second is equally necessary. We want space properly to exhibit the speci-
mens. We acknowledge that our occupation of the half of the room assigned to the
Institution is but temporary, and that we must look forward to the period when the
whole room will be required for other purposes, and while our occupation is of this
character, we are also, and every one must be impressed with the conviction that
our arrangements can not assume that scientific and permanent character which
will be their ultimate condition. Our present labors must therefore be preliminary
to a permanent and scientific arrangement, labors, however, not lost as they would
be necessarily under any cireumstances. But to execute these properly more space
is required, and also the uncontrolled oceupation of the whole room. This space is
the more necessary from the very preliminary character of present labors, as the
room has to be a workshop as well as an exhibition room. We make this request
from a thorough conviction of its necessity, and from the belief, if granted, it would
not incommode the Patent Office. And to prevent misapprehension, we will take
this opportunity to state that from the superintendent of that office the Institution
has received those accommodations and facilities which might justly be anticipated
from a gentleman of his known whanity and intelligence.

J. J. ABERT,

A. O. DAYTON,

FRANCIS MARKOE, Jr.,
Committee.

NOTE B.
REPORT UPON THE MATERIALS IN THE INSTITUTE.
By Dr. PICKERING, Dr. DANA, Dr. HALE, and Mr. BRACKENRIDGE.

On the 12th of September last I received the charge of the collections of the Na-
tional Tustitute, and the hall was soon after placed at my disposal by an order from
fhe State Department, My time has since been chiefly pecnpied jn general plans af
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 351

atrangement and accommodation, in reviewing the collections of the exploring expe-
dition that had been already opened, opening those recently received and ticketing
and taking an aecount ot them. The larger portion has now been gone through
with and deposited in the allotted cases, but not yet rendered intelligible by means.
of labeling and arrangement. I should expect, however, some branches of the zoé-
logical collections, not yet unpacked, and a portion of the botanical, yet to arrive. |
any not prepared at present to make a full report on the proeeeds of the exploring
expedition, but have only to offer a few remarks relating generally to the objects
under my charge.

The interior arrangement of the hall is not altogether such as I should have origi-
nally recommended; but the cases being already completed, it remains only to conform
to the plan as faras practicable. By lining the walls with cases there will be suffi-
eient accommodation for the present collections ef the Institute, including those of
the exploring expedition, and the specimensof American manufactures already within
the walls. At the same time there is no provision for future increase in any depart-
ment, much less for any new objects that may be contemplated. There is no room for
a geological series of the United States, for a library, a gallery of the fine arts, ete.

The persons at present employed are:

Mr. Varden, having the immediate supervision of the hall and fixtures.

Mr. Dana, having charge of mineralogy and geology, and also of corals and crus-
tacea.

Mr. Brackenridge, having charge of the greenhouse and all botanical collections.

Messts. Townsend and Pollard, taxidermists, also having charge of the ornitho-
logical department,

Mr. Falconer, carpenter; constantly occupied, ete.

Mr. Campbell, messenger and general assistant.

All have thus far given entire satisfaction.

Tam not aware that any increase of force>is necessary. There is, however, one
department on which, from the destructible nature of the objects, we are unable to
bestow the requisite attention. Tallude to that of entomology. We have on de-
posit the extensive and valuable collection of Count Castleman, and should be.
ashamed to allow it to perish in our hands. The collections, too, of the expedition,
though not so extensive as was perhaps expected of us, and in part lost with the
Peacock, yet it is believed include materials that in competent hands might be the
means of eliciting facts worth preservation, and having a wider bearing than may
be supposed by those who have not duly weighed the relationships of the different
partsofcreation. Our gatherings in this branch derive a further consequence from our
being able fo connect them with the vegetable products of the widely separated
islets of the mid-ocean and other unfrequented regions it has been our rare fortune
to visit.

The collections in conchology have only in part been opened (viz, up to the time
of our leaving the Fiji Islands), and noe portion properly arranged and exhibited;
neither at the present moment can any space be allawed for this purpose. When
fully displayed, it is belheved that those interested in this branch of science will not,
be disappointed as ta their extent and value.

For the opnithological department, and the dried skins of other animals, I must
refer to the accompanying list; promising, howevey, that there are besides many in-
teresting specimens in osteology, both of man and the inferior animals.

Of specinjens in spirits, brought by the expedition, we number 208 jars, containing
insects and \ninor objects in zodlogy, not less in all than 4,000 different species, and
895 envelopes of larger specimens. These last include about 900 different species of
fishes and 200 of reptiles, making a total of 5,100 species in spirits, exclusive of the
Crustacea, noted by Mr. Dana.

For the botanical department I must refer to the accompanying extract from a
report by Mr, Brackenridge, 1 inclose also reports on the drawings made during the
392 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

cruise of the exploring squadron, by Mr. Drayton, and Agate; on the mineralogical
and geological collections, from Mr. Dana; and a paper on the philological depart-
ment I obtained from Mr. Hale, who happened accidentally to be in town. As Mr.
Hale has not enumerated the collections in this latter branch, I will here specify
them particularly. The Institute now possesses, exclusive of—

Thirty-six volumes and pamphlets, and a large bundle of newspaper files; historical
documents, all printed at Lima and Chili, which may not properly come under this
head.

Grammar of the Quichua language, which is still the vernacular in the mining
towns of the Peruvian Andes.

Ten tracts in the language of the Society Islands, printed in part at Tahiti.

Eleven tracts in the Samoan language, from the mission press at those islands,

Printed specimens also of the Fiji and New Zealand languages, including New Zea-
land testament.

Sixty-three volumes and pamphlets in the language of the Sandwich Islands, in-
cluding the entire translation of the Bible; printed at those islands by the American
Mission Press; accompanied also with specimens of engraving by native artists, one
of which in particular, viz, a general map of the islands, would do no discredit to
the state of the arts at home.

A Japanese book (apparently a religious work) and other writings, believed to be
entirely unique in this country.

The originaal Tagala grammar, printed two centuries ago at the Philippines,
giving an account of that alphabet, now extinct; the more interesting, as this is one
of the most remote points to which the invention of letters appears to have pene-
{rated—before, at least, the modern improvements in navigation.

Nineteen volumes of Malay manuscripts; in all probability the finest collection in
existence, iz

Eleven volumes of Bugis manuscripts. (A notesays: ‘The only font of Bugis type
in existence belones to the American board of missions at Singapore.”) The Bugis
are very proud of their literature, and are now the most prominent people in the
East Indian Archipelago; for the peculiar geographical features of the vast region
would seem to preclude the division into nations. which obtains in other parts of
the glolie.

A Bali grammar. (What follows is derived from other sources than the expeddi-
tion. )

Leaves from a Bali book, presented by Mr. Thomas H, Gills. :

A Siamese hook,

Severat slabs of hieroglyphies from Central America, by Mr, Rupel, United States
consul, Laguayra,

Coptic books, by Mr, Gliddon, late consul at Cairo.

Egyptian antiquities and hieroglyphics, by the same, which are specially worthy
of notice, and give a juster idea of the style of the works of that wonderful people
than could be acquired from plates. Some of these fragments have long been wanted
in this country, and will be Jooked at with the more interest as the extraordinary
and authentic annals disclosed by them become more generally known.

T will not now enter into an account of the implements, arts, and manufactures of
the various people we have visited. We flatter ourselves, however, that these will
prove not the least important part of the collections. I will refer now only to the
interest with which we should look upon some such relics of the tribes who ouce in-
habited our Eastern waters, whose race has disappeared ere its history was written.
When posterity shall demand of the present generation, as men of intelligence, some
account of these people, what will be forthcoming? Tt is generally to he feared only
that which is written in imperishable stone—a few stone hatchets and arrowheads,

With regard to our Western tribes, better things are to be hoped for, although
they haye already lost some of their arts and ingenuity from intercourse with civil-
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 353

ized man. The collection of implements already within the walls is quite respect-
able, and the expensive series of their portraits from the War Department may well
deserve the term of a national monument.

Some national depository has long been wanted where individuals could place,
under the care of Government, any object they may happen to possess, in nature or
art, that is rare or instructive, caleulated to improve and elevate the mind, or fur-
nish materials for new deductions.

The same observations would apply to a national library. Individuals would
hardly think of making donations to the Congressional Library; neither would for-
eign societies. Yet two of the finest libraries of our country—indeed, so far as their
sphere extends, I would term them of a higher grade than the rest—have been got
together exclusively by donations. I would not by any means be understood to
undervalue the Congressional Library, and the very judicious selections that have
been made for it of late years. But, shall we always be content with the love of
mere England, herself by no means in the first rank in every branch of knowledge?
We look in vain in any part of our country for a full assemblage of French, Ger-
man, Italian, Swedish, Danish, Spanish, Portuguese, Orienta!, or hardly classical
literature.

[have omitted to mention that the property of the Institute is at present very
much exposed to depredation. From 6 to9a.m., and also after 5 p. m. the hall
is left entirely unguarded and might be entered with the utmost ease. I would pro-
pose that a dog-watch be set over the hall and building, as about othe public edi-
fices.

Respectfully submitted.

CHARLES PICKERING,
Curator of the National Institute.
WASHINGTON, November 22, 1842.

BOTANICAL DEPARTMENT.

Among the various branches of science which it is the object of the National Insti-
tute to encourage, disseminate and exhibit, for the benefit and improvement of man-
kind, perhaps none claims its attention so much as botany. By the study of this
science we learn the uses of trees, shrubs, and plants, whether medicinal, nutritious
as food, or useful in the arts. The beneficial effects its study produces on society,
or on those who pursue it, by softening down the asperities of our nature, and lead-
ing the mind to contemplate objects of a higher order than the mere gratification of
ordering amusements—which appears to have been the view taken of it by all civil-
ized nations.

The National Institute through the exploring expedition possesses one of the most
extensive and varied botanical collections, from the numerous places which the
expedition touched at, that is yet known to have been accumulated during any voy-
age of similar character. This collection hasS not yet been arranged or set up accord-
ing to any particular system, whereby it can be referred to conveniently, but rests
in the Institute in maps. Wherever a set of specimens of the whole is classified and
arranged systematically there will stillremain a great number of duplicates to dispose
of to institutions of a similar character, either in exchange or otherwise, as the In-
stitute may think fit.

There is also another point connected with botany to which the scientific world has
of late years turned their attention, viz, the geological distribution of plants over the
surface of the globe; also the altitude or the heights at which certain tribes appear
and disappear. On this point the collection could furnish the best information, as
many of the specimens were found at a height of 16,000 feet above the level of the
ocean. The herbarium it is proposed to put up in neat bands and arranged in cases
after the manner of a library.

The Institute has also come into possession of a collection of rare and highly inter-

SM 91, pr 2——25
304 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

esting living plants, brought home also by the expediton, which has since received
several additions in return for seeds distributed from the same source; also a few
donations of other plants from various quarters. For their preservation a green-
house 50 feet long, and partitioned into two apartments, has been erected on the lot
behind the Patent Office. The number of species in cultivation amounts to 500, and,
with duplicates of the same, there are about 1,100 plants in pots, over and above
those now coming up from seeds. As it is expected that donations will frequently
be made, and as the plants we now have will be increasing in size, the present house
by another year will hardly suffice to contain them. The propriety also of having
a lot of ground fenced in where these plants could be set out during the summer
months, and which could also be used for the raising of ornamental trees, shrubs,
and other hardy plants, which may come into the possession of the Institute, is
strongly urged. The meagerness of our parterres and shrubberies evidently shows
that additions are wanting for ornamental gardening.

It would also be a receptacle for proving all samples of fruits, flowers, and eseu-
lents that may from time to time be presented to the Institute, there being, so far as
I am aware, no public establishment of the kind in existence in the Union. Officers
of our Navy and consuls residing in foreign countries might do a great deal in intro-
ducing fruits, vegetables, and flowers; and whenever itis known that suet. an estab-
lishment exists, there is every reason to anticipate donations, where the 2ountry in
general is to be benefited by such an enlightened and commendable scheme. A nu-
cleus once formed, with a gradual accumulation of stock and asteady perserverance
in its support and furtherance, we might, at some not very distant day, vie with the
most celebrated establishments of the same kind in Europe. The progress of the
benefit to be expected must be, like the undertaking, slow but sure, and the effects
will soon become evident to every enlightened citizen.

The following is a list of plants, or number of species in the herbarium, collected
at the various places visited by the expedition:

Witlerbiis = a4 ae oan Sean ee ec Se 300 | Low Coral Islands (in all)..-. .--- 27
Cape de Verde Islands..---.-...--- 60) || Sandwich Tslands) 2222222 2eseese= 883
naz ep ise eee emrctesiieee=e 939) Orevom countrys. ]= =.= eee 1, 218
Patagonia (Rio Negro) -.....----- 150 aliformilaice asses ce- eee 519
Mernaydel eHWeo Of a alae eee ae 220.) Mamie W536). 22 onteicoe ae a eee 381
Chile and Chilean Andes-.....---- 449) uRinwapore toc oss ie sas) eee 80
Peru and Peruvian Andes. .-.------ 820 aMandanaoyn so -.seeee ee eee 102
TUTE Boe aca CBee eet ooumte os 268. | Buludslands, 2s eceecr seer eee 58
Samoa, or Navigator Islands... --- 457.| Mangsi Islands )2-..2252222-<--eee 80
Wien JetoillennGl. 3-35 -5-85555esena50- 189" | (Cape of Good Hope 2222-2 ----eree 330
Neiwaiea lan dias. ses 2 eee 398: s!2 St, Helenasa= 2222 sos ce eee eee 20
Word) Auckland Island .--2---- =--= 50 aes”
Mo neataily Wyse se 236 Total number of species.... 9, 674
Tipe JIVERNOS S35 56sase0 Sono cscs eae 786 .

The number of seeds brought and sent home by the expedition. amounted to 684
species, the most of which have been sent all over the country. Several cases of live
plants were also sent home, of the existence of which there are no traces. The live
plants brought home by the squadron amounted to 254 species, and these now form
part of the greenhouse collection.

Wm. D. BRACKENRIDGE,

NOVEMBER, 1842.

REPORT OF MR. DANA.

The inadequacy of the space in the hall of the Patent Office at present allotted for
the departments of geology and mineralogy, becomes daily more obvious, as the ex-
tent of our collections is better known. The spacious hall is a noble one for the
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 355

purpose to which it is devoted; but so many distinct sciences claim a share of the
room, that only a small area can be set apart for any one of them. The collections
of the exploring expedition swell out beyond our expectations, and when fully ar-
ranged there will be room for little else.

The package of mineral and geological specimens already opened occupy three of
the cases in the hall and there are yet 7 or 8 boxes untouched. ‘These expedition
collections include suites of specimens from the following countries and islands :.

1. Brazil, illustrating especially the deposits of gold and gems in the great mining
district of Minas Geraes; also the structure of the countries about Rio Janeiro.

2. Rio Negro, Patagonia, where the extensive Pampas of La Plata, and the Ter-
tiary deposits upon which they rest, afforded us a series of interesting specimens,
exhibiting the character of these great prairies of the south, and the salt lakes that
abound over them.

3. Orange Bay, Terra del Fuego, where terminates the great chain of the Andes.
A species of fossil and the nature of the rock deposits, appear to afford sufficient
evidence of the similar and consentaneous origin of this portion of the chain with
the Andes of Chile and Peru.

4. Chile, and the Chilean Andes. The mountains were twice ascended by parties
from the expedition, and specimens obtained, in addition to the rocks of the coast,
and ores from copper mines.

5. Lima and the Peruvian Andes, affording us gold and silver ores. The summit
of the Andes was passed by a party of officers, and among their collections is a
fossil Ammonite, a large extinct species of shell, obtained at a height of 16,000 feet.

6. Oregon. The collections illustrate the rock formations of Northwest America,
including the lignite or coal deposits of the Cowlitz and Frasers River, the sand-
stones and clay slide occurring at intervals from Puget Sound into California, afford-
ing numerous organic remains of shells, echini, fish, etc., and the granites, basaltic
rocks, limestones, ores, etc., of the Territory.

7. Upper California.

8. The Sandwich Islands. A region of volcanoes of various ages from the great
gulf of Lua Pele, where lakes of liquid fire still boil, to the lofty mountains of the
western islands of the group, which in the lapse of time have been so shattered by
convulsions and worn by an abrading sea, rains, and running water, that no distinct
trace of the vent or vents that ejected the successive layers of basaltic rock. On
account of this difference of age in the several parts of the group, we have not only
complete collections of modern lavas, but others illustrating the operations of these
fires for ages back. The late eruption of June, 1841, is well illustrated by numer-
ous specimens from its lavas or scoria, and from the sandhills and new beach formed
as the lavas entered the sea. The tops of the high mountains of Hawaii, each about
14,000 feet in elevation, have also contributed to the collections, through the exer-
tion of the officers of the Vincennes, who were long engaged in explorations on this
island.

9. Navigator or Samoan Islands, a region of ancient basaltic mountains and ex-
tinct craters, some of whose twisted lavas and scoria seemed to be of quite recent
origin.

10. Society Islands, of similar structure, but with fewer evidences of modern vol-
canie action.

11. Fiji Islands, also basaltic and containing some boiling springs.

12. New Zealand, combining the craters, active and extinct, boiling springs and
voleanie products of the other Polynesian island, with granite rocks, sandstones,
and shales, and deposits of coal.

13. New Holland, the collections from the coal region, including the fossil vege-
tation and from the subjacent rocks which abound in organic remains, is probably
the most extensive that ever left the country.

14, Philippine Islands, a region of granite and talcose rocks, sandstone, shales, and
306 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

limestone, with mines of gold, copper, lead, and coal, besides containing one of the
largest active volcanoes of the East Indies, and many extinct craters, boiling
springs, etc.

15. Sooloo Sea, a region of numberless extinct craters or volcanic mountains and
abounding in coral reefs.

16. Singapore.

17. Cape of Good Hope.

18. St. Helena.

19. Cape Verde.

20. Island of Madeira, mostly consisting of basaltic rocks, tufas, or lavas, and re-
markable for the grandeur of its mountain scenery and the richness of its vegeta-
tion.

21. The South Shetlands, which afford large masses of sal ammoniac.

22. Rocks and earth from the Antarctic land, taken from icebergs in its vicinity—
principally granite, basalt, and a red, compact, quartz rock or sandstone.

To these should be added the collection from numerous coral islands, which include
not only specimens of dead coral rock, the material of the islands, but also various
living corals now growing about their shores. We leave corals for the present, as
they require separate remark.

The above will give some idea of the interest that attaches to the expedition
collection. :

Besides the three cases in the hall, to which I have alluded, two others are all
that, with due regard to the other departments, can be set apart for the sciences of
geology and mineralogy. There are already large collections of minerals waiting to
be arranged, to which Col. Totten has generously added his entire cabinet. The col-
lection which accompanied the Smithsonian bequest has been often noticed, and we
pass it by without further remark at present than to testify to the beauty and inter-
est of its specimens. In addition, there are twenty-seven boxes from the Iowa ter-
ritory, inclosing specimens from the lead and copper mines, and others elucidating
its general geological structure, collected by the able geologist of that region, Mr. D.
D. Owen. A fine suite of Ohio fossils has been received from Mr.Locke, of Cinein-
nati, comprising numerous species of trilobites. A rare collection of bones of mam-
moth size, the remains of a megatherium, an extinct animal, was lately obtained at
Skiddaway Isle, Georgia, and by the liberty of Dr. S—, of Savannah, are now in the
hall. Other packages have been received from M.C, Buck, Wm. A. Irvin, Robert
Brown, Capt. R. Latimore, D. A. Buckley, of Jacksonville, Ill.; Fr. Marcoe, jr., of
Washington; J. M. Allen, of Albany; M. Stony, of Vermont; Martin Johnson, Mr.
Ziegler, Joseph Willett, of Maryland; J. I. Greenough, Prof. U. Parsons, Mr. Mecklin,
of Maryland; G.R.Gliddon, consul in Egypt; W. L. Ames, of New Jersey; Dr. J. H.
Caustin, C.D. Barton, of New York City; Wm. M. Mitchell, of Virginia; Dr. Lewis
Sayinsch, and O. Root, esq., of Syracuse, N. Y. Specimens are constantly arriving,
and now, after the late circulars issued by the several departments of Government
to our military and naval officers and consuls, they may be expected in still greater
numbers.

After arranging the expedition specimens, there will be one case and a part of
another for all the mineral collection, the Iowa geological specimens, and the many
others in our possession. With the exception of the minerals, for which there is
scant room, the whole must remain closed.

The importance of these sciences, and the interest of the country in its mineral
resources, make it desirable that some plan like the following should be adopted,
and as soon as may be carried into execution: There should be a complete collection
of minerals, systematically arranged, comprising specimens from all countries, and
illustrating fully every branch of the science. For geology, in the collections of
which are included rock specimens, fossils, soils, and whatever may illustrate the
formation of our globe, the changes in its progress, its present condition, and min-
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 357

eral or agricultural resources, I would suggest that in addition to cases for foreign
geology, there be a special case set aside for each State in the Union, to contain
specimens of all its productions, mineralogical and geological. This plan car-
ried out, a single walk through the hall would convey the information of years of
travel; the mineral wealth of each State would be open for inspection, and the
nature of their productions and their comparative value might at once be read off.
Those interested in coal explorations would find here the rocks which contain this
mineral and indicate its presence; and near by those rocks also which by some resem-
blance have so often led to fruitless explorations; the true and the false might be
readily compared, and with the definite information obtained, treatises on this sub-
ject, before scarcely intelligible, be read with profit. The same, with the ores of iron,
copper, lead, gold, silver, etc., and the various materials used in building, soils, ete.

Such an arrangement, embracing within its plan every part of our country, will en-
list exertions as widely extended; and we may confidently believe that the titles
New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, etc., inscribed on the respective cases, would not
long stand over empty shelves. Indeed, for some States a second and a third case
might soon be required. The Iowa case could now be filled, and a commencement
might be made with the case for New York, that for Ohio, Virginia, Maryland, Penn-
sylvania, Rhode Island, and New Jersey. As geological surveys are in progress in
many States, or have been completed, there will be little difficulty in general in ob-
taining complete suites for the National Institute. The corals in the hall, with few
exceptions, were received from the exploring expedition. The collection is extensive
and possesses peculiar interest inasmuch as the species are mostly from seas that have
seldom contributed to the cabinets of this or any country. The various cruises of
the vessels among the numerous Pacific islands afforded unusual opportunities for
the collection and examination of these singular forms of animal life, and much that
is new has been brought to light with regard to the structure of coral islands, the
growth of corals, the nature and forms of the animals that deposit them (of which
a large collection of drawings has been made), besides discovering many new species
and correcting some errors in former descriptions. The number of species brought
home is not less than 250, and if to this be added the smaller corrallines it will
amount to above 350, besides species of still inferior grade of organization, the
sponges. The corals now occupy two cases which are barely sufficient to receive
them. A separate case of West India corals might soon be filled, as we may expect
large collections through the exertions of the officers of the Navy cruising in those
seas. It would be quite important that these productions from the opposite sides of
our globe, the East and West Indies, be kept separate.

The beauty of these collections is sufficient of itself, as is believed, to engage the
attention and more than a passing glance or hasty word of admiration. But their
interest is greatly enhanced when it is considered that thousands of square miles of
land have been added to our globe by the labors of the minute coral-builder, and
that seas have been studded with islands that otherwise would have remained a
waste of waters.

Before closing this communication I may add a word on the Crustacea in the Hall,
which department fell into my hands in the expedition and comes under my charge
also at the Institute. The collection now arranged includes about 650 species, nearly
all of which are from the exploring expedition. The whole number of species col-
lected and examined during our cruise is not far from 1,000, more than half as many
as the whole number known. Of these, 500 and upwards have been figured; and not
less than 450 out of the 500 are new species, besides many others in the collection not
yet particularly examined. About 250 species are oceanic and belong to genera of
which not over 30 species are known, affording, as is thus seen, a great number of
novelties to be brought out in the publications of the expedition. The most of these
oceanic species are microscopic, generally less than a tenth of an inch in length.
Although so minute, they sometimes swarm in such numbers as to give a red tinge
358 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

to the ocean over large areas. While at Valparaiso, the sea for miles to the south-
ward appeared as if tinged with blood, owing to the myriads of these minute
Crustacea. Some species are so transparent that, under the microscope, all the proc-
esses of vital action, the motion of every shellin the complex organization of animal
life is open to view, exhibiting many novel facts, curious and important to the
physiologist.

The arrangement of the expedition specimens may be completed in the space that
we now occupy, but the addition of such American and foreign specimens as will
gradually collect around this nucleus will finally extend the collection over double
the present area.

Very respectfully,
JAMES D. DANA.

NOVEMBER, 1842.

DEPARTMENT OF PHILOLOGY AND ETHNOGRAPHY.

One of the sciences which have of late years attracted an increasing attention, and
one which from its subject would seem to claim a peculiar regard, is what may be
termed the natural history of the human race, or as some have named it, anthropology.
It divides itself naturally into various branches, possessing distinct names of in-
terest, and requiring different methods of study. One of them, and that perhaps
to which the Institute will be able to contribute most largely, treats of the manners
and customs of the various nations and tribes of mankind, as indicating the charac-
ter and the grade of civilization which is to be ascribed to them. Travelers in
Egypt inform us that, from the representations of objects and views pictured on the
monuments of that country, one may obtain a clear and probably accurate idea of
the mode of life of the ancient inhabitants and can there form a better conception
of their national characteristics than from all the works of historians. The natives
of most countries, particularly those less advanced in civilization, possess no monu-
ments of this kind, which may be copied or transported into our midst, like those
of Egypt. But one may have the very implements and manufactures which those
pictures would represent, the canoe and net of the fisherman, the bow and javelin
of the hunter, the spear and club, the helmet and buckler with which the warrior
went out to meet his enemy; we may have the clothing, the domestic utensils, the
ornaments for the danece—in short, enough to show the state of the arts, the daily
habits, and the ideas of comfort and prosperity among particular people. Among
the collections of the exploring expedition deposited with the Institute will be
found nearly all the articles of native manufacture in use among two tribes of dis-
tinct races, the New Hollanders and the Fijians; those of the former number about
a dozen, while the latter yield several hundreds. <A single glance at the two col-
lections will give a clearer idea of the wide difference existing between these tribes
than any description.

In tracing the migrations of a people and the connections of distant branches, the
comparison of arts and social habits may, if pursued with caution, be an important
guide. A person knowing nothing of our language or history, who should visit the
United States, after having traveled in Europe, would have little doubt from which
country of the latter our ancestors proceeded. The islands of the Pacific are peo-
pled by two distinct races, the one having a yellowish brown complexion, with
flowing hair; the other one a dusky skin, frizzled or wooly hair, and features ap-
proaching the African type. There is not in the climate or nature of the islands
which they respectively inhabit any reason why their habits and mental character-
istics should differ. Yet we find that the art of pottery and the use of the bow are
common to all the islanders of the latter or dark-skinned race, without exception,
while they are entirely unknown to the former, except where they have been ac-
quired in late times from the other. We must, therefore, presume that these arts were
brought by the dusky tribes who possess them from the original seat whence they
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 359

have emigrated. These observations will show that the articles of this description
preserved by the Institute are not to be regarded merely as amusing toys or as objects
of idle curiosity, but possess an important scientific value.

Another department of this study relates to the physical varieties of the human
race. In stature, in complexion, in the nature of the hair and the shape of the cra-
nium the differences that prevail between various tribes are very striking. Some
have supposed it possible to classify all these varieties under these principal divi-
sions or races, while others have believed them to be so numerous and to fade into
one another by such insensible gradations as to set all classifications at defiance,
Still there can be no doubt that every distinct people possesses a peculiar cast of
countenance and style of complexion and feature, what is commonly called a na-
tional physiognomy, and that separate tribes and nations, descended from the same
stock, preserve in their physical characteristics the traces of their common origin,

Knowing, as we do, that the influence of climate and manner of life is powerful
in modifying the constitution and personal appearance of those subjected to it, a
question of the highest importance arises as to the extent to which this modifying
power may be eftected. Some have supposed that all the peculiarities which distin-
guish the varieties of mankind have had their origin in this influence of climate and
social habits, while others have considered the power much more limited, and main-
tain that these peculiarities have existed unchanged as they were originally stamped
on the progenitors of the different races, These opposite views are supported at the
present day by writers of the highest anthority, and as the question is evidently one
to be settled not by reasoning so much as by observation, every fact bearing on this
point merits to be recorded. The Institute possesses a small collection of crania,
obtained by the exploring expedition, which will afford some useful results, and the
series of Indian portraits due to the War Department may be considered, in this re-
port, invaluable.

A division of this study is comparative philology in the science of languages.
Speech has been called the first and highest development of human reason; it is
also the clue by which we trace more evenly than by any other means the affilia-
tioa of tribes and the relationship which exists between different nations. By the
comparison of languages we can prove that nearly all the nations of Europe—
whether of Celtic or Latin or German or Sclavonie origin—are not only closely
allied one to another, but belong to the same stock with the inhabitants of Persia
and Hindustan. By the same means we ascertain that a race of Malay origin has
peopled all the islands of Polynesia. Modern philologists have discovered that the
natives of America, from the Arctic Sea to Cape Horn, speak languages which,
though dissimilar in words, possess a striking grammatical resemblance—like differ-
ent metals cast in the same mold.

In the pursuit of this interesting study, the importance of obtaining vocabularies
of the languages spoken by secluded or newly discovered tribes is easily seen.
Manuscript works in language of which little is known, are also of great value for
the investigation of their grammatical structures, and ane collection of East Indian
manuscripts brought home by the exploring expedition may be signaled as possess-
ing unusual interest. The Institute is not less indebted to Mr. Stevens for the
monumental slabs from Central America, covered with those remarkable hieroglyph-
jes, which are now awaiting the appearance of some new Champollion to unfold

their mysterious purport.

In search of these departments of ethnographical science, all persons whose pur-
suits bring them in contact with many varieties of one kind, and in particular the
officers of the Navy of foreign stations, have an opportunity by obtaining and trans-
mitting articles ef native workmanship—crania or mumimies of particular tribes,
and vecabularies or manuscript of languages little known—to add materials to the
general stock, which may hereafter be of invaluable service to the scientific inves-

tigator.
8a H. HALe.

NOVEMBER, 1842.
360 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1891.

OUTEINES OF THE EDPHNOGRAPHICAL (COELECTIONS, "CHilBbHEw
FROM THE EXPLORING EXPEDITION.

NEW HOLLAND,

Buckles, or small narrow shields.

Boomerangs, the singular missile, often deseribed.
Waddies or clubs.

The throwing-stick, adjutant for throwing javelins.
Beads or wampuim, made of the stem of a grass, ete.

FEEJEE ISLANDS.

War clubs of various patterns, and the small war clubs used as a missile.

Bows and arrows, slings.

Spears, both for war and fishing.

Wooden idols, oracles, headdress of priest, sacred cava cup, ete.

Wigs, combs, turbans, ete.

Pateras or cava bowls, dishes, ete.

Matting, and baskets of various patterns.

Pottery—water vessels and for cooking.

Musical instruments, consisting of Pandean pipes, nose flutes, war conch, and
drum.

Mosquito nets, fans, fly brushes, wooden pillows.

Stone adzes.

Fishing nets and lines, cordage, etc.

Dresses for females, of various, and some brilliant colors.

Armlets and necklaces in great variety, neck ornaments, head bands.

Tapa, or cloth, also of great variety of patterns in the stained figures.

SAMOA ISLANDS AND TONJATABU.

These islands, in common with the other Polynesians, have evidently derived their
arts mostly from the Feejees. Their implements as we recede become less numerous,
with often much diversity in the model. I note only:

Arrows for catching pigeons, of the Samoa Islands.

Models of the single canoe.

Models, large, double Tonja canoe, used for distant sea voyages.

Rasps of shark’s skin, for working wood, common to many Polynesian islands.

ARNT.

We obtained very few things at Thaiti, where native implements are becoming
rare. We saw no weapons of the original stamps.

SANDWICH ISLANDS.

The same remarks apply in a good measure to this group. Native ingenuity dis-
appears when brought in contact with civilized man—and with a knowledge of
money, the bark-beaten cloth of the South Seas gives place to calico at 10 cents a
yard. We obtain here, however, more extensive collections. I mention only—

The large calabashes, used as baskets to carry burdens, and found so convenient
by all traveiers.

Tapa, in imitation of European patterns.

Models of canoe.

Feather ornaments—the yellow is the favorite color here.
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 361

MARQUESAS ISLANDS,

Specimens of the ingenious carving of these islanders, procured many years ago,
were presented by Mr. Demester.

LOW OR POMOTEE ARCHIPELAGO,

These lonely coral reefs present attractions only for this amphibious race of
people. Implements of the same pattern with other Polynesian, but much ruder.
There is no longer any stone for hatchets, and a piece of shell is substituted, while a
crooked root serves fora handle. There is no bark suitable for making cloth or
tapa, and their clothing consists exclusively of matting.

PENRHYNS ISLAND.

The same remarks will apply to Penrhyns Island, with its wild and impetuous in-
habitants, but being covered with cocoanut trees, it is much more populous, and
the implements obtained show neater workmanship.

4

NEW ZEALAND.

Still Polynesian, but much variation in the style of their manufactures and orna-
mental carving. Their cloaks, made of New Zealand flax, a beautiful article.

Neck ornaments of green-colored stone or jade. The thin, slender club, or wooden
sword (used with both hands), almost their only weapon prior to the introduction
of firearms, ete.

KINGSMILL ISLANDS,

A remarkable change in most things from the Polynesians. Long, pronged spears
set with shark’s teeth; as likewise swords of different lengths. Woven coats of
mail and cuirasses for protection. A porcupine fish for a cap. Natural fishhooks
of crooked roots, etc. A very large and interesting collection of the implements of
these coral islands was lost in the Peacock,

EAST INDIES.

Models of Malay proas.
Krisses or seymetars, spears and shield, battle-axes, musical instruments.

TERRA DEL FUEGO.

The collection is nearly complete, though the articles are so few in number.

Bows and arrows, the latter singularly enough the most beautiful we have met
with—flint head.

Bone-headed fish-spears, likewise bearing a stony analogy to those of our Northern
Indians.

Seal-skin quivers, slings, paddles, and necklaces.

PERU.

Our collection of antiquities is quite respectable; pottery, cloth, nets, plastering,
etc., from the ancient graves. I must also particularize the headdress of ‘the last
of the Incas,” presented by Mr. Sweetzer.

OREGON AND NORTHWESTERN COAST.

Our collections here were full.

Paddles, models of canoes, etc., some of former ornamented with different colors.

Carved combs, the conical, woven, and painted hat (the same pattern is used
throughout East India).
362 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Bows and arrows, the heads of bone, flint, and now iron almost their only weapon,
except now knives.

Various grotesque wooden masks.

Dice, made of beaver’s teeth, wooden decoy-duck.

Model of cradle showing the mode of flattening the cranium, for which the Che-
nooks are so famous.

Model of fastening child to a board and carrying on horseback.

Pipes of wood and bone, imitating steamboat, houses, and other fashions of civil-
ization.

Stone pipes, representing grotesque figures of original pattern.

Carved stone saucers, some well worthy the attention of those who think genius
only the offspring of civilization.

Ornaments of dentalium shells; snow-shoes.

Blankets and belts, of native weaving.

Feather blankets.

Cloaks of vegetable fiber; much after the New Zealand pattern.

Leather or buckskin dresses, moccasins, belts, etc.

Beautiful membrane cloaks, and baidare (covered skin canoes) of farther North.

CALIFORNIA.

A race of different origin is seenin the different style of manufactures, ornaments,
and woven baskets for carrying water and cooking; others richly ornamented with
feathers, plumes, ear ornaments, bead work.

3ows and arrows of the usual American pattern; war spears headed with bone.
Feather dress for a sort of priest or devil.
The arrow-proof cuirass and hemispherical cap of the Shasty Indians.

C, PICKERING.
NOVEMBER, 1842.

REPORT UPON THE DRAWINGS MADE BY MESSRS. DRAYTON AND
AGATE.

Through the labors of the artists, Messrs. Drayton and Agate, in connection with
the literary and scientific duties of the other officers, the journals of the expedition
are of two kinds—the written and the pictorial, and although the former is neces-
sarily the more complete, yet the latter in consequence of the industry of those gen-
tlemen and the large number and faithfulness of the sketches made, would of itself
give a very thorough account of the islands and races we have seen; and in many
respects far more detailed and satisfactory than is possible with the pen. The scen-
ery of the islands, their mountains and forests, their villages, with interior and ex-
terior views of the huts or houses of both chiefs and common people, spirit houses
or temples, war implements, fortifications, household utensils, tools, canoes, the na-
tives sitting in council, dressed and painted for war, the domestic scenes of the vil-
lage, costumes, tatooing, modes of cooking, eating, drinking cava, taking and eur-
ing fish, swimming, gambling and other amusements, war dances, club dances, jug-
glery, and numerous other particulars illustrating the modes of life, habits, and cus-
toms of the various tribes inhabiting the islands or countries visited, have been
sketched with fidelity. Indeed nothing escaped their pencil when time was allowed,
and the series of sketches when finished—for many were necessarily left in outline—
will be more instructive and interesting than the highest literary abilities could
render the journal of the voyage. One picture by Mr. Agate, representing a temple
on a newly discovered island, and the cocoanut grove about it, containing one ride,
three or four naked savages starting in affright from an officer that is just beginning
to puff a cigar, and is pouring the volumes of smoke from his mouth, the impression
of such a scene can not be conveyed in words, nor the idea it gives of the ignorance
and superstition of the savage. The portraits are numerous, and are not merely
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 363

general sketches, but accurate likenesses of particular individuals—so faithful, in-
deed, although but the work of a few minutes in the hands of our skilful artists,
that the natives would cry out with surprise the name of the individual when a
sketch was shown them.

Besides historical and ethnographical drawings, the sketches of objects in natural
history are very numerous; and they embrace all departments of natural science,
including some geological sketches. The variety and beauty of marine animals in
the coral seas of the Pacific are beyond description. Like birds in our forests, fish
of rich colors and strange forms sport among the coral groves; and various mollusea—
animals low in the scale of organization—cover the bottom with living flowers. A
new world of beings is here opened to an inhabitant of our cold climate, and many
of these productions are so unlike the ordinary forms of life that, but for our eyes,
we could scarcely believe in their existence. Many of them are among the most
brilliant and beautiful objects drawn and colored by Mr. Drayton. Among the geo-
logical sketches by Mr. Drayton the representations of the great crater of Lua Pele,
especially the night scenes of its boiling lakes of lava, are highly valuable. There
is probably no volcano in the world where the processes of volcanic actions are more
laid open to view, and on this account these sketches are very unlike the ordinary
pictures ot a burning mountain, and far more interesting to the geologists. Scarcely
less interesting than these volcanic scenes are the views taken among the Andes of
Peru and Chili.

The following list gives more particularly the number of drawings in the several
departments. The wholenumber of distinct objects or scenes delineated is 2,100. Of
these 200 are portraits, 180 plants, 75 reptiles, 260 fish, 850 mollusea, and over 500
landscapes and historical sketches. The drawings of crustacea, corals, birds, and
quadrupeds were mostly by the naturalists in charge of these departments, and are
not here enumerated.

The sketches, to which we have referred, have been made in the following different
regions, and they have been the more or less complete according to the length of time
spent at these places. It should be observed that the several groups of islands 1n the
Pacific, although not far distant from one another, have each marked peculiarities
in the physiognomy, dress, domestic manners, ete., of their inhabitants.

(1) Madeira, (2) Cape Verde, (3) Rio de Janeiro, (4) Rio Negro, Patagonia, (5) Terra
del Fuego, (6) Chile, (7) Peru, (8) several islands of the Low Archipelago, (9) Society
Islands, (10) Navigator Islands, (11) New Zealand, (12) New Holland, (13) Tonga
Tabu, (14) Fiji Islands, (15) Kingsmill Islands, (16) Sandwich Islands, (17) Oregon
Territory, (18) Philippine Islands, (19) Sooloo Sea, (20) Singapore, (21) Cape Town,
(22) St. Helena—besides some small scattered islands in the Pacific unnoticed in |
this enumeration. Of these places, the pictorial account of the Fijiand Sandwich
Islands and Oregon Territory is the most full.

The drawings, as has been remarked, are not finished. To complete them on the
spot would have been impracticable where so many things equally important were.
demanding immediate attention, and had it been attempted the sketches could not
have exceeded one-fourth their present number. They are so far complete, however,
that they might in a short time be finished up by the artists.

In addition to sketching, Mr. Drayton has written down the music of the natives
at many of the islands, and the note or tones which the different nations employ in
speaking.

On nearing land the artists were besides employed in drawing headlands, and of
them there are nearly 500 in addition to the other sketches.
364 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DRIED PREPARATIONS IN NATIONAL INSTITUTE—NOVEMBER i8, 1848.

Catalogue, showing the number of birds, quadrupeds, reptiles, fishes, etc.— Prepared in the
rooms of the National Institute.

Speci-
mens.
Bind sarom the explorinoy expedinlonea= sneer ee -see ee eee eee ee eee nee 471
Birds from South America and other foreign parts....-.-....--..--...----- 86
Inds PLESEMbEd Diy wives. \evr cn Cl RO Mere Sema ee ener =e eee 87
Birdsyots North Americans £23 feo. <. tosses eves eee eee eee ee 276
920
Quadrupeds tromytheexplorinmexpedubione ss. eae eee eee 26
Quadrupeds from United States and other parts.-..........----..---.----- 49
— 75
Reptiles from the explorine expedition, etc... =-2----- ----e-eee sso - ee eee 66
Hishessromithe explorimesexpeaihlons teen ss. ere ee ee ne 48
114
1, 109

There remain probably three hundred bird skins to be set up, brought by the
exploring expedition; and about twenty quadrupeds, some of large size. This is
exclusive of an immense number of duplicate specimens.

CR:

NOTE C.

REMARKS SUBMITTED TO THE HON. MR. WALKER BY MR. MARKOE AND COL. ABERT.

In conformity with the desire you expressed that we should put on paper the sub-
stance of our conversation with you on certain matters connected with the Insti-
tute, we submit the following to your consideration :

There are several points which, to our experience and reflections, are essential to
the prosperity of the Institute and to the great objects for which it was chartered.
These are: ;

(1) That the Institute should be the organ of the Government in the arrangement
and preservation of the collections and in the supervision of the appropriations
which the Government may make for those purposes.

(2) That the Institute should have the power of disposing of all duplicates by a
system of exchanges with other institutes, or with States, or with individuals.

As all the Government collections are placed under the care of the Institute and
as all the collections which have been made, or will hereafter be made, by the In-
stitute, must, by its charter, eventually become the property of the Government,
the necessity of a harmonious and intimate intercourse between the Institute and
the Government seems, to our judgment, self-evident. This idea is clearly main-
tained in the charter of the Institute, which makes the six heads of the different
Goverment Departments six of its directors.

But the nominal charge which the Institute now has of the collections amounts to
nothing, and the same may be said of the very slight and extremely indirect in-
fluence which it has been allowed to exercise over the Government expenditures for
the preservation and arrangement of the collections. At present there are three
controlling or operating powers over these subjects: First, the Library Committee
of Congress; second, the Navy Department; and third, the Institute. But this
last, its influence is so slight, if it can be said to have any, that it would be too
much to say it is either felt or acknowledged. Such a divided state of control can
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 365

not fail to operate injuriously upon persons employed and upon their duties, as it
is difficult to say who is their head, who shall direct or superintend their operations,
or who shall decide upon the propriety of expenditures, and to whom they are ac-
countable.

It is clear, to our judgment, that the desired and necessary control can not well be
exercised by the Library Committee. This committee can not be considered as
present, upon an average, for more than six months of each year; and when present
the legislative functions of its members must occupy each greater part of their time
and minds.* It is equally clear that these powers can not be well exercised by the
Navy Department. In addition to its other various and highly important duties,
there is no kindred occupation in any of its interesting functions which would give
to it the means of judging of the proper occupation of the persons employed upon
the collections, or of the propriety or appropriateness of any expenditure which may
be made; nor can it devote the time requisite to superintend either occupations or
expenditures. Under such circumstances surprise should not be created if disap-
pointment were to be experienced in reference to anticipated results from Govern-
ment patronage. The Institute, as before remarked, possessing neither influence nor
authority, can exercise no control; and although it may, as a consequence, be free
from responsibility, it can not, in our opinion, be exempt from serious anxieties, nor
from that moral responsibility which the country already attaches to it from its
charter and from a general impression of the power it is supposed to possess. And
yet it seems to us that the Institute is the most suitable agent for such purposes. It
is always present; the very intuition of its organization was to promote matters of
science, to arrange and preserve specimens of natural history, and to advise on sub-
jects connected therewith. It ought to be supposed that the Institute possesses
among its members competent knowledge for such duties and that it has all the
devotion and zeal and exclusiveness of feeling which the well-being of matters of
science requires. During the period when the Institute exercised more influence
than now its vigilant vice-president was daily in his rooms, and for hours, advising
and directing, to the great benefit of its management and to the prevention of many
an injudicious expenditure.

In addition to these considerations, the organization of the Institute renders it
peculiarly deserving of the confidence of Government, as it can offer, as an agent for
Government property and Government expenditures, a board of its own officers.

The officers of the Institute consist of a president, vice-president, two secretaries,
one treasurer, and twelve directors. ‘ Six of these twelve directors are the heads of
Government Departments, namely, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Attorney-General,
and the Postmaster-General. These are directors ex officio, and constitute the De-
partments through which all Government expenditures are made. Six others are
elected by the Institute from among its members. These six at present are the
honorable Mr. Woodbury, the honorable Mr. Preston, Mr. Dayton, Fourth Auditor,
Commodore Warrinton, of the Navy, Col. Totten, of the Corps of Engineers, and
Col. Abert, of the Corps of Topographical Engineers. t

These are the whole of those who are recognized by the charter as “ officers of the
Institute,” and constitute by the charter “a board of management for the fisc
cerns of the Institute.”

eal con-

* This committee also expires on the 4th of every other March, and in consequence
it can exercise no control, either directly or indirectly, until after the election of a
new committee at the ensuing December session of Congress.

+ Since this paper was written anew election of directors has taken place, namely,
on the 25th January, 1843, when the honorable Mr. Walker was chosen in the place
of the honorable Mr, Preston, who could no longer attend, and Commodore Maury, of
the Navy, was chosen in the place of Commodore Warrington, who was unwilling to
serve.
366 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The whole board consists of seventeen, five of which are the officers named, six are
the heads of the Government Departments, ex-officio directors, and six are elected
annually from the body of members. Now, as it is hardly within the verge of pos-
sibility, that the offices of president, vice-president, secretaries, and treasurer of the
Institute will be filled by any other men of known fitness and good character, so is it
impossible that eleven (adding the six ex-officio directors), a majority of the board,
ean fail to deserve the fullest confidence of the Government. Then if we look to the
six elected directors and reflect for a moment upon the palpable and decided inter-
ests of the Institute and upon the vocations of its members, it is a probability so
remote that it may be considered an impossibility that a great majority of this
board of managers can ever be other than persons deserving of confidence, holding
important public places and in the employ of the Government.

Now, then, if the Government were to place the control of its collections and of
the appropriations for arranging and preserving them under this board of manage-
ment it would be placing its property and funds where all its other property and
funds are placed, namely, under its own officers and under accustomed and long
established responsibilities. But these officers are also officers of the Institute; there-
fore to place this property under that board would also be to place it under the
Institute.

Upon this plan the Institute would be made to fulfill the objects of its organiza-_
tion, the most appropriate organ would be selected by the Government, and the
Government would, in the persons of its own officers, retain its just control over
its own property.

If it should be said that this board of management can be controlled by directors
of the Institute, the answer is easy. It would be worse than idle for the Institute
to come in conflict with the Government or hazard a loss of its confidence, and it is
not fair to suppose, against all experience, that the small portion of common sense
necessary to avoid such a consequence would not be possessed by the Institute or
that it would be unmindful of its own palpable interests.

Moreover, if this board of management should be required to lay a statement of
its proceedings annually before Congress, it would be held to the established respon-
sibility of the different Government Departments, and be subject, like them, to have
its course and conduct investigated and corrected.

Such a plan would also preserve that union between the Government and the Insti-
tute collections so desirable and so essential to the prosperity of both.

It has been intimated to us that there was a desire to separate these and to form
a distinction between the exploring squadron and the Institute collections. A course
more fatal to the prosperity of both collections and to the great objects for which
the Institute was chartered could not well have been imagined.

All the collections in the care of the Institute, from whatever sources received, are
either now the property of the Government or must by our charter eventually be-
come so. They are the results of various donations from foreign ministers and con-
suls abroad; from foreign institutions and foreign governments; donations from
domestic institutions and from citizens of our own country; donations from officers
of our Army and Navy, the results of the official circulars from the War and Navy
Departments; and deposits from individuals and from the different departments at
Washington. Let|the opinion once get abroad that contributions from the various
sources are not to receive from the protecting hand of the Government that atten-
tion which their preservation and arrangement require; let it once be supposed
that all these are to be neglected and those only of the exploring squadron to be cared
for, and the consequence will soon be felt by the degenerating of the collection from
a great and increasing storehouse of all that our own and other countries can fur-
nish to that of a small museum, forever limited to the results of the exploring expe-
dition.

Far be it from our intention, by these remarks, to undervalue the collection from
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 367

the squadron. Weare too sensible of its excellence and too conscious of the aid it
has been to the Institute to entertain any such idea, and we fully and most highly
appreciate the intelligent labor and industry of its collectors. But its specimens
neither exhaust our admiration or our wants, nor render us insensible to the highly
valuable and continually increasing supplies from other sources, nor relieve us from
the conviction that upon other sources we must principally rely, if our desire be to
extend the collection to a point worthy of the national character or of comparison
with similar institutions in other countries. :

Tn justice to the Institute it should also be borne in mind that, but for its efforts,
these very specimens from the exploring squadron would have been scattered, we
know not where; and but for those efforts the scientifie describer might have searched
in vain for a specimen upon which to found a description or to prove a discovery.
It is to the Institute, chiefly, that those who gathered these specimens are indebted
for the present collected results of their great industry and intelligence.

Second, The next matter which we desire to bring to your notice is the right of
disposing of duplicate specimens. Our efforts to exchange have been paralyzed for
the want of this right. The institute is now seriously indebted to foreign govern-
ments, to foreign and domestic institutions, and to individuals, on the principle of
exchanges, because the Institute has not the right to dispose of specimens, although:
its cases are loaded with duplicates. The collections of the Government being placed
in the Institute on deposite, the committee upon exchanges have not felt themselves
at liberty to use aspecimen. We have heard, with extreme regret, that it is con-
templated to give all dupheates back to the collectors. Such a course, in our opin-
ion, would be ruinous in the extreme, as it would destroy one of the great means of
increasing the collection by a system of exchanges. And as these collectors were
wnply paid for their labors, we can see no reason for such a course in justice or
equity. Nor can we believe that such a course is desired by the scientific corps of
the expedition, for, while other men of science are daily making collections, at their
own expense, and sending them to the Institute, many as presents, some in expecta-
tion of exchanges, it would place the gentlemen of this corps low in the scale of con-
tributors to science if, after having been so long and so liberally paid for their labors,
they should yet desire the result of these labors to be given back to them. Moreover,
we have understood that by far the greater number of these specimens were actually
bought by the collectors from funds furnished by the United States. We can see,
therefore, no reason whatever that they should be returned unless the Government
is disposed to abandon all idea of forming an enlarged scientific and interesting
National Museum.

From our remarks, then, it will appear that, in our judgment, there are serious de-
fects in the present condition of affairs which required to be remedied: one, in the
absence of a responsible and adequate supervision of the arrangement and preserva-
tion of the collections and of the persons and expenditures in reference thereto; the
other, in the absence of authority to dispose of (duplicates. These defects can be
properly remedied only by legislative provision.

We desire it to be distinctly understood that our reasoning has no reference to the
publication of the results of the voyage, but is limited solely to the preservation,
arrangement, and exhibition of the collections. We think, however, that the Insti-
tute might be able also to give acceptable opinions, even in reference to the publica-
tion—its formandstyle of execution. But as there is an anxiety to possess this power
by others, and as it is already placed elsewhere, we do not seek to interfere with it,
not doubting that in all its parts it will equal similar publications by other govern-
ments and justify the anticipations which are now entertained of it by the learned
world.

Having thus expressed our general views on these several subjects, we will con-
clude by an effort to condense them in a manner that will admit of their being incor-
porated in a law.
368 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

This law should, in our opinion, contain provisions investing—

(1) The Board of Managers of the National Institute with the custody of all the
Government collections which have been received or which may hereafter be received
from the exploring squadron or other sources, with authority to make all necessary
arrangements to preserve or exhibit the same, to regulate, under the supervision of
the President of the United States, the number and compensations of persons em-
ployed on said duties, and to superintend the public disbursements in relation
thereto.

(2) To authorize the said board to exchange any of the duplicates of said collec-
tions with other institutions, or with State collections, or with individuals, and to
require the board annually to lay before the President of the United States, to be by
him laid before Congress, a full account of their proceedings under this law.

(3) To direct the said board to furnish to the persons who shall be employed in
the writing or publication of the voyage and discoveries of the exploring squadron
all desired facilities.

[Copied from original draft of Col. Abert. |

NOTE D.

WASHINGTON, March 10, 1843.
Hon. Robert J. WALKER,

United States Senator :

Dear Sir: We beg leave to call your attention to Senate Document No. 233, of
the 28th ultimo, being a report made by the Hon. Mr. Tappan, as from the joint
Committee of Congress on the Library, to which had been referred “ A bill for the
preservation of the collection of natural curiosities furnished by the exploring squad-
ron, and from other sources,” together with “‘ remarks submitted by Mr. Markoeand
Col. Abert.”

The “remarks” to which the report refers were made, as you will recollect, and,
asis distinctly stated in the tirst paragraph of them, at your request, were intended
to satisfy your mind of the propriety of the measure we wished you to befriend, and
were addressed to you nut only as the well-known friend and advocate of the Insti-
tute, but alsoas the chairman of one of its important committees, and as a director
and consequently member of the Board of Management. They passed into the
hands of the committee, of which Mr. Tappan is a member, without any desire on
our part, and without our knowledge (certainly, however, with no unwillingness
that they should be read by the whole world), and, under these circumstances, we
respectfully submit to you whether the attack upon us by the honorable Senator
has not been as unprovoked as a reference to our remarks will prove it to have been
unmerited.

We can not suppose, as Mr. Tappan supposes, that you had not read our ‘‘ Remarks”
before you laid them before the Library Committee, therefore take it for granted
that you did not perceive the “ direct insult” to the committee which is so palpable
to Mr. Tappan, or you would not have consented to be the medium through which
the insult‘was conveyed. On the contrary, we have every reason to suppose that you
had made yourself perfectly acquainted with the character and scope of ‘ our re-
marks ’—remarks hastily put together, and meant to afford limits and memoranda
for your consideration and use, to illustrate the necessity or advantage of the meas-
ure recommended. They were certainly not intended or calculated to give offense in
any quarter. We will therefore occupy your time by pointing to two paragraphs,
only, of the ‘“‘ Report,” which we quote in answer to two serious allegations made
against us by the honorable Senator. You will judge whether they have any just
foundation.

Mr. Tappan says: ‘The case presents two officers of the Government, one at the
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 369

head of a bureau, the other a clerk in one of the public offices, who ask as a matter
of right, that they should have the supervision of a very important literary and
scientific work, the publication of which Congress has thought proper to entrust to
one of its regular committees. ”

We must deny that any such case is presented, or that it can be inferred from our
“remarks.” Our ‘‘remarks” on this subject were as follows: ‘‘ We desire it to be dis-
tinctly understood that our reasoning has no reference to the publication of the re-
sults of the voyage, but is limited solely to the preservation, arrangement, and exhibi-
tion of the collections. We think, however, that the Institute might be able to give
acceptable opinions even in reference to the publication, its form, and style of exe-
cution. Butas there is an anxiety to possess this power by others, and asit is already
placed elswhere, we do not seek to interfere with it, not doubting that in all its parts
it will equal similar publications of other governments, and justify the anticipations
that are now entertained of it by the learned world.”

You are well aware that there are appropriations of two distinct characters in re-
spect to the exploring squadron, and the publication of its results (the Hon. Mr.
Tappan does not appear to be aware of this, in our judgement, to have kept this dis-
tinction in his mind): one for the publication of the history of the voyage, the nar-
rative and scientific descriptions; the other for the preparation, preservation, and
exhibition of the collections. It isthe latter one that we have ever manifasted a de-
sire to see placed under control of the Institute, which it appears to us is a most
suitable agent for such purposes, and the more particularly as these collections had
been placed by the Executive under its care.

The other allegation against us by Mr. Tappan is, in our opinion, equally incor-
rect. Hesays: ‘‘ But the great point with Messrs. Abert and Markoe seems to be to
get hold of the appropriations made by Congress to enable the committee to execute
the law.”

The law to which Mr. Tappan refers relates to the publication of the proceedings
of the expedition; the remarks made by us relate to a system for the preservatiou
and exhibition of the collections.

Our remarks on this head were, ‘that the Institute should be the organ of the
Government in the arrangement and preservation of its collections, and in the su-
pervision of the appropriations which the Government may make for those pur-
poses.” We speak of the Institute, of which we are merely members, and of the
“‘Board of Management,” of which we are but two out of seventeen. To this
“Board of Management ” we think the power appropriately belongs, and in its hands
we hope yet to see placed the management of whatever relates to the arrangement,
preservation, and exhibition of the collections. It is clear to us that no better
arrangement could be made with the superintendence of the publication and in the
appropriation which belongs to it (duties assigned to the Exp’]. Exp’m Committee by
law) we have not expressed a desire to interfere, and forbear, as we have forborne,
to make any remarks upon them—except to express the hope that the wishes and
opinions of the naturalists themselves will be consulted and their opinions be al-
lowed a proper weight.

Our ‘‘ remarks” in continuation of the above quotation were: ‘The organization
of the Institute renders it peculiarly deserving of the confidence of the Government,
as it can offer as anagent for Government property and Government expenditures a
board of its own officers.”

‘The officers of the Institute consist of a president, vice-president, two secre-
taries, one treasurer, and twelve directors—six of these twelve directors are the
heads of the Government Departments, namely, the Secretary of State, the Secretary
of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Attorney-
General, and the Postmaster-General. These are directors, ex officio, and constitute
the Departments through which all Government expenditures are made. Six others
are elected by the Institute, from amongst its members. These six at present are

SM 91, pT 2——-24
370 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

the Hon. Mr Woodbury, the Hon. Mr. Preston, Mr. Dayton, Fourth Auditor, Commo-
odre Warrington, Col. Totten, of the Corps of Engineers, and Col. Abert, of the
Corps of Topographical Engineers.”

“These are the whole of those who are recognized by the charter as ‘ officers of
the Institute,’ and constitute by the charter, ‘A Board of Management of the fiscal
concerns of the Institute.’”

The quotations speak for themselves, and we will trouble you with but few more
remarks. Mr. Tappan, in the beginning of his report, most truly says that, ‘‘The
remarks of Messrs. Markoe and Abert are not to be considered as the act of the Na-
tional Institute.” The ‘‘remarks” neither purport nor pretend to be the act of the
Institute. And moreover we beg leave further to say that neither are Messrs. Abert
and Markoe the ‘‘Board of Management for the fiscal concerns of the Institute”
under the supervision of which they suggested the expediency of placing the appro-
priations which Government might make for the arrangement and preservation of its
collections.

It also seems to have given offense to the honorable gentlemen, that we should
have proposed in our remarks “to furnish to the persons who shall be employed in
the writing or publication of the voyage and discoveries of the exploring squadron
all desired facilities.” We really are at a loss to perceive the offensive matter in
this sentence. It has no allusion to the Library Committee, for they were neither to
write nor to publish. The law invested them with power to enter into contract for
the publication and each member of the scientific corps of the squadron would, we
presume, be required to furnish the narrative of his observations. The persons
therefore employed in the ‘writing or publication of the voyage” were these scien-
tific men and the contractors. If furnished with all desired facilities it would be
all they ought to have, all they could want, and if furnished by the Institute there
would be some agent responsible for the specimens and interested in seeing that
they were returned after being taken out of the building by either the describer, the
engraver, or the publisher. The Library Committee expired on the 4th of March, and
there will be no committee until after a new election of the next Congress. We be-.
lieve the committee can not appoint an agent to have a longer existence than itself;
hence appeared in our judgment the propriety that the Institute should be invested
with the care of the collection.

Had the honorable Senator published our ‘‘remarks” with his ‘‘report,” as was
due in all fairness, this letter would have been unnecessary, for the ‘‘ remarks” con-
tain in our opinion ample refutation of the errors of the ‘“‘yeport.” We deem it
wholly unnecessary, also, to point out to you other inconsistencies and mistakes into
which the honorable Senator has fallen, and which have been, on his motion, pub-
lished in his report to the Senate.

We rather limit ourselves, in conclusion, to soliciting your advice as to the best
mode of correcting the erroneous impressions which the language of the Senator is
calculated to make upon the public.

We remain, dear sir, with great esteem and respect, your most obedient servants,

LETTER FROM THE HON. MR. PRESTON TO COL, ABERT AND MR. MARKOE,

CoLuMBIA, 8. C., April, 1843.

My Dear Sir: Having had ample occasion to witness the devotion which you and
Col, Abert have manifested to the National In-titute, you may imagine the surprise
and mortification with which I have seen the total misconception of your motives
and conduct in regard to it in Mr. Tappan’s report to the Senate. To the unwearied
and enthusiastic exertions of yourselves and a few other gentlemen, animated, as it
seemed to me, by nothing but a pure love of science, that institution was mainly
indebted for its origin and the eminent success which has attended it from the be=
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ea

ginning. I can say with entire certainty that my own interest in it was stimulated
and sustained by you, and that I was continually made ashamed of how little I felt
and how little I did when I saw the unabated zeal and unrecompensed labor which
you bestowed upon it. While I wished well to the Institute from a conviction that
it would promote the advancement of science, you and he particularly devoted your-
selves to it with that deep enthusiasm which a more intimate knowledge can alone
excite, and upon which all scientific projects must depend for their success. Men in
public station cr the munificent rich may contribute the means, but the vital prin-
ciple of all such institutions is found in the hearts of those who are willing to work
night and day, and whose labor is a labor of love. Iwas deeply impressed that the
Institute had found in you and Col. Abert precisely such agents, and my high hopes
ofits ultimate success arose from the fact that it had found such. I by no means
mean to say that there are not associated with you other gentlemen equally impelled
by as earnest and disinterested motives, but this I will say, that a vast deal of the
labor was thrown upon you two, and that, to my mind, the discretion and wisdom
of the Institute was evinced in the selection of such agents. I speak of Col. Abert
and yourself especially because you and he are made the subject of a most unmerited
attack.

It is with great pleasure that I bear this testimony in your behalf. If I had been
in the Senate when the report was made I think I would have been able to satisfy
Mr. Tappan of the mistake into which he had fallen, but at all events I would have
put upon record my opinion of the purity of purpose and the wisdom of the plans
which have characterized the conduct of Col. Abert and yourself throughout.

Tam entirely satisfied that if the Government collection derived from the explor-
ing expedition, or from any other source, be not to a great extent subject to the
control of a scientific association, or of men animated by a philosophic spirit, which
spirit alone brings them to the task, it will not increase and will be dilapidated.
Our Government is peculiarly incapable of a proper superintendence of scientific
institutes. In the first place it may be said that it has no constitutional power, and
if it had, the tenure of office is so liable to change, that in a department so removed
from interests of intense excitement, negligence and decay would soon creep in. It
therefore seems to me from the beginning that accessions to science, incidentally
made, like the collections of the exploring expedition, should be deposited for arrange-
ment, preservation, and exhibition with such a society as the National Institute,
the Government retaining the property while the Institute has the use of it, or rather
while the Institution makes it useful to the public. Without some such arrange-
ment the Government will find that its valuable specimens will be lost or molder
away in forgotten boxes, or become a mere mass of rubbish.

I am persuaded that Mr. Tappan, upon such explanations as you and other gentle-
men in Washington can give him, will perceive the injustice of hisremarks. He has
an earnest love of science and literal learning of all sorts, and without some obvious
misconception cannot fail to sympathize and codperate with gentlemen who with
such singleness of purpose and such broad intelligence as yourself and others of our
friends of the Institute have at heart the same objects with himself.

JT am, my dear sir, your obedient servant,

Wo. C. PRESTON.

FRANCES MARKOE, jr., esq.

(>

> SPRINGWELLS (NEAR DETROIT), May 18, 1843.
ol. J. J. ABERT:

Dear Sir: I have read with much interest, but not without some pain, the pam-
phlet you had the goodness to sendme. I regret that anything should have occurred
unpleasant to you, and especially in any matter in which the Library Committee
should have participated. I do not remember the day when ‘‘ the remarks” of your-
self and Mr. Markoe were submitted in the Senate by Mr. Walker and referred; but
my impression is that by reason of accident or delay in some of the officers of the
3d12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Senate they did not reach the committee until more than a week after they were re-
ferred; and when taken up in committee the session had approached very nearly its
termination. I do not remember whether when so taken up they were read in ex-
tenso; but the “bill” which accompanied them was read and its principle discussed.
The committee was, I believe, unanimous in its opinion that it was not expedient to
pass the bill; if at any time, certainly not until the Library Committee should have
fully executed and terminated the trust committed to it by law. Very much incon-
venience and embarrassment had already grown out of a confliction of an alleged
power of control and direction, especially in relation to the ‘‘specimens of natural
history,” etc., collected, and in respect to which it has been made the duty of the
Library Committee to cause to be prepared the appropriate publications.

Great responsibility must grow out of the execution of those powers, for a wide
discretion must of necessity be exercised. Without expressing any opinion as to
what disposition should finally—and after the powers of the committee in the matter
shall have ceased—be made of those rare, rich, and beautiful materials, it remained the
undivided opinion of the members of the committee, I believe, that while those pow-
ers and correlative duties existed it was necessary that those materials should con-
tinue in the entire control of the committee.

This conclusion being come to, the whole subject of the bill, ‘‘remarks,” ete., was
committed to Mr. Tappan, as a subcommittee, with directions to prepare and make
report accordingly.

After this last measure was adopted in committee, I believe the committee did not
meet again; but it was certainly understood that Mr. Tappan should report to the
Senate this result.

Without respect to the doubt which had been raised as to whether all the powers
of the Library Committee continued after the 3d of March, I hazard nothing, I be-
lieve, in saying that in analogy to the case of certain officers of Congress, those
powers were believed by the committee (on which, as you are aware, there were
some professional gentlemen of very high standing) to continue during the recess,
and it was in corroboration of that opinion asserted that always since the founda-
tion of the Government the same construction had been put upon the Constitution
and the powers of Congress. In conformity with that view, I have been required,
as chairman of the joint committee, to draw, in the name of that committee, upon
the funds subject to its order for sums of money for books, salaries, compensations,
etc., since the close of its last session. How else could the law be executed or justice
be done? :

I trouble you with this long detail, my dear sir, because of the personal esteem
and respect which, I beg leave to say, I entertain for you individually, and because I
very sincerely regret that anything should have occurred in this matter tending to
wound your feelings or to give you pain.

As chairman of that most highly respected committee whose proceedings have
been the subject of comment, it may perhaps be esteemed indelicate in me to have
made this exposition without its previous sanction. Please, therefore, consider this
letter as intended for yourself alone.

T remain, with sincere respect, yours,
Wm. WOODBRIDGE,

NOTE E.

n JANUARY 21, 1845.

Str: I have the honor of transmitting to you the memorial of the National Insti-
tute, drawn up in pursuance of a resolution of the Institute of the 10th of Decem-
ber. And in further obedience to the resolution, I have to request that you will do
the Institute the favor of presenting the memorial to the consideration of the Senate
and House of Representatives.

The papers herewith, and which constitute the memorial are:

(1) The memorial as directed by the resolution,
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 373

(2) The resolution under which the committee acted.

(3) The memorial of the scientific men at their meeting in Washington during last

April.
(4) The memorial of the Institute of March, 1844.

Hon. Mr. WOODBRIDGE,

United States Senate.
Hon. J. Q@. ADAMS,

House of Representatives.

I.

J.eABERT:

MEMORIAL OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE.

To the honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of

America in Congress assembled :

The undersigned, a committee appointed for the purpose of preparing a memorial
on behalf of the National Institute, to be accompanied by copies of memorials which
were presented to your honorable body during the last session, beg leave to submit
to your consideration the annexed copies of said memorials and to invoke the friendly
views of your honorable body, to the prayer therein contained.

An examination of the character of the by-laws and of the proceedings of the:
National Institute will show that among the principal objects of its organization
are those of forming, at the seat of the General Government an extensive museum
of the natural history of our country in all branches, and affording every possible.
facility for the development of mind in its devotion to the sciences and the useful
arts. Butthe experience of a few years of our existence has satisfied the Institute:
that individual means are inadequate to meet the expenses involved in the exhibi-
tion and preservation of its already extensive and continually increasing collection:
and for paying the transportation charges of valuable donations daily arriving from

all parts of the world.

These collections, valuable and extensive as they are, have been obtained com-
paratively without cost, and will evidently go without cost to the United States,
as by the conditions of our charter the Institute, in reference to all its collections,

is in reality a trustee for the United States.

Its position and national character have enlisted the most enthusiastic feeling in
its favor from the institutions and the enlightened men of all countries, evinced and
daily evincing itself, by presents of the most valuable literary works, and by dona-

tions of specimens of natural history and the fine arts.

It is to preserve and exhibit

these and to pay for their transportation, which exceed our ability and for which,
on behalf of the National Institute, we solicit the aid of your honorable body on the
grounds of our position in the District of Columbia, of the national character of our
organization and action, and the consideration that all the property and collections
of the Institute must by our charter eventually become the property and collections

of the Government.

The Institute will readily acquiesce in any restrictions and safeguard with which
your honorable body think proper to protect any aid that may be granted, only
begging leave to call the attention of your honorable body to the safeguard already
established in our charter, which makes the six heads of the principal departments
of the Government directors of the ex-officio board of managers of the Institute.

JANUARY 21, 1845.

J. J. ABERT, Chairman,

I. L. SULLIVAN,

T. SEWALL, M. D.,

M.THomas, M. D.,

W. W. LEATON,

i. Cy BENET:
Committee.
374 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

II.

At a meeting of the National Institute, held December 9, 1844, the corresponding
secretary (Mr. Markoe) offered the following resolution, which was, on motion, unani-
mously adopted:

“Resolved, That a committee of six persons be appointed by the chair to prepare a
memorial to Congress in behalf of the National Institute, to be accompanied by a
copy of the memorials which were presented at the last session; and that the com-
mittee request the Hon. Levi Woodbury to present it to the Senate, and the Hon.
John Quincy Adams to present it to the House of Representatives, at the present ses-
sion.”

Whereupon, the chair appointed the folowing gentlemen to constitute the com-
mittee: Col. J. J. Abert, John T, Sullivan, Dr. Sewall, Dr. Thomas, Messrs. Seaton, and
J.C. Brent.

{ Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, 374.]

HI.

MEMORIAL OF THE FRIENDS OF SCIENCE WHO ATTENDED THE APRIL MEETING OF THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTE.

To the Congress of the United States—The respectful memorial of the friends of science,
assembled at the City of Washington, from various parts of the Union.

The undersigned have come together at the capital of the United States, at the call
of the National Institute for the Promotion of Science, with the purpose of commu-
nicating to each other the facts and reasonings in science which each one’s research
might have suggested,and of interchanging views and opinions in regard to the prog-
ress of science in our country.

While engrossed in this delightful and most profitable communion, we have had
an opportunity to observe the results of the efforts made by the members of the
National Institute for the advancement of science. Founded only four years since,
they have already brought together valuable collections in natural history and in
the arts. Connecting themselves with the Government, through the heads of de-
partments, who, by virtue of their offices, are directors of the Institute, they have
voluntarily imposed restraints upon the operations of the Institute, which will pre-
serve its national character, and prevent its being tributary to any local or sectional
purpose. By making the Institute merely a trustee for the United States of the
property which it possesses, and may hereafter acquire, they have proved that no
sordid or interested views guided them in framing their constitution. The zeal and
industry shown in making collections, the disinterestedness in the disposition of
them, would seem to deserve from the Government of the Republic approval and en-
couragement. The value of the property already collected, although the existence
of the Institute has been so short, is very great. And yet it has no building for the
convenient exhibition of its treasures, or even for their safe keeping. Andif articles
of so much interest and value have already been collected, what may not be expected
from the Army, the Navy, and friends of science generally, in the long reach of years
to come, if a suitable place can be provided for their preservation and exhibition.
But how are the means of providing such a building to be obtained? If attained at
all for such a purpose by voluntary contributions, it could only be in the midst of
large and flourishing communities. Local feelings of interest or pride can not be
transferred, and it is not to be expected that the means to arrange, display, preserve,
and augment these collections can be procured by voluntary contributions of indi-
viduals in the District of Columbia, or that they can be procured out of the District.
There is no civilized nation, however narrow its policy in other respects, which does
not exhibit some measure of interest in promoting the advancement of human knowl-
edge. In most countries science receives direct encouragement, and many govern-
ments have vied with each other in their efforts to advance this cause. The govern-
ment of a country emulous to consider itself among the first of enlightened nations,
we trust, will not refuse to aid in securing to its capital the benefits of the labors of
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 375

the National Institute. We cordially unite with the resident members of the Insti-
tute in asking an appropriation in its behalf from Congress. Our only fear is that
in thus requesting aid for the keeping of what in fact is the property of the Govern-
ment, we may be considered as asking a boon far below that which the country calls
for, and that we ought to urge wpon the National Legislature a liberal and plenteous
endowment for a National Institute; and we are only withheld from doing so by
considerations growing out of the present financial condition of the Government.
But that which we ask is so entirely within the means of Congress, and the urgency
of its application to preserve what has been accumulated, with so much labor and
expense, is so great, that we can not but hope the enlightened and intelligent mem-
hers of Congress will distinguish the present session by the necessary appropriation
of funds to an ob‘ect so truly national and so truly republican.
ELIPHALET Norv, President Union ¢ ‘ollege, Schenectady.
BENJAMIN F. BUTLER, New York.
A. H. Everett, President Jefferson College, Lowisiana.
JAMES TALLMADGE, President University of New York, and Presi-
dent American Institute, New York.
JoHN W. Draper, Professor Chemistry, University of New York.
W. W. Marurr, Professor Natural Sciences, Ohio University,
Athens, Ohio.
L. R. WinitaMs, Professor Natural Philosophy and Chemistry,
Jefferson College.
C. Gti, Professor Mathematics, St. Paul’s College, Flushing, N. Y.
JoHN W. DunBar, M. D., Professor, University Maryland.
W. A. Norvron, Professor Mathematics and Natural Philosophy,
Delaware College, Easton, Pa.
Joun W. YEOMANS, President Lafayette College, Pa.
JouHN W. Lockn, Professor Chemistry, Medical College, Ohio.
Henry R. ScHoorcrart, Delegate New York Historical Society.
W. R. AbBort, President Georgetown Library Association.
GRAFTON TYLER, M. D., Georgetown, D. C.
RrcHarD S. McCution, Professor Mathematics and Natural
Philosophy, Jefferson College, Maryland.
JOHN ELGAR, Montgomery County, Md.
FRANCIS J. GRUND, Philadelphia.
A. D. CHALONER, M. D., Philadelphia.
S. C. DoNALDSON, Baltimore, Md.
JamMES CurLEY, Professor, Georgetown College.
ALEXIS CASWELL, Professor, Brown University, Rhode Island.
JAMES P. ESPY.
Epwarp A. Cook, New York.
A. TaLcortT, Connecticut.
WM. STRICKLAND, Philadelphia.
BENJAMIN HALLOWELL, Maryland.
Hector Humpureys, President St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md.
GEORGE TucKER, Professor, University of Virginia.
JAMES PRENTISS, New York.
RicHARD Prrers, Philadelphia.
R. M. Parrerson, Philadelphia.
SAMUEL Hazarp, Philadelphia.
Evias Loomis, Professor, Western Reserve College, Ohio.
CHARLES D. CLEVELAND, Philadelphia.
SAMUEL F. B. Morse, New York.
RicHARD Rusu, Philadelphia.
Epwarp Hircucock, Professor, Amherst College, Massachusetts.

WASHINGTON, D. C., April, 1844. —
[Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, 385. ]
376 _ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

>

IV.
MEMORIAL OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE.

To the honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America:

The memorial and petition of the “ National Institute for the Promotion of Science
and the Arts,” respectfully represent:

That its members have been induced, by a high sense of the duty to the body whose
interests they represent, as well as to the great objects which it was the design of its
creation to promote, to submit to the consideration of your honorable bodies astate-_
ment of the origin and progress, of the past and present condition, and of the wants
and exigencies of the Institute.

The Congress of the Union, after a full investigation of the subject, after duly
estimating the value and importance of the design of its founders, and the means which
it contemplated to employ in the accomplishment of those ends, deemed them so far
entitled to its countenance and favor as to grant to the Institute a charter of incor-
poration. Some pecuniary aid incidentally followed, and it was made the custodian
of much valuable property belonging to the Government. This charter, whose date
is recent, naturally afforded the hope of national protection, thus inspiring every-
where confidence the moment it was seen, by the acts of Government, that confidence
was felt at home.

Under these auspices the National Institute began its career. Many of the most
distinguished and illustrious individuals in the nation afforded it their aid and en-
couragement,

Its active members were chiefly composed of officers of Government and citizens
of Washington, who, occupied in their own private concerns, neither men of wealth
nor mere scholars, proposed to give a portion of their leisure to promote objects in
which they had no other or ulterior motives and interest than such as were common
to the nation, and, perhaps, to the whole human family.

These individuals have so far advanced with a success which they could little have
anticipated, and they now approach the legislature of the Union, and the nation at
large, with the fruits of their labors in their hands, spreading before those whose in-
terests they have undertaken to advance the results which in so brief a space of time
they have accomplished, asking that their deeds should be examined and compared
with their promises; and if they have performed their duty faithfully, and discharged
the trusts confided to them honorably, zealously, and successfully, that they may be
encouraged by the only reward they have ever sought, viz., the means of enlarging
and giving additional efficiency to their patriotic efforts and purposes. They appear
before your honorable bodies to render an account of their stewardship, and they
solicit an examination of their proceedings.

In urging this matter upon Congress, it is not the design of your memorialists to
present a formal argument to establish either the constitutional authority of your
honorable bodies to confer upon the National Institute that pecuniary aid which
they so urgently need, or the expediency of so applying any portion of the public
patronage. They believe that Congress is fully competent to the ascertainment and
decision of all questions of this character. While, therefore, your memorialists ab-
stain from entering into any discussion of conititutional questions, submitting, with
the most respectful deference, to the judgment of your honorable bodies, they feel
that they are in no manner trenching upon this ground in exhibiting fully and dis-
tinetly those facts and circumstances which will furnish the general data upon which
Congress is to decide.

The National Institute is composed of private individuals, with no other bond of
connection than their common labors as trustees of certain property for the publie
and the Government—a common feeling of interest in promoting scientific and useful
information, and the bond of union bestowed upon them by Congress in their charter
THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 377

of incorporation. In effecting the designs of their association, they have established
an extensive correspondence with influential and useful men—men of experience, of
letters, and of distinguished scientific attainments, not only throughout the Union,
but throughout the world. In every part of Europe and of the American continent,
in Asia, and in Africa, we find generous and enthusiastic friends and corresponding
members. Foreign Governments have evinced their interest by valuable contribu-
tions, and many of the most distinguished institutions and societies abroad are cor-
respondents and contributors. An aggregate amount of munificence, zeal, learning,
and adventitious advantage is thus possessed by the Institute, which has already
yielded substantial results, and holds out assurances of the richest fruits. In further
illustration of the advantages which are here imperfectly sketched, we submit for
the examination of your honorable bodies a communication lately received from
Paris, with accompanying documents and transactions, exhibiting, in a remarkable
manner and degree, evidences of interest and good will towards Congress, towards
the States, and towards the Institute on the part of the Government and people of
France.

Through this widespread instrumentality the Institute has labored to form an
extensive library and museum, or collection of objects of natural history, a reper-
torium of facts and contributions to science, documents illustrating history in gen-
eral, but in an emphatic manner that of our own continent, and specimens of the
fine arts, of mechanic ingenuity, valuable productions of the vegetable kingdom,
and materials illustrating the moral and social condition of nations generally, but
in a more especial manner of ourown. From every quarter of the globe valuable
and yarious contributions have been transmitted to us. The gallant officers of our
Army and Navy, the diplomatic and consular representatives of the Government
abroad, the men of learning and science every where have entered with the most
praiseworthy zeal in the cause, and vied with each other in the number and value of
their contributions.

The collection thus made is not designed for, or appropriated to, the exclusive use
of the Institute, or of any particular class of individuals. It is opened gratuitously
and daily to the inspection and for the benefit of all. Without cost, the student of
natural history may here find ample means of improvement in that department of
science to which his attention has been directed; without cost, the geologist and
mineralogist are furnished with abundant materials for prosecuting their researches;
the curious may indulge their predilections, while the man of science is enabled to
peruse the valuable contributions from learned societies and individuals throughout
the world.

In addition to these meterials, thus accumulated by the labors of the Institute it-
self, the convenience of the Government has made it the depository and guardian of
numerous articles of its own property, which are thus exhibited to the public eye
without trouble to the ordinary officers in the various departments, and without the
consequent abstraction of their time from more peculiar and appropriate duties.
The interesting collections of Indian portraits and curiosities formerly deposited in
the War Department; the objects of curiosity, and various donations to the Govern-
ment or to distinguished citizens from foreign countries, once in the State Depart-
ment, are here shown to the public in connection with much other public property.

The articles arising from these, and from various other sources which it would be
tedious to enumerate, already in the custody of the Institute, are of great value,
and they are increasiug with rapidity, and accumulating to an indefinite extent.

The real owners of these treasures are the Government and the nation. The indi_
vidual members of the Institute contemplated no interest or property in them, beside
their trust for the public, beyond what is enjoyed by every citizen in the land, or,
indeed, every stranger who may feel disposed to use them as a means of indulging a
liberal curiosity, or gratifying his love of science. Such of the articles as at any
time belonged to the Government remain its absolute and exclusive property. They
378 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

are simply intrusted to the Institute for safe-keeping and public exhibition, and
may be withdrawn whenever it shall suit the wishes of the owners to dispose of
them in any other manner. The donations by individuals and public bodies to the
Institute are substantially in the same predicament. So long as this corporate asso-
ciation exists it has the charge, custody, and control of it, as trustee for the Gov-
ernment; but upon the dissolution of the Institute, the entire mass becomes equally,
as the other branch of the collection, the absolute and exclusive property of the
nation. In the mean time, the members wish for no private interest in the collec-
tion, and if the present charter be not susceptible of the construction that the whole
beneficial interest of all the articles is now, as well as at its close, in the Govern-
ment, they are anxious to have an amendment made to accompany the appropria-
tion asked for, which shall, at once, regulate the property in that way; for the
Institute has depended on the Government heretofore, and must continue to rely on -
it, not only for many of the most valuable articles in its possession, but for a place
to deposit them, and a place for their meetings, as well as for some of the means to
defray the incidental expenses of opening, putting up, and preserving their collec-
tions. In short, all the property belongs to the Government. The guardians of it,
under the charter, are chiefly the officers of the Government. The custody of such
property was heretofore at the public expense, And that such sums should still be
expended by Congress as would pay for the freight and other expenditures connected
with it, would be the exercise of no other power than such as has been exercised by
the Government every year since its organization.

The individuals who compose the Institute, have, by their pecuniary contributions
and specific donations, largely aided in augmenting the value of this property, in
arranging it so as to render it available, and in defraying the expenses necessarily
attending the execution of the important and responsible trusts contided to them.
They have thus created, enlarged, and rendered practically useful the property of
the Government and of the nation. Their means of usefulness, their capacity to ex-
tend the benefits of the museum, are limited only by their capacity.to meet their
daily expenses.

Not only are the Government and the nation the absolute owners of much of the
property of the Institute and the beneficiary owners of the residue, but they are also
the exclusive recipients of the advantage to result from the entire enterprise. At
this period of the world, and in this enlightened age, it is not necessary to present
an argument to establish a truth which all history inculcates, that the highest glory
of a nation, the purest and most durable happiness of a commonweath, rest most
upon a moral and intellectual advancement.

If, in the legitimate execution of those powers which by the Constitution are vested
in your honorable bodies, collateral results should follow, by which science and lit-
erature shall be fostered and encouraged among your constituents, and diffused more
widely through our Union, such consequences will not, we presume, furnish grounds
of objection to the rightful exercise of power in the breast of any individual. It is
believed that few are disposed to controvert the lawfulness, while a still smaller
number will deny the expediency, of the appropriations heretofore made by Congress
to the literary and benevolent associations of this District and city. None can doubt
the lawfulness of those provisions which have been from time to time made for the
protection of the property of the nation and its adequate security and care by the
erection of suitable buildings for its accommodation, and furnishing proper compen-
sation to the officers or agents of the Government charged with its preservation and
improvement.

All the Institute asks of Congress then, is an appropriation of a sui sufficient to
discharge the arrears of expense heretofore incurred and due by the Institute, an
annual appropriation for the necessary purposes of the association, and the continu-
ance of the indulgence hitherto granted of the use of convenient rooms for preserv-
ing the property and holding the ordinary meetings.
ee eS eS | ee mC LU

THE GENESIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 379

Annexed to this memorial are various documents, of which the following is a list:

(1) Charter of Incorporation.

(2) Constitution and By-Laws.

(3) Abstract of Proceedings, comprising the contributions, donations. and deposits
made to the cabinet and library of the Institution since its foundation, with the
names of the contributors, donors, and depositors.

(4) List of officers, and honorary, resident, paying corresponding, and correspond-
ing members, and of the societies, institutions, ete., at home and abroad, in corre-
spondence with the National Institute.

: PETER ForCKH, Vice-President.
FRANCIS MARKOE, Jr., Corresponding Secretary.
JOHN K. TOWNSEND, Recording Secretary.
GEORGE W. hiaas, Jr., Treasurer.
JOHN C. SPENCER,
JOHN NELSON,
WILLIAM WILKINS,
C. A. WICKLIFFE,
Directors, ex-officio, on the part of the Government.
LEvt WoopBuRY,
R. J. WALKER,
J. J. ABERT,
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN,
A. O. Dayton,
M. F. Maury,
Directors on the part of the National Institute.
WASHINGTON City, March 18, 1844.
[Proc. Nat. Inst., 1, p. 382.]

NOTE F.
\ar MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

The following appeal was made to Congress at its late session (first session of
Twenty-ninth Congvess) in favor of the National Institute, and was presented to the
Senate by the Hon. Lewis Cass and to the House of Representatives by the Hon. John
Quincy Adams:

To the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assembled :

The undersigned would respectfully petition that the memorials* heretofore pre-
sented to your honorable bodies in behalf of the National Institute may again be
taken into consideration and the prayers therein be granted.

In addition to the reasons before set forth in their favor, the undersigned would
beg leave to state what they most sincerely deplore—the increasing difficulties of the
Institute. It is becoming entirely impracticable, by mere private contributions and
taxes, to pay the large incidental expenses attendant on the collection and preserva-
tion of so much valuable property connected with the advancement of science, litera-
ture, and the arts. The Institute asks and has asked nothing for the private emolu-
ment of its members. It merely seeks means to secure the property coming into its
custody from time to time so that it may not be injured or lost, and so that it may
be exhibited and used by the public, as it is dedicated to the public, and the title to
it 1s intended to be in the Government.

For want of pecuniary means, all our collections, whether in possession or increas-
ing by new additions weekly, are in jeopardy; and unless Congress interfere to save

* Copies of these memorials will be found at pp. 383 and 386 of the Third Bulletin
of the proceedings of the National Institute, which accompanies this memorial.
380 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

what is so public in its character, and so peculiarly under its guardianship as is the
encouragement of matters of this kind within this District, subject to its exclusive
legislation, the prospect is that the operations of the Institute must of necessity
cease and the property be abandoned.

Deprecating, as we do, an event so unfortunate for the cause of science and the
arts, not only here, but from here in some degree over the whole Union, and not
a little disreputable to our character abroad, the undersigned would earnestly pray
that Congress, at an early date, may avert the calamity by taking steps to aid effi-
ciently in preserving this important public property; and the more especially do we
ask this, when, for various reasons, it can be done at moderate expense and in entire
contormity to the provisions of the Constitution.

The undersigned respectfully refer to the documents annexed, which exhibit the
character of the Institute and the course of its proceedings.

Lryi Wooppury, President,
PETER FORCE, Vice-President,
FRANCIS MARKOER, JR., Corresponding Secretary,
G. W. Riaas, Jr., Treasurer,
Ropert J. WALKER, Secretary of the Treasury,
J. J. ABERT, Topographical Engineers,
J. G. ToTren, Engineer Corps,
M. IF. Maury, U. S. Navy,
A. O. DayTON, Fourth Auditor,
Directors,
WASHINGTON, December 16, 1845.

LIST OF DOCUMENTS ACCOMPANYING THE ABOVE MEMORIAL.

First Bulletin of the Proceedings of the National Institution for the Promotion of
Science, established at Washington, 1840: Washington, 1841.

Second Bulletin, etc., March, 1841, to February, 1842: Washington, 1842.

Third Bulletin, etc., February, 1842, to February, 1845; also proceedings of the
meeting of April, 1844: Washington, 1845.
ETHNOLOGICAL COLLECTIONS IN THE U. 8S, NATIONAL MUSEUM FROM
KILIMA-NJARO, EAST AFRICA.

By Dr. W. L. AsBorr.

A little south of the equator, and about 175 miles from the coast of
East Africa, rises the splendid mountain Kilima-Njaro. It covers an
area as great as the Bernese Oberland, and its cratered peak, Kibo, is
over 20,000 feet in height, capped with glaciers and eternal snows.

For centuries there had been reports among the coast people of a
great snow-covered mountain in the interior, but it was not until 1849,
when Krapf, a missionary, first saw Kilima-Njaro, that the Suaheli
statements were verified.

The nearest port on the coast is Mombasa, now the headquarters of
the British East African Company. The country between is an open
plain and scrub-covered desert, excepting where the Teita Hills rise,
about 100 miles from the coast, to a height of 5,000 feet. In the plain,
close to its southeastern corner, lies the forest arcadia of Taveta, the
porters’ paradise, offering a cool and shady resting-place after the
scorching journey from Mombasa.

The mountain is voleanic, with two cones, Kibo and Kimawenzi. The
former is the highest, 20,100 feet, and contains a huge crater 2,000 meters
in diameter and 200 meters deep. A secondary cone rises from the floor
of the crater, and the whole is covered with an ice-cap of glacier. Kima-
wenzi is a black dome of rotten lava, about 700 meters lower, and is
rarely completely snow-covered. A connecting ridge about 15,000 feet
in height joins the two peaks, which are situated about eight miles
apart. The axis of the mountain lies east and west.

None of the early explorers gained any considerable elevation.
Charles New reached nearly 14,000 feet in 1872. Joseph Thomson
reached about 8,500 feet; then H. H. Johnston, in 1884, claimed to have
reached about 16,000; Count Teleki, in 1887, did reach this altitude. Inm-
mediately after Dr. Hans Meyer, of Leipzig, accompanied by Baron von
Eberstein, got to the foot of the glacial ice-cap, but they were unable to
ascend its icy precipices. Last year Lieut. Ehlers and the writer
attempted the north face of Kibo; Ehlers gained the northwest corner

without seeing any crater, however, and the writer broke down at
381
382 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

17,000 feet. Finally, the past autumn, Dr. Meyer, accompanied by Herr
Purtscheller, of Salzburg, an experienced Alpinist, succeeded in making
four ascents of Kibo and two of Kimawenzi. The ascents were ex-
tremely difficult, owing to the rotten condition of the ice upon Kibo, the
explorers often sinking to their armpits. Kimawenzi was still worse,
with its precipices of crumbling lava, great masses being detached at a
touch. The great crater in Kibo was discovered and the mountain
accurately mapped.

The climate of such a mountain, of course, presents every variation.
The surrounding plain has an average elevation of 2,500 feet. Ascend-
ing from its tropical temperature and vegetation, we enter the more
temperate zone of Chaga, ata little over 3,000 feet. This is the inhabited
region and extends to about 5,400 feet; then comes a zone of heavy
forest, reaching, with some intervals of grassy downs, to about 9,000 feet.
Some seattered patches of forest are found 1,500 feet higher. The
region of grass and heather reaches to 14,000; above this, saxifrages,
mosses, and lichens to about 15,500, when all vegetation ceases and the
ground is covered with glacial débris. The line of perpetual snow is
about 18,000 feet. The southern slope is well watered and the rainfall
heavy, owing to the southwestern monsoons. Many rivers flow down
it, cross the plain to the southward, and empty into the Ruvu. The
eastern Slope is also well supplied with rain. Its streams, however, do
not reach the foot; but among the foothills, a short distance from the
base, are a number of springs of clear, cold water. These form two
rivers. One, the Useri, flowing northeast, empties into the Sabaki; the
other, the Lumi, flows southward, giving life to the forest of Taveta,
and, after forming a large backwater (Lake Jipe), receives other streams
from the mountain and becomes the Ruvu, emptying into the sea at
Pangani.

The northern and western slopes are much drier, the streams are few,
and the vegetation much more scanty. Here, also, the forest zone exists,
but is much narrower, and there are some small openings through it,
by which the buffalo and eland and other denizens of the plain travel
up to the higher regions. But,-instead of the populous and well-culti-
vated zone of Chaga upon the other slopes, here we find only a wander-
ing and pastoral population of Masai, comparatively few in numbers,
still further diminished during the past few months by their disastrous
war with the Arusha Wajun.

Upon the slopes of Kilima-Njaro, and in the plains near by, are
numerous extinct cones and craters, mostly of small size. One at the
southeast corner forms the crater lake of Chala, a lovely sheet of water
about 14 miles in diameter.

The lava walls rise perpendicularly 200 feet from the water’s edge.
It is inhabited by numerous crocodiles and a peculiar species of fish.

The scenery of Kilima-Njaro and the neighborhood can searcely be
compared with that of any place in Europe or America, it is so entirely
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 383d

different. The distances are so great that the effect of the great heights
and mountain masses are to anextent lost. The neighboring mountains,
although often of giant size, rise blue in the distance. Westward is
the volcanic pyramid of Meru, scarcely known by name, yet not far
from 18,000 feet high, containing a huge crater and secondary cone,
which, as seen from a high point upon Kilima-Njaro, 1s always white
with snow. Other neighbors are the Ugweno, Pare, Litema, Ngaserai,
and the voleanic masses of the Kyulu mountains; all these higher than
the Jura and some of greater extent, their very names scarcely as yet
known in Kurope. From here, in Moshi, Kibo, and Kimawenzi are each
distant about 15 miles and of course do not look very imposing. But
the scene in some of the gorges and ravines near the bases of the peaks
is wild and grand to an extreme. One gorge near the base of Kima-

SSS

“iy

4 AWAD AT) IM
TN \\" NEG
PAN HTL SON a
= £2 NS Vit WW HN i 1
; aN IN Me te WAYS a) VS
F a CSCO ae a ec We We Sei oe
= “Hany en ACA yee Te URS ears Sipser a Ae wed UNIS AQP AW ap re
9, Ke iS Aw i ~
Fig. 1.

Mr. Kinima-NJARO, EAS’ AFRICA,

(From photograph in U. S. N. M.)

wenzi is very fine, rugged bare walls of lava on both sides and the
great black peak standing at the upper end. At one point there area
waterfall and a Via Mala on a small scale. (Fig. 1.)

The zone from 9,000 to 10,000 feet is a particularly pretty, parklike
country, with scattered groves, grassy slopes, and downs covered with
bracken and heather. Occasionally places are seen which remind one
of Devonshire or Hampshire, with the advantage in favor of Kilima-
Njaro that one is not crowded by the other inhabitants. At this season
(December) the upper groves are yellow with the bloom of the Senecio
Johnstonii, varied with reddish fruit-bunches of a tree resembling sumae
and the dark green of the giant heather. The grassy downs are sprinkled
with heather, campanulas, strawflowers, gorgeous red lihes, and “red-
hot pokers,”

O84 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The forests have a most curious appearance. The trees, although often
of very thick trunks, are not tall but somewhat stunted. The trunks
and larger branches are completely covered with orchids, lichens, ferns,
and moss. From every limb and twig hang long festoons of gray moss
(orchilla ?), while the ground is thickly carpeted with ferns of a species —
resembling “love in a tangle” (selaginella).

Some of the huge tree trunks are perfect botanical gardens, from the
number and variety of the plants growing upon them. <As to Chaga, it
has but few equals on the earth in beauty of, scenery. Looking from
the porch of my house, the prospect lies before me of hill rising beyond
hill crowned with plantations of bananas, hillsides covered with grain,
and pastures dotted with flocks of sheep and goats in the little val-
leys. Two thousand feet below stretches the vast wilderness of plain into
Masai-land, with Mount Meru in the distance; above me, over the zone
of forest, rises the snow-capped dome of Kibo. Truly oue’s lot might
be cast in worse places than in Chaga.

Chaga stretches from Useri upon the extreme northeast corner of the
mountain to Kibonoto on the southwest corner, a distance of about 60
miles, and is inhabited by a population of about 60,000. At no point
does the cultivation extend lower than 3,000 feet, and nowhere above
5,400. This narrow zone is from two to four or five miles wide. It is
divided into no Jess than thirty states, each governed by a more or less
independent sultan, and separated from its neighbors by a strip of
wilderness or by a deep gorge, as the case may be. The largest state,
Machame, contains probably 10,000 people, while some of the lesser
have only a hundred or two subjects.

The state of Useri lies at the northern corner. It has a population
of 5,000 to 6,000, and is governed by Malimia, an energetic sultan, who
is, however, rather shy of strangers, having a fear of being bewitched.
When Bishop Parker visited him a few years ago he was kept waiting
two days before being accorded an audience.

Mr. Stephens and I visited him a year since, but his majesty declined
an interview. West of Useri lies Kimangelia, divided among a number
of small chiefs, all feudatories of Useri. South, along the whole east
face of Kilima-Njaro, are the Rombo, the poorest and most primitive of
the WaChaga. They have but little intercourse with the coast traders,
and no European has yet visited their country. They are divided into
at least ten chieftaincies, some of which are feudatories of Mandara;
others, being independent, form convenient hunting-grounds for the
slave raids of that chief and his allies.

At the southeast corner of Chaga is the little state of Mwika; next
to the westward is the Msai, divided into upper and lower. Then comes
Mambo. All theseare small and unimportant. Nextin order is Marang,
whose sultan, Miliari, has 500 to 600 warriors. He is a great friend
to the Europeans, and is about the best chief to have intercourse
with that can be found in Africa. I have lived in his country many
months, and never had the slightest trouble with him. All his Eu-
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 385

ropean visitors give him the same good character, a most unusual one
among Africans. To the west of Marang is Kilemma, whose chief,
Fumba, is remarkable for his begging habits, extraordinary even for a
negro sultan, and which render him an extremely unpleasant host.
Passing the unimportant State of Kirua we come to Moshi, whose sul-
tan, Mandara, has made himself quite famous throughout east Africa,
and has even sent ambassadors to the Emperor of Germany. He is very
energetic, and is the head of the confederacy against Cena, chief of
Kibosho, who is his great enemy. Mandara was given a very bad
name by former travelers, and he robbed one of them (Mr. New), who
came here in 1874, of everything he possessed. However, he may
have changed since, as he has seen many Europeans; for although I
have lived in Moshi six months, scarcely any trouble or annoyance
has ever been oftered to me.

Mandara has had more intercourse with strangers than any other
chief, and has accumulated Kuropean curiosities of every imaginable
description—toy steam-engines, clocks, guns of many patterns, stereo-
Scopes, sewing machines, cavalry helmets, and books, uniforms, and in-
deed one can searcely tell what he has not got. These valuables he
keeps stored away, bringing them out occasionally for his own amuse-
ment or to exhibit to the envious eyes of visiting chiefs. The next
state west of Moshi, Mpokomo, has recently been annexed by force by
Mandara. Beyond this is the state of Uru, whose sultan, Selikia, is
remarkable for extreme dullness and stupidity. There are two other
states called Uru, one of which was long since depopulated, and the
other has been overrun by Cena, and its population swept away or dis:
persed. Kibosho is next in order, lying a little higher up the mountain.
Cena, its sultan, is the most powerful chief on Kilima-Njaro, and seems
able to hold his own, although all the other states are allied against
him. He is very friendly towards Kuropeans, and is very liberal in his
presents of cattle, etc., to these favored visitors, of whom, however, he
has seen but few. He has constructed a large series of underground
passages or galleries beneath his boma or stockade. The huts are
arranged in a circle, and a sloping shaft leads down from the floor of
each hut. From this main gallery another runs off to open out upon a
hillside several hundred yards distant. By means of this arrangement
his wives and cattle would be able to escape in case of a surprise or
sudden attack. Two hundred warriors keep nightly guard around his
house.

The next important place is Machame, the most populous state in
Chaga. The people are poor and ill governed, the sultan, Ngamine, be-
ing a “poor stick.” They are much harried by Cena’s warriors, who
frequently attack them for slaves.

The most western of the Chaga states is Kibonoto, situated upon the
long southwestern buttress of Kilima-Njaro. There are a number of
other small places, 7. e., Kombo, Naruma, Mkinda, Shura, ete., having
only a few hundred inhabitants apiece,

SM 91, PT 2 25

386 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

As arule the Wa Chaga are not well made physically, scarcely a six
foot warrior can be found and they are rarely well muscled (Fig. 2.) The

CHAGA MEN.
Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

From photograph in U. S, N. M.)

women on the contrary, though short, are well built and very erect, due
to the custom of carrying loads upon their heads. Their faces, though
not negroid, are as a rule not at all pleasant, but some of the young
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO, 387

girls are pretty. Many women of Mandara’s harem would be beauties
in any country, in spite of their dark skins. The adults are a bad lot,
lying and thievish, particularly the men. They compare badly with
their forest-dwelling neighbors of Taveita, who are extraordinarily
honest. These last are among the dirtiest and worst smelling savages
I have ever met with, owing to their frequent unctions of rancid butter

eon

\
Sse

\

SS

Mpowswew

CHAGA WOMAN,
Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(From photograph in U. S. N. M.

and red ocher; while the Wa Chaga are comparatively clean, actually
washing themselves occasionally. The wives are compelled to perform
their ablutions daily and soap is in great demand. The children are
much pleasanter in all respects than the adults, and for innate politeness
compare favorably with those of more civilized nations. (Fig. 3.)

The men do a greater share of the field labor than is usual among the
Africans. They keep the irrigation canals in repair, attend to the irri-
gating, and perform the heavy labor of breaking new ground for crops.
388 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The sultans appear to have absolute power over the lives and prop-
erty of their subjects, but there are many customs that control them.
They claim the ownership of all cattle within their dominions, a
monopoly of the ivory trade, and they call upon their subjects for
making war, for building houses, and for cultivating lands, ete. Before
any important measure, a council of chiefmen is held, except possibly
by Mandara or Cena, whose rule is quite absolute. When peopleare
wanted for any purpose, heralds are sent out in all directions, proclaim-
ing that the sultan wants men to fight, er bring timber, or whatever he
may need. Sometimes the herald blows upon a Kudu horn, and in
cases of a general alarm he beats upon a drum. This is a long narrow
affair, 4 feet long, by 5 inches wide, hollowed from the trunk of a tree.

Wars are common, and undertaken to obtain either cattle or slaves.
These last are sold to the Suaheli traders, who are always waiting
around the courts of the principal chiefs.

Honesty is not among the virtues of the Wa Chaga, but if the stranger
is a friend of the sultan he is not troubled by thieving. They evince
a great partiality for fowls belonging to other people, and seldom lose
an opportunity of adding to their capital in this way. My neighbors,
Messrs. Morris and Steggall, of the Church Mission Station here, are
greatly annoyed by the nightly attempts upon their hen-houses, and
the frequent removal of clothing, ete., which may be hung out to dry.
My own reputation as a sorcerer prevented me from annoyance in this
respect, but my own Suaheli followers were not so restrained, getting
into my storehouse during my absence, and carrying off small quan-
tities of cloth, beads, ete., that they imagined would not be missed.
Repeated warnings proving of no avail, a spring gun was placed in the
storeroom and one of the guardians of my station got shot in the leg
while I was hunting. This proved an effectual warning and my repu-
tation as a magician greatly increased, every one regarding the shoot-
ing as done by witcheraft.

The women greatly outnumber the men, probably in the proportion
of five to three; partly due to the loss of lifein war. Polygamy exists,
every man has as many wives as he can get, so Chaga is not afflicted
with old maids. The wives are purchased with sheep, goats, and cloth,
and more rarely for cows. There is a show of carrying off the bride by
force; the friends assemble, and festivities with singing, dancing, and
yelling take place, and this lasts two or three days or as long as the
pombe (beer) holds out.

The bride is decked out with all the beads she can borrow for the
occasion, in the shape of girdles, necklaces, ete., and she is plentifully
smeared with red ocher.

When a woman is about to increase the size of the family, a noisy iron
rattle is worn upon her thigh. Morals are not of a high standard in
Chaga and specific diseases have become very common, owing to the
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 389

coast caravans. Ifa Moshi woman is taken in adultery with a Suaheli,
she is sold into slavery by order of Mandara, but the law seems rarely
enforced at the present time.

The dress of both sexes formerly consisted of a cloak of dressed goat
or calf skins, resembling chamois (wash) leather, like those of the Mas-

Fig. 4.

TORIKI OR WAR CAP.
Wa Chaga of Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(Cat. No, 151200. U. S.N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L Abbott.

sai. At the present time cloth (white sheeting) is generally used. Ban-
dere (aniline red cloth) is held in high esteem, and so are bright colored
calicoes. Cloaks of Hyrax skins, called bilelis, are much used by the
men; they are very soft and warm. Boys and young men wear tails or
triangular pieces of goat skin about 10 inches long hanging over the
buttocks. The little girls wear but little besides a bead girdle and a
390 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

small bit of cloth, worked with beads about 64 inches, hanging in lieu of
an apron. <All females wear as many bead girdles or belts as they can
obtain, often ten to fifteen, also necklaces of large beads and thick collars
of small beads. They are very fond of massive bracelets of pewter weigh-
ing several pounds each. Copper and iron wire is much used for armlets,
rings, and anklets. Fashion is supreme here as elsewhere; only certain
sorts of beads are used. Okuta, as the French pearl beads are called,
are most in demand in Marang; the fashionable color is blue, while it is
white in Moshi. Other beads that are most used are small seed beads,
which in their turn are used scarcely anywhere else in Africa. The war
dress of the warriors is copied from that of the Masai. <A toriki or eap

Ase ) Wr ia
fore OAs NS

He ea» \\" Ce
Wi yf y I) aS

Wy 4
<7) Wi
ify

Water i WY

«HANS
Ahi VAN
Se
SOS

Ricuo:
WARRIOR’S HEAD-DRESS.
Wa Chaga of Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat No. 151199, U.S. N M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )

of white monkey skin (Fig. 4), or a ruff of ostrich feathers around the
face (Fig. 5), a large cape of vulture feathers, anklets of black monkey
skin, with a bit of red cloth around the loins, form an attire striking and
picturesque, to say the least of it. But as a rule one does not find all
these adornments of dress upon one individual. <A string of warriors
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 391

filing along a mountain pass with their big shields and great spears flash-
ing in the sun, the red clothes contrasting with their black skins, is a fine
sight, and one not to be seen outside the Dark Continent.

The arms are also of Masai model; the spears have long narrow blades,
often 2 or 3 feet in length by 2 to 3 inches wide; there is a spike 3 to 4
feet long at the butt, and the wooden handle between only a foot or so
in length. The blades are beautifully made and polished, and with
their cimés or swords bear witness to the skill of the native black-
smiths. The cimés have blades 2 to 3 feet long by 14 to 2 inches in
width, also carefully polished.

oOo

The oval shields are of buffalo hide, 3$ by 2 feet, and painted with
the heraldic pattern of the country to which they belong. Many nations

\\ WN

hes TON
GEO My agte 1 MMs WN, SS \
es ae PA Ua
Padi floater | fe salle has Vides es \\
\ mw in gy Wer Ways
Wy WY sulle im Wuecainyy a
te BIT fi a aw’ AN ath
PO ites wT Un pn a NS
eB | yy hig, 1, | \\ ,
TR
Wy ! I ‘Ny WSN Ey ee yy ee
{ih PALES Fan | Ra

Nate

MWh

{ Vere enet Wrens

; |, Th wnt vai Sarit
bbbartlts s= 5

WSsag >> .
. N SRE
Oh = a

|| oe \ IN aN

Se
S

Fig. 6.
HOuSE IN MARANG.
Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(From photograph in U.S. N. M.

now carry guns, often the Snider breechloader, but they are wretched
shots, not having the slightest idea how to take aim. In fighting they
generally throw away their guns after the first volley and fight with
their spears. In Machame and Rombo, where there has been but little
intercourse with strangers, the natives are poorly armed with small and
indifferent spears and oval shields 3 feet long, of rhinoceros hide. Some
few natives carry bows and poisoned arrows, but excepting a colony of
Wa Kamba settled at Mandara’s they are very poor shots.

There are no villages; each family lives by itself, in one or more huts,
with a granary and some sheds, surrounded by banana plantations
(Fig.6). Each wife has a hut to herself. A house is about 15 to 20 feet in
diameter and 10 to 12 feet high, beehive shape, built of grass over a
framework of sticks (Fig. 7.) In Machame the roof is built of banana
fronds and is umbrella-shaped; the walls are perpendicular and about 4
892 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

feet high (Fig. 8). The interior of a hut is anything but pleasant to the
senses of the European; since it usually contains, in addition to the fam-
ily, one or more cows, several sheep and goats, and a variable number of
fowls. Asa fire is kept constantly burning, the smoke, heat, and stench
are frightful, The house yard is kept swept clean, and the whole sur-
rounded by a high hedge of dracena (Fig.9). The cattle are kept shut
up most of the time, and their grass is cut and brought in by the women.
Sometimes, as in Rombo and Useri, it is necessary to go long distances,
even eight or ten miles, into the plain to obtain good fodder.

yy)
Uf y)
Vis

Shs i
Mee

Wi y

Janes 765
METHOD OF HOUSE-BUILDING, MOsHI.

Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(From photograph in U.S. N. M.)

As agriculturists, it would be difficult to find superiors to the Wa
Chaga. Their neat little fields of grain are hedged in with dracena,
the soil hoed, weeded, and watered with the greatest care. The irriga-
tion canals are constructed with great ingenuity, sometimes commence-
ing many thousand feet up the mountain, carried down through the
primeval forests, around ridges, over guilies on little aqueduets, until
they reach the particular valley for which they were intended.

The language is a variety of Bantu, but being, like all savage tongues,
very deficient in nouns; originally many words have been introduced
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO, 3893

from the Suaheli. There are words for numbers up to ten, and then
counting is continued by tens.

The agricultural implements are the usual V-shaped wooden hoe, uni-
versal throughout Central Africa—each arm of the V is about 18 inches
long; a hoe formed by inserting a triangular flat piece of iron into a heavy
wooden handle; axes made by inserting a small triangular piece of iron
into a heavy wooden handle; adzes, scoops, or gouges for hollowing out
wooden vessels; reaping-hooks with short thick blades. Besides, they
make razors, chisels, awls, and large needles out of wire. Lron wire
brought from the coast is their sole source of supply. The native black-
smiths are very clever at welding and are really good workmen consid -
ering their poor tools. They also make very neat chains of iron and
brass. Domestic utensils are largely made from gourds. Plates and
dishes are hollowed out from solid blocks of wood, as are also the pombe

ponent NL 16 AP gir Blin ares Per ATMS snerer Te
: opin feed

Mie pata” ve
SE TPA
Wits
' ue

i | ie res jialtos

Mila

rh DG te : ee nine
. HMMs y i
uniter ey Ha atu” yt (voor Us) ta) Unibe MyM Wess

ye

2 n. a apr geeat 1

See

ee
Fig. 8.

Hur tN MACHAME.
Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(From photograph in U. S. N. M.)

(beer) tubs, and the bee-hives, like long, narrow barrels, that every
where ornament the trees, hanging from the branches.

The domestic animals are the cattle, sheep, and goats. The cattle
are of the usual humped variety, of small size. A well-fattened heifer
affords as good beef as one can desire. The Rombo especially have
the knack of fattening cattle, and Mandara always sends to them for
this purpose such cattle as he needs for his own consumption or to pre-
sent to strangers. The sheep are generally small, only weighing about
25 pounds dressed; they have fat tails and black heads, and the mutton
is equal to the best Welsh. The goats are also very good. Those of the
plains on the contrary—in Taveita, for example—are very poor eating;
the mutton being tough and dry. Fowls are generally kept, but the
394 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

mongooses and genets are very destructive to poultry. Milk and butter
are plentiful, but have an unpleasant taste, caused by the universal cus-
tom of washing out the vessels with another fluid derived from the
same animal. The list of vegetable productions is very large for a
savage community. Bananas and plantains, beans of six different va-
rieties, sweet potatoes, yams, cassava, Indian corn, pumpkins, squashes,
millet, sugar-cane, and papaws, are among them, while tomatoes and
a sort of spinach grow wild in abundance. Salt, of poor quality how-
ever, is obtained from the plains of Kahe, south of the mountain.

gt OW

Away

Nea Wee,

\ ay
PP /

ha Nah

GATE AND HEDGE IN MACHAME
Mt. Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(From photograph in U.S N. M.)

Great quantities of pombe, or native beer, are made from wimbi, a kind
of sorghum. It tastes exactly like ordinary beer yeast, for which it is
a fair substitute. The natives consume it in great quantities, especially
the chiefS, who are half drunk most of the time. Huropeans soon grow
fond of it, though there is searcely enough aleohol in it to affect a white
man.

The religion, if it can be so called, is fetichism, universal throughout
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 395

Africa where Mohammedism has not penetrated; and, indeed, where it
has reached, it is only added to the former. All sickness and misfor-
tune are supposed to be due to the evil influence of some other indi-
vidual. When boys and others would bring me natural history speci-
mens they always did it secretly, or would bring them after dark, saying
that if the Mangi (sultan) found it out he would beat them for bringing
me materials for sorcery.

Scattered throughout the cultivated regions, there are numerous
small groves of large trees, carefully preserved from injury. These are
thought to be the abode of spirits. When a thunderstorm occurs, the
spirits are passing from one grove to another. In Machame, which Mr.
Skoens and I were the first Europeans to visit, before we were allowed
to see the chief the signs had to be consulted, as follows: A goat was
brought forward, both parties expectorated freely upon its head, and
incantations were mumbled over it. A triangular piece of skin was cut

Vy

a

a Oy Wes

MY; FANG GS he 2
We 4G Es Page Bie, 4
MMT a S56 ie

Fig. 10,
DrAD ELEPHANT.
Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(Frem photograph in U.S NM.)

from its forehead, much to the animal’s distress; this was divided into
strips and a slit cut in each. One of these strips was placed upon the
middle finger of each of us by a prominent native, whom, in turn, we
ornamented in a similar manner. After this the goat was killed and
the entrails examined. The signs being pronounced favorable, we then
proceeded to his majesty’s presence. He wished to become ‘blood
brother” with me; so, after examining him to make certain of his not
having any disease, the operation was proceeded with. Small nicks
were made in our right forearms, and each of us then sucked the blood
as it flowed from the arm of the other.

I pass now to a consideration of the fauna and flora of this region.
The elephant is very common, but rarely met with; it frequents the
forest and ascends the mountain to the central ridge. Lieut. Ehlers
and I saw the tracks of a half-grown one in the snow at 16,000 feet.
The natives take them in huge pit falls or shoot them with poisoned
396 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

arrows. (Fig. 10). The lion and rhinoceros, the latter very common in
the plains, do not ascend the mountain. The buffalo and the eland go
up to the central ridge. Leopards and hyenas wander about the culti-
vated zone at night. A black variety of the serval cat seems to be peeu-
liar to the mountain. A variety of duiker and a dwarf antelope (Nano-
tragus) dwell at high elevations. I shot a strange dark-colored antelope,
of a new species, in the forests at 10,000 feet. The beautiful black and
white colobus monkey inhabits the forest zone, and troops of baboons do
great damage to the plantations. Thestrange little cony (Hyrax brucet)
is very abundant in the elevated forests, and furnishes very fine soft
skins for the native’s cloaks. Several beautiful sun birds are peculiar
to the mountain, one of which (Nectarinia Johnston’) does not descend
below 9,000 feet, and is found at the snow line. There is a beautiful
turacou and an unusual variety of feathered inhabitants. Many of the
butterflies are peculiar. Last November vast clouds of locusts passed
over, but few of them alighted and no damage was done. The Wa
Chaga ascribe their immunity in this particular to having caught a
number and given them dower (medicine) and let them go again, to tell
the news of their illtreatment to the other locusts.

The forests are of great extent, but there is very little useful timber.
Some splendid wood exists in the neighboring plain, in Taveta, Kahe,
and along some of the rivers, but the quantity is not great. In the
forest zone the timber is rather stunted. Fan palms and tree ferns are
plentiful, the last reaching to 8,000 feet. The giant heather composes
most of the higher forests, together with the curious Senecio Johnstoni,
with its soft pith-filled trunk and head of broad leaves; it grows in
gullies and sheltered places up to 14,500 feet. The plants of the tem-
perate regions reminded one of northern Kurope—heather and straw
flowers, old man (southern wood), bracken, maiden-hair and polypodys,
and furze, or something that resembles it.

Kilima-Njaro is in German territory, nominally, at least, the line di-
viding it from the British concession lying just to the northward. It
would be a decided surprise to these dusky rulers to know that they
are German subjects, and no longer independent, and considerable per-
suasion by force of arms would be necessary to prove the fact to their
satisfaction. For the consideration of a small present, one can hoist
any flag he pleases without the least objection. Here in Moshi, four
years since, Gen Matthews hoisted the red flag of Zanzibar. A year
later, Consul Holmwood arrived and raised the British ensign. Finally,
two years since, the Usagara Company put in an appearance and run
up the German flag. Each successive party gave Mandara a good
present and got him to agree to the foreign sovereignty, as they sup-
posed. Mandara would keep the flag flying as long as his visitors re-
mained, and then pull it down and give it to his wives to wear as an
attractive garment.

For a white man who does not come to Africa to seek a living, and
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 397

who is fond of hunting, and does not care for civilized society, Chaga
is a capital place to live in; sufficient to eat, fine climate like the sum-
mer of northern Europe, glorious hunting grounds within easy reach,
and friendly natives. Nowhere in Africa is a white man so sought
after. The chiefs are almost ready to fight one another for the pos-
session of these desirable visitors, partly for the reputation which the
presence of the stranger gives, and partly because the stranger is <
source of presents. His caravan, too, gives a market to the people for
their food and other productions. At the present time Mandara is on

Wiles : PR HRN, WE,
pe 1 ie Wy, \ \\ MU yf
Mii ( (8 ‘N w
NAN yo LMA.

HOUSE OF MILIARI, SULTAN OF MARANG.
Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(From photograph in U. S. N. M.)
rather bad terms with his son-in-law and principal ally, Miliari, sultan of
Marang, alleging that the latter entices away his Europeans, the fact being
that Miliari is by far the better fellow of the two, never inflicting the petty
annoyances, such as stopping of the market or water supply, things to
which the other is unfortunately addicted. Another grievance between
them is that Mandara obtained Miliari’s sister for a concubine, and
never paid the stipulated price (eight cows) for her. Another reason
why the white man is held in such high estimation is that no traders
have as yet penetrated to these regions; all who have entered as yet
398 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

have been sportsmen, explorers, or missionaries, an entirely different
class from the wretched mongrel Portuguese who have given Euro-
peans such a bad name in South Africa. It is much to be feared lest
when the horde of hungry adventurers and ‘riffraff” of all deserip-
tions get loose upon east Africa, the white man’s stock may fall con-
siderably.

Kilima-Njaro with its cool, healthy, and bracing climate will without
doubt some day be a great Sanitarium for the Europeans from the hot
and fever-stricken coast regions. The comparative convenience to the
coast adds to its attractions. Kenia, which might otherwise rival it,
is much more inaccessible, being 150 miles farther inland and the route
very difficult. Yet for my part I shall be sorry to see civilization in-
vade this region, and hope the day may be far distant when a railroad
(now projected) opens the way into the interior and drives off the herds
of game that still pasture within sight of Africa’s great snow mount-
ains.
CAS eA yO) (GU) A, *

DRESS AND ADORNMENT.

DREss. Of tanned goat skins, rubbed with red ocher, beaded on the
edges. Sections of skin are pieced together into a sort of shawl.
There are no sleeves and apparently no means of fastening the
garment. Worn by boys and girls.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151585

Dress. Of dressed goat skins dyed with red ocher, fringed on three
sides.

Wa Chaga tribe; Machame, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151590

FAcE-RUFF. Of ostrich feathers, fastened between two oval plates of
b)
leather. The rims of the plates are decorated with a line of red
paint on a white ground. Worn around the border of the face in
war. Loops on the front are for insertion of white ostrich plumes,
generally two in number. |Fig. 5, page [12].]
Dimensions, 20 by_14 inches.
Masai tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151199
The manner of wearing this ruff is shown in one of the plates to Fie.
“Masailand”, Mittheil. Geog. Gesellsch. in Hamburg, 1882-3, Heft,
FACE-RUFF. Of black feathers sewed between oval pieces of leather.
Worn around the face by Chaga warriors in imitation of the Masai.
Outside dimensions, 23 by 16 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 15155
FACE-RUFF. Halo of dark plumes set into an oval structure of leather.
Worn around the face by warriors in imitation of the Masai.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151538

FACE-RING. Ovalring of leather without feathers. Worn around the
face in war.
Masai tribe; Njiri, Kast Africa 151224
OSTRICH PLUMES. Used as ornaments on apex of face rufts.
Masai tebe, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151246

m The iraiieea in this coiceene Santer to ‘élie entries in tits fitawannh catalogue books of the EEhnO.
logical Series.
400 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CASE FOR FEATHERS. Tube of cane or bamboo with leather caps,
Used by the Masai to hold the white feathers of the ostrich, two
of which are placed at the top of the feather face-ruff,

Length, 194 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151813

WAR-BONNET (Toriki). Of monkey skin, with a long skirt. (See fig.
4, page [11].)

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151540

WaR-CAP (Toriki). Made of the skin of the Guereza monkey (Colobus
caudatus).

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151200

“Iie oo
aA

ys 4%

« Risa l2:
FACE RING,
Masai Tribe, Njiri, East Africa.

Cat. No. 151224, U.S. N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )

WAR-BONNET (Toriki). A hood made of the long yellow hair of the
Guereza monkey (Colobus caudatus). It has a short skirt and is
beaded on the head-band, The Wa Chaga wear it in imitation of
the Masai.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa, » 151539
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARKO. 401

WAR-BONNET (Toriki), Of monkey skin, with long skirt. The bind-
ings and strap which holds it in place on the head are beaded.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151541
WAR-BONNET (Toriki). Of Guereza monkey skin (Colobus caudatus).
Worn as a hood by Wa Chaga warriors in imitation of the Masai.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151542
Coms. Coarse wooden comb, worn in the hair; also used for scratching
the head.
Length, 44 inches. Width, 1} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151792
Comps. Neatly made comb of hard wood. The top in form of an open
ring, serrated on the outer edge.
Length, 3} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151800
Coms. Of wood, colored with red ocher. Top large and rectangular,
with opening cut in shape of an hourglass.
Length, 44 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151822
HAIR ORNAMENTS. Of cow’s bone, in shape of an arrow-head; with
blue beads around the edges. Worn on the top of the head or on
the brow.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151570
EAR-PLUG. Circular plug of hard wood blackened with age and grease.
Grooved on the edge. Hole through center from which radiate four
pairs of lines. Worn by men.
Wa Chaga tribe, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151569
EAR-PLUG. Plug of soft wood, resembling the bung fora barrel. Worn
by men in the lobe of the ear and in some instances the strain is so
great as to break the skin.
Diameter, 12 inches; 24 inches and 2 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151238
EAR-ORNAMENT. Small pin of wood, wrapped at intervals with hair.
At the end is a carved head. It is worn ina hole through the
upper part of the ear, by males only.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151256
EAR-STRETCHER. Conical plug of wood, used to distend the hole in
the lobe of the ear.
Length, 2f inches; depth, 14 inches. z
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151237
HAR-STRETCHERS. Rings of blackened wood, fixed in the lobe of the
ear.
Diameter, 3? inches and 44 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151789
SM 91, PT 2 26

A(Q2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

EAR-STRETCHER. An oblong block of wood, grooved, and buttoned
in the widely-distended ear lobe.
Length, 4% inches; width, 1% inches; thickness, 14 inches.
Masai tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151239
EAR-RINGS. One made of wood, wrapped with copper wire, and hav-
ing two pendants of iron chain. The other is only a plain piece of
horn, shaped for the framework of an ear-ring.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151234
EAR-RING. Of horn, with wrappings of beads, and fringe or tassels
of iron chain.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151233
Ear-rRinGc. Made of a quill, cut and bent into a loop at the upper end.
At the lower end hangs a pendant of iron wire chain of native
manufacture, so fine and neatly made as to resemble machine
work.
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151235
EAR-RINGS. Coils of iron wire served at the ends with fine copper wire.
Fringes of iron chain hang down from the coils. Worn by men.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151563

EAR-RING. Coil of wire, one turn at each end wound with fine copper
wire. This coil is worn horizontally and from it depends a fringe
of very fine iron chain, each strand spaced off at the top with a
blue bead.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mouut Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151564

EAR-RING. A worn and broken specimen of the same style as the
foregoing.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151565

EAR-RING. Wooden ring and fringe of iron chain. Fastened in the
ear by means of a stick run through the ring behind the lobe of
the ear.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151566

EAR-RING. Staple of horn, to one prong of which is attached an iron
chain with amulets of cow’s bone. Worn by men.

Wa Chaga tribe; Kahe district; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151567

NECKLACE. Made of beads and brass wire on leather base; projecting
ornament on the edge of the rim, made of a polished disk of shell;
pendant, a fringe of small chains.

Masai tribe; East Africa. 1512138

NECKLACE. Made of beads of different sizes on a band of leather.
Partly fringed with small chains and beads.

Masai tribe; East Africa. 151214

NECKLACE. Made of beads, with an iron chain fringe.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151228
: ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KiLIMA-NJARO. 403

NECKLACE. Small blue and white beads, strung on a piece of. stiff
wire.
Masai tribe of Tokitoki; East Africa. 151211

NECKLACE. A band formed of strands of native beads, which are seeds
rubbed down so as to join closely. Necklace opens at the back.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151571

NECKLACE. Made by looping on a cord a series of little bundles of
bark.

Wa Chaga tribe; Kahe district; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151572
NECKLACE. Made of iron and wrapped with iron wire.
Masai tribe; East Africa. 151212

NECKLACE. Copper wire wound around core of brass wire. Worn
by both sexes.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151219

NECKLACE. Ring of brass, with design chiseled on the exterior.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151220

NECKLACE. Brass chains, with neatly made pendants of brass wire
coiled over iron wire.
Wa ny ika tribe; Mombasa, East Africa. 151798

NECK-RING. Of brass, with incised ornament on the back. Much
abraded by use. Said to have come from Ugweno.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151559

NECK-RING. Of brass, with incised ornament on the back. Said to
have come from Ugweno.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151560

NECK-RING. Copper wire wound around a core of iron wire. The ends
bent so as to form a clasp.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Afriea. 151561

NECKLACES. Broad rings of leather closely beaded on the upper side,
the beads being ground down to a flat surface, giving mosaic effect.
Masai tribe, of To’kitoki, East Africa. 151216

NECKLACE. Made of leather and beaded; hanging bavet or fringe, of
iron chains. The leather is stiffened with an iron ring which goes
round the neck; the lower piece fastens to the girdle.

Masai tribe; East Africa. 151217

NECKLACE. Leather ring, beaded; small fringe of iron chains.

Masai tribe; East Africa. 151215

NECKLACE. Round necklace, wound with beads, with loops at the
ends for tying.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151218
404 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Apron. Cotton cloth, beaded and decorated; worn by females in front,
suspended from a girdle.
Length, 74 inches; width, 4? inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151240
APRON. Cotton cloth, beaded around edgeand decorated with loops
and fringe of iron chains. Worn by females in front, suspended
from a girdle.
Length, 7% inches; width, 34 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151241
APRON (Kiwisi). Made of a goat’s skin by cutting a lozenge-shaped
piece and folding it in the middle, with hair side in. The outside is
rubbed with red ocher. Worn on the back of the hips.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151547
APRON (Kiwisi). Of goatskin decorated with beads and iron chains.

Worn behind by young males.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151548

APRON (Kiwisi). Made of a double-triangular piece of goatskin with
hair on inside. Decorated with beads and iron chains. Worn be-
hind.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151549

Apron. Of leather, decorated with an edge of blue beads and finished
off at a point with a cowrie shell. Worn behind.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151550

SMALL APRON, “Fig leaf.” Coarse cloth beaded along the edges and
fringed in front with iron chains. This with one or two other beaded
girdles forms the sole attire of a young girl.

Length, 10 inches; width, 24 inches.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151784
Apron. Made of a kite-shaped piece of cowskin with hair on, folded
once. Worn behind the hips.
Length, 15 inches; width, 10? inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151198
APRON. Of goatskin, beaded and decorated with small iron chains
on the flesh side. Made by folding a kite-shaped piece of skin in
the middle. Worn behind the hips.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
APRON. Narrow strip of cloth beaded on the sides and fringed at the
ends with strings of beads. Worn by young girls.
Width, 2 inches; length, 9 inches, including fringe.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151574
CLoAk Made of dressed goatskins, heavily beaded around edge.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151591
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 405

CLOAK. Made of cony skins (Dendrohyrax validus); square; tied
around the neck. Worn by males only. _
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151586 _
CLOAK OR CAPE. Made of cony skins, squared and sewed together.
Worn over the shoulders.
Size 4 by 2 feet.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151587
CLOAK. Made of cony skins sewed together and simply worn over
the shoulders as a protection in cold weather.
Three feet square.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151588
CAPE. Made of three goatskins sewed together.
Length, 3 feet 3 inches; width, 21 inches. e
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151589
WaR CLOTH (Maibére). For trade with the Masai all cloth must be
made up into maibére. The red stripe in this specimen is too nar-
row and therefore ws rejected in trade.
Masai tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. ; 151819
In dress, implements, and in weapons, fashion reigns supreme among these
fastidious aborigines. I*requently, an assagai offered in traffic will be re-
jected with the remark “ We have not used that pattern for ten years. ”
Wark CAPE (Maliti). Made of the feathers of the vulture and the
guinea fowl, fastened to a groundwork of goatskin. Worn over
the shoulders by Masai warriors.
Masai tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 154767
WAR CAPE (Maliti). Made of the feathers of the vulture and guinea
fowl, which are fastened to a groundwork of leather. Worn over
the shoulders by Masai warriors.
Masai tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151768
BEADWORK. Parallel bands of beading on leather, sewn to the cloth
as an ornament; usually on the bottom of the cloak.
Misahi tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151245
ARM-RINGS. Made of the toe nails of the elephant. Mere bands or
rings cut out so as to pass over the hand. They are of the same
width all around, varying from one-fourth to one-twelfth of an ineh
in thickness.
Doruma, East Africa. 151232
ARMLETS. Cut from the butt end of a buffalo horn; resembling the
widely-gaping mouth of the skeleton of a fish.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151229
ARMLET. Beaded leather band, with fringe of iron chain. Worn by
women.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151225
ARMLET. Beaded leather band. Worn by women.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151226
AQG REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ARMLET. Of twined copper wire.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151221
ARMLET. Beaded leather, fringe of iron chains, with pendants of flat
coils of copper wire.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151222
ARMLET. Of buffalo horn; resembles the gaping jaws of a fish. A
loop of native-made chain hangs from the armlet. Worn by men
only.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 1515538
ARMLET. Double, crescent-shaped section of elephant’s tusk, hollowed
out to fit the upper arm, which passes between the two crescents.
Well made. Worn by men.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151554
ARMLET. Semilunar in outline, made of ivory. The arm passes be-
tween the two half-moons. Very old.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Hast Africa. 151555

ARMLET or ARM RING. Of oldivory. Small. Worn bymen. Beauti-
fully colored and polished by use.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151556

ARMLET. Strand of blue beads, alternating with loops of fine iron
and copper chain. A piece of chain two inches long is hung at
both ends on the string of beads and depends in a loop. Thus
alternate on the string the blue beads and the ends of the chain
loops.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151562

ARMLET. Round plait of grass and string, reddened with ocher.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151780

BRACELET. Open brass bracelet, with incised ornament on the back.
Dimensions, 34 inches by 3 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151557
It is said to have come from Ugweno. The origin of the brass is unknown;
certainly none of such character is at present brought into theregion. Ug-
weno Mountains are situated 20 niles southeast of Kilima-Njaro.

BRACELET. Rude, heavy, round bar of tin, bent into an oval. Worn
by girls: Women wear much larger ones, often weighing several
pounds.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151558

BRACELETS. Wire coiled around leather thongs. Worn by males.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151783
BRACELET. Squared iron bracelet, worn by males.

Diameter, 22 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro. 151788
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 407

Rines. For the finger, made of a coil of copper wire. Worn by women.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151227
BEADED BELT. Round belt of blue beads. Loops at the end for se-
curing. Worn by females.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151578
BELr. Round belt, beaded. Worn by women and girls. Sometimes
a dozen are worn at onetime, and the apron hung over them in
front.

Length, 27 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Mast Africa. 151207

Beit. Flat band of leather, beaded.
Masai tribe; East Africa. 151208
BrL?T. Leather band, beaded.
Masai tribe; East Africa. 151209
BELT. Made of leather and beaded.
Width, 1? inches.
Masai tribe; East Africa. 121210
ANKLET. Cowrie shells, with dorsal portions removed, strung to a
leather band.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151230
ANKLE-RATTLES. Little iron bells of semilunar outline, with a slit at
the bottom formed by the juxtaposition of the edges. The clap-
pers are small iron balls. The bells are strung on a thong of
leather by means of double holes in the top.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Hast Africa. 151231
ANKLETS. Made of monkey fur.
Masai tribe; Njiri, East Africa. 151223

LEGLET. Of monkey skin (Colobus caudatus), and worn on the calves
of the legs with the joined ends in front, tied with thongs of raw-
hide. Edges beaded.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151543
LEGLET. Of black monkey skin, beaded around upper edge.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151544
LEGLET. Bands of black monkey skin, worn after the fashion of the
Masai.
Wa Chaga tribe; Kahe district, south of Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151545

LEGLET. Made of reddish gray monkey skin, beaded around upper

edge.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151546

PLUME. Made by drawing the skin of two monkey tails over a stick.
Probably used as fly-flappers. :
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151551
PLUME. Monkey-tail skin. Probably used as a fly flapper.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151552
408 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

TWEEZERS. Rude iron tweezers, formed by doubling a strip of iron
together in the middle. Used for plucking out the beard.
Length, 24 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151786
Razor. Rough iron blade, native manufacture. The Angolese use a
razor square at the end, like that of Kuropeans.
Length, 5 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151181
tAZORS (Kikito). Made of rude iron. Small. Used for shaving scalps.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151782

SNUFF-BOx. Spent cartridges of brass, beaded, stopper fitted, and
chains appended.
Length, 2% inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151778
SNUFF-BOX. Made of a brass cartridge shell, decorated with beads;
an iron chain and a brass carrying chain are attached.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151568

SNUFF-HORN. Tip of a horn with leather bottom shrunk on; leather
handle fastened on the side, to which is attached an iron chain.
Length, 34 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151242
SNUFF-HORN. Tip of horn with leather bottom shrunk on, suspended
by iron chain which is attached to a leather handle on side of horn.
Length, 3} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151243
SNUFF-HORN. Made of the tip of a buffalo horn; with wooden bottom.
Length, 64 inches. ;
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151244
Snuff is made by pounding tobacco leaves in a mortar. The tobacco has a
rich, pleasant odor.

Fig. 13.
SNUFF HORN.

Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat. No. 151244, U.S. N.M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 409

ARCHITECTURAL OBJECTS AND FURNITURE.

NATIVE Hut (Numba). Model much too small, and door proportion-
ately too high. (See figs. 6, 7, and 8.)
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi District, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151818
NATIVE Hut. Model made by Chaga boy. Usual dimensions 10 to
11 feet high and 12 to 15 feet diameter.
Height, 4 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151804
WICKER-DOOR (Molie). Model. The door in native huts slides be-
tween two upright sticks and the door jamb.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. : 151797
WOODEN STooL with four legs. Cut out of alog of wood, and smeared
with red ocher.
Height, 8} inches; depth, 74 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151816
WOODEN SToou with three legs. Painted with red ocher.
Height, 7 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151762
Mat. Made of skin. Placed on the ground for sleeping during a
journey. Other tribes carry mats of bulrushes. Bought of Masai
war party, probably from N’jiri, met with on the Tsavo River.
Width, 18 inches.
Masai tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151201
Foop-Hook (Kiwili). Natural forked branch, peeled. Hung in huts
for the suspension of articles to protect them against vermin.
| Length, 14? inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151793
GRANARY (Kikombi). Model of a conical thatched hut woven of rods.
Entrance under the eaves. The usual size is about 8 feet high,
44 feet in diameter. Model made by a Wa Chaga boy. These
huts are set up on four stones.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151794
GRANARY (Kikombi). Model, differing from the other granary by being
placed on supports.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151796
410 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CULINARY UTENSILS.

TRAY-BASKET, (Kitunga.) Coiled tray made of palm leaf. Used for
carrying meal. or for winnowing grain.

Diameter, 12 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151772

po
i bea AW <
a, Lhe afi WANs YN AS
Pe Myugaahcae’ ;

COILED BASKET.
Chaga of Monnt Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat. No. 151772 U.S. N.M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )

TRAY. Coiled basket-work, made by sewing strips of Diteba palm leaf
over a coil of bulrush.

Depth, 114 inches; height, 2} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151202

BASKET-TRAYS. Coiled, shallow baskets made of palm, generally used
to carry flour.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151582
BaG. Oonical; made of fiber closely twined.

Length, 29 inches; width, 29 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151204
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 411

Bac. Twined native weaving of brown fiber, with narrow bands of red.
Width, 2 feet; depth, 2 feet.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151583
Bac. Of cord, closely twined.
Length, 19 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151760
WALLET. Made of twined petioles of banana.
Length, 23 inches; width, 214 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 1512038
TWINED WALLET. Made of coarse fiber in twined weaving and imi-
tates so closely in appearance the wallets of American Indians on
the northwest coast as to be almost indistinguishable. (See Smith-
sonian Report, 1884, Pt. 11, p. 293.)
Size, 16 by 15 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151759
WALLET. Large sack wallet, crocheted work in brown twine.
Length, 30 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151825
HAVERSACKS. Made of palm leaves, checker-weaving.
Suahili, Taveita, Kast Africa. 151248
Cookine Por (Kinunga). Earthenware pot, made by coiling. Manu-
factured by the Wa Kahe. Used for cooking.
Height, 74 inches; diameter, 7 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151817
Bucket. Body, a cylinder hollowed out from a log, the cover and bot-
tom of cow skin. Used for honey, and also for carrying flour or
other materials.
Height, 13 inches; diameter, 8 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151196

WooDEN JAR (Kimbéla). Wooden vessel with lid. Lugs on side for
cord, which also passes through the Ing on lid. Blackened on the
outside by charring. Used to hold sour milk, ete. [Fig. 15.]

Height, 10 inches; diameter, 8 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151773

WoOoDEN CANISTER (Kimbéla). Hollowed out from solid wood with a
curved knife. Blackened by charring. It has a lid or cover, and
is a fine piece of wood-work.

Height, 94 inches
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151753

CANISTER (Kimbéla). Made of wood, with lug and lid. A fine example

of wood-work.
Height, 94 inches; diameter, 5+ inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151195
ANZ, REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

WoopEN VESSEL. Cup with handle, hollowed out of solid wood with
a curved knife.
Diameter, 5} inches; height, 4} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151769
WoopeEN Cup. Light wooden cup, with handle having ring of brass.
Probably used for milk.
Capacity, three-fourths of a pint.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151812
Cur. Made of gourd. Etching partly scratched and partly burnt
with the back of a knife.
Height, 63 inches; diameter 3} inches.
Wa Chaga or Wa Taveita tribe; East Africa. 151192

Fig. 15.

WOODEN VESSEL.

Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat. No. 151773, U.S.N.M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )
Bow. Very thin, showing skilled work. Made of wood, in imitation
of a gourd, having a lug or handle.
Height, 6} inches; diameter, 8{ inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151190
Bow... Made of wood; thin; with handle.
Height, 3 inches; diameter, 6 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151194
WoovEN Bow.. Light wooden bowl, with flat bottom.
Diameter, 5} inches; height 34 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151814
PLATE. Probably a manioe mush bowl. Blackened by fire. Cut with
a bent knife.
Leneth and width, 104 by 94 inches; height, 2% inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151189
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 413

DisuH (Kitela). Very thin, made of wood, with handle, and blackened
on the outside by burning.
Depth, 12} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151191
DisH. Wooden dish, rounded bottom, small lug at the side, decorated
with beads and iron chain.
Diameter, 64 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa, ~ 151802
WoovEN TRENCHERS. [lat wooden dishes used by Dr. Abbott for
his table. [Fig. 16.]
Diameter, 174 inches to 12% inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151754

Fig. 16.
WOODEN TRENCHER.
Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(Cat, No. 151754, U. S.N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )
Disu. Model of Wa Rombo dish, oblong and rectangular, with lug at
one end. [Fig. 17.|
Length, 5 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151775

WoopeEN Foop Disu (Model).

Rombo of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

Cat. No, 151775, U.S, N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )

WoovEN DISHES. Carved out of a single piece, and blackened on one
side. These dishes have each but one lug on the side.
Diameter, 63 to 104 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151779
414 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

WoopDEN DipPER. Flat-bottomed wooden dish with lug on the side.
| Fig. 18. |
Diameter, 6 inches; height, 4 inches,

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151806

or
fa)

Zu Ss <a >
ia SS

——

NS

S

Ie
5 TA
Zy, ZZ)

A
‘

NY
as

ae Lrg
IZ. oF,
ZZ Ze
von
CLL,
Y

WOODEN DISH.
Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat. No. 151806, U.S. N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )

WoopveEN Dis (Kirambo). Light bowl of wood with one lug. | Fig. 19.|

Diameter, 8 inches; height, 54 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151811

WoOoDEN DISH.

Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njara, East Africa.

(Cat. No. 151811 U. S.N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott.)
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 415

SPOONS. Carved from asingle piece of wood.

Length, 144 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151193

SPOON OR LADLE. Made of wood.

Length, 164 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151580

Spoons. Made of wood.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151581
DiprER. Etched gourd; used for dipping beer.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151205

PomsBh Tus (Kibo). Cut out of solid wood. Lugs on each end for
carrying. Used for keeping beer, called pombé.
Length, 164 inches; depth, 13 inches; width, 11 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151755
PomBE TuB (Kibo). Model. The usual size holds from 5 to 20 gallons.
Length, 5 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151758
PomBE Cup (Kimbéla). Neatly hollowed vessel of wood with handle
like a pipkin. Rounded bottom; blackened exterior. | Fig. 20.|

Height, 64 inches.
WaChaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151790

LOTS
TTA

or

Fae

Se
SF
SESS

Fig. 20.

WoOopDEN CUP FOR DIPPING BEER.

Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

(Cat. No. 151790, U.S. N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott.)
416 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

PoMBE DIPPER. Used in dipping beer or pombé, made from the seeds
of sorghum.
Length of handle, 264 inches; height of gourd, 5? inches.
W a Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151770
PomBE DiprER. Made of an etched gourd.
Length, 20 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151826
PomBE TuB (Kibo). Model of beer tub with lateral partition, differing
thus from the usual form. Made by a boy. Large tubs hold from
5 to 20 gallons.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151809
POMBE GOURD-DIPPER. Gourd etched, beaded, and decorated with
bits of iron chain; handle wound with string of blue and red beads.

Length of handle, 20 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151810
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 417

AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL IMPLEMENTS.

AX (Soka). Usual form of a wedge-shaped blade, inserted in the bulb-
ous extremity of the handle.
Length, 174 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151807
Ax (Soka). Heavy handle of hard wood. Inthe knob at the end of the
handle is set a chisel-like blade of iron. With this tool all timbering
is done.
Handle, 20 inches long; blade, 7 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151765
Awtis. Name of larger, kiwili; of smaller, sumio. Iron awls, set in
wooden handles. Larger awl used for making shields, smaller one
for sewing skin and cloth.
Length, 13 inches, 7} inches, and 6 inches.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151777
WoovDEN MALLET (Kwooli). Fork of a tree, one limb truncated, the
other forming a handle. Used to hammer leather for shields.

Length, 9? inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151774
FIRE-STICKS. With channeled fire-socket. Hearth, small, rounded
piece of worm-eaten wood with rawhide loop in one end to prevent
loss. Drill, a branch of a tree trimmed down. [Fig *1.]
Drill, 19? inches; hearth, 4 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151823

Fig. 21.

FIRE STICKS.
Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat. No 151823, U.S. N. M. Giftof Dr. W. L. Abbott.)

SM 91, px 2-97
418 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

FIRE-STICKS. Hearth, semilunar; drill with pole cut out of the head
for an attaching string, which is fastened to the hearth.
Length of drill, 21 inches; hearth, 43 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151824
NATIVE Hor. Crutch of a tree, with one prong sharpened. Native
manufacture, and used in most of the cultivation.
Length, 164 inches.
WaChaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151766
Hor. A short knob-stick, through which the poll of the iron blade is
firmly driven.
Handle, 16 inches long; blade, 7 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151764
Hog (Koombi). Curved iron blade set in the bulbous extremity of the
handle, as in the ax above described.:

Length of handle, 18} inches; length of blade, 9 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151808

CURVED KNIFE, or GOUGE (Ukombo). Used for excavating wooden
jars and dishes. Blade curved at the end in form of a hook or
horseshoe, and fastened in strong wooden handle.

Length, 15 inches; blade, 1} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151787

Hor. Crutch of wood with one prong sharpened, the other forming a
handle. This is the most primitive form of hoe.

Length, 214 inches,
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151771

CHOPPER and REAPING Hook. Used in planting manioc. A stalk
is taken in the hand, thrust into the ground, and the section above
eround chopped off with the hook, ete. Used also for planting
sugar cane. Also used in harvesting the crops.

Length, 13 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa... 151182

REAPING KNIFE or Hook. Slightly curved blade, set in wooden han-
dle, used in cutting corn, ete. |

Length of blade, 44 inches; handle, 15} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151803
REAPING KNIFE. An exaggerated form of the common small knife in
use among the Chagas. For cutting corn, ete.
Blade, 64 inches; handle, 11} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151801
WoopEN MorTAR (Kieura). Model of mortar used by natives to pound
grain, etc. Made by a native.

Height, 6} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151757
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 419

Mortar. A half-size model. A pestle 6 feet Jong and 5 inches in
diameter is used with the original.
Height, 114 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe: Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151763
CHURN-DASHERS (Kidigo). Paddle made by crossing two flat pieces of
wood in splits made in the bottom of the rod. Twirled between
the palms of the hands in making butter.
Lengths, 164 and 214 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa, 151820
BEE-HIVE (Modu). Model, hollowed log of wood, with plug in each
end, hung in trees out in the wilderness, for the wild bees to
enter. The natives have no idea of hiving bees as we do.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151756
BEE-HIVE (Modu). Model, same as the one previously described.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151821
GOAT-TROUGH (Imongo). Model of a trough hollowed out of a log of
wood. Used for feeding goats.
Length, 104 inches; width, 42 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151799
GOAT-CAGE (Timba). Model of a cage or basket of woven rods, in
‘which young goats are kept to wean them.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151791

PARTRIDGE-TRAP. Model of the wicker hutch used for catching birds.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151776
RAt-TRAP. The rat puts his head in the hollowed end of a stick and
gnaws a cord which releases a spring stick, and draws a loop
around its neck.

Length, 134 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 15178]
420) REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

WEAPONS OF THE CHASE AND OF WAR.

Kwnop Strick. Of hard wood; knob formed on end of stick. Used also
as a tobacco pestle. [| Fig. 22.|
Length, 20 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151186
All over the world among savages are to be found various forms of throwing
or hurling weapons, e. g., the knob-kerry, the Moki rabbit-club, etc. -These
knob sticks are used by the Africans with great effect.

Fig. 22.

IKKNOB STICK.
Chaga of Machame, Mount Kilima-Njaro, Hast Africa.
(Cat. No. 151186, U.S. N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )

KNOB Stick. First cut with an adze,then dressed with the knife, and
afterwards rubbed down with the leaf of a shrub which is very
rough.

Length, 25 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151185

Knos Stick. Branch of hard wood, dressed at one end to a rude
bulbous head.

Length, 214 inches.

Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151187

Knoxg Stick. Made of heavy black wood. [Fig. 23.]

Length, 14 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151188

Fig, 23.
KNOB STICK.
Chaga of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat. No. 151188, U.S. N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott. )

ARROWS AND CASE. Point, triangular iron, loosely set into the
poisoned foreshaft. Wrapped with leather before use; lashings
of sinew, elephant’s hair, and palm. Midrib secured by resin.
Made by the Wa Kamba for the Wa Taveita. Quiver of cowskin.

Leneth, 27 inches.
Wa Kamba tribe; North of Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151184
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 421

QUIVERS AND ARROWS (Uda-quiver, m’fi’ arrows). Tubes of leather,
with leather cap and thong for suspension. Arrows poisoned. Made
by the Wa Kamba, living in Moshi. The arrows are three-feather,
foreshafted, tinely made. Soldin bundles of four or five, tied up in
corn husks. [Fig. 24.]

Length, 264 to 29 inches (quiver).
Length, 25% to 27 inches (arrows).
Wa Kamba tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151815

Fig. 24.
QUIVER AND ARROWS.
Wa Kamba of Moshi, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
(Cat. No. 151815, U.S. N. M. Gift of Dr. W. L. Abbott.

BIRD-ARROWS. Long, slender, tapering rods, well polished; nock, bul-
bous; triple-feathered; points formed by sharpening the shafts and
covering them with a poisonous coating.

Length, 24% inches.
Wa Teita tribe; East Africa. 1511838

Bow. Round wooden bow; well made and strong; hooped at intervals
with rings of sinew. String of sinew. The hoops are used to pre-
vent the wood from splitting.

Length, 4 feet 10 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151516

Bow. Round wooden bow, hooped or banded in one place with a ring
of sinew.

Length, 4 feet 7? inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151517

Bow. Made ofa plain branch, with a few projecting knobs. No nocks
for string, the occurrence of which is extremely rare in African
bows.

Length, 4 feet 3 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151518

Bow. Formed from a branch. The back of bow presents undressed
surface, with knobs protruding; belly rounded. No nocks. A most
primitive type of this weapon.

Length, 4 feet 94 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151519
AD? REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

SPEAR. Nearly all of iron, very finely made. Spud square, filed off at
edges. Blade with median ridge, and narrow in proportion to
length. The necks of all these spears are wound with copper wire
or sinew. The iron of which the spears are made was brought
from the coast by traders.

Length, 74 feet; blade, 3 feet long, 24 inches wide; handle, 74 inches long.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151521

SPEAR (mk/uke.) Nearly allof iron, finely made and polished. Blade,
long, lanceolate, beautifully tapered, and socketed at the lower
end for the very short shaft. Spud, a long, gently tapering rod of
iron, square in cross section. Wound with copper wire at the
points of attachment of the blade and the spear.

Length, 7 feet 2 inches; blade, 31 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151522

SPEAR. Nearly all of iron. Blade very large, broad, lanceolate,
high median ridge, fastened to the short handle by a socket. Spud,
a long, tapering rod of iron, square in cross section, the corners
filed down.

Length, 6 feet 11 inches; blade, 20 inches long, 3} inches wide.
Wa Chaga tribe; Marang district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151523

SPEAR. Finely made. Broad blade, beautifully modeled, socketed
onto the short handle. Spud square in cross section.

‘Length, 7 feet; blade, 26 inches long, 44 inches wide.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151524

SPEAR. Unpolished, broad, short blade, shows marks of the native
hammering. Fastened to a long shaft with a socket wrapped
with copper wire. Spud short, as in the typical assagai.

Length, 6 feet 5 inches; blade, 194 inches long, 44 inches wide.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151526

SPEAR. Broad, short blade, having the double median flexure. Long
handle; short spud.

Length, 6 feet 4 inches; blade, 18 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151527

SPEAR. Spud of square iron, blade polished, broad, lance-shaped.
Socket wound with copper wire.

Length, 6 feet, 3 inches; blade, 22 inches long, 3 inches wide.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. . 151528

SprAR. Long, very slender blade, not polished. Spud square. Show-
ing the work as it comes from the smith’s hands. All the work of
polishing is done by the warrior.

Length, 6 feet 1 inch; blade 23 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151529

SPEAR. Short spud. Unpolished blade, long shaft.

Length, 6 feet; blade, 20 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151530
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 423

SPEAR. Very broad and short blade, nicely polished. ~ Wound with
copper wire; short shaft.
Length, 5 feet 7 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151531
SPEAR. Unpolished blade short and narrow; shaft long; short, square-
sectioned spud.

Length, 5 feet 7 inches; length of blade, 12 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151532

SPEAR. Blade, small.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151533
SPEAR. Blade, small; tang thrust into the shaft and fastened on with
leather; handle very hard wood.
Length, 5 feet 64 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151534
SPEAR. Hard-wood shaft; finely curved blade.
Length, 5 feet 11 inches.
Wa Chava tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151555
SPEAR. Shaft of white wood; spud, pentagonal.
Length, 6 feet 11 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151536
SHIELD. Rim formed by turning up the edge of the rhinoceros hide.
Stiffener, wrought of wood. Outside of shield painted in zigzag
patterns, with boss in center. Found in Rombo and various other
states.
Length, 3 feet 1 inch; width, 134 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151744
SHIELD. Of buttalo hide. Like 151744 in construction. Painted in-
side and outside in red, white, and black, with totem of Moshi.
A loop on the side for the arm, <A piece of skin protects the
knuckles at the hand grip.

Length, 3 feet 2 inches; width, 21 inches.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151746
SHIELD. Constructed like 151744. Painted outside with totem of
Moshi.
Length, 3 feet 94 inches; width, 2 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 15174

SHIELD. Made like 151744. Totem of Moshi on exterior. For boys.
Length, 3 feet 2 inches; width, 15} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151748
SHIELD. Made of buffalo hide stretched over a hoop and fastened at
the edges with thongs. Painted on both sides, with totem of
Pokomo.

_ Elliptical, 3 feet 5 inches long; 16) inches wide.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151749
A424 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

SHIELD. Made of rhinoceros hide. Like 151744. Zigzag creasing on
exterior. Boss over the hand grip.
Length, 3 feet; width, 15} inches.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151750
SHIELD. Of buffalo hide. Made like 151744. Painted in totem of
Kilemma.

Length, 3 feet 10 inches; width, 22 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151751
SHIELD. Made of buffalo hide. Painted with totem of Moshi. The
design means something different from the ordinary Moshi totem.
Length, 3 feet 10 inches; width, 22 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151752
SHIELD. An oval or elliptical slab of bark, bound at the edges with a
rod wrapped in leather and sewed to the edge of shield. Strength-
ener, a piece of wood running through middle and formed into a
hand grip. Thongs run from each end of the hand grip to the
extremities of the ‘shield to keep it curved. Between the hand
grip and shield is a piece of heavy hippopotamus skin, horseshoe-
Shape, over which is fixed a band of cow skin to keep the rough
surface from abrading the hand. The shield is penetrable and
rather crudely made. It is used by the poorer and least advanced
tribes of Kilima-Njaro; being most common in Machame and
Rombo.
Length, 4 feet.
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151520
SHIELDS. Made of the skin of the buffalo. Oval. Painted in red and
white designs (totems). Wooden stiffener with hand grip. Thongs
tied from hand grip to each end to keep shield curved.
Height, 3 feet 5 inches; width, 19} inches.
Wa Chagatribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151206
Knire. Handle of rhinoceros hide; blade of iron, long and narrow, .
with median groove.
Blade, 43 inces long; handle, 4 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151179
KNIFE. Handle of lightning wood. Blade of iron, long and dagger-
shaped.
Length of blade, 3 inches; handle, 44 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151180
KNIFE. Narrow blade, set in wooden handle.
Length, 8 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151795
KNIFE. Sheathed like a sword. Handle of wood, blade of steel, dag-
ger-shaped.
Length of blade, 64 inches; handle, 43 inches.

Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. "151510

,
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 425

KNIFE. Wooden handle; blade lanceolate. Nicely made and deco-
rated sheath of rawhide.

Length of blade, 74 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa, 151511

KNIFE. Long blade, with central ridge beveled evenly to the sides.
Wooden handle, neatly made.

Entire length, 16 inches; blade, 112 inches.
East Africa. 151512

KNIFE. Blade beveled evenly, wooden handle.
Whole length, 18? inches; blade, 8} inches.

+s

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Afriea. 151513

KNIFE. Long narrow blade and slim wooden handle. Sheath, raw-
hide similar to that on swords in process of construction.

Length entire, 16 inches; blade, 10? inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Monnt Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151514

DAGGER. Long blade of uniform width, no dissymmetry. Handle of
wood. Sheath of goatskin.

Blade, 144 inches; width, ¢ inch; handle, 44 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151176

DAGGER. Arm-belt of creased leather, handle of lightning wood.

Blade, 74 inches long; handle, 4 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151177

DAGGER OR KNIFE. Sheath of cow skin; thong for arm, antelope
skin; handJe of wood, bound with copper wire.

Length of blade, 44 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151178

Boy’s Sworp (Cimé). Long spatulate blade. Wooden grip with skin

shrunk over it. Sheath of skin sewed and shrunk over three pieces

of wood. Belt, a narrow strap of leather. Most sheaths have a

button on the end, and a staple near the middle to hold the belt.

These blades are sharp only on the expanded portion near the point.
Blade, 114 inches; grip, 4% inches. :

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151501 (a)

Boy’s Sworp (Cimé). Long spatulate blade, with median ridge; grip
of wood. A ridged effect is given by shrinking leather over a spiral
cord. Sheath of antelope skin. Belt, a strap around whieh a flat
thong has been wound spirally.

Blade, 13} inches; grip, 5 inches. Widest part of blade, 13 inches. Narrowest
part of blade, 2 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, Kast Africa. 151501 (0b)
426 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

SHorRT SworpD (Cimé). Grip worn nearly smooth. Sheath made of
leather which is shrunk over plates of wood. Belt made by crimp-
ing a piece of leather and spacing between the ridges, at intervals,
with beads.

Length of blade, 14% inches; hilt, 4{ inches. Blade, 2;4; inches at widest
part.
Wa Chaga tribe; Machame district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.
151501 (¢)

SHORT Sworp (Cimé). Sheathold and worn ont; sword good, Crimped

belt.
Length of blade, 18% inches; grip, 5 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kiiima-Njaro, East Africa. 121502

SHORT Sword (Cimé). Sheath old and worn out; sword good. Crimped
belt.

Length of blade, 16} inches; width, 2} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 1515038

SHORT SworD (Cimé). Sheath rather poor; blade good. Belt plaited
with “in and in” plait.

Blade, 18 inches; grip, 5¢ inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151504

SHorT Sworp (Cimé). Crimped belt. The blades of these swords are
made of iron wire brought from the coast.

Length of blade, 19} inches; grip, 5} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151505

SHoRT Sword (Cimé). Hilt rather smooth; scabbard large for the
blade. Crimped belt.

Leneth of blade, 21% inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151506

Sworp (Cimé). Made after the long narrow pattern of the Masai.
Seabbard with button at bottom. Bound in one place with ser-
pent skin. No belt.

Length, 233 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Moshi district, Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151507

Sworp. Long, narrow, Masai sword. Crimped belt.

Length of blade, 27 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151509

SHort Sworp. Lozenge blade, symmetrical, a rare feature in African
blades. Handle wood and leather, the latter the skin of a ecalf’s
tail, wet and shrunk on. Seabbard, of goatskin, with stiffener of
wood. Belt creased; scabbard covered with cotton cloth.

Blade, 164 inches long; length, 24 inches wide; handle, 4£ inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151174

Sworp (Cimé). Narrow blade with spatulate point. Hilt covered with
rough leather; no guard. Sheath of wood, covered with leather;
belt of crimped leather.

Length, 28} inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151785
ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTION FROM KILIMA-NJARO. 427

SworpD (Cimé). Heavy lozenge or lanceolate iron blade, mounted in
plain wooden handle. Scabbard of goatskin. Im Kimbundu lan-
guage, of Angola, they call the central ridge the ‘spinal column,”
the two edges “teeth.”

Blade, 2 feet long; handle, 5 inches long.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151173

SHORT SworpD (Cimé). Two-edged, creased belt. Scabbard of goat-
skin.

Blade, 13 inches long, 14 inches wide; handle, 44 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151175
—
bo
oe)

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND CEREMONIAL OBJECTS.

RatrLe. Large iron bell with two balls as sounders. Worn by women
during first pregnancy, on the lower part of the thigh.
Length, 4% inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151577
RATTLES. Two little semilunar iron bells, tied to a thong. Worn.on
the ankles.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151575

ANKLE RATTLES. Iron bells, semilunar in shape, with sounders of
iron balls, fastened in pairs to a thong of leather and worn on the
ankles in dancing.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151576

Drum. Tube of wood closed at one end with a skin head. Used to
call the population to arms. It is carried under left arm and
beaten with right hand.

Length, 4 feet 2 inches; diameter, 44 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151584

Cow BELL. A piece of iron, wrought thin and cut in shape of a
dumb bell, then bent at the center so as to form a rude bell, with a
clapper attached to the narrow portion at the top.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151578

Cow BELL. Native iron work, similar to No, 151578,

Height, 54+ inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151579

GAME BOARD (Ochi). Rudely hollowed-out compartments in slab of
wood, for playing ban, a common game throughout Africa. It is
played by a number of round nicker seeds or pebbles placed in the
different divisions. The game is not understood by Europeans.

Length, 22 inches; width, 94 inches.
Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151805

MEDICINE NECKLACE. Toe-hoofs of some animal, filled with ‘‘ medi-
cine,” the preparation or composition of which is not known.
Strung on an iron chain.

Wa Chaga tribe; Mount Kilima-Njaro, East Africa. 151247
THE BERNADOU, ALLEN, AND JOUY KOREAN COLLECTIONS,
IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

By WALTER HOUGH.

Korea 1s a peninsula, with an area of about 90,000 square miles, the
east coast being formed by the prolongation of the coast of Asia oppo-
site Japan, and the west coast separated from China by the Yellow Sea.
On the north it is separated from Manchuria by the Yalu and Tumen
rivers.

The country is mountainous and not very fertile. The climate is mild
in the southern provinces, and severe on the Manchurian border. The
fauna and flora are temperate and resemble those of Japan.

The coast has few good harbors, and is extremely dangerous for navi-
gation on account of shallow water.

Politicaily, the kingdom is divided into eight provinces, each ruled
over by a governor appointed by the King, from the ruling class, and
responsible for the administration of affairs.*

There are also four independent provinces, to which governors are
appointed. There are about four hundred subgovernors, or magistrates,
of districts, also appointed from Seoul. Itis estimated by Soh, a native
Korean, that there are eighty thousand Government officers in Korea.

The population is variously estimated at from 11,000,000 to 28,000,000 ;
the former figure is probably nearer the truth.

The people, in language and appearance, resemble the Japanese, and
form what is known as the Koreo-Japanese stock, whose origin is Man-
churia, which country has been aptly termed the “swarming place of
nations.”

Three types have been observed in Korea, the first characterized by
short stature, yellow skin, and other resemblances to the Chinese.
These live in the Yellow Sea provinces (Kwang-hai) nearest to China.
The second type is also of short stature, swarthy skin, sparse beard,
and resembles the Japanese. The third type, which is in great majority
and may be taken as typically Korean, is of large stature, light skin
showing ruddy color in the cheeks, and has a tendency to high cheek

* For an excellentsketch of the laws and customs of Korea, see an article by Mr. W.
W. Rockhill, in the American Anthropologist, Vol. tv, 1891, pp. 177-187.

429
430 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

bones, long face and heavy square jaw, black hair, sometimes wavy,
and full beard. This type is found in the north province Ham-Kiung-
do, and in the extreme south, in Kiung-s-n-do.*

“Among the gentry it is by no means uncommon to meet almost an
English face, with round cheeks, small, aquiline nose, well-cut mouth
and chin. Even a bright blue eye is not unknown, and the hair is by
no means invariably pure black.”t

Korean cities are surrounded with heavy battlemented walls of
squared masonry studded with portholes, but without cannon, and hav-
ing gateways of woodwork and tile. In every respect the fortifications
resemble those of Chinese cities. (Pl. 0.) There are many strongly
fortified hill towns for refuge of the people during invasions. Villages
are often fortified. Outside of the villages are the pastures and farms.
(PI. 111.)

The houses are low, of one story, thatched with straw or with tiled
roots. They are of stone, and in point of stability excel those of the
Japanese, who necessarily build with regard to earthquakes. Hewn
masonry is common, but the walls are usually laid up of unhewn stone,
tied with millet stalks before the spaces are filled with mud. The
windows are few in number, square, covered with paper, and run in
grooves; outside they are protected by heavy shutters. The roof is
very heavy, with low pitch, but does not turn up at the eaves like the
Chinese roof. The massive beams which support the roof lose one-
third of their value by being pared away at the ends to fit into sock-
ets cut in the top of wooden pillars. The brick and stone work between
the pillars do not give much support to the roof; A small city-house
would be built in the shape of an L on two sides of a courtyard. A
heavy wall separates each house from its neighbor. The entrance from
the street is into a lobby, on either side of which is the kitchen and
store room. The sleeping and living rooms open into a wide hall or
onto a piazza which runs along the side next the yard. Larger houses
are more complicated, but they preserve the hall and piazza feature.
Often a portion of the house is made of wood and used only in summer.

Houses are heated by the kang, which consists of wedge-shaped
flues under the stone floor, leading into a chimney. Farmers’ huts are
poor structures of stone, with the straw roof held down by a lacing of
ropes and with the inevitable gourd vine climbing over it. (PI. Iv.)

There are three classes of people in Korea: (1) nobles; (2) middle
class, consisting of doctors, painters, interpreters, scribes, and lower
officials; (3) lower class, consisting of those who do manual labor. In
the lowest rank of the last-mentioned class are butchers and tanners.
The bulk of the population are farmers (Pl. v), who raise little more

*Léon de Rosny: Les Coréens. Apercu ethnographique et historique, Paris, 1886,
1 vol., p. 90.

tW.R. Carles: Recent Journeys in Korea, Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc., May, 1886, p, 89.

t Carles, loc. cit.
EXPSANATION= OFS PilSAgp Esl:
SEOUL, THE CAPITAL OF KOREA.

View of the city wall and North Mountain, from the street upon which
the United States legation is situated. ‘‘The walls of Seoul, like those of
Chinese cities, are of stone, battlemented, with heavy gateways of wood
work and tile; the walls are studded with portholes, but there are no
cannon.” W. R. Carles: Recent Journeys in Korea; Proc. Roy. Geog.
Soc., May, 1886.

(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U. 8. National Museum.)
PLATE II.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

“VaYOHY JO WLIdvVO JHL

INOAS JO MGSlA

EX PEANASHGONT OF} PISAghEs Il:
KOREAN VILLAGE NEAR FUSAN.

This village is made up of small houses with thatch and tile roofs. It is
surrounded by walls. Back of the village are farms, The lower picture
shows the beach and the rude fishing boats.

(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U.S. National Museum.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE III.

Two VIEWS OF A KOREAN VILLAGE NEAR FUSAN.
Dae eee 6 eae
rae Cists oa “
r \

EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV
KOREAN FARMERS? HOUSES.

The houses are rather strongly built of stones set in mud; the roof is of
thatch held down by a lacing of ropes over which a gourd vine usually
clambers. The interior arrangement is simple, and there is always a square
window.

(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U. 8. National Museum.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

KOREAN FARMERS? HoUuSEs.

PLATE

IV.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE V.
OLD KOREAN FARMER.

In this plate is shown the costume, and the method of dressing the hair.
The full beard is characteristic of the pure Korean. He is smoking the
invariably long pipe and leans on a staff.

(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U.S. National Museum.)
PLATE V.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

OLD KOREAN FARMER.
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM A431

than is required for home consumption and the payment of the high
taxes. Caste is very strong in Korea. The occupations of the people
are somewhat limited. The pedlars form a numerous and influential
guild, and many children are engaged in this business. (PI. v1.)

Mechanics, artisans, and tinkers, each with his peculiar outfit, are
numerous in Korea, as in China. (PI. Vi.)

The yearly civil service examinations bring together great numbers
of students (Pl. vir) to the capital city. The examinations are con-
ducted like those of China, and the successful competitors are sure of
official promotion.

“ Korean women have neither legal nor social standing.” *

Except servants (PI. 1x), who go about bareheaded, the faces of the
women in Korea are invisible. Women of the middle class when walk-
ing throw the coat, with sleeves, over the head, concealing the face. (See
female costume, p. 450.)

In the palace there are numerous serving women who also embroider
and sew; their costume and coiffure are shown in PI. x. A Korean
lady is shown in Pl. xr. It is highly probable that a closer acquaint-
ance with Korean laws and customs will show that women, seemingly
hampered by oriental ideas, are really of greater importance as a
“power behind the throne” than has been suspected.

“Among other inheritances from China Confucianism has effectively
permeated Korea. Buddhism seems not to have gained much of a
foothold in Korea and is almost entirely under ban at present. It has
often been observed that Koreans have little religious sentiment.
Buddhism in Korea is, curiously enough to my mind, much less like the
form of that religion obtaining in China, at least in the church cere-
monies, if not its dogmas, than is even the Japanese. It presents
many curious analogies with the Thibetan form of Buddhism, and in the
style of church architecture, painting, ete., it has certainly been in-
fluenced by it. Several of the feasts are probably of Buddhist origin;
others are Chinese or Japanese; but in most of them a certain indig-
enous element is perceptible which makes them worthy of our notice.
The prominence given to exorcisms in Korea is characteristic of Lama-
ism, but in no wise of Chinese Buddhism, and may have been intro-
duced with the Buddhist religion, although I am inclined to believe
that it is coeval with the earliest existence of this people.” t

Mr. Carles, in his excellent account of his travelin Korea, says: “Of
superstitious observances there are many, mostly the outgrowth of
Taoism. Shrines to the spirit of the mountains, with cairns to which
stones are added by passers by, stand at the top of almost every ridge
crossed by mountain paths; trees and bushes often have their branches
laden with cotton streamers; stones or fossils of unusual shape are

*P. Lowell: Chos6n, p. 151. In chapter xv of this work appears a complete state-
ment of woman’s position in the social economy of Korea.
t W. W. Rockhill; Laws and Customs of Korea, Am. Anthrop. April, 1891.
432 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

placed in the shrines, and where hollows have been worn by the weather
in sloping rocks by the roadside, every little cavity is frequently occu-
pied by astone placed there by suppliants for a fair journey; grotesquely
sarved figures called syou-sal-maki are erected at the entrance of vil-
lages to ward off the evil spirits. Taoist priests offer prayers to the
mountain spirits for travelers. Evidences of some other religion exists
in the which are half-length human figures (miriok) carved in stone. The
largest are in Um-jin, near the Keum River in Cholla-do.

Lieut. G. C. Foulk, U.S. Navy, photographed the body and head of
a figure 62 feet high, the cap differing from the Buddhist figures. The
cap isa column 10 feet high supporting a slab of the same height; <
similar column and slab is placed above the latter; bells hang from the
corners of the slabs. There are two mirioks between Ko-yang and
Pha-ju 25 feet high. One has a round hat and the other a square one,
showing, according to Mr. Aston, that the former is to represent heaven,
or the male element of Chinese philosophy; the latter, earth, or the
female element.*

Perhaps the first ethnological collection ever brought to the West
from Korea was a wisely chosen series of art products, to illustrate
social and industrial life in Korea, sent to the U. 8S. National Museum
by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. Navy, in 1884. With this nucleus,
and the addition of the fine collection of Dr. H. N. Allen, secretary of
the Korean legation at Seoul; a series deposited by Mr. P. L. Jouy, and
the gifts of Mr. W. W. Rockhill, Mr. Gustavus Goward and others, the
collection has grown in importance and interest.

The collection has been explained and studied by Ensign Bernadou,
three Korean gentlemen in Washington (Pom K. Soh, Dr. Philip Jai-
sohn, and the late Penn Su), Dr. H. N. Allen, Mr. W. W. Rockhill, Mr.
P. L. Jouy, Rev. W. E. Griffis, and others, to whom the compiler 1s
grateful for information and suggestions.

Great interest centers in Korea from the fact that ‘‘ we have there a
«a human exemplification of the survival of the whole genera of indus-
tries and customs, while in surrounding regions these have been swept
away or transtormed,”t for the reason that Korea pursued a policy of
complete isolation for many centuries and has preserved the customs
of the Tang and Ming dynasties of China over four hundred years
ago.

The peninsula of Korea, “like Cyprus, between Egypt and Greece,
forms the link between the Chinese and the Japanese civilization—the
old and the new.”¢

The collections to be described are rendered more intelligible by
keeping this connection in mind.

*W. R. Carles: Recent Journeys in Korea. Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc., May, 1886, p.
310.
t Prof. O. T. Mason: Science, vit, Aug. 1886, p. 115.

tW. E. Griffis: Korea, Without and Within. Phila., p. 23.-
EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI.

(On the left.)

Boy PEDDLERS. The boy with the square box sells candy, or tobacco, and the boy
with carrying frame and large basket on his back sells vegetables. These
peddlers are omnipresent in Korea,

(On the right.)

GRouP OF Boys. Children of a poor family.
(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U. S. National Museum.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE VI..

GRouP OF Boys,

KOREAN Boy PEDDLERS AND

EXPLANATION OF PLATE VII.

(On the left.)
KoREAN TUB MENDER. On the carrying-frame he has hoops of bamboo, a saw, and
a bag containing awls, knives, etc., necessary for his craft.
(On the right.)
CANDY SELLER. The box is carried in a primitive way, by a rope passing over the

back of the neck.
(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U.S. National Museum.)
PLATE VII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

"43773 AGNVO GNV YSGNSIN SNL NV3YOM

EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII.
KOREAN STUDENTS AND GENTLEMEN.

The national Gostume of Korea is uniformly white, and is somewhat
monotonous and cumbersome. The figure on the left of the group is in

mourning costume.
(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U. S. National Museum.)
Report of National Museum. 1891.—Hough- PLaTE VIII.

KOREAN STUDENTS AND GENTLEMEN.

CEA OG Ui.

AGRICULTURE AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES.

Koreais strictly an agricultural country. The grains raised, samples
of which were sent by Ensign Bernadou, are:

(1) Millet, Av-tjang, grown everywhere in Korea and used both as
food and to make a fermented drink. A larger variety of millet called
tjo is common and plentiful in mountainous districts and is a staple for
the poor.

(2) Sorghum, sow-sow (Holeus sorghum). The seeds of a species of
sorghum used by the poor.

(3) Barley, port, is grown in all parts of the country.

(4) Rye.

(5) Rice, moip-ssal, is a staple. The variety called tehap-ssal is used
in making cakes of dough of which the Koreans are fond; also, it is
fermented to make soul or wine like the Japanese saki. The Koreans
find it not so good for the table as common rice, since it does not
readily become soft by boiling and does not expand so greatly.

Wheat and oats are raised.

Many vegetables are raised, chief among which are beans (pat) and
peas (kong), the latter fed to horses, radishes, cucumbers, melons, tur-
nips, yams, cabbage and sprout plants, ete.

The fruits are cherries, raspberries, blackberries, apples, peaches,
plums, pears, apricots, quinces, mulberries, persimmons, oranges, lemons,
pomegranates, grapes, and dates.

The principal nuts are chestnuts, walnuts, and the water nut ce Ned
in China ling (Trapa bicornis).

Flowers are little cultivated, the Koreans not being proficient in
ornamental and recreative horticulture.

There are laws compelling the planting and protection of trees, such
as lacquer, mulberry, and pine trees. The country has been almost de-
forested.

The domestic animals are the horse, cattle, swine, poultry, dogs, and
rabbits. Sheep and goats are not found in Korea.

The wild animals are the tiger, leopard, deer, bear, fox, wild boar,
and a number of animals hunted for the fur, such as the seal and rat-
like animals.*

* See Griffis: Korea, p. 216.
SM 91, PL 2——28 433
434 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

MARINE AND FISHERIES.
FRESH-WATER FISHING.

CANT HOOK (Sang-sun-que-nun-soe). Wrought-iron hook pivoted to
an upright iron fastening into a socket in the end of a pole. The
lower end of the hook is formed into a ring, to which a cord was
attached. Superior iron work.

Length, 5} inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151602
Collected by P. L. Jony.

Used on the Han River for dragging tish out of a net.

MANUFACTURES AND OTHER ELABORATIVE INDUSTRIES.
POTTERY AND ITS MANUFACTURE—THE CERAMIC ART.

Korea, now known to the Koreans as Cho-s6n, was formerly called by
them Korai. The Kingdom of Korai ceased to exist just five hundred
years ago; during its existence the potter’s art flourished. The best
ware was made at the city of Song-do, the ancient capital. After the
foundation of the Kingdom of Cho-sén, the people of Seoul, the new
capital, and the people of Song-do were for along time bitter enemies
during the civil war about the year 1400. From this cause the manu-
facture of pottery at Song-do declined until the Japanese invasion of
1597, when the work ended on the transplanting of the potters to Japan, *
and may be said to never have been resumed at that city.

‘‘The pottery in common use in Korea at the present time consists
of three kinds; the finest of white, pale buff, or bluish porcelain, some-
times decorated in blue and with a high glaze, is used for the table and
consists of dishes, bowls, and bottles, also wash basins; the second
quality is a pale-yellow ware, glazed, mostly made into bowls, un-
decorated and used by the poorer classes. * * * The third style of
pottery is of the commonest kind, made of dark brown or reddish earth,
is glazed inside and out, and has little or no decoration except a wavy
line produced by wiping off the glaze, leaving the lighter under surface
to show through.”*

Color decoration on Korean pottery was revived about ten years ago. t

Mainly the heavier forms survive; the source of these wares are the
tombs, in which it was customary from time immemorial to place pot-
tery for the use of the ancestral spirits. While the better class of ware
was not generally buried, it is probable that the tombs of the kings,
which date back over three thousand years (Soh), and are well known
in Korea, contain materials for the history of art in the peninsula, and
may prove that porcelain was invented by Korean potters.

*P. L. Jouy: Korean Mortuary Pottery. Smithson. Rept. 11, 1888, p. 591.
t P. Lowell: Chosoén, p. 171.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE IX.
KOREAN WOMEN OF LOWER CLASS.

A servant and nurse; probably the wife of a farm laborer. The type of
face is Tungusie, with high cheek bones and a slight tendency to an
oblique setting of the eyelids. Color, dark; stature, medium. The cos-
tume is the ancient one prescribed for Korean mothers. (See female cos-

tume, p. 431.)
(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U. 8. National Museum.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE |X.

KOREAN SERVANTS

7)
ra . :

~
19

io eee. ca) ee oan

o

EXPEANATION OF PEATE xX;
KOREAN SERVING WOMAN IN THE PALACE.

In summer costume. The hair is dressed in the fashion peculiar to court
ladies. The coat is always white and the skirt blue. Only the royal

family wear red garments in the palace.
(From a photograph by P. L. Jouy in the U. 8. National Museum.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE X,

KOREAN SERVING WOMAN IN THE PALACE.
i ti 4
ae io 7 Ai, at, rm
ry . } a tn

ey. vm
ea

EXPLANATION’ OF PLATE XI.
KOREAN LADY.

The costume is that of a married woman, and consists of a blue silk skirt
and jacket. The cap is ornamented with a perforated jade-disk overlaid
with a network of gold rings, and having a tassel of silk. The necklace
is made of beads molded of sweet-smelling spices and gums, somewhat
after the style of the rose-leaf beads worn by Turkish ladies. The gloves
are a recent addition to the native Korean dress.

(From a photograph in the U. S. National Museum.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE XI.

KOREAN LADY.
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM A35

Finer specimens of Korean pottery are to be found in Japanese muse-
ums and in various collections. Japanese wares seem to owe their
excellence to Korean potters.*

The glazed wares of the Song-do potteries, to be described, are seem-
ingly protoporcelain, judging from the paste, which is evidently kao-
linic. This variety of heavy celadon, or olive-colored ware, has been
dug up from graves in Kiung-ju or Kiou-chiu, the capital city of the
ancient Kingdom of Silla, which existed through one thousand years
previous to 1000 A. D.

Korean pe-chun (sky color) ware was much esteemed by the Chinese,
and there is a Chinese poem dating from the latter part of the Sung, or
beginning of the Ming dynasty, setting forth the impossibility of imi-
tating the pe-chun of Korean pottery. The poem begins, ‘“ Kaoli pe-chun-
ja,” “Korean sky-color porcelain;” ja being the Chinese yao or porce-
lain. (Soh.)

The mortuary pottery collection of Mr. P. L. Jouy was found in
ancient graves, containing also objects of copper, bronze, and stone.
The pottery is of an early type of unglazed and slightly glazed (vernis)
earthenware, of archaic shape. Some of the objects were modeled by
hand, patted into shape by an instrument, thrown on a wheel; or,a com-
bination of these methods was used.+

The Korean potter’s wheel consists of a circular table from 2 to 3 feet
in diameter and 4 to 6 inches thick, made of heavy wood so as to aid in
giving impetus to it when revolving. In general appearance it is not
very unlike a modeler’s table. This arrangement is sunken into a de-
pression in the ground, and revolves easily by means of small wheels work-
ing on a track underneath, the table being pivoted in the center. The
wheel is operated directly by the foot, without the aid of a treadle of
any kind. The potter sits squatting in front of the wheel, his bench
or seat on a level with it, the space being left between his seat and the
wheel to facilitate his movements. With his left foot underneath him
he extends his right foot and strikes the side of the wheel with the bare
sole of the foot, causing it to revolve.t
STONEWARE DISH (Koriu-ji-jub-si). Dark gray paste containing air-

holes. Slip, dull greenish gray. Shaped like a shallow saucer
with a low foot; it may be a rude cup stand. Slip corroded by
long burial. PI. x11, Fig. 1, upper line (commencing at the left).

*W.E. Griffis: The Korean origin of Japanese art, Scribner’s Monthly, Dec., 1882.

tP. L. Jouy, Korean Mortuary Pottery. Smithson. Rept. 11, 1888, p.591. ‘‘Mr. P.
L. Jouy, U.S. National Museum, contributed a collection from the prehistoric graves
in Korea, in which are included stone daggers, arrow and spear heads, knives, chipped
and polished hatchets, polished jade, megatama or curved jewels, amber heads, anda
polished stone ornament. ~ * * * They areavaluable contribution to prehistoric
archeology.” (Plate VI.) Report on the department of prehistoric anthropology in
the U. S. National Museum, 1889. Report of the National Museum, 1888, p. 330.

{P. L. Jouy. The Korean Potter’s wheel. Science, Sept. 21, 1888, p. 144.
436 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

STONEWARE DISH—Continued.

Height, 14 inches; diameter, 42 inches.

Séng-do, Korea. 121615

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

From the ancient potteries at Séng-do.

WINE BOTTLE (Koriu-gi-biung). Heavy vessel with neck. Hasa light
yellowish granular paste, not very hard; covered with an opales-
cent slip showing yellow spots and dark brown pits. PI. x11, Fig. 2,
upper line (commencing at the left).

Height, 10 inches; diameter, 6} inches; height of neck, 34 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 121614

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

This specimen, though probably four hundred years old, does not differ
greatly in shape from the pottery now made. Dug up in Seoul.

WINE BOTTLE (Sul-biung). Heavy terra-cotta ware, covered with vit-
reous crackled enamel of a beautiful greenish-gray tint (celadon or
olive color). Jug-shaped body; neck, a long tube with bulbous ex-
pansion midway. Short spout near the top of the body. Capacity,
about 2 quarts. Pl. x11, Fig. 3, upper line (commencing at the left).

Height, 12} inches; neck, 64 inches; diameter of body; 43 inches; of base. 3
inches.

Seoul, Korea. 121612

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

This bottle is an obsolete form of about the twelfth century. Fine old spec-
imens like this are valued equally with real porcelain. Pottery of this class
is also interesting as hinting at the origin of Satsuma ware.

WINE CUP AND STAND (Koriu-sul-tjan and tjan-tai). Ancient piece
of earthenware, rudely glazed. Stand, a shallow dish with rest in
center in which sets the cup. Cup represents the lotus flower;
lower portion of cup prolonged to fit in cup stand. Glaze corroded
by age. PI. x11, Fig. 1, lower line (commencing at the left).

Height of stand, 1% inches; diameter, 53 inches. Height of cup, 24 inches;
diameter, 34 inches.

Song-do, Korea. 121616

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This is mortuary pottery from a tomb near the ancient capital of Korea,
From the shape and design it is believed by Koreans to be not less than six
hundred years old. Conception and general outline good. Probably used in
ancestor worship.

Bow. (Koriu-gi). Paste, coarse, opaque; under the microscope it
shows white, porcelanous strings, surrounding granular, yellowish
masses; there are occasional brown patches. Glaze, thin yellow-
ish green, patchy, vitreous, and crackled. Color of ware, olive.
No evidences of use, as this bowl was dug from a tomb. PI. X11,
Fig. 2, lower line (commencing at the left).

Height, 2? inches; diameter, 53 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130866

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

This bow] is of medium quality, and has the shape of common ware. It is
about six hundred years old. Modern Korean potters can not imitate the color.
Fig.

Fig.

to

bo

Ut

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XII.

POTTERY OF THE KOREAN PERIOD; ABOUT 915 To 1400 A. D.

(Upper line, commencing at the left.)

. STONEWARE DisH. Dark gray paste; greenish gray slip; corroded by long

burial. Height, 1} inches; diameter, 42 inches. (Cat. No. 121615, U. S.
N.M. Séng-do, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)
WINE BOTTLE. Heavy, yellowish, granular paste; not very hard; opales-
cent slip, showing yellow spots and dark brown pits. Height, 10 inches;
diameter, 64 inches; length of neck,34inches. (Cat. No. 121614, U.S. N. M.

Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

. WINE BorrLe. Heavy terra-cotta ware, covered with a vitreous, crackled

enamel of a greenish gray tint. Height, 124 inches; diameter of body,
42 inches; diameter of base, 3inches; length of neck, 64inches. (Cat. No.
121612, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou,
Wen SaeNe)

(Lower line, commencing at the left.)

WINE Cup AND Stanp. Earthenware; rudely glazed. Glaze corroded by
age and burial in the earth. Height of stand, 1? inches; diameter, 53
inches. Height of cup, 2} inches; diameter, 54 inches. (Cat. No. 121616,
U.S. N. M. Séng-do, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.
8. N.)

Bow. Paste coarse; opaque; under the microscope shows white, porcela-
neous strings surrounding granular yellowish masses with occasional brown
patches. Glaze thin, yellowish green, patchy, vitreous and _ crackled.
Color, olive. Height, 2? inches; diameter, 5% inches. (Cat. No. 130866,
U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.)

Bown. Opaque, gray, hard, porcelaneous paste, covered with a greenish
transparent glaze; well crackled. Heavy ware. Height, 24 inches;
diameter, 5} inches. (Cat. No. 121618, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Col-
lected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)

. Saucer. Ancient celadon of opaque, porcelaneous, ight gray, hard paste.

Glaze thick vitreous green, crackled; the resulting combination giving
a beautiful gray-green color resembling some varieties of jades. Height,
14, inches; diameter, 52 inches. (Cat. No. 130885, U. 8. N. M. Séng-do,
Korea. Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.)

. Bowt. Light gray, opaque, hard paste covered with thick crackled, vitreous

glaze, the color of green jade. Glaze vesicular; faint leaf tracing under
glaze. Like 130885 in appearance. Height, 24inches; diameter, 6}inches.
(Cat. No. 130884, U. S. N. M. Séng-do, Korea. Collected by Dr. H. N.
Allen. )

. Bow. Fine, white, hard-paste porcelain, elegant shape, light and delicate.

Glaze slightly greeuish. Wave or cloud ornamentation worked in the
paste under glaze. Extremely rare. Height, 2,4; inches; diameter, 7,
inches. (Cat. No. 121619, U.S. N. M. Séng-do, Korea. Collected by
Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
PLATE XII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

‘GOIYdad NIYOM AHL SO AYSLLOd NVAYOY

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE.NATIONAL MUSEUM. ar

Bowt (Koriu-gi-bo-si). Opaque, gray, hard, porcelaneous paste covered
with a greenish transparent glaze; well crackled. Thrown on a
wheel; heavy ware. Pl. x11, Fig. 3, lower line (commencing at the

* left).

Height, 24 inches; diameter, 54 inches,

Seoul, Korea. 121618

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Of the Koriu period.

SAUCER (Koriu-jub-si). Ancient celadon of opaque, porcelaneous,
light gray, hard-paste, covered with a thick, vitreous, green crackled
glaze, the resulting combination giving a beautiful gray-green
color, resembling some varieti+s of jade. Pl. x11, Fig. 4, lower line
(commencing at the left).

Height, 1,°; inches; diameter, 52 inches.

Song-do, Korea. 130885

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

This kind of ware is often found at Séng-do, the ancient capital of Koriu in
the former dynasty, and this specimen is about seven hundred years old, possibly
older. The shape, paste, and color indicate the ware of the Séng-do potteries.
Given by the King of Korea to Dr. Allen.

Bow. (Koriu-gi). Light gray, opaque, hard paste; glaze, thick, crack-
led, and vitreous, the color of green jade. This glaze is quite ve-
sicular, having on that account a grainy appearance, aslightly pit-
ted surface, and dull luster. <A faint leaf tracery appears under the
glaze. Thrown ona wheel. Of the simple shape still common in
Korea. Pl. xu, Fig. 5, lower line (commencing at the left).

Height, 24 inches; diameter, 6} inches.

Séng-do, Korea. 130884

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Made in the latter period of the Koriu dynasty, about six hundred years ago.
This ware is regarded as of very fine quality; to its heaviness is due its preser-
vation.

Bow. (Koriu-gi). Fine, white, hard-paste porcelain, elegant shape,
light and delicate. Glaze, slightly greenish in tint, likely due to
iron; the slight crackle is not uniform and is evidently not inten-
tional. Wave or cloud ornamentation on the inside formed by
scraping away the paste, the indentations filling with a thicker layer
of glaze and showing deeper tint; corroded patches on outside of
the bowl, due to long burial. Pl. x11, fig. 6, lower line (commene-
ing at the left).

Height, 2,3; inches; diameter, 7,°; inches.

Sdng-do, Korea. 121619

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy.

This ware is of the Koriu period, from the potteries at Séng-do and is about
five hundred years old. Pieces of this thin white porcelain are excessively scarce.

The incised decoration under glaze is quite common in Chinese porcelain.
438 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Bow. (Jil-tang-quan). Globular, dark red stoneware, glazed on the
side subjected to the greatest heat. Used for boiling water, ete.
Pl. x11, fig. 1, upper line (commencing at left).

Height, 5 inches; diameter, 54 inches; diameter of mouth, 3? inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 121617

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Articles in great variety of this ware are to be had, from small bow]s to large
water jars resembling a barrel in sizeand shape. The latter are very thin, hard,
and well made.

WINE BOTTLE (Sul-biung). Heavy glazed porcelain, ornamented with
dragon design in blue. Low, wide body, diminishing rather ab-
ruptly into a tubular neck. Capacity, about 5 pints. P1]. x11, fig.
2, upper line (commencing at the left).

Height, 124 inches; diameter of globe, 81 inches; base, 54 inches.

Hoang-tjou, Korea, 1885. 121615

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Average specimen of modern Korean pottery. The Korean potters were un-
able to impart any color but blue to their white ware up to the revival of color
decoration ten years ago. Used in buying and selling liquors, but not at the
table.

TABLE WARE (Sa-ban-sang). Heavy porcelain, covered with a patchy
glaze of greenish hue. Consists of saucers for fish, vegetables, etc.,
bowls for same, bowls for soup, rice, stew, and water. Some of the
pieces are signed and all show rather rude workmanship. PI. x11,
figs. 1-6, lower line (commencing at the left).

Hoang-tjou, Korea, 1884. 121620-30

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This is the most inferior porcelain ware at present madein Korea. More pre-
tentious vases of antique form, in white decorated with blue, or raised figures
if molded, are found in every house. Ware is valued in proportion to its
whiteness and the smoothness and brillianey of the glaze; weight is a minor
consideration.

TABLET (Cha-sak-biu-ru-dol). Of porcelain, with three divisions for

mixing water colors.

Length, 64 inches; width, 4? inches. .
Seoul, Korea. 151620

Collected by P. L. Jouy.
THE TEXTILE INDUSTRIES.

The fabrics of Korea are coarse in comparison with the fabries of
China and Japan, and the art of stamping cloth is said to be not known
or rather has been jost, as has that of dyeing. The cloths made are of
silk, nettle fiber from the Bachmeria nivea, called “ grass cloth” or
“yramie,” hemp cloth, and fabrics from cotton. No woolen goods are
made in Korea, there being no sheep raised. These fabrics are charac-
teristic; the combinations of different fibers, such as the nettle and silk,
make serviceable goods.
Fig. 1.

Figs. 1-6.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIII.
KOREAN MODERN POTTERY.

(Upper line, commencing at the left.)
Bow. Dark red stoneware. Fire glaze vernis on the side subjected to
most heat. Height, 5 inches; diameter, 54 inches; diameter of mouth,
3% inches. (Cat. No. 121617, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by
Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
WINE BoTrLe. Heavy, glazed porcelain; ornamented with dragon design
in blue. Height, 124 inches; diameter of globe, 8} inches; diameter of
base, 54 inches. (Cat. No. 121613, U.S. N.M. Hoang-tjou, Korea. Col-
lected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)

(Lower line, commencing at the left.)
TABLE WARE. Heavy common porcelain, covered with a patchy glaze of
faint green tint. Base rough, covered with kilu sand. A few pieces are
signed. In order, these dishes are cup for pickle, with lid; saucer for
fish or meat; bowl] fer stew; bowl for soup; rice bowl and bowl for water
or gruel. (Cat. No 121620-30, U. 8S. N. M. Hoang-tjou, Korea. Col-
lected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
PLATE XIII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

“AYALLOd NYAGOIN NVaYOY

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, 439

SILK (Hang-na). One of the best fabrics made in Korea.

An-tjou, Korea. 7907 H
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.
This cloth is used by the nobles and rich for hight summer garments.

THIN CLOTH (Saing-teho). Made of silk and nettle fiber.

Techou-tjou, Korea. 7907 H
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy. Used for light summer
clothing.

GRASS CLOTH (Mosi). Made from nettle fiber.
Province of Chong-Chong, Korea. 7907 H
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

COTTON AND SILK (Tjo-tjok).
Province of Kyong-sang, Korea. 7907 H
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

HEMP CLOTH (Pouk-po). Three grades of serviceable unbleached cloth.

Province of Ham-Kyong, Korea. 7907 H

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy. Used for mourning garments.
COTTON CLOTH.

Korea. 7907 H

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Made in four of the eight provinces.

SILK (Syo). Creamy yellow pongee like that made in all parts of Korea.
Korea. 7907 H
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The man’s robe, No. 77099, p. 452, is made of this silk.

GRASS CLOTH (Be). Coarse goods made from the ramie nettle.

Length, 54 feet; width, 144 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130859

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Serviceable cloth for mourning dresses and for underwear. Presented by the
King to Dr. Allen. The Koreans have an expeditious process for rotting the
hemp used for making fabries. ‘‘At the bottom of a large pit paved with
stones, heated stones are placed. Bundles of hemp are pressed down on the
stones and kept in position by stakes, the heads of which are above ground.
On the hemp piles of grass are thrown, and the grass is closely covered with
earth. The stakes are then withdrawn, and water poured through the holes.
From the steam thus produced hemp is rotted in twenty-four hours.”*

SILK (Saing-miun-ju). Fabrice of raw silk of medium quality.

Length, 30 feet; width, 12 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130861

Collected »y Dr. H. N. Allen.

Material for summer dress; starched and Jaundered ic is used for winter wear.

SILK (Gop-saing-cho). Fine fabric of medium quality.

Length, 51 feet; width, 14 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130862

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

For outer garments and underwear worn in summer. Woven in southern
Korea.
440) REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

LINEN (Saing-mo-si). Fine unbleached ramie cloth. ;
Length, 35 feet; width, 144 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130860
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Used for dresses of both sexes. Produced in southern Korea.

QUILTED SILK (Pil-nu-bi). Pink; lined with white silk, stuffed with
cotton. Quilted one way, the seams being narrow. Done by hand
in the palace. The quilting is made to stand up prominently by
running the narrow seam iron (into) along the seams.

Length, 7 feet 7 inches; width, 134 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130857
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Made into dresses for young men and women.

PAPER MANUFACTURE.

Paper is made in Korea from the bark of the tak tree or paper mul-
berry. The shoots of this tree are cut early in the fall; they are at
once steamed, stripped, and the dark outer coating (used in making in-
ferior paper) is scraped off and the strips are dried. When ready to
make the paper, these strips are sprinkled with water and pounded
with stones to separate the fiber. They are then boiled in weak lye
and the mass afterwards steamed and washed clean in fresh water.
The stems of a plant called tak poul, which is cultivated for the pur-
pose, are macerated and boiled. The strained liquor is then mixed
with the fiber already prepared and water added until it is of the
proper consistency. From this paste paper is made by catching a film
on the surface of a bamboo screen by a quick passage of this through
the pulp. The successive sheets are piled up and separated at one end
by straws.

MULBERRY PAPER (Gam-so-miung). Thick, unglazed; made from
mulberry bark. Very tough, even with the grain tearing with
great difficulty and running in wide shells.

Length, 43? inches; width, 29} inches.

Seoul Korea, 1885. 77069

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Korean paper is even tougher than the Japanese, and is one of the few Korean
things that had made a reputation in the world before its home had become
truly a part of the community of nations. (Percival Lowell: Choson, p. 315.)
It is used in several thicknesses to make armor and was exported to Japan for
that purpose, also to China, where it is now used for garment linings. Used
in civil service examinations. Taken in payment of tribute by the Government
and generally used as currency by the people.

WRITING PAPER AND ENVELOPE. Roll of mulberry paper in sheets;
pasted at edges. Fiber, long and silky.

Sheets 154 inches long, 9 inches wide.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7031

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Used in writing to a distant place.
EE ae te.)

Cen ae 7
ae

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIV
KOREAN HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE.

CABINET AND WRITING DESK. Front of persimmon wood, hidden portion of pine.
Seven drawers of different sizes; two doors closing a recess. Fittings,
brass; the key plates on the upper drawers and the doors represent bats,
the bodies of which turn aside showing the key holes. Locks, somewhat
like European pattern, but the key turns in opposite direction. Height,
23 inches; length, 34 inches; width, 134 inches. (Cat. No. 77009, U. S.
N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
PLATE XIV.

Report of National Museum, 1891,—Hough.

‘MSSC-ONILINAA GNVY LSNIagvD NvayOy

red

ps eS

je eg BPE

=
210 Th elo

erat

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, 44]

OILED PAPER (You-tchi). Prepared by steeping sheets of mulberry
paper in sesamum oil.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77068
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
House fittings are made of oiled paper; if is used in place of glass for win-
dows, to cover the floors of rooms heated by the Kang or furnace under the
house, for hats, rain coats, fans, ete.

THE HOUSE AND JTS ACCESSORIES.
FURNITURE OF THE DWELLING HOUSE.
THE SLEEPING ROOM, ETC.

INLAID CHEST (Ja-ga-son-que). Wood covered with a thin, brownish
black lacquer incrusted with mother of pearl. Lid decorated with
long life and happiness character (su-bug) and with branches of
peach tree, cranes, and elouds (emblems of longevity). On the front
is an archeic scene of deer, tortoises, cranes, peach and pine trees,
etc., also emblems of longevity. Korean brass lock and key.

Leugth, 184; width, 114; height, 12 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151621
Collected by P. L. Jouy.

TABLE (So-ban). Small twelve-sided wooden table with four legs;
painted black. Used by one person. <A very poor specimen.

Height, 10 inches; diameter, 15 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 128410

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Among many Eastern nations custom demands that individuals should be
served separately ; hence the nests of boxes in Japan and India or sets of dishes
as in Korea.

CABINET AND WRITING DESK (Moon-gap). Front of persimmon wood ;
hidden portions of pine. Seven drawers, two doors, the latter
closing a recess. Three other openings in the front are for display-
ing small articles. The key plates are brass bats, the bodies of
which turn aside disclosing the keyholes. Locks like our drawer
locks with bolt and spring together, but the key turns to the
right in locking. Pl. xtv.

Height, 23 inches; length, 34 inches; width, 134 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77009

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

CABINET (Mivri-jang). Dark red wood veneer; imported from China;
brass-work on corners, edges, hinges, and panels. It contains
twenty-five drawers, most of which are inside the sliding doors.
Locks swing on a hinge at edge of one door, and bolt into staple on
the other door. Keyhole on under side of lock; key like a pair of
tweezers, and unlocks by pressing together the catch-springs on
each side of the bolt. Lock fronts, niello work of silver on copper
44? REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CABINET—Continued.

5

with black enamel; design, the ‘double joy;” character sur-
rounded by a Grecian border. Pl. xv.
Height, 44 inches; width, 30 inches.
Depth, 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77008
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.
A very skillful piece of joinery; remarkably good considering the inferior
toolsand lack of accessories in Korea. Used by children and sometimes by ladies
as a receptacle for jewels.
LEOPARD SKIN, (Ho-rang-i-ka-juk). Used for covering officers’ Sedan
chairs and for other purposes.
Length, 52 inches; width, 24 inches

Seoul, Korea. —-
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

RED MATTRESS (Yo) and SQUARE MAT (Bang-suk). Stuffed with hair
and covered with red woolen fabric embroidered in bright-colered
silks. Edged with green satin and lined with blue satin.

Length of mattress, 6 feet 9inches; width, 35 inches. Mat, 35 inches square.

Seoul, Korea. 130853

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

A present from the King of Koreato Dr. Allen. These two pieces are a set for
a lady’s drawing room, and correspond to our sofa and chair.

GREEN MATTRESS (Yo) and SQUARE MAT (Bang-suk). Stuffed with hair
and covered with green woolen cloth, embroidered in bright colors.
Bordered with changeable silk and lined with blue brocade. Very
good workmanship.

Length of mattress, 5 feet 7 inches; width, 33 inches,

Seoul, Korea. 130853

Collected by Dr. H.N. Allen.

A present from the King. Such bright colors are generally used by ladies. All
the materials are native except the woolen cloth. Made in northwest Korea.

PILLOw (Be-ga). White cotton cylinder stuffed with hair. Ends em-
broidered with swans and flowers in bright colors.

Length, 22 inches; diameter, 44 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130852

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Small pillow for children. When in use it is covered with a slip of cotton in
winter and linen in summer. The ends of pillows are usually of wood, inlaid,
and constitute some of the best works of art among the Koreans. (See Pl. XXII.)

BLIND (Bal). Made of fine splints of bamboo strung together with silk
thread and painted with black figures. It is the size of the Korean
window, viz:

Length, 5 feet 7 inches; width, 4 feet 8 inches.
Chélla-do, Korea. 130887

Jollected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
The province of Chélla-do is noted for its skillful bamboo workers.
CABINET.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XV.
KOREAN HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE.

Veneered with dark red Chinese wood; ornamental brass-work trim-
mings. It contains twenty-five drawers, most of which are inside the
sliding doors. Lock fronts, niello work; design, the ‘‘ double joy” char-
acter surrounded by a Grecian border. A superior piece of cabinet work.
Height, 44 inches; width, 30 inches; depth, 24 inches. (Cat. No. 77008, U.
S.N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
PLATE XV.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

fe eee

KOREAN CABINET.
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 443

WINDOW SHADE (Bal). Plain and colored slivers of bamboo joined
closely at intervals with a warp of green cotton twine. Black bam-
boo rods at top, middle, and bottom. A straight line ornament is
painted in the center and surrounded by a Grecian fret border.

Length, 4 feet 3 inches; width, 4 feet 8 inches.

Province of Choélla-do, Korea. 77021

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

Very pretty; of superior workmanship. The very fine splints are secured by
boiling the bamboo.

Rush MAT (Jot-ja-ri). Striped green, purple, and red. Hemp warp;
rush woof, forming fringe at side of mat. Made by hand on a
weighted loom.

Length, 6 feet; width, 2 feet.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77010

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

Used in summer for covering beds and floors. In Japan the standard mat is
6 by 3 feet.

SPITTOON (Ta-gu). Cylindrical cup of brass ware with a slanting cover
having an orifice about 1 inch in diameter. Placed in the parlor or
near the table at meal times.

Height, 24 inches; diameter, 22 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130843
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

LANTERN COVER (Dung-rong-ni). Made of red and blue silk; mouth

has a gathering string.
Length, 46 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130864
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Probably used in a private house, though this kind of cover is generally
used for the lanterns of high officers.

THE KITCHEN AND DINING ROOM.

RIcE pot (Gob-dol-sot). Lenticular vessel of black soapstone, with
lid. Pl. xvt, fig. 1 (commencing at the left).
Diameter, 15 inches; height, 64 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130883
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Used also for general cooking. The Koreans like this kind of boiler. as
those of iron are too common. Given by the King to Dr. Allen.

CooKING POT (Sin-sy6Llo). Soft, green, micaceous stone, blackened and
polished on the outside. It consists of a lid, bowl, and furnace
combined, and a detachable base or ash box. In the center of the
bow] is a tubular furnace extending up through a hole in the lid,
which fits closely around its rim. The furnace has round holes in
the bottom and the ash-box has an opening for draft at the side.
Food is placed in the bow] and coals are put into furnace. Such a
vessel is commonly used for frying meat when several friends as-
444 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Cookine pot—Continued.
semble and cook this portion of their food according to a Korean
custom. PI. xvi, fig. 2 (commencing at the left).
Diameter of bowl, 8 inches; depth, 2? inches; height of pot, 74 inches.
Seoul, Korea. T7054
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. Navy. Exactly this form of pot
is used by the Chinese for making a drink by infusion of various herbs, ete.
This pot is used for soup, stew, ete. The more primitive Korean sin-sy6l-lo is a
shallow soapstone pot, with a wide, slanting rim. Soapstone vessels are more
highly prized in Korea than pottery, and a gift often given by the King is a
valuable stone cooking pot.

CooKING Por (Bung-gu-gi-gol). Circular, soapstone vessel shaped like

a hat; the slanting rim merges into the shallow bowl. PI. xvi, fig.
3 (commencing at the left).

Diameter, 8} inches; depth, 24 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151634

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

This pot fits upon the simple charcoal furnace. Meat, etc., are placed on the
rim and the juice is collected in the bowl where vegetables are cooking.

CHOPSTICKS (‘Tj6-ka-rak) and SPOON (Son-ka-rak). White brass. Chop-

sticks square and heavy; spoon shallow; wide bowl.
Chopsticks, 8 inches long; spoon, 9 inches long.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7042
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
Bowl, spoon, and chopsticks resemble those used in China in making offerings
of incense. Used by the poor.

RICE BOWL (Sapal). Of white brass, with lid; turned or ‘ spun.”
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77037
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Resembles a Chinese incense bowl. The white metal used in making the
alloy comes from China; the copper is Korean.

The following individual set of brass, collected by Dr. Allen, consists
of seventeen dishes of eight different shapes and sizes. They form the
dinner set used by a man in winter; the dishes having lids. Korean
brassware is very good and neatly made by the process known as ‘spin-
ning.” At certain seasons of the year ‘“‘ brass markets” are held in
Korea and great quantities of this ware find a ready sale. It is the
custom to scour the dishes with stone dust and to wash them often in
water.

Bow Ls (Jong-ja). Brass, with lid. Set of three for condiment and
sauces such as salt sauce, vinegar, and red pepper.
Diameter, 22 inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130903, 130904, 130905.
Collected by Dr. H.N. Allen.
TEA BOWL (Da-jup). Brass; the largest bow] in the set.
Diameter, 63 inches; height, 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130890
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
This bow] is for a drink made from parched rye, taken at every meal instead
of tea and coffee, neither of which beverages do the Koreans drink.
Fig.

. 2. COOKING Por. Soft, green micaceous stone (soapstone) blackened and pol-

a

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVI.
KOREAN STONE COOKING VESSELS.

(Commencing at the left.)
. Rice Por. Lenticular vessel of black soapstone, with lid. For boiling rice
and general cooking. Height, 6} inches; diameter, 15 inches. (Cat. No.
130883, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.)

ished. Detachable base; bow] with central furnace; lid with lugs,
tightly fitting around opening of furnace. Height, 74 inches; diameter,
8% inches. (Cat. No. 77054, U. 8S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by
Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

. COOKING Por. Circular soapstone vessel shaped like a hat; the slanting
rim merges into the shallow bowl. Fits upon the charcoal furnace.
Diameter, 84 inches; depth, 24 inches. (Cat. No. 151634, U. S. N. M.
Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
PLATE XVI.

1891,—Hough

Report of National Museum

*ST3ESSSA-ONINOOD ANOLS NVSAYOYM

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. A445

BOWLS (Jo-chi-bo). Brass; similar to the tea bowl. Used for stew.
Diameter, 44 inches; height, 12 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130893, 130897
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

SAUCER (Ja-ban-jup-si). Brass; with lid. For dry salt fish and meat.
Diameter, 3} inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130895
Collected by Dr. H.N. Allen.

Soup BOWL (Tang-gi). Bell-shaped; brass; with lid. Smaller than the

rice bowl.
Diameter, 42 inches; height, 3 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130892
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Used by both sexes.
RICE BOWL (Ju-bal). Bell-shaped; brass; with lid. Used by men
alone, the ladies’ rice bow] being of a different shape.

Diameter, 54 inches; height, 32 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130891
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

SAUCER (Sang-sun-gu-i jup-si). Brass; with lid. For cooked fish.
Diameter, 3} inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130896
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Bow t (Chim-cha-bo). Brass; cup-shaped, with lid. For pickles.
Diameter, 3} inches; height, 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130902
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Korean pickles are not so salt as those eaten in the United States. They are
a constant article of the Korean menu.

TRAY (Jang-ban). Circular; brass. Used by the servant at table.
Diameter, 7+ inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130890
Collected by Dr. H.N. Allen.

SAUCER (Na-mool-jup-si). Brass; with lid. For all kinds of vegeta-
bles. Sometimes from one to three different kinds of vegetables
are placed in the same dish.

Diameter, 33 inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130899
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

SAUCER (Jut-jup-si). Brass; with lid. For salt meat or fish (not dry);

sometimes for raw oysters.
Diameter, 32 inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130898
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

SAUCER (Gu-i-jup-si). Brass; with lid. For beef or chicken, the regu-

lar dinner dish.
Diameter, 32 inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. : 130901
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
446 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

SAUCER (Gint-goo-i). Brass; with lid. For game or some rare meat.
Diameter, 32 inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130894
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
SAUCER (Na-mool-jup-si). Brass; with lid. For some rare vegetable,
either cooked or served as a salad.
Diameter, 38 inches; height, 14 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130900
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Bow. (Hab). Circular; brass; with lid. For holding cakes.
Diameter, 4 inches; height, 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130906
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
SAUCER FOR WINE CUP (Jan-ba-chim). Brass plate on which the wine
cup is placed on the anniversary of the death of the ancestor.
Diameter, 43 inches. 130903
Seoul, Korea.
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Bow. (Ba-ri). Globular; brass; with lid.

Diameter, 3}inches; height, 4 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130907
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Used by a little girl in winter for rice.
Ax (Dok-ki). Iron, Narrow, wedge-like blade. Curved poll with
narrow face.
Length, 74 inches; width, 24 inches.
Fusan, Korea. 129495
Collected by P. L. Jouy.
Generally used in timbering.

THE LAUNDRY.

SEAM IRON (In-to). Bar of iron terminating in a head, set into a
wooden handle. Rude, chisel ornamentation on bar. Resembles
a soldering iron. Pl. xv, upper figure.

Length, 123 inches. :

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77026

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Used to iron down seams of clothing or for creasing quilted work.

IRONING STICKS (Pang-mang-i). Hard wood sticks shaped like a base-
ball bat, used for ironing or mangling clothes. Pl. xvi, lower
figure.

Length, 16% inches; diameter, 1 inch.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77027

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Winter clothes are ripped apart for washing, boiled in wood-ash lye, beaten
on stones in streams, starched with rice starch, dried, piled in heaps, and finally
pounded over a wooden roller with clubs till the fiber takes on a remarkable
gloss and pliability. The parts are sewed together and the seams ironed down
with the seam iron.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVII.
KOREAN DOMESTIC APPLIANCES.

(Upper figure.)

Fig. 1. SEAM Iron. Bar of iron terminating in a shoe-shaped head, set into a
wooden handle. Rude, chisel ornamentation on the bar. Resembles a
soldering iron. Length, 123 inches. (Cat. No. 77026, U.S. N. M. Seoul,
Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

(Lower figure.)

. 2. IRONING AND MANGLING STIcKs. Hard wood, in shape of base-ball bats;
used for ironing or mangling clothes. Length, 162 inches; diameter, 1
inch. (Cat. No. 77027, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign
J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)

rig
4 1g
“SSONVINddY DILSSWOG NVSYOy

>
x<
uw
er
<
ai
al

Museury

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 447

IMAGE OF AN ANIMAL (Soe-mal). Rudely made of iron.
Length, 7 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 151603
Collected by P. L. Jouy.
Seems to represent a four-footed animal of no particular species. May be a
rest for the iron.

BASKET (Cha-mong). Consists of two oblong portions, one slightly
larger and used as a lid for the other. Made of wicker; covered
with oiled paper. Used for holding laundry, ete.

Length, 23; width, 11; height, 9 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885.
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

COSTUME.
CHILDREN’S COSTUMES.

The following articles of apparel constitute the best or holiday dress
of a boy:

RoBE (Tou-rou-mak-i). For a young boy. Made of coarse red cotton,
straight cut; blue tying strings.
Length, 26 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77072
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.
This robe is worn over the coat with banded sleeves.

WAIST (Pai-tja). Blue silk, lined with red linen; sleeveless. Fastened
by a loop and knot.

Length, 134 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7075

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by boys over the robe. A band of red brocaded silk across the back
bears gilt characters which mean, ‘‘ Have consideration for others; be just; be
moderate in your desires,” sentiments early taught Korean children.

OUTER GARMENT (Tyen-pok or Kwa-ja). Thin, blue, brocaded Chinese
raw silk stuff, with tying strings of silk. Short slash on either
side; long slash in back. Three small embroidered bags with tas-
sels are sewed to the band across the shoulders. Worn in summer
by boys.

Length, 26 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. TI0T7

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The Koreans say that there are three spirits who enter the world at the same
time with a child to guard him during childhood. Hence the three bags are
sewn to the waistband. They contain cotton, and sometimes a lock of the
child’s hair.

CHILD’S LEGGINS (Haing tjén). Red cotton, tied on above the socks.

Length, 10 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7074

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
448 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

TROUSERS (Patji). Pongee silk lined with white cotton. Tied at waist
and ankles.

Waist, 21 inches; leg, 254 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. TiC
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy. ‘

Worn on holidays by young boys.

JACKET (Sak-dong-tjo-ko-ri). Light green silk faced with blue; lined
with coarse mushn. Sleeves, nine bright colored bands of. ribbon.
Collar, faced with fine grass cloth (mosi); tying strings, scarlet silk.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77111

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
Holiday dresses of boys and girls are made with sleeves like this.

Socks (U-rin-a hi-po-sy6n). Two thicknesses of coarse muslin; heels
projecting; toes sharp and curved upward; tying strings midway
of back. Instep clocked in colored silks.

Length, 6 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7073

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by a small child. Made with regard to shape of the shoe and not of
the foot.

HAIR RIBBON (Tang-keui). Purple grenadine folded to point at top
and sewed part of the way down. Column of gilt characters.

Length, 14 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77078

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Tied to the hair plait. The characters mean, ‘‘ Long life; riches be be-
queathed.” The seven dots in the circle represent the stars in the ‘ dipper,”
and are a charm to insure the wearer many children.

ORNAMENTAL HOOD (Gool-ne). Skeleton hood of colored silk, em
broidered with characters and decorated with beads, artificial
pearls, ete.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77079

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by either sex. The characters mean ‘‘ Long life, riches, health, and
happiness.” The black ribbon is removed when the child becomes able to
speak.

CHILD’S SHOES (Got-tan-hya). Red leather with green and yellow
leather foxings. Upper and sole joined together from the outside.

Length, 64 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7081

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

CHILD’S SANDALS (Sag-jip-sin). Sole woven of hemp; sides of red,
white, green, and yellow twisted paper strings.

Length, 6 inches.

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.
Generally worn by children in very poor families.

:
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 449

Corton BAG (Sam-sung-ju-mu-ni). Yellowish cotton stuff lined with
blue cloth; folded at mouth and supplied with a green silk string.
Length, 6 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77023
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy.
Worn under the outer garment and used as a purse or pocket.

WOMEN’S COSTUMES.

QUILTED JACKET (Nou-pi-tjé-kou-ri). Orange silk faced with purple,
lined with fine cotton cloth and quilted with thin layer of silk wool.
Worn by women in the spring.

Length, 8 inches; waist, 15 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77107
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

SHORT JACKET (TjOk-sam). Fine grass vloth (mosi). Buttoned at
the neck with knot and loop.
Length, 84 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77108
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.
The lower class of women in Korea usually leave the breasts uncovered.
This form of dress is said to have been devised to facilitate child nursing. (See
BE vir.)
WaAtsT BAND (Ho-ri-theui). Wide band of white cotton; lined. Two
tying strings.
Length, 375 inches; width, 94 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77103
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The girdle holds up the inner drawers and supports the strings of the other

garments.
OUTER DRAWERS (Ko-tang-i). Muslin; gathered at waist.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77100

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
Every Korean lady wears not less than four body garments.

OUTER DRAWERS (Tan-sok-k6t). Coarse grass cloth (mosi) made from
nettle fiber.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77101
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

INNER DRAWERS (Sok-sok-k6t). Bleached cotton; divided skirt type,
having a division in the hem cutting the garment into two very
wide portions. Tying strings on the left side.

Waist, 32 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77102
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

DRESS SKIRT (Mo-si-tch’-ima). Azure linen stuff; eight bread ths
gathered at the waistband. Open like an apron; hem turned up
and pasted, Tying strings, white.

Wrist, 33 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885, T7104

SM 91, PT 2——29
450 REPORT. OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DRESS SkIRT—Continued.

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Korean women tuck the folds of this skirt into the waistband while walk-
ing. The appearance of this garment has led Korean women to say that they
dress like western women.

LONG COAT OR VEIL (Tjang-ot). Made of green, brocaded silk, lined
with muslin. Collar and cuffs faced with white cotton. Two pairs
of tying strings.

Length, 51 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7094

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou. U.S. Navy.

This coat is trimmed by a fixed pattern and is invariably worn by women of
the middle, and often of the lower class, while outside of the house. It is
merely thrown over the head and conceals the face from strangers. There is a
legend that a Korean King commanded women to wear blue soldiers’ coats, so
that on the approach of the enemy the men could seize these coats and at once
hecome soldiers. After the King’s death, the style of coat became fixed in the
green, brocaded silk, tjang-ot.

UNDER STOCKINGS (Po-sy6n). Coarse cotton, doubled; sharp toes and
projecting heels. They differ from men’s socks in not being padded
with cotton.

Length, 8 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77106

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn under the thicker stockings.

FINGER RINGS (Ka-rak-tji). Of pewter. Worn in pairs on the ring
finger by married and single women.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77109

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

HAIRPIN (Pin yé.) Of pewter, with a projection at one side of the head,
like the Korean needle.

Length, 7 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1888. 77046

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

SHORT HAIRPIN (Tong-két). Of pewter, with a knob and short neck at
the side of the head.

Length, 3 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77114

Collected by Ensign J. b. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This style of pin is worn by married men and women, though not an invaria-
ble custom with the men.

WOMEN’S SHOES (Un-hin). Uppers of blue cloth, lined with ass skin;
bound with white leather; soles, rawhide. White leather scrolls
ornament toe and heel. Neatly finished and ornamented. Pl. xx,
fig. 1, lower line (commencing at the left).

Length, 83 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77016

Collected by Ensign J. Bb. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

Worn by all ladies, except widows,
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 451

WINTER HOOD (Nam-pa-oui). Purple, brocaded silk, lined with scarlet
felt and trimmed on edges with black fur. Open at top. Pl. Xrx,
fig. 1, middle line (commencing at the left).

Width, 15 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77080

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

Worn by women, young ladies, and children in winter. A similar hood is
worn by men under the hat.

LADY’s Hoop (Nam-ba-we). Changeable, green silk, lined with woolen
stuff. Trimmed around the lower edge with black fur. Red cord
with fringed ends at the top.

Length, 14 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130856

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Worn by young ladies and children in winter to protect them from cold.
Men sometimes wear a similar hat covered with black cloth. This style came
into use a number of years ago.

MEN'S COSTUMES.

The following specimens are of summer clothing, differing from the
winter garments in not being padded with raw cotton:

INNER JACKET (Tjék-sam). Of coarse cotton, with rolling collar and
two pairs of tying strings. Sleeves large and square, with gussets
in the armpits. .

Length, 314 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77110
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

TROUSERS (Pa-tji). White cotton, lined with coarser material. Very
large. Held up by the girdle, over which the superfluous upper
part of the garment falls.

Waist, 52 inches; length, 44 feet.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7197
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. Navy.

GIRDLE (Yotai). Green grosgrain ribbon folded over and fringed at
both ends. Fastened around the waist above the hips to hold up
the trousers.

Width, 22 inches; length, 60 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77095
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

GARTERS (Tai-nam). Narrow, green grosgrain ribbon; fringed. Tied

around the bottom of the trousers.
Length, 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77092
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

STOCKINGS (Po-syén). White cotton; seam running through the toe
and heel. Padded with raw cotton; the rigidity of the Korean
shoe renders this necessary.

Length, 9} inches; height, 12 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885, 77098
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadon, U.S. Navy.
A452 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

LEGGINS (Haing-tjyén). White cotton; hems pasted down. Tying
strings fastened around the calf, covering the junction of the trou-
sers and stockings.

Length, 10 inches; width, 8 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77096
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

OUTER ROBE (Syo-tjang ot). Thin pongee silk. Has a straight slash
on each side from the armpits down, dividing the garment into
three nearly equal panels; hemmed. Collar, a long rolling yoke;
flowing sleeves; strings tied in a bow on right side.

Length, 54 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77099
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. Navy.

Worn by men in summer under the outer garment.

OUTER COAT (To-pou). Ample robe of mosi or grass cloth; gored
skirt; flowing sleeves. Divided up the center of the back to just
below the shoulder blades. This division is covered over by a free
panel hanging from the neck and going over the shoulders. The
robe is hemmed all around. the gored seams felled; where the
goods would be subjected to strain these points are stitched and
corded. Needlework, quite good.

Length, 56 inches; sleeves, 27 by 22 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77105
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

GIRDLE (Theui). Long, round cord of green silk, with tassels. It
gathers in the to-pou or robe at the waist; the tassels hang down in
front.

Length, 98 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77082

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

CUFFS (To-syou). Green silk, lined with coarse cotton; gored to make
the upper end wider. Simply worn slipped over the wrists. Ex-
cellent needlework. Worn by men in cold weather.

Length, 11 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77083
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

MAN’S SHOES (Sin). Black felt, lined with white leather. The lower
edge of the upper is flared out, the sole puton and sewed to the upper
with wide stitches. Space between sole and insole filled with lay-
ers of cotton cloth, as in Chinese shoes; edge of sole coated with
white size. Hobnails on heel. Pl. xx, fig. 1, middle line (com-
mencing at the left).

Length, 8 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77014

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy.

The regular shoe worn by men of the upper class. It is very rigid, and
necessitates the wearing of padded stockings.
Fig.

Fig.

Fig.

Fig.

Fig.

EX PEANATION OF PEATE XvViltit
KOREAN MOURNING HEAD-DRESSES AND FARMERS?’ HAT.

(Upper line, commencing at the left.)

. MOURNING Cap. Coarse hemp cloth; wedge-shaped; made like a grocers’

paper bag, of a single piece of cloth. Height, 7? inches; diameter, 74
inches. (Cat. No. 77089, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign
J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)

. MourNING Har. A plaited band of coarse hemp cloth; stiffened; lined with

paper; bent into a peak. A narrow strip of cloth forms the head band;
the ends of this strip hang free below the chin. Height, 13inches. (Cat.
No. 77085, U. S.N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Berna-
dou UES: N-)

. MourNER’s Hat. Woven of bleached split bamboo. The shape of the

national hat. Height, 4? inches; diameter, 153 inches. (Cat. No. 77064,
U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
(Middle hne.)

. MOURNER’S HEAD RING. ‘Two strands of rice straw, covered with nnhackled

hemp, twisted together to form a ring. Diameter, 64 inches. (Cat. No.
77088, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou,
Wags. N.)

(Lower line, commencing at the left.)

. MouRNER’s Hat. Neatly braided, of bamboo splints; edges scalloped and

finished off with braiding. Rosette of bamboo at apex. A frame to fit
over the head is fastened inside. Height, 144 inches; diameter, 25 inches.
(Cat. No. 77066, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B.
Bernadou, U.S. N.)

. FARMER’S Hat. Woven from split millet stalks, showing geometrical pat-

terns made by contrast in color of the different sides of the straw. The
weaving is finished at the apex without showing a break. Braced with
hoops and ribs of bamboo. Outline hexagonal. Height, 16inches; diam-
eter, 30 inches. Area, 6 square feet. (Cat. No. 77065, U.S. N. M. Seoul,
Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

PLATE XVIII.

KOREAN MOURNING HEADDRESSES AND FARMER’S HAT,
iat ve Py j
a | Mpeg og ot) age
NS es: wf, eae : ° ‘ en he
7 on) BEA ts ; Le “i
7 rel ee hy Cees fon ASAT
\ PF aa 2th Oya fh
| Ar ‘ os , 1 ie Lt pes 0, er) 4&0" 2 pee
ivy 7 i 5 . : Al ay
: Wn hae ny ee the lve i” Mt a
an y . ce ky ie Lie a td Nie ae
Al ey eh Oe ean EN Yiy!
‘ ; atv 5 SO a mur aus ae nS ’ ad
- ‘ a
g
qd
ee . ¢ a
- - - mae, 7 ;
: q is a are
¥ 4 : Te eh les
rh A! ‘ ow
Dh al Fuge et ari

lpi a> @ cs -
we
4 7 ha
ad

in

Fig.

Fig.

Fig.

bo

r 3
© Oe

6.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIX.
KOREAN HATS, SHOES, ETC.

(Upper line, commencing at the left.)

. Court Har. High, terraced crown, made of stiff, lacquered paper and woven

bamboo, covered with black sateen. On either side at the back are
attached curved, oar-shaped, gauze wings, which project horizontally
forwards. Height, 7inches. (Cat. No. 77063, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea.
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

NatTionau Hat. Made of fine silk, worn over a bamboo framework, stiffened
with size. Small, cylindrical, truncated crown; broad brim; long tying
strings. Superior handiwork. Height of crown, 44 inches; diameter of
brim, 18 inches. (Cat. No. 77060, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected
by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

Caps. Wide circular band of black horsehair, neatly woven. Height, 74
inches. (Cat. No. 77115, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign
J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

(Middle line, commencing at the left.)

. WINTER Hoop. Purple brocaded silk, lined and trimmed on edge with fur.

Open at top. Width, 15 inches. (Cat. No. 77080, U. S. N. M. Seoul,
Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

EXAMINATION Cap. Of one piece of coarse black cotton stuff, shaped like a
grocer’s paper bag. Height, 9 inches; diameter, 7 inches. (Cat. No.
77057, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou,
Wi. Sb ania)

Cap. Black horsehair, woven in the shape of the court hat. Height, 7
inches. (Cat. No. 77056, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign
J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

. CEREMONIAL Hat. Helmet-shaped; back, shield-shaped; woven of thin

slivers of bamboo incrusted with gilt papier-maché dragons, scrolls, ete.
Front, black sateen, curving backwards and spaced by vertical gilt wires.
Wooden pin runs through back portion of hat. Height, 10 inches. (Cat.
No. 77062, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Berna-
dou, U.S. N.)

SoLprigeR’s Hat. Thick, black, stiffened felt, mixed with horsehair, which
shows on the outside. Band, a red cord, with tassels, and tail buttons
carved with the national symbol, attached. A long switch of horsehair
dyed red is fastened in the crown by a swivel button. Height, 5 inches;
diameter, 15 inches. (Cat. No. 77058, U. 8S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Col-
lected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)

CHAIR Coo.re’s Hat. Black stiffened felt; smooth surface. Shaped like
the soldier’s hat. Height, 4 inches; diameter, 15 inches. (Cat. No. 77061,
U.S. N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. N.)

(Lower line, )

Heap Banp. Skillfully woven of horsehair, with drawstrings and two ty-
ing strings. On the front is a piece of substance resembling amber, which
prevents the hat from slipping down. Length, 19} inches; width, 3
inches. (Cat. No. 77112, U.S.N. M. Seoul, Korea, Collected by Ensign
J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)
Report of National Museum, 1891,—Hough.

PLATE XIX.

KOREAN HATS, SHOES, ETC.
= -: bay be
‘
= pet

6
z =
a.
e a
"7s
sh ,
ae ee <
_ AL - « \
: : ay jon
é = FS ke
¥ . ree AL | ry x —_
= - « pe
(
4 = .
c -
oon
-
im 7
ag
4
“
ie “
}
j a
i 2 w eu
‘ co ' -
; }
vie.
eu ms
ail ——-
ow s'.
\, an
oN Sea!
he) :
<
~ : ‘
VR.
\
> - -
onl = - = ~e

EG.

Fig.

Fig.

EXPLANATION OF PEATE XxX:
KOREAN FOOT WEAR.

(Upper line.)

. Ran CLogs. Boat-shaped; cut from blocks of light coarse-grained wood.

Short supports raise the foot about 4 inches from the ground. Length,
11 inches. (Cat. No. 77015, U. S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by
Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)

(Middle line, commencing at the left.)

. Man’s SHors. Black felt, lined with white leather. The lower edge of the

upper is flared out, the sole put on and sewed to the upper with wide
stitches. Sole, padded with layers of cotton cloth, as in Chinese shoes.
Hobnails on heel. Length, 8inches. (Cat. No. 77014, U.S. N. M. Seoul,
Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

. TRAVELER’S SANDALS. Sole, four wisps of straw woven together with cot-

ton rags, fastening in the strand which forms the uppers. Length, 10
inches. (Cat. No. 77011, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign
J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

. MOURNER’S SANDALS. Twisted rice straw; white paper wound around the

heel yoke and drawing string. They differ from the common straw sandal
by the paired arrangement of the straw cords which go over the sides of
the foot. Length, 10 inches. (Cat. No. 77012, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea.
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)

. SANDALS. Rice straw; shape, between a shoe and a sandal; covering the

sides of the foot and open above. Length, 10} inches. (Cat. No. 77013,
U.S. N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

(Lower line, commencing at the left.)

. WoMEN’s SHOES. Uppers of blue cloth, lined with ass skin; bound with

white leather; soles, rawhide. White leather scrolls ornament toe and
heel. Neatly finished and ornamented. Length, 8} inches. (Cat. No.
77016, U. S. N. M. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)

. CHILD’s SHOES. Red leather, with green and yellow leather foxings. Upper

and sole joined together from outside. Length, 64 inches. (Cat. No.
77081, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou,
Wi See)
“YVIM-LOOY NVAYOyY

PLATE XX.

a
rs
re,
°
a
o
ae

“An
Ohi Ley

Panty
uve

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ADS

HEAD BAND (Mang-kon). Skilfwly woven of horsehair, with draw-
string and two tying strings. On the front is a piece of a substance
resembling amber, which prevents the hat from slipping down.
Pl. x1x, fig. 1, lower line (commencing at the left).

Length, 19} inches; width, 3 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77112

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn around the head to keep the loose hair in order. It may be the ana-
logue of the fillet of bark or leaves worn by the ancient Japanese and Chinese
for the same purpose, and now often worn by the Koreans. High officials wear
a button of gold or jade on the head band.

MOURNER’S COSTUMES.

The mourning customs of Korea are regulated to the minutest detail
by the Chinese Book of Rites, the Sa-ryei-pyellam, a compilation of the
burdensome rules that should govern, coming of age, marriage, death
and burial, and the worship of the dead. The two latter are very full.
The portion of the book laying down the mortuary customs is trans-
lated in Ross’ Korea.

The two years’ mourning period required on the death of parents is
governed in such a way that it amounts to hermit-like seclusion of the
producing members of society. The mourner hides his face, and sits
literally in “‘sackeloth and ashes,” and his labor is a loss to the state
for two years.

MouRNING CAP (Tou-ken). Hemp cloth; wedge-shaped; made some-
what like a grocer’s paper bag of a single piece of coarse stuff. PL.
XVIU, fig. 1, upper line (commencing at the left).

Height, 7? inches; diameter, 74 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885, 77089
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn on special mourning occasions.

MOURNING HAT (Koul-kon). Plaited band of coarse hemp cloth;
stiffened; lined with paper. This band bent into a peak forms the
crown. <A narrow strip of cloth forms the head band; the ends of
this strip hang free below the chin. PI. xvu1, fig. 2, upper line
(commencing at the left).

Height, 13 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7085

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The outer of the three headdresses (77089, 77085, and 77088). Worn on special
mourning occasions, such as the day of a death; after the decease of a parent;
at the time of burial, and at the expiration of the first and second years after a
death.

MOURNER’S HAT (Pyo-rang-i). Woven of bleached, split bamboo.
Shape of the national hat. Pl. xvm, fig. 3, upper line (commenc-
ing at the left).

Diameter, 15? inches; height, 4% inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77064
AA REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

MoOURNER’S HAT—Continued.

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This hat has a special use in mourning, being worn by a son before the burial
of a deceased parent; worn also by adopted sons in mourning for their real par-
ents. Otherwise, it is used by chair coolies and government slaves. The mem-
bers of the peddler guild fasten small pieces of raw cotton at intervals around
the base of the crown.

MOURNER’S HEAD RING (Tei-tou-ri). Two strands of rice straw covered
with unhackled hemp twisted together to form a ring. PI. XVUI,
fig. 1, middle line (commencing at the left).

Diameter, 64 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77088

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn in mourning for some distant relative.

MouRNER’s HAT (Pang-gat). Well made of bamboo splints; edges
scalloped and finished with braiding. Crowned at apex with ro-
sette of bamboo. A frame to fitover the head is fastened inside and
from it hang tying strings of twisted paper. Pl. xvi, fig. 1, lower
line (commencing at the left).

Diameter, 25 inches; height, 144 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77066

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This hat is designed to hide the face, as it is considered a grievous breach of
etiquette to look into the face of the mourner. Taking advantage of this cus-
tom before Korea was opened to foreigners, missionaries disguised themselves
as mourners and lived and taught there for a long time without detection.

MOURNER’S HEAD BAND (P’omang). Woven of hemp threads; white
tying cords. Same shape as ordinary head band; no button in
front.

Length, 23 inches; width, 2 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7091

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This band takes the place during mourning of the otherwise invariable mang-
kon or head band.

OUTER MOURNING ROBE (Simeni). Hemp cloth, finer in quality than
that of the inner robe. Sleeves wide; made in two pieces.

Length, 4 feet.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77084

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

MOURNING ROBE (Tjoung-tou). Inner robe of very coarse hemp cloth
(sackcloth); back, a straight piece; two gores at each side extend-
ing from the armpits down; front, a straight piece and a gore.
Sleeves, square; collar, rolling; two tying strings.

Length, 4 feet.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77083

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by men under the simeni.

Regular mourning costume made after a fired ceremonial pattern and worn by
a son for two years after the decease of a male parent.
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 455

GIRDLE (Sam-di). Rope of unhackled hemp, with loop and knot. The
girdle passed around the body, the knot hitched through the loop
and the end secured.

Length, 71 inches. :
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77090
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The girdle is worn upon the occasion of the death of afather. After the death
of his mother the Korean wears a strip of hemp cloth as a girdle instead.
MOURNING HAND SCREEN (Pos6n). Of two thicknesses of hemp cloth,
fastened between two rods also covered with cloth. A thin strip

connects the rods at the lower ends.

Width, 134 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77087

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Carried by the mourner, held before the face while out of doors.
MOURNER’S LEGGINS (Be-haing-tyen). Brown hemp cloth; hemmed.

Length, 9% inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7086

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

MoURNER’S SANDALS (Om-jip-séki). Twisted rice straw; white paper
wound around the heel yoke and drawing string. They differ from
common sandals by the paired arrangement of the straw cords
which go over sides of the foot. Pl. xx, fig. 5, middle line (com-
mencing at the left).

Length, 10 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77012
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

ACCESSORIES OF DRESS. HATS, SHOES, ETC.

CouRT HAT (Samo). High, terraced crown, made of stiff lacquered
paper and woven bamboo covered with black satteen. It fits tightly
over the forehead and on either side at the back are attached curved
oar-shaped gauze wings, which project horizontally forward. PI.
XIx, fig. 1, upper line (commencing at the left).

Height, 7 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77063

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

Worn by men of the upper and middle class at the marriage ceremony. The
wings of the King’s samo are vertical. Grades of rank are marked by thickness
of the wings; being two-ply instead of single in higher grades. Compare the
Japanese official hat. Civil officers wear this hat at an audience, on New Year’s
day, on the King’s birthday, or on a formal visit of congratulation. The rings
at the side are for attaching flowers at a particular banquet given by the royal
family.

NATIONAL HAT (Kat). Made of fine silk over a bamboo framework;
stiffened with size. Small, cylindrical, truncated crown; broad
brim; long tying strings. Superior handiwork. PI. XIx, fig. 2,
upper line (commencing at the left).
A456 REPORT OF* NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

NATIONAL HAT—Continued.

Diameter of brim, 18 inches; height of crown, 44 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77060

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy.

Worn by all classes in Korea, indoors and out. It does not fit over the head,
but is placed on the crown and held in position by the tying strings.

Cap (Kon). Wide, circular band of black horsehair. Pl. x1x, fig.
3, upper line (commencing at the left).

Height, 74 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. (alas

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by those of the literary class who have not as yet passed examinations
or held office; also allowed to any one who passes the second grade in merit at
the literary or military examinations before holding office. The lower class of
merchants and laborers, unless after such examinations, can not wear it.

EXAMINATION CAP (Yu-k6n). Of one piece of coarse, black, cotton
stuff, shaped like a grocer’s paper bag. PI. xrx, fig. 2, middle
line (commencing at the left).

Height, 9 inches; diameter, 7 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7057

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by students only at the literary examinations, which are held yearly
for the preliminary grade. Thisstyle of cap is reputed to be made in the shape
of the mountain near which Confucius was born. It was introduced from
China several centuries ago, probably during the Ming dynasty.

CaP (T’ang-k6n). Black horsehair woven inthe shape of the court hat.
Weaving barred; that is, the weaving is so disposed as to leave
oblong reticulations. Pl. x1x, fig. 3, middle line (commencing at
the left).

Height, 7 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77056

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

Worn by all officers in government service and by those who have passed
the first grade in the literary and military examinations. It is worn when at
home or indoors by all officers, a few of the lower grades of attendants at the
‘“yamouns” or official houses, such as upper policemen, being alone excepted.

CEREMONIAL HAT (Keum-k6n). Helmet-shaped. Back, shield-shaped;
woven of thin slivers of bamboo inerusted with gilt papier-maché
dragons, scrolls, ete. Front, black satteen, curving backward
and spaced by vertical gilded wires. The front band has a deco-
rated panel. Head rim adjustable; tied with blue silk cords. A
large wooden pin, with cord and tassel, is thrust through the sides
of the back portion of the hat. Pl. x1x, fig. 4, middle line (com-
mencing at the left).

Height, 10 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77062

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn upon the occasion of the King’s offering sacrifices, by those who assist
him in the ceremony. A similarhat, not gilded, is worn by those officiating at
the semi-annual sacrifices to Confucius. These are offered throughout Korea in

all districts governed by magistrates.
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM 457

CEREMONIAL HAT (Keum-k6n). Helmet-shaped, framed of bamboo,
silk, and paper. Covered with black silk. Rim and shield-shaped
back incrustation of paper. Design, the dragon; gilded. Open
at each side of the crown, which curves backward and is spaced
with five gilt wires. A wooden pin is thrust through the back of
hat and ornamented with blue silk cord.

Height, 94 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1884. 151637

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

With this hat is worn a red-silk gown partially embroidered. All officers,
civil or military, above the ninth rank (or chief clerk of any office in the United
States) don this style of dress on the Ist of January, when there is an audience
with the King. It is also worn at times of thanksgiving or congratulation of
the royal family. (See No. 77062).

SOLDIERS’ HAT (Pang-ko-tji). Thick, black, stiffened felt, mixed with
horsehair, which shows as a mat on the outside. Resembles a
sombrero. Band, a red cord with tassels and two carved tale but-
tons attached. A long switch of horsehair dyed red is fastened in
the crown by a swivel button. Pl. x1x, fig. 5, middle line (com-
mencing at the left).

Diameter, 15 inches; height, 5 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77058

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The hat is heavy and resembles the Japanese pot helmet (kabuto); probably
it is made thick for defense. The plume (syang-mo) is the distinctive badge
of soldiers. Koreans say that this ornament and the sleeves of the cavalry
soldiers are dyed red in order to accustom the horses to the sight of blood.
Some of the troops still wear these hats.

CHAIR COOLIES’ HAT (Pong-ko-tji). Black, stiffened felt; smooth sur-
face. Shaped like the soldiers’ hat. Pl. x1x, fig. 6, middle line
(commencing at the left).

Height, 4 inches; diameter, 15 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77061

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by chair coolies, hostlers, and road runners who accompany noblemen
when on a journey.

HAT IN BOX (Bung-gu-gi). Woven by hand of bamboo splits, horse-
hair, and silk thread. The hat boxes are made from splints of
bamboo covered with oiled paper.

Height, 54 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151628

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Made after the European style at the time when the Progressive Party at-
tempted to introduce European dress and manners. It was the custom of the
King to present these hats to foreigners for criticism.

BEADS WORN ON HAT (Gum-ga-kat-gun). Imitation amber beads and
bugles strung on a cord alternately.

Length, 66 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130868

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Worn for ornament by officers; suspended from one side of the hat.
458 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

FARMERS’ HAT (Kat-si). Woven of split stalks of millet, showing
geometrical patterns made by the different sides of thestraw. The
weaving is closed at the apex of the hat without showing a break.
Braced inside with hoops of bamboo and ribs running from the
apex to points on the edge. In the top is a frame to fit around the
head. Outline, hexagonal. Pl. xvii, fig. 2, lower line (commenc-
ing at the left).

Height, 16 inches; diameter, 50 inches; area, 6 square feet.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77065
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

HAT COVER (Kanno). Polygonal cone of oiled paper; folding. String

of twisted white paper crossed under the chin and held in the hand.

Length, 15 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77019
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy. .

This cover is sometimes worn over a light frame of bamboo sticks which serve
as a support instead of the hat. When not in use the cover is folded up like a
fan and put in the sleeve. This is an interesting form of the umbrella.

RAIN COAT (You-sam). Oiled paper; simply made; large sleeves.
The sesamum oil is applied after the coat is made.
Length, 4 feet.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77017
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.
Straw rain coats like those used in China and Japan are also used in Korea.
Worn by men of the serving class,

RAIN CLOGS (Namack-sin). Boat-shaped clogs, cut out of plocks of
light, coarse-grained wood. Short supports raise the foot about 4
inches from the ground. PI. Xx, fig. 1, upper line (commencing
at the left).

Length, 11 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. : T7015
Collected by Ensign J.B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn on muddy ground by poor people. Compare the Japanese rain clogs.

SWEAT SHIELD (Dung-dung-gu-ri). Bamboo openwork device, worn by
men under the clothes to prevent their becoming damp. Consists
of three panels, the larger going over the chest and the smaller over
the shoulders. Folding; very good workmanship.

Length, 16 inches; width, 13 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77028
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. Navy.

CuFFsS (Dung-to-su). Openwork cuffs of bamboo coils wound with rat-
tan. Worn by men to prevent sleeves at wrist becoming damp from
perspiration.

Length, 7 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. © 77029
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 459

TRAVELERS’ SANDALS (Chip-seki). Sole, four wisps of rice straw, woven
together with cotton rags, fastening in the strands which form
the uppers. These strands cover only the sides of the foot in the
front portion. The heel turns sharply up, bearing a yoke which
fits over the back of the heel. Gathering string of grass. Worn by
farmers. PI. xx, fig. 2, middle line (commencing at the left).

Length, 10 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77011
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

SANDALS (Sang-jip-sin). Rice straw; shape, somewhat between a shoe
and sandal; covering the sides of the foot and open above. PI.
XX; fig. 4, middle line (commencing at the left).

Length, 103 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77013

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Worn by farmers, laborers, ete. These sandals do not wear long, so it is cus-
tomary to carry several pairs for a long journey afoot. They cost only a few
mills a pair.

TOILET ARTICLES AND ACCESSORIES.

TWEEZERS (TjOk-tjip-kei). Brass strip; rudely bent.
Length, 2 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77051
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
Carried in the chon-mo6ni or toilet bag.
POCKET MIRROR (Kyol). Silvered glass set in a wooden frame, with a
pivoted lid. Frame, stained red.
Size, 24 by 2% inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77049
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
One of the toilet articles usually carried by every Korean man and boy.
COMB CLEANER. Thin strip of horn, pointed, and with a shield-shaped
head.
Length, 4 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77115
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The point is used to clean the comb and the head to apply paint to the face
by Korean ladies.

HAIR-ARRANGER. Thinstrip of horn with rounded ends, bent slightly
in the middle. Used to push back stray locks under the head
band.

Length, 43 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77048
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

COARSE COMB (Or-6m-pit). Hard wood; made by hand.
Length, 3} inches; width, 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77044
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
A460 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

FINE ComB (Tehom-pit). Double; madeof thin slivers of bamboo fas-
tened between cleats of the same material.
Length, 33 inches; width, 2 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77045
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
All classes give great attention to the care of the hair. Every man and boy
carries a comb in the small bag hung at the waist.
JOMB (Chom-pit). Fine teeth of bamboo held in series by cleats of
bamboo.
Length, 3? inches; width, 12 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130858
Collected by Dr. H.N. Allen. ;
ComB Box (Bid-jub). Oblong wooden box with lid and drawer; coy-
ered with a geometric veneer of different-colored pieces of bamboo.
Dimensions, 58 by 48 by 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 151615
Collected by P. L. Jouy.
Used by men to hold combs and a sheet of oiled paper, on which are collected
combings, which are carefully burned once a year.

HAIR PIN (Ok-jam). Green jade. The head of the pin is elegantly
carved in openwork with leaves and flowers.

Leneth, 58 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130875

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

The jade is imported from China and worked in Korea. These small pins are
generally worn by elderly ladies.

EAR SPOON CASE (Chi-e-jib), Hexagonal tube of precious white jade,
the sides finely fretted with floriated designs. Generally carried by
ladies.

Length, 35% inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130872
Collected by Dr. H. N, Allen.

EAR SPOON CASE (Chu-e-jib). Hexagonal tube of precious white jade;
the sides in fretwork carving, like No, 130872. Suspended by silk
cord.

Length, 342 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130873
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Receptacle for ear spoons and toothpicks.

HAIR ORNAMENT (Mang-ja-sug-ung-hwang). Oblong bead, flattened

on one side. Made of realgar or red sulphide of arsenie.

Length, 24 inches; width, 1% inches.

Seoul, Korea. 128122

Presented by C. G. Talcott, U. S. Navy.

Worn by ladies, with the exception of widows and those in mourning. Good
quality; valued for its color and electrical properties, in which it resembles
amber.
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM 461

HAIR ORNAMENT (Da-chu-su-quang). Date-shaped head of clay, painted
red in imitation of realgar.
Length, 12 inches; width, % inch.
Seoul, Korea, 1884. 77050
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The specimen is attached to a strip of black silk designed to be twisted with
the queue, which boys are compelled to wear until 15 years old.

ORNAMENTAL KNIFE (Jang-do). No blade. Handle of amber with
silver-gilt fittings. Suspended by a silk cord with tassel.

Length, 5 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130870

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Worn by ladies as an ornament.

ORNAMETAL KNIFE (Jang-do). No blade. Handle of white jade; fit-
tings of silver gilt.

Length, 7} inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130869

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Worn by men as an ornament.

KNIFE AND CHOPSTICKS (Jang-do). .Square handle and sheath of
dark-brown hard wood (san-u-ja). Iron blade; German silver fit-
tings.

Length, 64 inches.

Tong-na, Korea. 151609

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

PENKNIFE. One blade of soft iron; wooden handle; brass end clips
engraved with dragon’s head; no spring; the nail depression is in
the curving end of the blade.

Length, open, 6 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77043

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Korean cutlers do not make their wares on a fixed pattern in any numbers;
that is, they will not take an order for 1 dozen knives made after a certain
style.

POCKET KNIFE AND TWEEZERS (Ju-mu-ni-pal-qua-jok-juk-ga). Two
blades; iron and brass; horn handle; brass spring. The tweezers
slip over the outside of the handle.

Length, closed, 34 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151611

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

SCENT BAG (Hiang-nang). Red satin embroidered with flowers, ete.,
and lined with blue satin. Mouth drawn up with a silken string.

Length, 5? inches; width, 44 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130865

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Used by young men for holding spices or medicine. Made by the court ladies
for distribution by the King and Queen to their relatives.
462 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

SMALL SCENT BAG (Ha-rang). Yellow satin, embroidered in bright
colors. Mouth drawn together with a silk cord.

Diameter, 2 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 130866

Collected by Dr. H.N. Allen.

Given to the children of the royal families on New Year’s day. Made by the
ladies in the palace.

BELT CLASP (Di-don). Precious white jade; oblong; fine perforated
carving of the dragon.

Length, 24 inches; width, 1 inches.

Seoul, Corea. 130874

Used by officers in uniform to fasten a bunch of silk covering an ivory tablet,
on which are engraved their name, rank, ete.

FOLDING FAN (Sun-ja). Bamboo sticks covered with paper; not dee-
orated. The outside sticks are strengthened by a piece of hard
wood set in at the rivet end.

Length, 10 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77020

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Korean fans are noted for their strength and durability.

Fan (Tei-eul-sén). Rigid fan of bamboo splints covered with varnished
oiled paper, set into a black lacquered handle. Decorated with the
Korean national symbol (a pair of red and black, comma-shaped
spirals coiled together in a circle) emblematic of the positive and
negative essences of Chinese philosophy.

Length, 13 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77021

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Carried by the better class of Korean women.

FANS (Bu-cha). Paper on bamboo; folding. Lacquered sticks burnt
in figures. Paper oiled to render it more durable.

Length, from 10 to 164 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130850

Jollected by D. H.N. Allen.

Folding fans are generally carried by men. The smaller fans are for carrying
in the pocket or sleeve, but the large fans are used by servants to fan their
masters. The large fans are not made for trade, but are the annual tribute
from the southern provinces and are distributed by the King to the high officers
in Seoul.

LADIES’ FAN(Mi-sun). Rigid fans covered with oiled paper; round and
other shapes, with black lacquer handle.

Diameter, 95 inches.

Chélla-do, Korea. 130849

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

WoMAN’S MAT. Sheet of red oiled paper, stamped with white figures,
folded into a square form.

Seoul, Korea. 153612

Collected by Ensign J. B, Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The purpose of this mat is to catch the hair and bits of nail, which are care-
fully collected and burned once a year in accordance with a widespread custom:
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 463

PIPE BOWL AND MOUTHPIECE. Of white metal; stem, straight piece
of bamboo about a yard long, cleared of divisions by a long iron
drill.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77041

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Koreans are reported to be inverase smokers. ‘‘A little pouch is even hung to
the girdle of children, significant of their future proficiency in smoking,” writes
the author of Choson. Mr. Rockhill has found them reckoning time by pipes
of tobacco. The pipe is much larger than that of the Japanese.

PIPE BOWL AND MOUTHPIECE. Of brass; large bowl.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77040

»

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

ToBACcOo BOX (Tam-pai-ho-rap). Oblong, rectangular box of precious
serpentine of dark-green color, with yellow mottlings ; lid and
box highly polished. Two compartments for holding different
kinds of tobacco. PI]. xx1, fig. 1 (commencing at the left).

Length, 64 inches; width, 42 inches; height, 44 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130846

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

TOBACCO BOX (Tam-pai-ho-rap). Oblong rectangular box finely wrought
from green serpentine. With cover. Highly polished. Pl. xx1, fig.
2 (commencing at the left).

Length, 64 inches; width, 4% inches; height, 44 inches.

Dan chun City, Korea. - 130845

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

INLAID TOBACCO BOX (Tam-pai-ho-rap). Rectangular iron box inlaid
with silver; sliding lid; bolt for fastening; staple through which
a strap passes for carrying. The method of inlaying pursued is
to hack the surface of the iron, lay on the wire design and fasten
with pressure and hammering. The wide inlays are engraved.
Pl. xxi, fig. 5 (commencing at the left).

Size, 4x23x24 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77038

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Design on the lid is Sang-hi, ‘‘ Long life and happiness” character; on end
mythological design of stork and tortoise; on sides deer browsing on leaves;
the dead spaces matted with stars and four-petaled flowers; borders of Grecian
and other designs. The Korean silver inlaying is excellent and well-known
art work.

ToBACCcO BOX (Tam-pai-ho-rap). Cireular box with lid; made of a soft
reddish soap stone called hua-ban-suk. Turned on a reciprocating
-lathe and polished with stone dust, a rough equisetaceous plant
(sok-sa), and oil. PI. xxt, fig. 4 (commencing at the left).

Height, 34 inches; diameter, 4# inches,

Fusan, Korea, 1884. 151617

Collected by P. L. Jouy,
A64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Topacco Box. Iron inlaid with copper filature. Cireular, with lid.
The iron is first made rough by filing or hacking and the wire de-
sign laid on and hammered down and the whole burnished and
polished. Very fine work. Designs, plum bloom, bamboo, pine,
chrysanthemum, birds, and insects. The lid bears “Good luck”
character. Pl. xx1, fig. 5 (commencing at the left).

Height, 3 inches; diameter, 4 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. . 77039

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The subjects of design have their significance in the folk-lore of Korea as in
Japan.

Topacco Box (Tam-pai-ho-rap). Cireuiar iron box with lid. Inlaid
with silver filatures and lacquered in the interspaces. Side orna-
mented with archaic Chinese characters; reserve spaces filled with
a mat fret design. Happiness character on the lid. Pl. XXx1, fig. 6
(commencing at the left).

Height, 2? inches, diameter, 4 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 15161

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Pree (Dam-be-ta). Bowl and mouthpiece of an alloy like German sil-

ver, decorated with niello work. Stem etched and lacquered.

Fusan, Korea. 130847
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Topacco (Tam-pe). Dark-yellowish color; cut quite fine. Not very
strong.
Seoul, Korea, 1884. 151639
Collected by P. L. Jouy.
This specimen is called sucho and is not of good quality. Korean tobacco is
said to be suitable for the European market.
SNUFF BOTTLE (Bee-yun-tong). Small flat bottle with neck; made of
smoky agate.
Height, 24 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130871
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
Seldom made use of by Koreans. This specimen is from China, Carried in
the pocket.

THE PICTORIAL, PLASTIC, AND DECORATIVE ARTS.
METAL WORK.

CAST BRONZE IMAGE (ANCIENT) (In hiung). Rudely modeled. Rep-
resents a warrior in scale armor with sword in hand.
Height, 34 inches.

Torai, southern Korea. 151606
Collected by P. L. Jouy.

vais
ci
ir

© eee
- ting hea
uf ,

~

Fig.

Fig.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXI.
KOREAN TOBACCO BOXES.

(Commencing at the left.)

. ToBacco Box. Oblong, rectangular box, of dark green serpentine with yel-

low mottlings; lid and box highly polished. Twocompartments for hold-
ing different kinds of tobacco. Length, 64 inches; width, 43 inches;
height, 44 inches. (Cat. No. 130846, U.8.N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected
by Dr. H. N. Allen)

. Tospacco Box. Oblong, rectangular box, tinely wrought from green serpen-

tine, highly polished, with cover. Length, 6 inches; width, 4} inches;
height, 3} inches. (Cat. No. 130845, U.S. N. M. Da Chun City, Korea.
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.)

. Topacco Box. Rectangular iron box inlaid with silver; sliding lid; bolt

for fastening; brass staple, through which a strap is passed in carrying.
Designs on the sides: the stork, tortoise and deer, emblems of longevity.
On lid, the Sang-hi ‘‘ Long-life and happiness” character. Size, 4 by 23
by 24 inches. (Cat. No. 771388, U. S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected
by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)

. Topacco Box. Circular box, with lid; made of a soft reddish soapstone

called hua-ban-sék. Turned on a reciprocating lathe and polished with
stone dust, a rough equisetaceous plant (sok-sa), and oil. Height, 34
inches; diameter, 44 inches. (Cat. No. 151617, U. S. N. M. Fusan, Korea.
Collected by P. L. Jouy.)

. ToBpacco Box. Circular iron box, with lid; inlaid with copper filatures.

Designs: plum bloom, bamboo, pine, chrysanthemum, birds, and insects.
The lid bears the ‘“‘Good-luck” character. Height, 3 inches; diameter,
4 inches. (Cat. No. 77039, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by En-
sign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)

. Topacco Box. Circular iron box, with lid; inlaid with silver filatures and

lacquered in the interspaces. Side ornamented with archaic Chinese
characters; reserve spaces filled with a mat in fret design. ‘‘ Happiness”
character on lid. Height, 2} inches; diameter, 44 inches. (Cat. No.
151614, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou,
U.S. N.)
PLATE XXI.

Report of National Museum, 1891,—Hough.

‘Saxog

o00vaO | NvayOy

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 465

BRONZE IMAGE (ANCIENT) (In hiung). Figure of a warrior; arms
missing, but from the position of the stumps he seems to be draw-
ing a-bow.

Height, 34 inches.

Torai, Korea, 1883. 151605
Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Probably used as an ornament on some building (temple) or on armor,

COVER OF FIRE BOX (Hwa-ru-dug-ke). Brass; circular; perforated
design of lotus flowers, etc.; chased and repousséed,

Diameter, 9£ inches.

Korea. 151613
Collected by P. L. Jouy.

From a temple vessel, probably a hand-warmer.

DONKEY BELL (Bang-wool). Globular cast brass; raised ornamenta-

tion.
Diameter, 2 inches.
Fusan, Korea. 151604
Collected by P. L. Jouy.

WIND BELL (Pung-kiung). Brass; cruciform clapper with globular
ends. A chain hangs down from the clapper bearing a sheet brass
fish, which rings the bell when swayed in the wind.

Height, 24 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151516
Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Hung in the eaves of houses and temples. The Japanese have a similar

custom.
INLAYING, EMBROIDERY, ETC.

PILLOW END (Be-ga-mo). Disk of wood painted. Design, two tigers
and pine tree. Coated with a transparent layer of gelatinous sub-
stance resembling horn. Pl. xxu, fig. 1 (commencing at the left).

Diameter, 6 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77035

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The Korean pillow is a cylindrical case stuffed with hair or rice straw. It
has ornamented ends.

PILLOW END (Be-ga-mo). Circular piece of wood, lacquered; incrusted
withhaliolis shell. Figures representa tiger under a pine tree; along
the border is a band of arabesque. Pl. xx1I1, fig. 2 (commencing at
the left).

Diameter, 8+ inches.

Tong-young City, Korea, 130851
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

This is not part of a regular pillow, but for the kind used as an arm rest.

PILLOW END (Ja-ga-be-ga-mo), Disk of wood fastened in the end of
the cylindrical pillowease; inlaid in black lacquer with haliolis
shell. Subject, the great dragon rising from the sea into the sky
in the spring season. Pl. XXII. fig. 5 (commencing at the left).

Diameter, 8 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77032,
SM 91, pr 2 30)

466 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

PILLOW END—Continued.
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The riong, or dragon, is one of the four mythologic beasts. In pure art the
whole body of the dragon is not shown, but partly shronded in clouds.

PILLOW END (Ja-ga-be-ga-mo). Cireular disk of wood, inlaid with
mother-of-pearl. Design, the Chinese “ good luck” character. PI.
XXII, fig. 4 (commencing al the left).

Diameter, 7 mches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77033
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

PILLOW END (Be-ga-mo). Embroidered in colored silk. Design, the
Chinese tai-ki, three comma-shaped objects coiled in a cirele.
Around this is grouped the eight geomantie signs. Pl. xx11, fig 5,
(commencing at the left).

Seoul, Korea. 77034
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The colors are related to the meaning of the symbol.

EMBROIDERED SCREEN (Su-biung). Folding screen with ten leaves
embroidered in flowers, butterflies, etc., on a white satin ground.
Along the border of the oblong surfaces are strips of brocaded silk.

Seoul, Korea. 130855

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Generally found in ladies’ apartments. This specimen was made in northwest
Korea.

PAINTING IN WATER COLORS.

SCROLL PICTURE (Yong-gu-rim). In colors; represents the dragon
rainpant in the clouds, with its mysterious ball (yu-u-ju).

Leneth, 47 inches; width, 28 inches.

Interior of southern Korea. 151596

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

The ball before the dragon is believed to possess mystic qualities; by it the
dragon causes wind to blow, rain to fall, and other miracles. Ignorant people
to bring good fortune hang a picture of the dragon in their sleeping rooms.
The figure of the dragon is popularly used in paintings and carvings, not only
because of the old belief in the fabulous stories, but because the long body with
four short legs is convenient to make many curves like arabesques and to fill
a narrow space in decoration.

SCROLL PICTURE (Gu-rim.) ‘Spring in Korea;” in water colors. The
favorite plum trees in bloom, willows with expanding leaves, ete.,
are well painted, and the whole effect is pleasing.

Length, 6 feet 7 inches; width, 3 feet.

Seoul, Korea. 151598
Collected by P. L. Jouy. ,
Painted by Jo Jung Muk, an artist in government service who is noted for

his water-color portraits.
Fig.

9

aes

or

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXlI.
KOREAN INLAID AND EMBROIDERED PILLOW ENDs.

(Commencing at the left.)

PILLOW END. Disk of wood, painted. Design, two tigers and a pine tree.
Surface, coated with a transparent layer of a gelatinous substance re-
sembling horn. Diameter, 64 inches. (Cat. No. 77035, U. S. N. M. Seoul,
Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)

PILtow ENp. Disk of wood, lacquered; incrusted with haliotis shell. De-
sign, tiger under a-pine tree; along the border is a band of arabesques in
shell. Diameter, 8} inches. (Cat. No. 130851, U. S. N. M. Tong-young
City, Korea. Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.)

PiILtow END. Disk of wood inerusted in black lacquer with iridescent
haliotis shell. Subject, the great dragon rising from the sea into the sky
in the spring season. Diameter, 8 inches. (Cat. No. 77032, U. S. N. M.
Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)

PILLOW ENb. Disk of wood, inlaid with mother-of-pearl. Design, the
Chinese ‘‘ Good Luck” character. Diameter, 7 inches. (Cat. No. 77033,
U.S. N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. N.)

PILLOW END. Embroidered in colored silks. Design, the Chinese tai-ki,
three comma-shaped objects coiled in a circle. Around this are grouped
the eight geomantic signs (Pal-qua). Diameter, 8 inches. (Cat. No.
77034, U. S.N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou,
WS22Ne)
PLATE XXII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough

‘SONQ MOTHd GSYSCIOYUSNA GNV GIVIN| NVSYOY

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 467

BooK OF WATER-COLOR PAINTINGS (Hwa-chup). Painted in water
color on silk. The eight sketches of birds and animals are painted
by one artist and alternated with three kinds of hieroglyphics writ-
ten by different men. The work is excellent and full of feeling.

Length, 18 inches; width, 114 inches.

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Painted about 1790, by Huin-ja or ‘* Ye Chok,” one of the popular artists of
that time, who lived at Sing Chow. Drawn in Seoul while on a visit to the
Kim family.

SCROLL PICTURE. Water color of a tiger (Jok-ja, under a pine-tree.
Tron rings for suspension.

Lergth, 474 inches; width, 28 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151597

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

PORCELAIN SCREEN. Photograph of a fine painted screen from the
royal palace.

Seoul, Korea. 129558

Collected by Gustavus Goward.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Man in ordinary dress and hat
worn at home. 1.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Closed sedan with sliding win-
dows, carried by four men. Used by the high officers and their
wives. Compare the Japanese Kago. 2.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gurim). Officer in armor with sword in
hand. 3.

The armor worn by officers is made of small plates of leather and iron joined
together. [t is covered with red woolen cloth ornamented with figures made
of copper or silver gilt and bordered with fur and lined with thick blue silk.
Officers are allowed to use the royal color.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Officer in full dress uniform. 4.

WATER COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Man riding, servant leading the
horse. 95.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Prime minister seated on a sedan
carried by four men. The sedan and large fan are lawfully
allowed only to the prime minister. 6.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Buddhist priest with hat of straw
in the act of bowing. 7.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Officer’s servant dressed in black
coat and hat and white belt, carrying his master’s official dress
and tobacco box. 8.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Palace servant wearing brown
coat and blue sash; sword on back. 9.

This servant is selected from the class of respectable citizens and trained as
a regular soldier. There are five hundred such servants in the palace at Seoul.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Lady in ordinary dress. The
small ornament on the top of the head and the purple vest are

never worn together, 10,
468 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Boy in house dress: the queue
shows that he is unmarried. 11.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Lady in house dress consisting
of a yellow coat and red skirt; these colors are only worn by un-
married women. 12.

The hair ornament is always adorned with jewels except in mourning. It
is prohibited to widows.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Lady in street costume, wearing
the prescribed green veil. 15.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Lady in house dress. 14.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Prime minister in pink robe,
seated on a sedan. The fan and sedan show the rank. Pink is
used by all officers of the upper house, either civil or military. 15.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Servant of the tribunal or
chamber court. 16.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING (Gu-rim). Civil officer of the second rank,
denoted by golden belt; seated on a sedan of lacquered wood
having one wheel. The seat is about 5 feet from the ground and
the sedan is propelled and supported by 5 men. 17,

Size, 14 by 11? inches.

The monocycle usually travels faster than the Korean horse, Officers
in this high sedan usually have twenty followers.

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.

The preceding series (Nos. 1-17) is from Seoul, Korea. 131515 (17)
BooK OF WATER-COLOR PAINTINGS (Hwa-chup). Bound in folio of

the native paper, with back of blue cloth. Contains thirty-seven
stiffly drawn figures of sages and spiritual beings, illustrating the
mythological stories of Korea.

Seoul, Korea. 130880

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

SCROLL PICTURE OF A KOREAN LADY. Painted in water color. This
picture gives an idea of the mode of wearing the hair and the
house costume of the Korean ladies.

Size, 24 by 48 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77071

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The pictures used in the decoration of the inner or living rooms of
the common people are gaudily colored and _ stiffly drawn. The sub-
jects of Korean common pictorial art are flowers, fruits, animals, ete.,
in contrast with the dramatic and blood-curdling common prints of the
Japanese.

PricTuRE. Colored. Storks, deer eating “immortal grass,” and turtles
in the sea. Poetical illustration. 1.

Used for household decoration by the lower-class Koreans. This picture
illustrates the ‘‘Ten long lives,” or those things in nature existing longer than
human beings. They are the sun, moon, mountain, water, turtle, deer, swan,
pine, bamboo, and a plant called bu-sut,
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 469

PictuRE. Flowers. ec ;
os an ie i colored. The rose, chrysanthemum, hibiscus
Pas, Peony, convolvulus, grapes; an aquarium with fish

?

two vases decorated win o ates f
eomantic (national) symbols, placed on

table and floor, are shown. 2.
Usually seen in living rooms of the common people.

PictuRE. Colored. Subject, the male and female phoenix with young
near their nest in the black rock under the odong or paulownia
tree. Sunrise. 3.

In Korean folklore these birds, called ‘‘Pong and Hoang,” are said to bring
forth their young like animals and only on the birth of a sage is a pheenix born.
The nest must be in a hole in the rock under the shade of a panlownia tree.

Prorurkr. Golden pheasants, mowtan peony, plum tree, waterfall,

and pair of little birds. 4.

House decorations of the common people.

;

ProrurE. Vase decorated with wave pattern: filled with flowers
of the hibiscus, hul-su or snapdragon, pomegranates, and apricots,
On the ground, oranges and bunches of immortal grass. 5.

Picture such as is found in living rooms of the common people. Hung upon
the door.

Picturkr. Represents a cock. One of the four watchful animals. 6.

One of the four pictures such as are found hanging on the outside of the
storeroom in the dwellings of the common people.

PictuRE. Decorated vases, pencil rest, dish of peaches on table,
coral and peacock feathers in tall vase decorated with wave pat-
tern, mystic bowknot, and conventional dragon. 7.

The common people delight in these gaudy pictures and hang them up in
their living rooms. Used for hanging on a closet door.

PrctuRE. Tiger and immortal plant. 8.

Gaudy picture bought by the common people.

PicTuRE. Dog, with collar and bells around its neck. 9.

One of a set of four pictures which decorate the outside of a storeroom.

PicTURE. Vases and dishes, roll of pictures tied together with band
of ribbon. Dish contains kam or persimmons, a Korean fruit. 10.

Used by common people. Hung on the closet door.

PicTuRE. Mythological beast called a lion, with collar and bells.
Tongues of flame issue from its feet. 11.

One of the four animals of watchfulness. Hung outside of a storeroom.

PICTURE. Tiger rampant. A favorite representation of Korean
artists. 12.

One of the four pictures of the watchful animals hung on the outside of the
storeroom.
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The preceding series (Nos. 1-12) is from Seoul, Korea, 1885, 77052 (12)

ScREEN. Silk; painted with a scene which represents an emperor of
China of the Ming dynasty receiving presents from states tributary
to China. Eight leaves; old, rare, and finely painted.

Width, 22 inches; length, 4 feet.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77116
A470 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ScorEEN—Continued.

Collected by Ensign J. 1 . Bernadou, U. 8. Navy. :

This screen is worthy of ey: study for oe ~ber of nationalities depicted

1 Ss the fact that ee apie of the finest Oriental hand-painting.
and from th

tour hondeed years ago; the Koreans with pardonable
__phtesfiave pl: vced themselves in the front rank.

pe Colon PAINTING. Mandarin duck. 1.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. White cock, hen, and chicks by the bam-
boo brake. 2.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Hawk on cliff overhanging the sea, with
captured duck. 3.

This picture is well drawn; the spray under the seaweed-covered rock and
the fierce mien and pose of the hawk are well executed.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Hawk about to attack a monkey, which

hides itself under the trunk of a pine tree. 4.
The monkey is not found in Korea.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Eagle perched in a plum tree. 5.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. White eagle with quarry; a pheasant. 6.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Swans among the reeds. Poetical. 7.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Korean hunting faleon in pursuit of a
white hare. 8.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Flock of cranes on a pinetree. Poetical
and mythological illustration. 9.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Crane and fragrant plum tree. Poet-
ical and metaphorical, the crane signifying the child and the plum
tree the mother. 10.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Lion under pine tree. Very poor repre-
sentation. 11.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Tiger crouching under a pine tree. 12.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Gray squirrel on branch of pine tree. 13.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Pair of musk deer. Probably an_ illus-
tration of some poem. 14.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Pair of antelope. 15.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Well-groomed horse tied to a willow tree.
Spring scene; often painted by Korean artists. 16.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Horses at play, leaping and_ rolling.
Spring scene; an illustration of a poem. 17.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Pair of dogs under trees. Mythological
dogs, illustrating a folk story. 18.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Sea monster (whale) swallowing a junk. 19.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Manchurian crane. 20.

SEPIA DRAWING. Landscape, winter scene; mountains partly covered
with snow. Shows a pagoda and the roof of a temple. 22.

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. AU1

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Landscape, summer scene; shown by thick
foliage and by people sitting in the open pavilions. 23.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Landscape, spring scene; village at sunset,
men reading by the window, and fishers returning across a quaint
bridge. 24.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Landscape, autumn; maple trees, water
flowing under a stone bridge, a man on a two-wheeled sedan of the
kind probably used in Korea in old times. 25.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Illustrates the story of a man who was
famous for his good handwriting. No one has attained to his ex-
cellence since his death. 26.

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The preceding series (Nos. 1-26) is from Seoul, Korea. T7117

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Landscape, autumn moonlight scene; the
maples and bamboo surround the student’s house. 1.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Landscape, winter moonlight scene after
a snowstorm, 2.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Butterflies and flowers. 3.

Painted by Han, a native artist. Used for house decoration.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Submarine view, crabs, shrimps, mollusks,
and seaweeds. 4.

This picture bears marks of having been drawn bya literary man rather than
a regular artist.

WATER-COLOR PAINTING. Story of Lomoo, a Chinese officer ban-
ished by the Emperor through intrigue. Though he had grown
old in exile, and suffered from hunger and privation, yet he loyally
holds up the rod with five bunches of red silk given him by the
Emperor. 9.

Collected by Ensign J. b. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The preceding series (Nos. 1-5) is from Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77118

By far the better pictures in the collection are the following outline
sketches in India ink, which may be entitled ‘‘Scenes from the Social
Life of Korea.” They are a revelation in Korean art, since they show
bold drawing, free treatment, and humorous caricature like that found
in the realistic school of Japan.

These pictures illustrate the social customs and industrial arts of the
people. They were originally bound together to form a boy’s picture
book. They are supposed to be nearly three hundred years old.
INDIA-INK DRAWING. Mythological picture; the seven good beings

or secondary angels of Korea and China, with the animals and
plants appertaining to them. These beings in Japan are called the
seven gods of happiness. The central figure bears a striking re-
semblance to the Japanese Hotei, the president of the seven. The
A472 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

INDIA-INK DRAWING—Continued.
scene is interesting in tracing the Chinese influence to Japan
through Korea. This set of character pictures were drawn by the
artist Han-jin-o. 1.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Mythological picture; the seven wise men or
gods of good fortune. The central figure, Laotze, writes verses upon
a scroll and produces jewels and living animals from his pen. 2.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Marriage procession of the groom visiting
his intended bride. Men in advance carry lanterns for the occa-
sion, followed by the bearer of a wild duck or model of one, the
symbol of domestic felicity. Then comes the bridegroom in court
dress, always worn on such occasions by all except coolies. Asa
rule the young man’s former nurse follows. 5.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Coolies at a well. Around the wide, shallow
well women are drawing water with rope and bucket, to fill jars
which are carried on the head. 4.

This picture shows the dress of the lower class.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Instruction in archery; teacher showing lad how
to draw the bow. The awkward pose of the beginner is well caught.
Others are stringing the bow and straightening the arrow. 5.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Peddlers returning from work. Shows horses,
pack saddles, coolie’s dress, and method of smoking. 6.

The pack saddles shown here have a deep seat between two yokes. They are
girthed and have a wide breech band. Rungs are set in between the yokes of
the saddle, to which packages are tied. One of the coolies is striking a light
with flint and steel.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Begging bonzes on the road side. On a
large sheet of paper are a number of strips upon which are written
sums of money or grain as paid for certain efficacious prayers. The
woman in front is about to throw down a few cash, for which the
prayers will be said. The bonzes carry small boat-shaped drums,
and sing the sacred songs invoking blessings on the contributors.
The lady’s attendant carries a smoking outfit on her head and fan
in her hand. 7.

These priests are not regular beggars, but perform this office according to the
rules of a certain sect.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Preparing tobacco for smoking. The stems
are removed and the leaves piled evenly, then the piles are cut into
shreds with a long lever knife. The expectant attitude of the man
who is waiting for some tobacco is very comical. 8.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Peasant’s family; woman spinning and man
making matting on a weighted loom. The loom frame is two
forked sticks driven in the ground and a bar placed across. ‘The
warp threads are wound around weights. These are divided alter-
nately to opposite sides of the bar. In working the loom a weft
straw is laid in where these threads cross the bar, and one set of
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. A473

INDIA-INK DRAWING—Continued.

weights thrown over, the other set thrown back, inclosing the rush
in the warp. This is a tedious process, but produces good work
with little machinery and skill. Korean matting is very good. 9,

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Country people passing on the road. Shows the
high saddle and common method of riding by holding on to the
saddle and allowing the horse to be led. 10.

Etiquette requires that women vail their faces on meeting men. ‘This repre-
sents the wedding procession returning from the bride’s house.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. House building. Shows men planing timbers,
tiling, ete. 11.

Tiles are imbedded in balls of mud placed upon the roof. The plane has
handles at the sides.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Wrestling match. Spectators; street candy
Seller. 12.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Boats propelled by sculling, ferrying passen-
gers across stream. 13.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Women washing clothes by beating them with
clubs on rocks. Women braiding hair; man peeping from behind
his fan. 14.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Coolies eating by the roadside. Bowls and
spoons are being used. 15.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Roadside inn. People of middle class taking
food and smoking. 16.

These open roadside inns resemble those of Japan.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Coolies resting by roadside; smoking and chat-
Timo ET.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Country peddlers. Man carries large basket of

_ of vegetables or salt fish on his head; woman carries child and
eradle-shaped basket containing crabs. 18.
The child is carried as in Japan, seated inside the loose upper garment.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Forging. Smith holds red-hot iron on anvil,
with tongs, while two men strike. Boy blows bellows, and man
sits on the ground dressing piece of wood with curved drawknife.
uo:

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Shoeing a horse. Tools lying on ground. 20.

The animal is thrown and the smith tacks on a circular shoe without calks.
Korean horses are rarely castrated; hence are vicious. The officials ride don-
keys almost universally.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Plowing and working the fields. Two oxen
are attached to a light, one-handled plow. Two men hoeing with
implements resembling potato forks. 21.

In Korea the horse is never employed in the plow.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Thrashing by beating sheaves across a rough
log of wood and sweeping grain from the smooth, hard ground.
The man taking his ease near by is the overseer. 22.
AT4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Schoolmaster and class of children. Boys are
studying, and one is “backing his book,” that is, reciting by turn-
ing his back to the teacher and placing his book behind him. 23.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Farmers’ wives weaving. Woman working at a
rude loom; an old woman taking care of children, and a woman
singeing thread to remove frayed fibers before using it for weaving.
24,

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Hired-boy dancer and band of music. Mu-
sicians seated in semicircle. Instruments: Bass drum in frame like
Japanese drum, accordeon, flute, fifes, and guitar. 25.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Catching fish in a weir. Men in boats are dip-
ping out fish into jars; at one end of weir is flock of birds. 26.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Wood-carriers resting and playing a game with
small stones; frames for carrying wood at one side. 27.

The carrying frame shown is rectangular, woven at back with rattan, with
arm loops at side and ropes for encircling the burden. The arms are passed
through loops and load carried on back. A much more commonly used frame
is made of two forked limbs, cut about 3 feet long and mortised together
with slats.

INDIA-INK DRAWING. Competitors for the civil-service examination.
This style of dress, cap, and shoes are worn during the examination.
One youth shows his friends the paper on which the answers will be
written. 28.

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

The preceding series (Nos. 1-28) is from Seoul, Korea, 1885, 77119 (28)

SOCIAL RELATIONS AND PUBLIC WELFARE.
COMMUNICATION AND RECORD OF IDEAS.
WRITING IMPLEMENTS AND METHODS—PRINTING,

SEAL (Do-su). Oblong hard-wood block, with seal characters cut on
two faces. Obverse characters, ‘‘ Gaw-wee,” and reverse, “Seal of
Cang-Won-sung-duk.” Used by some private institution.

Dimensions, 4 by 24 by 12 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 151607
Collected by P. L. Jouy. %
Box FOR SEALS AND INK (Do-su-hab). Oblong box of soapstone, of
> reddish color, with lid; highly polished.
Length, 4 inches; width, 34 inches; height, 2 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130844
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
This beautiful soapstone is found in the southern part of the country.

UNCUT SEALS (9) (Do-su-dol). Oblong squared blocks of mottled soap-

Stone. Used by literary men or artists.
Height, 12 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130843
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

i

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. AWD

Uncur SEALS (Do-su-dol). Block of soapstone, with sitting figure of
the lion badly carved. The square surface on the bottom is ready
for engraving either a man’s name or some motto.

Height, 2} inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130842

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

This style of seal is generally used by literary people. The design orig-
inated in China.

INK STONE (Be-ru-dol). Oblong slab of black slate, with cover of
wood.
Length, 48 inches; width, 24 inches,
Nam-po City, Korea. 130838
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
INK STONE (Be-ru-dol). Oblong slab of hard black stone, with lid, on
which is carved a flowering plum tree.
Length, 54 inches; width, 3 inches.
Nam-po City, Korea. 130839
Colleeted by Dr. H. N. Allen.
ROLLS OF LETTER PAPER (Du-ru-ma-ri). White paper sized and pol-
ished. Medium quality; made from the bark of the tak tree.
Width, 64 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130837
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
PENCILS OR BRUSHES (Boot). Made from the hair of a small animal
resembling the rat (chung-sal-mo), fixed in bamboo.
Length, 8 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130841
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
For letter-writing and copying. Generally manufactnred in the province of
Ham-kiung-do.
PENCIL JAR (Pil-tong). Porcelain cylinder decorated with figures of a
man and a woman, in water colors.
Height, 44 inches; diameter, 23 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130840
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
PENCIL JAR (Pil-tong). Octagonal vase of precious serpentine.
Height, 52 inches; diameter, 43 inches.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 38329
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
This stone is prized by the Koreans, who make from it pencil jars, ink stones
tobaeco boxes, ete.
PENCIL REST (Pil-san). Carved soapstone, representing Lo ja (Laotze),
a Chinese philosopher, seated on a cow.
Height, 2} inches.
Seoul, Korea. 130867
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.
A476 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

BRUSH HOLDER (Pil-tong), Carved teak wood, representing a knotty
tree trunk.

Height, 10 inches; diameter, 104 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130879

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Of the form used by Chinese scholars for holding brushes and rolls of paper.

Woop BLOCK (cast). Double face, the upper showing the face and
back of the harp called Ka-mun-go, a Chinese instrument. The
lower face, with picture of flight of butterflies.

Length, 11 inches; width, 5 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 153614

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Used to ‘‘ pull” imprints on letter paper by rubbing.

PRINTING BLOCK (Ban-jul-pan). Wooden block; ends wedge-shaped
for fitting into a holder. Engraved. PI. xx.

Length, 17? inches; width, 8 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77018

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Blocks and movable type are both used in Korea. This is a common block
for printing the alphabet sheet from which children learn the 6n-moun or na-
tive Korean character. The characters are arranged in vertical columns, and
above each is a rough pictorial representation of something containing the
initial consonant sound of the characters in the column, The writing on the
left is astrological.

Satow says, ‘There are some Korean books dating back to 1317 and 1324,
printed with movable type.’’*

PROPERTY, TRADE, COMMERCE, AND INTERCOMMUNICATION.

CARRYING CLOTH. Square piece of coarse cotton stuff stamped in
black. At each corner is sewn a strong band of folded cotton.
Size, 48 by 55 inches square.
Seoul, Korea. 153613
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy.
Wrapped around parcels carried by porters.

METHODS AND MEDIA OF EXCHANGE.

THREE “CASH” PIECE. Copper coin worth about 3 cents. Inserip-

tion, “Great Kast. Three cash.”
Diameter, 1 inch.
Korea. —
Gift of W. A. Mintzer, U. S. Navy.

SILVER COIN (Sam jun). The inscription is “Great Eastern Kingdom,
one mace.” In center of obverse of coin is a disk of transparent
blue enamel about + of an inch in diameter. Beneath this is the
character for treasury. Debased silver, value about 15 cents.

Diameter, 2 of an inch.

Korea. —
Gift of W. A. Mintzer, U.S. Navy.

These curious coins are rare, having been withdrawn from cireulation.

‘Trans. Asiat. Soc. of Japan, x, No.1, p. 63.
eh aA
=< ere eae
oom 1. pe, mf mi A :
ik nen ~ he ie vs y

+ lela

oe aN iu ye 7
ria -

7 ni

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIII.
KOREAN PRINTING BLOCK.

PRINTING BLock. Of wood; end wedge-shaped for fitting into a holder. Charac-
ters both sunken and engraved in relief. Block used for printing the
alphabet sheet for children. Length, 17? inches; width, 8 inches. (Cat.
No. 77018, U. 8S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Berna-
dou, U.S. N.)
"MOO1g DNILNIYd NVSYO

PLATE XXIII.

avert
ane

i
d)
5
fe)

1

=

o

co

=
£
5
®
on”
3
=
rs)
c
cS)

2
%

za

oo
°

Py
t
°
rom
®

c

;
| KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ACH

SILVER COIN (Sam jun). Inscription, “Great Eastern Kingdom, two
mace.” Disk of enamel in center of obverse. Debased silver, value
about 30 cents.

Diameter, 1 inch.

Korea. Bas
Gift of W. A. Mintzer, U. S. Navy.

These coins are rare, having been withdrawn from circulation.

KOREAN “CASH” (Dang-o-jun). Coins made of an alloy of copper, tin,
and lead. Square hole in center as in Chinese coins. Reverse bears
four characters giving name of coin, and the obverse the place where
it was made, the number of the furnace, and the value, about 4 of a
cent.

Diameter, 1} inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130863

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

This coin is unpopular, as it is badly made. This kind of money was first in-
troduced from China in 1884, and adopted by the Conservative party.

CASH SWORD (Soe chun). Chinese cash, tied in shape of sword with
colored strings and decorated with silk fringe.

Length, 20 inches.

Korea. 130908
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Generally made by ladies and kept as curiosities.

MEDAL (Buil don). Alloy of copper, lead, and brass. Cast. A wide
band of perforated designs of the long-life symbols, alike on either
side of the medal, surrounds a central circle containing on one side
the Chinese characters signifying ‘‘ His Majesty; (may he live) ten
thousand years” and on the other “ Wealth, official promotion, many
children.” On either side are four national symbols. Square hole
in center. Pierced for suspension.

Diameter, 21} inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1889. 130876

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Struck in the precincts of the palace at the times of the establishment of the
mint, which is not a permanent fixture of the Government.

RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT.
GAMES OF SKILL AND CHANCE. AMUSEMENTS.

PLAYING CARDS (T’ou-tjyen). Eighty-one long, narrow strips of oiled
paper, with suit signs in black. Eight suits: The man, fish, hawk,
pheasant, deer, steer, rabbit, and horse, the numerals running up
to nine and a general. Pl. xxiv, Fig. 1, left side.

Length, 8 inches; width, one-quarter of an inch. ;

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7047

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. Navy.

Several varieties of cards, differing as to the number of suits, are played in
Korea, These cards resemble the lots used by Chinese gamblers to determine
luck.
478 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

pine wood, of three different sizes. Characters, Chinese, cut in th
blocks and painted blue or red. Pl. xxi, Fig. 2, lower right
hand corner.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. T1024
Coliected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The name means ‘‘game of war.” It is curious that the rank depends on the
size of the pieces, as in case of Japanese chin. Whether more ancient in type —
than the pieces at present used in China, which are of uniform size, is conjectural
Played on a board made of wood or paper.
DomINnokus (Kolpai. ‘Bone game”). Thirty-two ivory dies marked i
with red and black spots large and small. PI. xxrv, Fig. 3. upper
right-hand corner.
Size of dies, # inch long; one-half inch wide.
Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77024
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.
The arrangement of the spots on these is identical with the dominoes of China
and it is probable that the games are the same. In this game five or six can
play. They in turn cast off and draw until one player gets a suit of doubles
from one to six, when he cries ‘Suit,” having won. Each player draws five
bones at first.
INITIATION CLUB AND NOOSE (Yong-bag-mang-i and Jul). Wood; head
carved to represent the dragon; painted in colors. Cord of plaited
silk attached to handle. The jul is a rope made of strands of pink
cotton overplaited by pink, blue, and yellow silk thread. It has a
running noose at one end.
Length, 21 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151631-2°

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Kept in the office of the messengers in the palace, official mansions, and goy-
ernmental departments. Newcomers are initiated by the “society,” who pass
the noose around the ankle of the candidate and draw up his foot across the
knee. Then a set of difficult questions are asked, and for every wrong answer —
the victim receives a blow upon the sole. This initiation is with a view of |
getting a treat. Newly married men are also put through a similar ordeal by
their friends.

MUSIC AND MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.

Music is an important institution in Korea. The government educates j
and maintains musicians and allows bands to furnish music for official.
receptions and at the palace.

There is a system of notation; the notes are circles and their tonal
value is indicated by the shaded area. ;

Voeal classes are taught the range through which the voice should
rise and fall by the inclination of a rod in the-hands of the teacher.
This is similar in effect to the Thibetan descriptive score. *

There are many musical instruments of all classes. The double- |
headed drum produces four distinct sounds, according to the place

*W. W. Rockhill: The Land of the Lamas, p. 88.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIV.
KOREAN GAMES OF SKILL AND CHANCE.

Fig. 1. PLayinGc Carps. Eighty-one long, narrow strips of oiled paper with the
suit signs written on them. There are eight suits—the man, fish, hawk,
pheasant, deer, steer, rabbit, and horse. Length, 8 inches; width, ¢ inch.
(Cat. No. 77047, U.S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B.
Bernadou, U. S. N.)

Fig. 2. CHINESE CHESSMEN. Thirty-two hexagonal blocks of pine wood, of three
different sizes. Characters, Chinese; cut in the blocks and painted red
and blue. (Cat. No. 77025, U. S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by
Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)

Fig. 3. Dominors. Thirty-two ivory dies, marked with red and black spots, large
and small. Size of die, } inch long, + inch wide. (Cat. No. 77024, U.S.
N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

PLATE XXIV.

KOREAN GAMES OF SKILL AND CHANCE.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE XXV

KOREAN HARP.

HARP.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXV.
KOREAN MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.

Body long and narrow with half oval section, made of jatropha curcas
wood, the ‘‘kiri” of Japan. Six strings, tightened by buttons; fourteen
frets. On the bottom is engraved a verse by a Chinese scholar; ornamen-
tation of bats and fretwork characters appear on other portions. This in-
strument resembles the Japanese Koto, and is played, like the latter, with
the plectron. Length, 224 inches. (Cat. No. 93569, U. S. N. M. Seoul,
Korea. Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. N.)
raw

at
Mi

fu) pu Ne

fig H -
" ony
ae a

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE XXVI

KOREAN DULCIMER.

EXIPIEANATOINGOIF PEAT Ee xoxvile
KOREAN MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.

Dutcimer. Flat, hollow box of o-dong wood, trapezoidal in shape; with lid.
Twelve groups of four thin brass wires each are stretched across the box,
over and beneath two diagonal bridges. Iron pegs and tuning keys.
Played by striking keys with a thin strip of bamboo, the instrument being
held by placing the forefinger in a hole beneath the box, and resting the
latter on the tips of the fingers and thumb. Length, 22 inches; width,
62 inches; height, 38 inches. (Cat. No. 130889, U.S. N.M. Seoul, Korea.
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.)
bs

PLATE XXVII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

sii eB aticb t

ie

KOREAN GUIDEPOST.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXVII.
KOREAN GUIDEPOST.

Guipepost. Rude log of wood with grotesquely carved human face. When com-
plete it is crowned with a hat, has large ears, and thin strips along either
side to represent clothing. These posts are placed along the road at in-
tervals of half a mile. Complete specimens are about 6 feet high, are
painted, and bear on the front an inscription showing the distances. It is
believed that the signpost is also a shamanistic idol to the spirits of the
place.

(From a sketch from nature by P. L. Jouy.)
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. A479

struck; by combination these sounds may be increased to seven. The
drum has a hollow wooden body of hour-glass shape; the heads are
drawn over the ends of the body and extended over two iron rings.
The lacing of rope with tighteners runs between these rings. The
larger head is of skin and the smaller of membrane. The deepest
sound is made by striking the skin head in the center, the rim gives
another sound, the membrane head gives a lighter, noisier sound.

Harp (Kom-oun-to). Body long and narrow with half oval section,
made of Jastropha cureas wood, the Kiri of Japan. Six strings
tightened by buttons; fourteen frets. On the bottom a verse by a
Chinese scholar is engraved; ornamentation of bats and fretwork
characters appear on other portions.

Pl. xxv. Length, — inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 93569

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8S. Navy.

This instrument resembles the Japanese koto and is played like it with the
plectrum. It is placed horizontally on the floor when in position for playing.
Koreans regard it quite an accomplishment to master this instrument.

DULCIMER (Yang-gum). Flat, hollow box of o-dong wood, trapezoidal
in shape, with lid. Twelve groups of four thin brass wires each
are stretched across the box over and beneath two diagonal
bridges. Iron pegs and tuning keys. Pl. xxv1.

Length, 22 inches; width, 6 inches; height, 32 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130889

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Played by striking the strings with a thin strip of bamboo, the dulcimer
being held by placing the forefinger in a hole beneath the box and resting it
on the tips of the fingers and thumb. The long side is held toward the body,
and the forward and middle sections of the strings are used. This instrument
is much in favor among the educated class and is used for both instrumental
pieces and accompaniment.

PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND SAFETY.

GUIDE Post (Jang-sung). Rude post with grotesquely carved human
face. When complete it is crowned with a hat, has large ears, and
thin strips along either side represent clothing. Pl. xx vI1.

Length, 29% mches.

Seoul, Korea. 129484

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Placed along country roadsides at intervals of half a mile. Complete speci_
mens are about 6 feet high, are painted, and bear on the front an inscription
showing the distances. It is believed that this jang sung is a shamanistic idol
to the spirits of the place as well as a guide post.

THE ART OF WAR.—WEAPONS AND ARMOR.

ARMOR (Gap-ot). Consists of a coat, helmet, and wide belt made up
of many thicknesses of coarse, cotton cloth, covered with yellow
stuff. The coat is made up of two wide flaps connected by a band,
A80 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ARMOR—Continued.

which passes over the left shoulder, These flaps are cut out.to fit
the neck and have tying strings at either side. A plastron of cloth
is hung over the chest. The surface of portions of the coat is
printed with Sanskrit dharani or prayers for victory. <A belt resem-
bling those worn by Korean women at the present time, but much
thicker, is intended to be tied around the waist. The helmet is
thickly padded and stiffened by four perpendicular bands of iron
riveted through the cloth and terminating in a brass bell at the top.
There is an iron visor in front. There are wide and heavy epaulles,
or shoulder protectors, one on each side and at the rear. The hel-
met also bears Sanskrit and Korean prayers for victory. PI.
XXVIII.

Length of coat, 34 inches; width, 30 inches. Length of belt, 54 inches;
width, 11 inches. Height of helmet, 12 inches.

Korea, 128344

Deposited by Dr. G. Brown Goode.

This kind of armor has been in use in Korea for three hundred years, but is
not now employed (Soh). The specimen is very old. Korean infantry were
equipped with this armor up to a short time ago (Griffis’s Corea, p. 417). The
Chinese made use of padded armor, but it seems never to haye been employed
in Japan.

ARROWS (Hual-sal). Bamboo shafts, iron heads, triple feathering; the
long ones are used by bowmen, the shorter ones with heavy heads
are for children’s games. Pl. xx1x, figs. 1, 2, and 3, upper por-
tion of plate.

Length, 20 to 32} inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130878

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

The arrows in a quiver are always numbered.

CASE WITH ARROWS (Jun-dong). Arrows same as 130878. Case of
stiff, waterproof paper, with cap cover and wooden ends. Deco-
rated with a conventional design in India ink. PI. Xx1x, fig. 4.

Length of case, 35 inches; arrows, 33% inches.

Seoul, Korea. 153611

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.

This case or quiver is the regulation one carried by the Korean soldiery.

QUIVER (Jun-dong). Bamboo cylinder carved with flowers and birds
in low relief on a lacquered ground. Cap with hinge; two cleats
by which the suspending string is fastened. Pl. xx1x, fig.5, lower
line.

Length, 45 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130878

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Carried over the shoulder. The bow and arrow are not commonly in use in
Korea at present,
ARMOR.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXVIII.
ANCIENT KOREAN ARMOR.

Consists of a coat, helmet, and wide belt made up of many thicknesses of
coarse cotton cloth, covered with yellow stuff. The coat is made up of
two wide flaps connected by a band which passes over the left shoulder.
These flaps are cut out to fit the neck and are tied at either side. A
plastron of cloth is hung over the chest. The surface of portions of the
coat is printed with Sanscrit dharani, or prayers for victory. A belt re-
sembling those worn by Korean women at the present time, but much
thicker, is tied around the waist. The helmet is padded, and is stiffened
by four perpendicular bands of iron riveted through the cloth and termi-
nating in a brass bell at the apex. Visor, small; wide and heavy épaules,
one at each side and at the back. The helmet has also Sanscrit dharani
written upon it. Length of coat, 34 inches; width, 30 inches. Length
of belt, 54 inches; width, 11 inches. Height of helmet, 12 inches. (Cat.
No. 128344, U.S. N. M. Korea. Deposited by Dr. G. Brown Goode.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough PLATE XXVIII.

ANCIENT KOREAN ARMOR.
ae
82
ae

mitig

“

a

EXSPBAINAGEIO ING Ol PE An Ee exc lxXe
KOREAN ARROWS AND QUIVER.

Figs. 1, 2, and 3. Arrows. Bamboo shafts, iron heads, triple feathering; the long
arrows are used by bowmen, the short one tor children’s games. Shorter
arrow, 20 inches long; regular arrow, 323 inches long. (Cat. No. 130878,
U.S. N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.)

Fig. 4. Cask witH ARROWS. Contains numbered arrows like those described above.
Case of stiff, water-proof paper with cap cover and wooden ends. Decor-
ated with a conventional design in Indiaink. The regulation case carried
by the Korean soldiery. Length of case, 35 inches; arrows, 33} inches long.
(Cat. No. 153611, U.S.N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by W. W. Rockhill.)

Fig. 5. QUIVER. Bamboo of cylinder carved with flowers and birds in low relief on
a lacquered ground. Cap carved with spirals; brass hinge; two cleats
fastened on side of tube for the suspending cord. Length, 45 inches.
(Cat. No. 130878, U. S. N. M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by Dr. H. N.
Allen.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE XXIX.

KOREAN ARROWS AND QUIVER.

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 481

ARROW POINT STRAIGHTENER (Hwal-chok-ba-ru-jap-nun-gut). White

bone spur with two square metal-lined holes. Ring for suspension.
Length, 44 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 151630
Collected by P. L. Jouy.
Used as a wrench to straighten the points of arrows.

ORNAMENTAL BOW AND BOW-CASE (Hwal-hwal-jip). Bow, Tatar
shape, lacquered bamboo, wrapped at middle with strips of bright-
colored wool. String, of cotton; case, of leather heavily lacquered ;
one side curved to fit the bow; decorated with silver disks and

rings.
Length of bow, 204 inches; length of case, 16 inches.
Seoul, Korea. 153147

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.

Clasped under the left shoulder according to the old custom by officers in
uniform. Used only for ornament, and with it is carried the holder containing
arrows.

ARROW-HOLDER AND BLANK ARROWS (Dong ga). Holder made of
Japanese leather ornamented with silver disks and sewed along
edges with colored silk. Arrows of lacquered bamboo with broad
white feathering. No points.

Length, 26 inches. .

Seoul, Korea. 151147

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.

Worn by the king and officers at the procession. Hung beneath the left
arm pit. Carried also by officers who receive military orders from the king.

Bow ‘AND PRACTICE ARROWS. Bow, compound, made of wood and
bamboo wound with the bark of a tree and ox sinew. Arrows
made of bamboo with iron points; inferior specimens.

Bow, 39 inches long; arrows, 34 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 129505

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Bow (Hwal). Curved Tatar form made of bamboo and horn wound
with ox sinew, wrapped with green leather at the nocks and
lacquered black. When unstrung it is strongly recurved.

Length, 44 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130877

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

This bow is probably intended for boys’ practice. Korean bows are very
powerful, two men being required to string them, and painful and serious acei-
dents sometimes occur should the bow slip during the operation.

SABER (Hwan-do). Straight, heavy, iron blade. Guard, an octagonal
plate of iron. Hilt, wood wrapped with enameled leather. Seab-
bard, wood covered with flaxen canvas, lacquered. Bound with
brass. Poorly made weapon. PI. xxx, upper figure.

Length, 334 inches; blade, 1 inch wide, + inch thick at back.

Korea, 1875. 72897

Collected by Wm. B. Brooks, U.S. Navy.

Captured in 1871 by United States forces under command of Admiral John
Rodgers, U.S. Navy. Worn by common soldiers. This sword belonged to Pak
Do Gun.

SM 91, Pr 2 ol

-

482 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Sworp (Hwan-do). Hilt and scabbard of hard wood with elegant
fretted, foliated carving, illustrating the ten long lives, viz, sun,
moon, swans, deer, ete. Mounted with copper gilt fittings; spring
in hilt holds sword in place. Blade, curved. PI. xxx, lower figure.

Length, 254 inches; blade, 174 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151601

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Worn by all officers in uniform. Such swords are made to order in the dis-
tricts of Jun-ju and Na-ju.

MATCHLOCK GUN (Chong). Short stock of hard wood; octagonal
barrel; smooth bore. Match of twisted tow. Pl. xxx.

Length, 4 feet.

Seoul, Korea. 151280

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.

Held upon the shoulder when firing, not against it. These guns were used in —
Korea from about three hundred years ago up to 1881. Some troops still are
armed with them.

PRIMING HORN (Oui-iak-tong). Tip of a horn with orifice closed by a
spring of horn. Pl. xxxt, fig. 1, lower line (commencing at the left).

Length, 3% inches.

Korea, 1871. 72899

Collected by Wm. B. Brooks, U. 8S. Navy.

Resembles the Burmese primer. (See Jour. Society of Arts, Jan. 26, 1886,
p. 351.) A relic of the skirmish of June, 1871.

BULLET BAG (Chong-al-nut-nun-gut). Two thicknesses of coarse cot-
ton. The bullets are sprung out from a bird’s bill device. PI. XX x1,
fig. 2, lower line (commencing at the left).

Length, 9 inches.

Korea, 1871. 72898
Collected by Wm. B. Brooks, U. S. Navy.

Trophy of the engagement of June, 1871.

POWDER CASE AND CHARGER (lak-tong). Octagonal box of Jastropha
curcas wood, in rude imitation of a turtle. The charger, an ivory
tube, slides into a recess in front of the case. P1. xxx1, fig. 3, lower
line (commencing at the left).

Length, 64 inches; width, 44 inches; height, 24 inches.

Korea, 1871. 72900

Collected by W. B. Brooks, U. 8. Navy.

This is a trophy of the engagement of June, 1871, between the United States
fleet, under command of Admiral John Rodgers, and the Koreans.

MILITARY BADGE (Hyoung-pai). Two squares of blue silk, embroidered.
Design, the Manchurian white crane flying in the clouds, holding a
spray of ‘‘immortal” grass in its beak. The stitch is mainly plain
embroidery, or plumage stich, but some Kensington and stem stitch
is used. The embroidery is well done.

Ten inches square.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. T7103
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The design is purely symbolic. The crane holds in its bill a sprig of grass.
EXPEANATHON: OF PEATE XOXCXe
KOREAN SWORDS.

(Upper firure.)

Fig. 1. SABER. Straight, heavy, iron blade. Guard, an octagonal plate of iron;
hilt, wrapped with enameled leather; scabbard, wood covered with
lacquered flaxen canvas. Bound with brass; a poorly made weapon.
Captured in 1871 by United States naval forces. Length, 33} inches;
blade, 1 inch wide; + inch thick at back. (Cat. No. 72897, U.S. N. M.
Korea. Collected by W. B. Brooks, U. 8. N.)

(Lower figure.)

Fig. 2. Sworp. Hilt and seabbard of hard wood, with elegant fretted, foliated
carving, illustrating the ten long lives, viz., sun, moon, swans, deer, etc.
Mounted with copper gilt fittings; guard, perforated iron in conventional
pattern; spring in hilt holds; sword in scabbard. Blade of steel; grace-
ful curve. Worn by officers. Length, 254 inches; length of blade, 174
inches. (Cat. No. 151601, U.S. N. M. Collected by P. L. Jouy.)
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE XXX,

KOREAN SWORDS.

Fig.

Fig.

Fig.

1

3

EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXX\I.
KOREAN GUN AND ACCOUTREMENTS.

(Upper figure.)

. MATCH-LOCK GUN. Short stock, of hard wood; octagonal barrel; smooth
bore. Trigger and sights. Stock decorated with bands of cherry bark,
Match of twisted tow. Held upon the shoulder when firing. Length, 4
feet. (Cat. No. 151280, U.S. N.M. Seoul, Korea. Collected by W. W.
Rockhill.)

(Lower line, commencing at the left.)

. PRIMING HorN. Tip of a horn with orifice in the point closed by a strip of
horn forming a spring and allowing a few grains of powder to fall out
upon pressure. A relic of skirmish of June, 1871. Length, 32 inches,
(Cat. No. 72899, U.S. N. M. Korea. Collected by W. W. Rockhill.)

. BuLLET BAG. Two thicknesses of coarse cotton. The bullets are sprung
out from a bird’s bill device in wood. A relic of 1871. Length, 9 inches,
(Cat. No. 72898, U.S.N.M. Korea. Collected by W. B. Brooks, U.S. N.)

. POWDER CASE AND CHARGER. Octagonal box of jatropha curcas wood, in
rude imitation of a turtle. The charger, an ivory tube, slides into a recess
in front of the case. A relic of 1871. Length, 64 inches; width, 44 inches;
height, 24 inches. (Cat. No. 72900, U.S.N.M. Korea. Collected by W.
B. Brooks, U. 8. N.)
PLATE XXXI.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough.

pemnlnnpitiecseekind

‘SLNAWSYLNOOOY ANY NN5 NvayoyY

KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 483

MILITARY BADGE—Continued.

which confers immortality upon its possessor. At the base of the square are
overlapping circles representing waves, often seen at the bases of Japanese and
Korean vases and on money typical of circulation. These waves dash against
the living rock. In the midst of the waters stands a rock coyered with immor-
tal grass and bearing a ‘ Buddhist cross” or swastika. Worn by civil officers
of the lower house. One of the squares is attached to the front and one to the
back of the officer’s robe.

GOVERNMENT AND LAW.

OFFICER’S BATON (Dung-cha). Rod covered with shagreen bound
with silver ferules; the part held in the hand covered with wash
leather. A tie of blue woolen fabric with a loop for the wrist and
pendants of light blue silk are attached to the baton.

Leneth, 30 inches,

Seoul, Korea. 151171

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.

Carried only with full dress uniform. In old times the baton was made of
bamboo, to which was attached thongs of leather, serving in battle as a whip
and also used as a drinking tube. It is only displayed for ornament at the
present.

KOREAN NATIONAL FLAG (Gook-gi). White silk, with the national
symbol (ta-guk), two comma-shaped spirals filling a eirele in red
and blue, and four geomantic signs (pal-qua) at the four corners of
the flag.

Length, 14 inches; width, 21 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1884. 151638

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

This flag was adopted in 1881.

BUTTON FOR SOLDIER’S HAT (Gui-don). White soapstone, circular;
carved on one surface with the national symbol.

Seoul, Korea, 1884. 151629

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

For decorating the hat of the common soldier.

PEACOCK FEATHER ORNAMENT (Kong-tjang-mi). Buneh of feathers
arranged in fan shape and inclosed in a lead swivel button pierced
for suspension.

Length, 8 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77036

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The peacock feather in Korea and China is a sign of official rank or promotion,
This ornament is worn by military officers and by soldiers of certain guards
near the King.
484 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

SCIENCE, RELIGION, EDUCATION, AND HUMAN ACHIEVEMENT.
RELIGIOUS CEREMONIAL OBJECTS.

IMAGE OF BUDDHA. Stone figure heavily gilt. Buddha in contem-
plative attitude seated on the lotus. Base, painted red. Well
carved.

Height, 14 inches.

Korea, 1885. 151600

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

The black line over the forehead shows the degree of Saint or Lower Buddha
in wisdom. Obtained from a monastery in Tong-na.

PRAYER BEADS (Yum-ju). A rosary of 108 beads made of nuts. Some
of the larger beads at the beginning and divisions are nade of glass
and wood.

Korea. 151612
Collected by P. L. Jouy.
The regular Buddhist rosary used by priests.

FIGURE OF TIGER GoD (Ho-rang-i-san-sin). Wooden image, rudely
carved, representing a tiger in erect position with fore legs held up.
Painted and gilded.

Height, 6£ inches.

Monastery at Wonsan (Gensan), Korea, 1885. 131608

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

CENSER (Hiang-no). Bronze; globular vase supported on three figures.
Lid pierced and surmounted by figure of Shishi, the Sky lion.

Height, 42 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 151618

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Used in the temple service. It should be set upon the table so that one foot
goes in front and two behind.

TEMPLE BELL (Mok-tak). Block of hard pine hollowed out in center
to leave two thin sounding plates. Striker, a stick 7 inches long.
Patches of fiber cloth are glued over the upper parts of the orifice
to increase the resonance and also to prevent splitting.

Height, 54 inches; width, 3 inches.

Wonnsan (Gensan), Korea. 151619

Collected by P. L. Jouy.

Of the form known in Japan as suzu. It is used by Buddhist priests in some
services in the temple, where it is applied for ordinary religious performances,
while the larger bronze bell is reserved for a higher ceremony. In the temple
this bell is sounded at the beginning and end of the meal. Priests while travel-
ing carry a bell like this specimen.

MAGICAL FORMULA (Dharani in Sanscrit, Tanini in Korean). Bud-
dhist prayers in Sanskrit characters buried with the dead.

Length, 10} inches; width, 6? inches.

Korea. 151699

Collected by W. W. Rockhill.

Written in Sanskrit of the Nepalese style; prepared by Buddhist priests and
sold to believers. At the time of burial the papers are placed on the heart of
the corpse under the clothing to propitiate spirits.
=

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hough. PLATE XXXII.

KOREAN EXPIATORY OFFERING.
EXPEANATION OF2PEATE 0X Xt.
KOREAN EXPIATORY OFFERING.

StrAW Man. Bundle of straw tied with hoops of straw into the outline of the head
and trunk of aman. Arms and legs fastened to the body. Some bits of
money are put in this figure, and it is thrown away under the impression
that the influence of an evil star may be overcome when the image is torn
to pieces. Length, 27 inches. (Cat. No. 77051, U.S.N.M. Seoul, Korea.
Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. N.)
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. A485

PAGODA (Tap). (Model.) Pieces of white marble, graded in size, piled
up on a wooden core and set on a wooden base. The top repre-
sents the lotus.

Height, 15% inches.

Anchu City, Korea. 130888
Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

A toy for children. The marble is produced in the district of Sungchun.

STRAW MAN (Tchoung). Bundle of straw tied with hoops of straw
into the outline of the head and trunk of aman. Arms and legs
fastened to the body. PI. xxxt1.

Length, 28 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77051

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

‘“When a man feels a longing to be better and to get rid of his sins, he goes
to a Buddhist priest and buys a straw figure like this. The priest tells him
that he will be absolved if he dresses the image in clothes like his own, puts
plenty of cash in the straw man’s belly, and tosses it into the road. The poor
people tear the image to pieces to get the cash and the man’s guilt flies away.”
(Pin.) This idea is evidently translated into the language of another religion
than that of the Koreans.

“Along the road were numbers of straw effigies, such as are made at New
Year’s season and sold for a few cents cash. Somewhat human in shape, about
a foot and a half in length, each is supposed to be the likeness of some one.
Inside is a little cash, and accompanying it is a written statement, saying
whom it represents, with a prayer for the coming year. The object is to rid
one’s self of this as the Jews did the scapegoat. Sometimes they are burned,
but oftener are kept till the evening of the 14th day of the first month, when
wandering beggars come by, calling, ‘Give us tchoung.’ The mannikin is
passed through the partially opened gate, it and the misfortunes of the year
becoming the property of the old beggar, who sells his peace of soul for the
few cash inside the tchoung.” (Rev. J. 8. Gale in the Korean Repository,
Seoul. Vol. 1, No. 1, Jan., 1892.)

Astrology is an important science in Korea. It is quite possible that the
true explanation of the tchoung is astrological. The following table seems to
indicate this:

Jik Sung, official or ruling stars.

No. English. Korean. | Chinese. Translation.
SNS m3 2 oo esse soho ors Michoum Oe iesscee = stat eee | (Nia) eae ae see en
2A OSE TN Ree Oe eanoaasaac tankieys aac ao) secenes | MOS ee cnc ae ee ee Earth.

3 | MIGIRENHAY Ceogboonspéons 14 (oYo) | os eae eer ee Pisiilis-2 papeboeneccasnsee W ater.

AS MVODUSistoc a scc me aee SOGiesste sees or POA Gaim ssh ste ote Metal.
DRIESUM 2 or Janes ens es ea IN alls weptercisyseeeremreee since Fae en a Se det Sun.

GS PMWarsiecs 2S sic-c 300M Ss as- seer ease rat DCW ities ote aie See eee Hire:

fell ah lee Page age ae edo peas scsccte tes dsns (Ke) tis.) 2 2 vases sce 52s ol ee eee eeeee ae
Sale MOONE setae micclewiien cae Deals o-wetecmese tee eet A100) [eee ACS eRe | Moon.

SON) LOVING Has Apa oneece Le oopoes Sosenoseseacae MOK Fee eic tee ete: | Plants.

*Mr. Soh does not know to which planets or heavenly bodies these Korean names refer.

When a Korean child attains a certain age he comes under the influence of
the planets and in the order of the above table he falls under the sway of good or
bad stars. The first period (tchoung) is accounted bad and hence recourse is had
to the expiation of the straw image, techoung. (Soh.)
A86 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
BOOKS AND LITERATURE.

Korean thought has always been directed through the channels of
Chinese learning. There apparently never was a characteristic litera-
ture of Korea; the whole plan of education is Chinese, and the language
of the country, with its beautiful alphabet, is correspondingly neglected.
Korean scholars are as proficient in the Chinese classic style as those
of China itself. Books printed in the common character are few and
little read.

The education of the child begins with the alphabet. He must com-
mit to memory the “ Thousand Character Classie.” a Chinese rhymed
vocabulary of so many words, no two alike. For the pupil it is ar-
ranged thus: the Chinese character, its meaning in Korean and its
Chinese name in Korean. After reading this three times the student
begins to write. The remainder of the course is in ordinary Chinese
schoolbooks. (See Ross’s Corea, p. 306.)

ScHOOLBOOK. Title, ‘ Elegant phrases accorded to classes, copied
complete.” Consists of the ‘Thousand Character Classie” or
“door,” the “ Hundred Family Names,” “Correct and Colloquial
Variations of Chinese Pronunciation and Chinese Conversations in
Chinese, Transliterated with the Korean Letters.” Most of the
book is taken up with “Chinese phrases and terms”, beginning
with Astronomy and Meteorology, embracing many subjects, in-
cluding Divination. 41 leaves.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77122

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

KoREAN Book. Entitled in Chinese “Sicuo Myo yo ri. Mun tap.”
Holy, excellent, important doctrine. Questions and answers.

Seoul, Korea, 1884. 77120.

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

A catechism issued by the Jesuits.

SANSKRIT-CHINESE-KOREAN BOOK. Entitled “Pi mih Kiao,” or
‘“‘ Seeret religion.” Made up of magical formula or dharani, written
in a kind of Sanskrit resembling Nepalese, which to the uninitiated
is secret or hidden. Two prefaces, one written under the nom
de plume of ‘‘Hia Shan, pu Lao Sou,” or the ‘‘Summer Hill Old
Vagabond,” dated 1644. Second preface was written by a Bud-
dhist monk of the monastery of Fuh Lin Shan, date July, 1652.
Book is without title-page or colophon, Printed in Korea, on
native paper.

Buddhist Temple of Pong-yang, Korea, 1885. 77121

Collected by Ensign J. B, Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The book begins with the ‘“én-moun,” or Korean alphabet, said to have been
invented about the eighth or ninth century of our era by a bonze named Syol-
chongi. The sounds of this are defined by Chinese characters, for which the
student is directed to substitute the sound of the corresponding word in the

Korean colloquial language. The bulk of the book is taken up with prayers,
(dharani) addressed to Avalokitshwara, and begin with 6m or 6m-mani padmé-
KOREAN COLLECTIONS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 487

SANSKRIT-CHINESE-KOREAN BOOK—Continued.
hom. The “secret” or ‘‘mysterious” characters are a modification of the San-
skrit alphabet ascribed to Brahma, and seem to be identical with those used in
the Sanskrit books, said to have been brought to Japan by Kobo Daishi early
in the ninth century.—(Dr. D. B. McCartie. )

MANUSCRIPT BUDDHIST RELIGIOUS WORK. ‘Taipo-pumo-eun-tchyang-
kying, ‘‘ Parents’ very precious evening-bell prayer book.” Written
in Korean characters of the square or book form. It contains
tales of the life of Buddha for popular instruction in Buddhism;
74 pages.

Size, 14 by 8}4 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77123

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Good paper and excellent writing; most probably that of a lady.

MANUAL OF THE FOUR RITES. The Sa-ryei-pyel-lam, a Chinese work
giving description of the ceremonies of capping, or assuming the
cap of manhood; marriage; death and burial, and sacrifices to
ancestors. Four volumes.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77124

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This is the great Chinese handbook of etiquette.

KOREAN PRINTED BOOK FOR CHILDREN. A _ text-book used in
schools; title, “The five rules of deportment” (O-run-hang-sil).
Biographical accounts of persons, principally Chinese, who believed
in the five moral sentiments of Confucius. Printed in Korean and
Chinese characters; date, 1876; illustrated.

Size, 124 by 84 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 130585

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

The five rules are: 1. Honor to parents; 2. Love to brothers; 3. Love to
neighbors and friends; 4. Love of country; 5. Love of wife and children.
Korean children over ten years old read this book and learn morals and religion
from it. It is the custom of the King on the 1st of January to order the head
of the bureau of education (Mr. Kim, in this instance) to print a large number
of copies of this work and to distribute them to the boys of the district
schools. This book is interesting for the glimpse it gives of the Korean educa-
tional system.

MANUSCRIPT KOREAN BOOK. “The war between Korea and Japan.”
(Im-jin-lok.) Clearly written in native characters on fine paper.

Size, 9} by 7 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1884. 130583

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. 8. Navy.

This is an abridgment of an official history of the war near the close of the
seventeenth century, in 70 volumes. The account is incorrect.

KOREAN Book. “An account of the Eastern nations.” (Ye-un.) Na-
tive characters, paper, and style.

Measurements, 124 by 8 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1884. 130584

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

This book was written about ten years ago, in order to mold the rising
sentiment in favor of Western civilization.
A488 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

GOSPEL OF MARK (Maga-jun). Printed in Korea upon Japanese
paper. Translated from English into Korean.

Length, 8? inches; width, 52 inches.

Seoul, Korea. 150882

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

NovEL (Hung-boo-jun), Printed on cheap native paper.

Length, 19} inches; width, 7g inches.

Seoul, Korea. 150881

Collected by Dr. H. N. Allen.

Popular wonder story of the brothers Hung-bu and Nol-bu. Dramatized in
Korea. ‘Translated by Dr. Allen in ‘‘ Korean Fairy Tales.”

Map OF SEOUL, THE KOREAN CAPITAL. Drawn by a native. Col-
ored; very poor cartography, not drawn to scale, and having no
profile hatchings.

Size, 263 by 40 inches.

Seoul, Korea, 1885. 77067

Collected by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U.S. Navy.

Shows Nam-san, or South Mountain, where signal fires are lighted nightly,
also the Ponk-an, or North Fortress, and the walls and gates of the city. The
two principal streets are also shown, and the streams indicated as running
through the city are in reality wide ditches, in which refuse is thrown, and
which are only thoroughly cleaned out at the time of the heavy summer rains.
These ditches are spanned by heavy stone bridges. The extensive grounds of
the King’s palace are also shown.
SHINTO, OR THE MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE,

By RoMyYN HITCHCOCK.

Old records—Kami— Heaven—Generation of Kami—Creation of the world—The legend
of hades—Birth of the Sun-Goddess and of Susano—Myth of the Sun-Goddess—The
Susano myth—The sacred sword of Ise—Heavenly princes sent to subdue Terres-
trial deities—The Mikado’s divine ancestors—The first Mikado—Shinto as a reli-
gion—Influence of Shinto upon the national character—Liturgies and form of wor-
ship—Tendency of religious thought in Japan.

Authentic history in Japan begins only in the fifth century. What-
ever is earlier than that belongs to the age of tradition, which is
supposed to maintain an unbroken record for ten thousand years.
Intercourse with Korea is said to date from the middle of the second
century B. c. The Emperor Sujin (97-30 B. C.) is reputed to have re-
ceived tribute from several Korean states; but the art of writing was
not introduced until about the fifth century, and it is scarcely credible
that a progressive and imitative people like the Japanese would have
neglected such a useful accomplishment for five centuries after having
seen it practiced in Korea. These dates are therefore doubtful. We
may infer that the earliest intercourse between China and Japan was
about the time when Chinese writing was introduced.

Previous to that time the national religion of the Japanese was a
very simple form of ancestral worship combined with nature-worship,
founded upon a most remarkable and complex mythology which as-
scribed to the people divine origin and descent. It is this faith which
is now known by the name Shinto. The word is of Chinese origin, but
it is obvious that the eult which it designates must have developed
many centuries before any trace of Chinese influence was felt in Japan.
Since then, however, Shinto has changed so much in its ceremonials and
external character that it is now searcely to be found in its original
simplicity in any part of Japan. Indeed, it is only by the study of the
oldest books that we have come to know fairly well what pure Shinto
was. First came the teachings of Confucius, which spread rapidly and
were received with the greatest favor throughout Japan. At the pres-
ent day they still constitute an essential part of a Japanese education.
Then came a few Buddhist images and sutras from Korea, in the year
5d2 A. D.;* but it was not until the famous priest, Kobo Daishi, in the

* As related in the Nihon-gi.
489
490 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ninth century, ingeniously identified the various Buddhist saints with
the Shinto deities, that the new faitii became popular and finally almost
supplanted the other. Then arose different schools of Shinto, and now
we find the two religions borrowing from each other, until it is some-
times confusing to decide whether a certain temple is Buddhistie or
Shinto, or both.

The popular mythology of Japan suggests to the mind fabulous beasts
and dragons, rishi and sennin—old men of the mountain solitudes hay-
ing magic powers—imps, and innumerable spirits of earth and air. But
most of these have come from China or distant India. They have no
place in the primitive worship of the people. Even so it is with the
ancient books, for they too were compiled at a time when Chinese ideas
had begun to influence the imagination of the writers, and all of them
require the most critical study to eliminate foreign elements. ‘To learn.
what the native beliefs were, it is necessary to adhere strictly to purely
Japanese accounts, industriously comparing different texts in order to
discover what was originally a part of the records. This the Japanese
scholars have faithfully done. The difficulties have been very great.
Although writing was originally introduced from China or Korea, there
is a Style of composition which from the beginning has been distinctively
Japanese. But the old language is very different from that now in use.
It is difficult to understand, the sense is often obscure, and there are
many words handed down from very ancient time, the meanings of which
were already forgotten by the old transcribers, who wrote them down
phonetically.

The oldest Japanese book known is the Ko-ji-ki, Record of Ancient
Matters, a translation of which, by Prof. Basil Hall Chamberlain, was
published in the year 1882. The original work dates from 711 A. D.
The Emperor Temmu (673-686 A. D.), desiring to preserve the ancient
traditions in a pure form, had the records of the chief families examined
and compared. A member of his household committed the whole to
memory. After the death of the emperor, the Empress Gemmio (708-
714 A. D.) had the record written down as it was recited.

The authenticity of this book as a true record of the ancient lore of
Japan is too strong to be questioned. It relates a mythology remark-
ably complex and fantastic, but withal consistent and connected. Its
age can not be estimated. It must have grown through many centu-
ries, for when the Ko-ji-ki was written, it was a completed system and
the origin and meaning of its rich symbolism had been already forgot-
ten. Some of the language is certainly older than the sixth century
and some dates from before the fourth.

Next to the Ko-ji-ki there is a larger but less reliable work, the Ni-
hon-gi, or Chronicles of Japan, dated 720 A. D., which is more affected by
Chinese influences. There are also numerous commentaries by Japa-
nese scholars. The Nihon-gi has not been translated, but in the Annales
des Empereurs du Japan (Nipon o dai itsi ran), by Klaproth, 1834, a
portion is translated with suggestive notes.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 491

Next in value to the translation of the Ko-ji-ki we have the extended
review of the writings of Japanese scholars, with quotations from their
works, by Mr. EK. M. Satow. There are other disconnected sources of
information, but most of our knowledge of the native literature of Shinto
is due to the patient and thorough work of Chamberlain and Satow.

KAMI.

The Shinto mythology is an account of the divine ancestry of the
Mikado and his people. It is traced back to the creation of the world.
These divine ancestors, the spirits which inhabit their heaven or still
reside in temples and wayside shrines controlling the affairs of mortals,
are known as “kami.” The word is usually translated “deity” or ‘ god,”
but our language has no proper equivalent. Kami are only superior
beings. They may be either heaven-born, celestial deities, or the
departed spirits of emperors, wise men or heroes. It is doubtful if
immortality is one of their attributes. Some of them, we are told, die
or disappear. They are by no means always good or virtuous, but
they possess many human characteristics.

The Mikado joins the innumerable company of kami after death.
Departed ancestors are the kami of the family and these dwell around
the household shrine. There are kami to be worshiped by all the peo-
ple, others of only local importance; some are near and others so dis-
tant that it is not worth while to think of them.

Whatever object, animate or inanimate, is supposed to possess myste-
rious or supernatural powers may be called kami. ‘The fox and the
dragon and goblins are eminently miraculous and dreadful creatures.”
The fox has a very prominent place in the folk-lore of Japan, and his
influence upon men is greatly feared. Hence there are many shrines
to the fox kami in the land.

The phenomena of nature, such as thunder and lightning, inanimate
objects, rocks, seas, mountains, rivers, plants and trees, may be desig-
nated kami. Often there seems to be no thought of impersonation.
The kami may be the thing itself, or at other times a mysterious power
that dwells or moves therein.

In certain other respects a kami is a remarkable conception. By a
peculiar partitive process, not easily understood, the powers or qualities
associated with an individual kami may be divided and exercised by
Several distinct personalities, which are, at the same time, integral
parts of the original conception. In other words, a single deity may be
worshiped under different names, which designate specific attributes
or functions of that deity, and each of these names may be applied to a
separate personality. As an example, the Goddess of Food, Toyo-uke-
bime (Abundant-Food-Lady), also known as Uke-mochi-no-kami, or
Food Possessor, is worshiped as Kuku-nochi-no-kami, Producer of
Trees, and as Kayami-hime, the Parent of Grasses. This deity is per-
haps, as Satow suggests, a personification of the earth. As a more
492 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

curious and striking illustration of the exercise of different functions
under changed personality, we may refer to O-kuni-nushi, who was
once the great ruler of the world. He was overcome and deposed, as
we shall learn further on, and became the chief deity of Hades. In
this capacity he is worshiped also in two other characters—as a Gentle
Spirit which pardons and as a Rough Spirit which punishes. These
two spirits have separate existences. At one time, while the deity was
engaged in the task of civilizing the world, and was in need of assist-
ance, another deity came to him from the sea and proffered aid.
O-kuni-nushi did not recognize him and asked who he was. The deity
answered, “I am thy saki-tama,” meaning thy spirit that confers
blessings.
HEAVEN.

Like many other peoples, the Japanese believe that heaven was once
very near the earth, but they have no account of how it became sepa-
rated from and raised above the world. Formerly it was connected with
the earth by means of a “floating bridge” ora “rock boat,” or a ‘‘ pillar
of earth,” whereby the kami could pass from one place to the other at
will. The nature of this connection is very vaguely expressed in
the records. Satow conceives that the “floating bridge of heaven”
was the wind.

Heaven itself was the abode of the celestial kami, but it was freely
visited by the kami who lived on earth. It was not boundless space,
for its area was limited. Susano made the circuit of its boundary. It
was a counterpart of what was known on earth—a country like Japan
in the blue sky, having a great river with a stony bed, such as the
traveler in Japan knows very well, a mine from which iron was taken
for the sacred mirror and fertile fields which furnished seed for the ter-
restrial harvest. It was not regarded as a bourne where the souls of
the dead would find a resting place. It was only the particular abode
of those kami of the early generations who are distinguished as the
celestial kami.

GENERATION OF KAMI—THE CREATION OF THE WORLD

The preface to the Kojiki begins thus: ‘“ Now when chaos had begun
to condense, but form and force were not yet manifest and there was
nought named, nought done, who could know its shape? Nevertheless,
heaven and earth first parted, and the three deities performed the com-
mencement of creation; the passive and active essences * then devel-
oped and the Two Spirits became the ancestors of all things.” To
learn the ori of the first three deities we must turn to the Koi

= «The } preface is not a nt of ine original work, pit a ae of seroaaetion or gen-
eral review by the author of the written copy. It embodies some ideas of his own,
which, as this allusion to the “passive and active essences,” are foreign to the book
itself.
—

MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 493

itself. They were born, as it were, spontaneously, ‘‘in the Plain of
High Heaven.” They were the Deity-Master-of-the-August-Center-of-
Heaven, the High-August-Producing- Wondrous- Deity, and the Divine-
Producing-Wondrous- Deity. These three kami were ‘born alone and
hid their persous”—in other words, they disappeared or died immedi-
ately, and we hear of themno more. So with many links in the strange
story before us, they are formed and disappear before we know their
purpose or design, leaving gaps so blank that no effort of the imagina-
tion can complete the chain. The reader will be surprised at the long
and curious names of the ancient kami. These names also are a puz-
zle; but the time may come when they will possess more significance.

In the passage above quoted there is a reference to the active and
passive essences. This is not a Japanese idea, but essentially Chinese.
To illustrate how great are the difficulties in the way of eliminating
the influences of Chinese thought from the old books, as well as to
afford an idea of the style of the works themselves, the following quo-
tation from the Nihongi will suffice. Before the earth and heaven had
separated, ‘‘chaos, having the form of an egg, tossed its waves like an
agitated sea. It contained, however, the germs of all things; those
which were pure and transparent rose and formed heaven, while those
which were gross and opaque precipitated and formed theearth . . .
A divine being or kami was born in the midst. An island of soft earth
floated on the waters. Then appeared a thing like the stalk of a plant
which transformed into a kami . . . the first of seven celestial
spirits.”.* The story in the Nihongi is far more attractive than the bare
record in the Kojiki.

The growing plant is a strange conception, more fully recorded in
the Kojiki. The latter work tells us that two deities were born
from “a thing that sprouted up like unto a reed shoot when the
earth, young and like unto floating oil, drifted about medusa-like.”
This strange thing was suspended in space like a cloud. We are told
that it became the sun, but immediately after we read that as it grew
upwards it spread out infinitely as a cloud from a mountain top and
formed heaven. A part grew downward and formed the moon. This
is very confusing, but it is interesting in connection with the myth of
the Sun-goddess, indicating that the sun existed long before the birth
of Amaterasu, who, by some authorities, is regarded as the sun itself,
and not as a deity personifying or dwelling in the sun.

A great number of kami were born in succession for various more
or less obvious purposes, but to enumerate them would serve no useful
purpose. There was a course of spontaneous generation whereby five
“heavenly deities” and seven ‘‘divine generations” were produced, all
of whom, except the last two born, “hid their persons,” disappeared or
died, for all kami are not immortal. These two were named respectively
Izanagi, “The Male-who-invites,” and Izanami, ‘The Female-who-in-

“Translated from Klaproth, Annales des Empereurs du Japan.
494 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

vites.” They were commanded by the heavenly deities, who gave them
a jeweled spear, to create the drifting land. They created the world,
which was then only Japan. Standing on the floating bridge of heaven
they thrust the end of the jeweled spear into the waste of waters and
stirred the brine until it went curdle-curdle, and the drops that fell
from the spear piled up and became the island Onogoro. now un-
known.

The expression “bridge of heaven” is variously interpreted by au-
thors. Some take it literally as meaning an actual bridge between
heaven and earth. The word hashi signifies not only a bridge, but it
may apply to anything which fills or bridges over space. The Sun-god-
dess, aS will be seen, traveled from earth to heaven on the Ame-no-mi-
hashira, which may be the wind. But most native authorities regard
it aS a more substantial structure, for we read of the heavenly rock-
boat, Ame-no-tha-fune, and also of stairs, reminding one of Jacob’s lad-
der, while a later conception is a pillar of earth which afterwards fell
and formed a range of high mounds in Harima, near Miyadzu, in
Tango. The length of this range is 22,290 feet—presumably the dis-
tance from earth to heaven in the olden time.

The two creator gods descended from their place upon the island
they had made, and after a short courtship, the details of which are
too objectionable for translation, they gave birth to a child without
bones, cartilagenous and unable to walk. This child, well known to
the Japanese as Hirugo, also named Ebisu, one of the household gods,
they placed in a basket of reeds and let him float away like a Japa-
nese Moses. Hedid not die, but his story is too special for consideration
here. They then gave birth to the eight* islands of Japan, beginning
with Awaji at the eastern entrance to the Inland Sea.

The first island born to this couple was named Aha, but for some
reason this, like the child Hirugo, was not perfect. The parents in-
quired of the Heavenly Deities why this was so. The latter resorted
to divination and they soon discovered the reason. When the creator
gods descended upon the mythical Onogoro, they walked around it in
opposite directions, and when they met the woman was the first to
speak. This was apparently contrary to the etiquette of even those
early days, and it was impossible to make a good world if the deities
were so careless of proper ceremonies. They then went around aga’.
as before, when the man spoke first, with subsequent satisfactory re-
sults.

After giving birth to the eight islands, they begot a long series o!
deities to even them, and for a long time, as we may infer from sub

“©The nee ene Fac acne occurs in the Sane inolee and seems io te
the most perfect and fortunate number. Japan was known as ‘the land of th:
eight great islands.” Yezo was then unknown. There was a serpent with ‘sigh
heads and eight tails; there were eight thunder deities, and in the myth of Amater-
asu there is described a string of jewels eight feet long; there were eight hundre«
myriad deities, ete.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 495

sequent allusions in the records, Japan was inhabited by deities, good
and bad, who only gave up their authority in the land to make way for
the ancestors of the Mikado and his people. But it would be tedious
and unprofitable to even repeat the names of the immediate family of
Izanami and Izanagi. Itis rather a large one and few of its mem-
bers are still known to fame. But as an illustration of the manner of
naming the ancient deities, which, although I am informed it is not
strictly peculiar to Japanese mythology, is certainly one of its extra-
ordinary characteristics, several names will be given with Prof.
Chamberlain’s translations. Such are Oho-koto-oshi-wo-no-kami, Deity-
great-male-of-the-great-thing ; [ha-tsuchi-biko-no-kami, Deity-rock-earth-
prince; Kaza-ge-tsu-waka-no-oshi-wo-no-kami, Deity-youth-of-the-wind-
breath-the-great-male; Tori-no-iha-kusa-bune-no-kami, Deity-bird’s-rock-
camphor-tree-boat.* (See also pp. 498 and 502).

Izanami gave birth to thirty-three deities, the last of whom were
the Deity-princess-of-great-food and the Fire-burning-swift-male-deity,
which, because of his fiery nature, caused the death of Izanami when
she bore him. Izanagi was so grieved at the death of his wife that he
forthwith drew his sword and cut off the head of the child. From the
drops of blood on the sword and from various parts of the body of the
child, arose sixteen more kami, but we must pass them by. The Fire-
deity, the last born of Izanami, who was so cruelly treated by his
father, became immediately the ruler of the under world. Presumably
it was his spirit which descended there.

THE LEGEND OF HADES.

When Izanami died she descended to the under world—Hades. The
Chinese characters literally mean the “ Yellow Stream,” the Chinese
designation of the under world. It is the habitation of the souls of
the dead, for the shintoist has neither a paradise nor a hell. Itis a
land of gloom and darkness.

To this region Izanagi followed, wishing to see his wife once more,
He broke off a large tooth from his comb, and, lighting it as a torch,
entered the gloomy portals. His wife sent messengers to prevent his
approach, but he persisted in his search until he found her. But her
body was a mass of corruption. In her head dwelt the Great-Thunder,

“in her breast the Fire-Thunder, in other parts of her body the Black-
Thunder, Cleaving-Thunder, Earth-Thunder, Rumbling-Thunder, and
the Couchant-Thunder, in all the eight thunder deities. Izanami was

*This deity is an example of an inanimate object, a boat, raised to the rank of a
kami for important service. This boat is variously described by authors. It is said
50 be the boat in which the boneless child, Hirugo, was set adrift, already described

“as a boat made of reeds. The reader must be prepared for some inconsistencies as
we.i as startling conceptions in this narrative. The most the writer can hope for is

oto give a reasonably intelligible account of the Shinto mythology as a whole, leay-

ning the details to be filled in by future researches,
A96 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

angry and ashamed to be thus seen by her husband, and ordered the
Ugly Female of Hades, the eight thunder deities and a host of war-
riors to pursue him. He escaped from these, but when Izanami herself
took up the chase she overtook him. But he blocked up the Pass of
Hades with a great stone, and they stood on opposite sides of it and
took leave of each other, or, according to some authors, divorced each
other. Izanami could not join her husband because she had eaten food
from the fire of Hades. How like this is to the story of Persephone
and the pomegranate. We must omit the details of this story.

Dr. J. Edkins is disposed to regard the Japanese conception of the
under world as derived from China, in which country it can be traced
back to 721 8. c. The divinity Tai-shan was the Taoist ruler of the
souls of the dead. Fire worship, which Dr. Edkins refers to in this
connection, although not unknown in Japan, does not appear to have
been much practiced. When Izanagi descended to Hades she assumed
supreme authority. As she undertook the pursuit of Izanagi, she
feared to leave the fire deity to his own devices, lest he should do harm
to the world. So she created the deities of clay and of water to re-
strain him. This fire deity plays but a very small part in the mytho-
logy; even his period of rule in Hades was very short. The most we
can say regarding fire worship is, that a peculiar form of fire-drill is
known in Japan, which was used once a year until quite recently at one
of the Idzumo temples for producing fire. This apparatus has already
been described by the writer.* Another similar drill is in the museum
at Tokio. The hypothesis of Dr. Edkins,t that the origin of the Japa-
nese cosmogony is to be found in the fire worship of Persia and the
worship of Ormuzd in India, China and Mongolia, about the sixth cen-
tury B. C., is plausible at first sight; but it is founded upon a presump-
tion of early intercourse between the countries, which, as we have seen,
is not borne out by research. Even should it prove true, the develop-
ment of the Shinto mythology has certainly been in lines peculiarly in-
dependent and characteristic. I can not bring myself to admit for it
such a comparatively late origin as the sixth century B. C.

The under world of the ancient Japanese may have been quite like
the Chinese and Persian idea, but the Japanese of the present day are
a progressive people, and with them there is advancement in the under
world as upon earth. The Ise pilgrims have many more or less un-
tuneful songs which they chant as they slowly tramp along, and here
is one which I heard in the evening at a native hostelry, where I stopped
one rainy night, on my pilgrimage to the ancient shrines, It was
written down for me by the pretty daughter of the house, and after-
wards translated by a student, Mr. K. Nagai.

* See Hough, Walter, ‘“ Fire-making apparatus,” Report U.S. National Museum,
1888, p. 552.

t Persian Elements in Japanese Legends. Trans. Asiatic Society of Japan, XVI,
1-9.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 497

AN ISE MAIRI.

Now that Hades is enlightened by the knowledge of the present age, the souls of
the dead cross the river Sandzu* on steamers, while all places in the realm are
connected by a network of telegraph lines. The Jizo (idol of the Buddhists) who
reigns in Sai no kawara (where the souls of children go), disguised as a man of the
fashionable world, stands among the children in the dress of a modern school-
master.

The last line is a sly cut at the village schoolmaster in his foreign
clothes.

BIRTH OF THE SUN GODDESS AND OF SUSANO.

Izanagi was defiled by his visit to Hades, and went to a river to
cleanse himself. Among the many kami which arose from each article
of clothing as he disrobed, and as he bathed, three only deserve ex-
tended notice. These are named Amaterasu, the Sun-goddess; Tsuki-
yomi-no-kani, the Moon-god, and Susano-no-mikoto, one ot the most
remarkable personages in this strange mythology.

Amaterasu was born from the right eye of Izanagi. She was bright,
splendid, and was appointed to rule the Plain of High Heaven. She
received a necklace of precious stones, which reminds one of the mega-
tama and kudatama found in ancient Japanese tombs, and ascended to
heaven by the ame-no-mi-hashira, where she rules as the Sun-goddess.
From her, as we shall see, the Mikado traces his ancestry.

Amuterasu is worshiped as the deity of the sun. The sun is itself
regarded as the goddess visible, and yet there is some inconsistency of
views in this connection. Light and darkness were known before her
birth, for Izanagi required a torch in the under world. When we come
to the great myth of the Sun-goddess hiding in a cave, we shall be
told that darkness prevailed in heaven and earth until she again ap-
peared.

The Moon-god was born from Izanagi’s right eye,t and trom his
august nose was born Susano, who became ruler of the land. He was
a very impetuous and troublesome deity. Not being quite satisfied
with his position he began to weep, ‘‘and the fashion of his weeping
was such as by his weeping to wither the green mountains into withered
mountains, and to dry up all the rivers and seas,” and the sound of
bad deities ““was like unto flies in the fifth moon.” So Izanagi ex-
pelled him from the land, and he forthwith ascended to heaven, where-
upon all the mountains and all the country quaked, and the Sun-
goddess was alarmed by the great noise. But he said to her, “I have
no evil intent. It is only that when the Great-august-deity, our
father, spoke, deigning to inquire the cause of my weeping, I said:

*~ The Buddhist Styx.
fSome Japanese authors maintain that Susano was the Moon-god, borr of Iza-
nagi’s right eye. According to Chinese lore, the sun and moon were born from the
eyes of Puanku.
SM 91, pr 2——3d2.
A498 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

‘I wail because I wish to go to my deceased mother’s land’ (Hades);
whereupon the Great-august-deity said: ‘Thou shalt not dwell in this
land, and deigned to expel me with a divine expulsion. It is, there-
fore, solely with the thought of taking leave of thee that I have as-
cended hither.” Then they swore to each other from opposite banks
of the tranquil river of heaven, and from the mist of the breath of
each various new deities were born. Two of these are remarkable
for their names, which were, His-augustness-truly-conqueror-I-conquer-
conquering-Swift-heavenly-great-great-ears, and Her-augustness-prin-
cess-of-the-island-of-the-offing.

MYTH OF THE SUN-GODDESS.

We now come to the great and most interesting myth of the Sun-
goddess. rom it may be traced the origin and significance of many
customs still followed in Japan, and the meaning of the myth itself is
a subject worthy of speculation and research. Susano performed many
wicked acts and caused much destruction to fields and watercourses.*
In heaven he broke a hole in the roof of the weaving room where the
Sun-goddess and other goddesses were at work weaving the garments
of the deities. He let fall into their midst a heavenly horse which he
had flayed. This caused a great commotion among them and Ama-
terasu retired into a cave and closed the entrance with a stone. The
plain of high heaven was obscured and darkness reigned over the
earth. Then the eight hundred myriad? deities assembled in the dry,
stony bed of the tranquil river of heaven to devise a means to entice
the goddess from the cave. Various plans were proposed, but Omoki-
kane-no-kami was a great thinker, and his plan was followed. So they
made a mirror of iron from the mine of heaven, in shape like the sun,
and a string of five hundred curved jewels eight feet in length, and
pulled up by its roots a Cleyera Japonica with five hundred branches,
upon which they hung the mirror and the string of beads and offerings
of white and blue cloth. They then resorted to divination by means
of a foreleg of a buek placed in a fire of cherry bark, and examined
the crack produced. Then the deity Ama-no-futo-dama-no-mikoto took
the tree with its offering in his hands and recited liturgies, while
another played on a bamboo flute and another on a kind of harp made
by placing six bows with their strings upward,i and others kept time
by striking two pieces of wood together. Bonfires were lighted, and a
deity known as Usume, the Heavenly-alarming-female, placed a circular
box or sounding board before the cave and danced upon it as though

= Saue fhe Sane one ne suppose eee Gepae was canabieed at this sae
ical period by people who cultivated the soil, marked out fields, ete. The story of
the eight-headed serpent and the old couple with eight children (page 500) and many
other allusions lead to the same conclusion,

t The number means a great many.

¢{ Doubtless the origin of the koto.
1 ali

MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 499

possessed, and allowed her clothing to fall, whereat all the assembled
deities laughed until the plain of heaven shook.

Hearing the noise and laughter the goddess within the cave was
astonished and fain would know the cause of mirth so unseemly during
her seclusion. She cautiously peeped out and said: ‘*Methought that
owing to my retirement the plain of heaven would be dark; how is it,
then, that the Heavenly-alarming-female makes merry and that the
deities all laugh?” Usume replied, ‘‘We rejoice and are glad because
there is a deity more illustrious than thine Augustness.” By this was
meant the iron mirror, which we therefore infer was a new invention,
never before seen by the goddess. At the same moment the mirror
was thrust before the face of Amaterasu, whereat she was so astonished
that she stepped forth to gaze in it. Then a deity who stood beside
the door seized her hand and pulled her forward, when another drew a
straw rope behind her and said, “Thou must not go back farther than
this.” Thus heaven and the Central Land of Reed Plains (Japan)
became light once more.

The retirement of Amaterasu may signify an eclipse of the sun, which
the Japanese still regard with terror. They light candles, recite pray-
ers, and make a fearful din by beating gongs and kettles to dispel the
darkness. Perhaps it symbolizes the change of seasons, Amaterasu
representing summer and Susano winter. The meaning is still obscure.

The myth has given origin to many practices which are familiar to
persons who have traveled observantly in the country. The cut paper
gohei, which hang on every temple and every household shrine, often
attached to short wands of wood, represent the offerings of cloth on
the bush with five hundred branches. The dance of Usume before the
cave is undoubtedly represented by the pantomimic kagura, danced by
young girls at the temples of Ise and elsewhere. The mask of Usume
is frequently seen in Japanese homes. The music to be heard at Shinto
shrines on any matsuri or festival day is of very ancient character,
while the bamboo flute and the two pieces of wood are but too con-
spicuous on all occasions.

The straw rope is to be seen everywhere: on temple gateways, in
festoons around shrines, along the fronts of houses, over doorways,
usually having gohet entwined with it. This is particularly true at the
New Yeartime. The gohei are commonly regarded as emblems of purity,
while the straw rope protects against the entrance of evil. When on
certain occasions the emblems of a shrine are removed from their places
they are protected from evil influences by a straw rope around them.
The custom of suspending a straw rope over doorways may be attrib-
uted to Susano. It is related that he was once overtaken by a storm
and found shelter with a poor villager. In return for his kindness
Susano told the villager how to protect himself and his family from a
plague which was coming, by wearing a belt of twisted grass. ‘He also
taught him to guard against further visits of the plague god by stretch-
ing a straw rope across the entrance to his house.
500 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The original sacred mirror made in heaven now rests in a box, wrap-
ped in many folds of silk, in the principal shrine at Ise, a most precious
emblem of the deity. The silk wrappings are never removed, but as
they become worn new ones are added outside. This mirror has a flaw
which was caused by striking it against a rock when it was held before
the goddess. How it came to its present place we shall learn further on.

Counterparts of this mirror are to be found in nearly every Shinto
shrine; but, contrary to the usual belief of travelers, the mirror is not
always visible in Shinto temples. The sacred emblem, whether it be a
mirror or something else, is always hidden from sight in the purest
Shinto shrines.

THE SUSANO MYTH—THE SACRED SWORD OF ISE.

We must now follow the adventures of Susano. He was subse-
quently sent by Amaterasu to visit the goddess of Food.* She set
before him some food, but he deemed it unclean, and, with his usual
inconsiderate impetuosity, he forthwith cut off her head and reported
the occurrence to Amaterasu. From the body of the deity grew va-
rious grains and seeds of every kind, mulberry-trees, and silkworms,
and all these things were afterwards grown in the field of heaven, and
from thence, in due time, transmitted to Japan.

Finally Susano was banished from heaven and took up his abode in
Idzumo,tin the west of Japan. His adventure there with the great
eight-headed serpent is known to every Japanese child. There was an
old couple who had eight daughters, seven of whom had been devoured
in succession by a serpent which had eight heads and eight tails, and
whose body covered seven hills. They besought Susano to kill the
monster lest it should take the last daughter, and he agreed to do so if
he might afterwards make the daughter his wife. The parents con-
sented, and he immediately transformed the daughter into a fine-tooth
comb, which he stuck in his hair. He then directed them to prepare
eight vats of liquor. When the serpent came it plunged a head into
»ach vat and drank, then all the heads laid down and slept. Then
Susano killed it, but when he tried to cut the middle tail his sword
broke, and he found within the tail a great sword, which he carried to
the Sun-goddess. This is the sacred sword of the Ise shrines. It was

*She is known as O-getsu-hime, Uke-mochi-no-kami, and Toyo-uke-bime. Her
shrine is at Ise.

t There are families in Japan who trace their ancestry to Susano inIdzumo. This
province is the part of Japan which seems to have been the earliest home of the
Japanese. It is the scene of their ancient traditions and was perhaps their home
until the famous Jimmu Tenno, in the seventh century B. C., began his march to
Yamato, subduing savage deities and people on his way. The antiquarian would
doubtless find many interesting relics in the ancient province, which offers an
almost unopened field for exploration. My friend Mr. Gowland found there some of
the finest and most remarkable tombs, quite different from any elsewhere known in
Japan, but his time was too limited for extended observations.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 501

conferred upon Ninigi when he came from heaven to govern the coun-
try, as we shall see further on.

The names ‘Grass cutter” and “Herb-quelling sword,” which are
often applied to this weapon, come from a later time when, in the reign
of Keiko (A. D. 71-130), Yamato-take took the blade from Ise to use in
subduing the savage tribes in the east and north. He was drawn into
an ambush and his enemies set fire to the herbage on all sides of him.
He mowed away the grass—or, it is said, the blade leaped from the
seabbard and itself cut the grass around—and started a counter fire
which saved his life.

HEAVENLY PRINCES SENT TO SUBDUE TERRESTRIAL DEITIES.

The record now tells of a great number of deities who were necessary
to care for the world and make it fruitful, but most of them can be
passed without mention.

After a time there began to be trouble in Japan because of the nu-
merous savage terrestrial deities, and a consultation was held in heaven
to determine who should be sent down to govern the world. O-kuni-
nushi was then the Deity-master-of-the-great-land, and a very power-
ful ruler he was. <A prince was sent down to control him, but he made
friends instead and failed to make any report. A second was sent,
but he married one of the princesses and strove to gain possession of
the land himself. A third came down in the form of a pheasant and
perched in a cassia tree, where he began to talk. The princess hearing
the words, besought her husband to kill the bird, which he did with
his heavenly arrow. but the arrow ascended to heaven where it was
recognized as belonging to the faithless prince. Then one of the deities
thrust it back through the hole by which it entered heaven, saying:
“If this arrow be shot by the prince in obedience to our commands, let
it not hit him. If he has a foul heart let him perish by this arrow.”
So the arrow struck the prince and killed him.

Finally the powerful O-kuni-nushi was subdued, but as a condition
of his submission he required a temple to be built for him in Idzumo,
where he might receive proper services of worship, the pillars of which
should reach from the nethermost rock bottom to the cross-beams m
the plain of high heaven. O-kuni-nushi became the ruler of Hades,
and as such is worshiped and propitiated. The temple built for him
in Idzumo is the famous O-yashiro, well known to pilgrims in that land.

THE MIKADO’S DIVINE ANCESTORS.

The grandson of the Sun-goddess then descended to rule in Japan.
His name was Ninigi-no-mikoto. With him descended a numerous
company, and from him and his train the imperial family and the Japan-
ese people trace their ancestry and base their claim to a divine origin.
Ninigi bore, as the insignia of heavenly authority, the mirror which had
502 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

allured the Sun-goddess from her cave, the string of sacred jewels, and
the sword found by Susano in the serpent’s tail. The Sun-goddess
charged him thus: ‘“ Regard this mirror exactly as if it were our august
spirit, and reverence it asif reverencing us.” Transubstantiation is an
older idea among Japanese than among our own priests.

THE FIRST MIKADO.

A pleasing story follows about the beautiful Princess-blossoming-bril-
liantly-like-the flowers-of-the-trees, who bore three sons named Fire-
shine, Fire-climax and Fire-subside. The first lost his brother’s fish-
hook in the sea and though he made five hundred others to replace it,
his brother would not be satisfied. So Fire-subside sailed in a boat to
a palace built of fish scales, the abode of an ocean deity, and there fell
in love with the Sea-god’s daughter. After three years he told the
story of the fishhook. The Sea-god called together all the fishes of the
sea and the hook was found in the throat of a tai. The Prince was
sent home on the back of a crocodile, and gave the hook to his brother.
The Princess, his wife, bore him a son named His-Augustness-Heaven’s-
sure-height-prince-wave-limit- brave-cormorant- thatch - meeting - incom-
pletely. This son with an unusual name married his maternal aunt and
begot children, one of whom was His-Augustness- Divine- Yamato-Prince,
who is the recognized first Mikado, better known by his posthumous
title Jimmu Tenno, whose reign is reputed to have been from B. Cc. 660
to B. Gc. 585, when he died at the age of 127 years.

From this point on the Kojiki is a record of the emperors down to
the time of Suiko (A. D. 593 to 628). For a thousand years, to the time
of Richiu (A. p. 400), the chronology is quite as uncertain as the events
recorded. In the earliest times numerous terrestrial deities ruled the
country, who either freely submitted to the emperors or were compelled
to do so. We read that as Jimmu Tenno advanced to subdue the bar-
barian tribes in the north and east, the Eaith-spiders, with tails, and
the savages called Ebisu,* supposed to be the Ainos, he was guided
across the waters of the Inland Sea (2) by a friendly deity riding on a
tortoise, and, as the bad deities were still numerous on the land, a great
crow was sent from heaven to lead him.

SHINTO AS A RELIGION.

T have thus endeavored to present in an intelligible and connected
form the salient features of the mythology of Shinto. It has been no
light task to worry through the details of it as found in the Kojiki and
other books and make a readable story. Fantastic as it all is, there
is still a thread of connection from the beginning which enforces the

* For a résumé of ¢
Ainos of Yezo and on The Pit-Dwellers of Yezo. Report of U. S. National Museum,
1890.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 503

conviction that it is not an idle invention of the faney, but rather a
product of slow development. We can not go far enough back in time
to discover its origin. From the very first we find a long line of special-
ized kami. There is very little in it that can be traced to other lands,
and that little not very confidently. It is Japanese in its inception and
has remained so. We may imagine that it is an outgrowth of some
primitive form of sun worship, for the sun is still adored as the source
of light and life—the great ancestor of the emperor and people. After-
wards the phenomena of nature came to be represented by kami, and
the original functions and attributes of these have become changed and
forgotten.

Ancestral worship is one of its great features. The spirits of the
dead are believed to live about their tombs or in temples built for them.
They are Kami, dwelling in the unseen world around us, with power
to influence the fortunes and destiny of the living. The object of all
worship is to insure protection from evil and success in the affairs of
the present. Future rewards and punishments are not offered to make
men good. The ruler of the under world has it in his power to make
the entering spirits more or less uncomfortable, and he should there-
fore be propitiated by prayers and offerings, to secure his favor.

But there certainly is a future life, although it has been denied by
some, who think that because there is no dread torture chamber for the
wicked or land of eternal happiness for the good, there can be no thought
of afuture. But the Shintoist has no fear of death. To him “Life has
no more consistency than a dream, and no trace ofitremains.” The future
life is totally distinct from the present and a Japanese is not good be-
cause he fears eternal fire and torment. Evil and good are both clearly
recognized. One of the great annual ceremonies is that of purification.
If there is no written code of morals, a Japanese writer defends his
faith by saying that ‘only immoral people like the Chinese require a
system of moral teaching.” Every event is attributed to an act of the
gods. If anything goes wrong in the world, if the wicked prosper and
the good suffer misfortune, it is because the evil gods are sometimes too
strong for Amaterasu to restrain them. ‘The Chinese were ignorant
of this fact and were driven to invent the theory of heaven’s decrees.”

The Japanese child learns the Irova as our own children do the
alphabet, and these are the thoughts instilled by their earliest teach-
ing and which are ever before them in after life:

Color and odor alike pass away.

In our world nothing is permanent.

The present day has disappeared in the profound abyss of nothingness.
It was but the pale image of a dream; it causes us not the least regret.

The traveler in Japan is often astonished to find houses of pleasure
lining the principal thoroughfares leading to the great temples. It is
scandalous to observe how carnal pleasures are associated with religious
worship. But as there are bad deities to he propitiated, these houses
504 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

and theaters and dancing stages entertain them well and, moreover, the
good deities are pleased when the people are happy.

In the early days of foreign intercourse, when the Dutch were con-
fined at Nagasaki, and every means was taken to prevent them from
learning about the people and the country, the indefatigable Keempfer
was able to gain some insight into their religious beliefs. His ae-
count is as follows: “The more immediate end which the followers of
this religion propose to themselves is a state of happiness in this world.
They have indeed some, though but obscure and imperfect, notions
of the immortality of our souls, and a future state of bliss or misery;
and yet as little mindful they are of what will become of them in that
future state, so great is their care and attention to worship those gods,
whom they believe to have a peculiar share in the government and
management of this world, with a more immediate influence, each ac-
cording to his functions, over the occurrences and necessities of human
life—and although they acknowledge a Supreme Being, which, as they
believe, dwells in the highest of Heaven, and though they likewise
admit of some inferior gods whom they place among the stars, yet
they do not worship and adore them, nor have they any festival days
sacred to them, thinking that beings which are so much above us will
little concern themselves about our affairs. ”

This is a remarkably correct summary by a man who could not have
known anything about the mythology itself. The “Supreme Being”
is the Sun-goddess, but it is strange that in a system dealing so largely
with the sun and moon the stars should not be conspicuously mentioned.

The department of religion thus summed up the requirements of the
Shinto faith in 1872 :*

1. Thou shalt honor the gods and love thy country.

2. Thou shalt clearly understand the principles of heaven and the duty of man.
3. Thou shalt revere the Mikadot as thy sovereign and obey the will of his court.

INFLUENCE OF SHINTO UPON THE NATIONAL CHARACTER.

The religion of a people dominates their thoughts. This fact too fre-
quently leads to a totally erroneous interpretation. It is the thoughts,
fears, beliefs and dreams of a people which have made their religion.
This, when formed into a system, either by natural growth or by the
labor of an organized priesthood, becomes an expression of the religious
thoughts and feelings at the time—otherwise a System so formed would
be rejected by the people. Once accepted it becomes the dominating

* Griffis: The Mikado’s Empire.

t Implicit obedience to the Mikado is required. 1t is admitted that he may not
always be good, but as his real character is that of a god, his authority is never to
be disputed. It is a remarkable fact that never during the history of Japan have
the people knowingly rebelled against or opposed the will of the Mikado. They
haye been misled at times by designing leaders, but in intent they have ever been
faithful. The possession of the Mikado’s person has always been a source of strength
to either of the contending forces.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE, 505

influence and because religious thought is always narrow and consery-
ative, it is usually much behind the intelligence of its adherents,
although retaining its influence and authority.

With this understanding clearly before us it may be asked if the
Japanese people believe this wonderful record of the origin of them-
selves and their country and how much it has influenced their char-
acter as a nation. Do our own people believe the book of Genesis, or
the text of their own scriptures? How long does it take for a faith that
has grown during centuries to die away? The idea that the Japanese
are a people who have so assimilated and digested foreign knowledge
as to be able to think as we do is most erroneous. There are many
educated Japanese who believe, or still pretend to believe, in the divine
descent of the Mikado, and who accept the national chronology from
Jimmu Tenno down. But after all, this is no more absurd than many
beliefs of our own good people, and we must not forget that we too
have houses of glass. It is scarcely a quarter of a century since the
following words were published by the Mikado; “I am concerned
standing as I do, between Tensho-Daijin (Amaterasu) and my peo-
ple.” ‘My house, that from Jimmu Tenno on to the present day has
ruled over Dai Nippon (Great Japan), according to the will of the gods.”
His is thus the oldest dynasty on earth, his family having ruled Japan
for 2,550 years, tracing its ancestry for still 10,000 years back, to the
creation of the world.

It is an old notion of the Japanese that they are superior to all other
nations and a strange chapter might be written upon the consequences
past and present of that belief. It is so essentially a part of Japanese
character that it cannot be immediately outgrown. At the basis of it lies
the Shinto faith. How true this is, and how firmiy grounded the conceit
is may be learned from the native writings in defence of Shinto. The
subject is of interest as showing to what an extent the Japanese char-
acter conforms to the spirit of the ancient teachings, and it becomes
of the greatest importance that we should understand it well in our
political and social intercourse with the Japanese. They have a well-
known story of Wasaubivauwe. which points a moral they would do
well to heed.

The utmost efforts of the Shinto writers have been put forth to
belittle Japan’s indebtedness to China tor letters and philosophy. The
following quotations are given without regard to authority or chrono-
logical order, but the latest date from early in this century. A doubt-
ing critic asserts that there must have been total darkness before
the sun was born, a fact inconsistent with the statement that plants
already existed at the time. The answer is worthy of certain logicians
of our own time and country: “Although she (the sun) will continue
to shine as long as heaven and earth endure, she was born in Japan,
and her descendants rule over the empire to this day. The difficulty
of reconciling the statements that the world was plunged into darkness
506 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

when she retired into a cavern and that darkness did not exist before
she was born, is one that would strike a child’s intelligence. The critic
need not make so much fuss about this point, as if it were an entirely
new discovery of his own. The very inconsistency is the proof of the
authenticity of the record, for who would have gone out of his way to
invent astory apparently so ridiculous and incredible. The acts of
the gods are not explained by ordinary principles.” (‘Translation of
K. Satow.)

China suffers rather severely at the hands of the Japanese critics.
One of them thus disposes of a very ancient tradition: “There is a
tradition in China that the left and right eyes of Puanku became the
sun and the moon, which is, however, usually discredited, because
the natives of that country, being admirers of false knowledge, assign
the origin of these two luminaries to the positive and negative
essences. The real truth is, that the sun and the moon were produced
when Izanagi washed his eyes after returning from his search after
Izanami in the nether world. The tradition has evidently traveled to
China and assumed the perverted form in which we find it there.”
(Satow.) What infinite assurance! The story was current in China
before the Japanese began to exist as a nation. But this is only an
introduction. We add more quotations without further remarks.

‘“ People who have been misled by their foreign studies are wont to
say that Japan is a little country, as if extent of territory were any
criterion of the importance or rank of a state.”

‘“ From the fact of the divine descent of the Japanese people proceeds
their immeasurable superiority to the natives of other countries in
courage and intelligence.”

“Tt was not-out of vainglory that the inhabitants of this country
called it the land of the gods. The gods who created all countries
belonged to the Divine Age and were all born in Japan, so that Japan
is their native country and all the world acknowledges the appropri-
ateness of the title. The Koreans were the first to become acquainted
with this truth,” ete.

“As it was Japan which lay directly opposite the sun when it
separated from the earth, it is quite clear that Japan lies on the summit
of the globe.”

“Foreign countries were of course produced by the power of the cre-
ator gods, but they were not begotten by Izanagi and Izanami, nor did
they give birth to the goddess of the sun, which is the cause of their
inferiority. The traditions about the origin of the world which are
presented in foreign countries are naturally incorrect, just as the
accounts of an event which has happened at the capital become dis-
torted when they travel to a province and it comes to be believed that
the province was the scene of the event.” (Satow.)
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 507
LITURGIES AND FORM OF WORSHIP.

The services at the temples consist in the repetition of prayers and
rituals of prescribed form, with prostrations and presentation of offer-
ings. The pure Shinto ceremonial is now but rarely seen, and only at
two or three famous shrines. In the old time there was no priesthood,
but the principal duty of the Mikado was the celebration of the rites.
In the seventh century the Emperor Kotoku said to his minister, “ First
serve the gods, afterwards consider matters of government.” The Mi-
kado was the chief priest, and the person who at a later date read the
liturgies at the capital was a descendant of one of the deities who came
from heaven with Ninigi. ‘The priestly office is still hereditary in the
same family or tribe named Nakatomi.*

The officers in charge of Shinto shrines wear ordinary clothing, over
which when they officiate they throw a priestly robe of white.

Shinto seems to have been a well-organized religious system at an
early day. The book of ceremonial law, published in the year 927,
contains much relating to the Shinto worship, including the ceremonies
for special occasions, organization of the priesthood, services at the
Ise temples, a list of temples entitled to government support, and the
chief norito or rituals. This book was several times reprinted—the
last time in 1723—by order of the Government. Among the liturgies
it contains Mr. Satow enumerates the following:

Service of the praying for harvest.

Service of the goddess of food.

Service of the goddess of wind.

Service of the temple of Inaki.

General purification on the last day of the sixth month.
Harvest festival.

Service of the temples of Ise.

The offerings to be made at the shrines are also prescribed. In the
old time the praying for harvest was celebrated on the fourth day of the
second month. The ministers of state, officers of the Shinto religion,
the priests and priestesses of the temples maintained by the Mikado,
assembled at the office for the worship of the Shinto gods, while through-
out the country the chiefs of the local administrations and governors of
provinces led the worship at other shrines. The articles offered included
silk and hemp cloth, models of swords, a spear-head, a shield, bow and
quiver, edible seaweed, salt, saké, and to each of the temples at Ise a
horse for the god to ride, a cock to tell the time and a domesticated
boar for food. in ancient times curved jewels or beads (magatama)
were offered.

* Up to the year 1868 the nominal prime minister of the Mikado belonged to this
family, which in the seventh century changed its name to Fujiwara, famous in
Japanese history.

508 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

An abstract from one of the rituals, taken from Mr. Satow’s transla-
tions, will sufficiently indicate their style and character:

““T declare in the presence of the sovran gods of the harvest. If the
sovran gods will bestow in many bundled ears and in luxuriant ears
the late ripening harvest which they will bestow, the late ripening
harvest which will be produced by the dripping of foam from the
arms,* . . . then I will fulfill their praises by setting up the first
fruits ina thousand ears, . . . raising high the beer-jars, filling
and ranging in rows the bellies of the beer-jars, I will present themt
in juice and in ear.”

Following this come further declarations and promises of offerings to
numerous Kami, whose names are recited as Divine Producer, Fulfill-
ing Producer, Lofty Producer, Vivifying Producer, Great Goddess of
Food and others, because these grant a ‘‘ luxuriant age.” The ritual
is of universal application and is used when the Mikado makes his
offerings to the great shrines of the national Kami.

Besides the liturgies we find prayers, as this: “I say with awe, deign
to bless me by correcting the unwitting faults which, seen and heard by
you, I have committed, by blowing off and clearing away the calamities
which evil gods might inflict, by causing me to live long like the hard
and lasting rock, and by repeating to the gods of heavenly origin and
the gods of earthly origin the petitions which I present every day,
along with your breath, that they may hear with the sharp-earedness
of the forth-galloping colt.” (Satow.)

This prayer is addressed to the gods of wind at Tatsuta, in Yamato.
There is in it a contession of sinfulness and the idea of divine interces-
sion, the petition being at least borne on the winds, the breath of the
deities, to more distant Kami.

Home worship is conducted before a simple household shrine known
as the kami-dana. The deities are too numerous to be all mentioned.
It is only necessary to name the principal ones and to address the
others in a general prayer; or one may simply adore the residence of
the Mikado, the kami-dana, the spirits of ancestors, the local patron
god and the deity presiding over one’s calling in life.

The ancient sun worship can be witnessed at the hour of sunrise
throughout Japan in the streets, in the doorways, on bridges and in
the fields. Once I was at Ise and I walked, with a thousand pilgrims,
towitness a glorious sunrise over the sea and the famous rocks at Futa-
ga-ura. There they gather every morning and greet the nation’s god,
at a spot famed in native art and story and there they find an inspira-
tion in the scene, which appeals to the Japanese innate sense of the
beautiful in nature, if not toa deep religious sentiment, which perhaps
they do not possess.

* Referring to the dripping from the arms of the laborers in setting out the rice
plants in flooded fields.
t The first fruits.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE JAPANESE. 509
TENDENCY OF RELIGIOUS THOUGHT IN JAPAN.

If the forms and ceremonies of worship among heathen peoples, and
among the illiterate in our own land, are not an exaggerated indica-
tion of the reverence and religious sentiment of the worshipers, we
can well understand how religions have ever exercised a controlling in-
fluence upon mankind. Butin Japan the religious sentiment has not
been strong. The people may believe in the efficacy of prayer and
they are quite as devout in the formal observances of their religion as
need be to insure prosperity and Jong life. They make long pilgrim-
ages to famous shrines and offer daily prayers before ancestral tab-
lets. But there is not much feeling or sentiment about such worship.

Christianity is supposed to be making its way, but it can never gain
a strong footing in either Japan or China. The statistics of converts
given by the missionaries are entively misleading. Christianity is not
adapted to the Japanese character. Its gruesome teachings of a
jealous God ruling supreme over the destinies of man, whose justice
is without merey, involving a hell and eternal torment, will never be
received by them. The new teaching is having some influence,
although not what is intended by its ministers. It is destroying the
last vestiges of faith in the religion of the country and offering
nothing acceptable in return. The consequence is, that the Japa-
nese are becoming, through the misdirected zeal of Christian mission-
aries, sustained by the widow’s mites and children’s pennies from home
Sunday schools, a nation of independent, liberal thinkers on religious
subjects. Itis the nature of man, however, to have some form of re-
ligion; therefore, it is not improbable that eventually the Japanese
will evolve, out of the elements of their own mythology, the teachings
of Confucius, Buddha and Christ, a new faith which will prove accept-
able to the people. They may go even further than this and by
adopting the teachings of Christ, shorn of the theological travesties of
modern Christianity, give to the world a new religion worthy of the age.
I believe them capable of accomplishing such a work.

No account of the religion of Japan can be complete without a de-
scription of the temples which are scattered in great numbers over the
land, but owing to the length of this article already and also to the
fact that the author is too far from home to select and arrange the illus-
trations necessary to a proper understanding of temple architecture,
it is deemed best to defer this part of the subject until his return home.

TIENTSIN, CHINA, 1891.
THE ANCIENT BURIAL MOUNDS OF JAPAN,

By Romyn HITCHCOCK.

It would appear that when the famous Jimmu Tenno, the divinely
descended first Emperor of Japan, the child of the sun and the ancestor
of the present reigning dynasty, began his journey through the land,
he met with two kinds of inhabitants. There was a race of Tsuchi
Gumo, described as people with tails, who lived in underground burrows
or caves. Ihave elsewhere endeavored to show that there probably was,
‘in fact, a race of pit dwellers who disappeared toward the North, leav-
ing traces of their existence in the pits of Yezo.* In addition to these,
there was a race of “hairy savages” which we have no difficulty in
identifying as the Ainos,t who are known to have formerly lived in
southern Japan.

I have only alluded to these two peoples in order to remove any pos-
sible question which might arise as to the Japanese origin of the tombs
of which I amtospeak. Although many of them are very ancient, they
are certainly Japanese. This we know partly from tradition, but more
certainly from the articles interred with the dead. Had they a pre-
Japanese origin, we would expect to find within them vessels of pottery
of a more ancient pattern, such as the predecessors of the Japanese left
behind them in the shell mounds.

One of the earliest modes of burial in Japan was in artificial caves,
hewn out of the solid rock on hillsides. It has been said that the early
Japanese lived in caves. This is very doubtful, for although there are
natural caves in certain parts of the country, they are not found where
the history of the people begins, in Idzumo and Yamato.

Nevertheless, the idea of cave life was familiar to the Japanese, for
the legend of the Sun goddess who entered a cave and closed the en-
trance with a stone, leaving heaven and earth in darkness, is a very
early and important myth.t{ It is also said, that in the reign of Jimmu

*The Pit Dwellers of Yezo, by Romyn Hitchcock. Report U. S. Nat. Mus., 1890,
p. 417.

t The Ainos of Yezo, by Romyn Hitchcock. Report U. S. Nat. Mus., 1890, p. 429.

t Shinto, or the Mythology of the Japanese, by Romyn Hitchcock, Report U. S.

Nat. Mus,, 1891, p. 489,
511
512 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Tenno “the inhabitants were still plunged in barbarism and mostly
lived in caverns.” (Klaproth.)

Prof. Milne has brought together many allusions to the early cave
dwellings* of Japan taken from native writers, but all of these may as
readily have reference to the aborigines as to the Japanese themselves,
and it seems to me with greater probability.

The Chinese character which is translated “ cave” means “apartment,”
or “a cave or pit dug into the earth.” It is uncertain what kind of
dwellings or caves are thus designated. Some chambers were built with
stones and may have been the dolmens which will soon be described;
others were made of turf and recall the dwellings of the Kuriles. While
much of this uncertainty is due to the use of an ambiguous Chinese char-
acter in writing, the examination of the true caves, natural and artificial,
in dicates that if ever the Japanese were cave-dwellers it was before they
migrated to Japan.

The observations here brought together are the result of considerable
travel and intimate association with Mr. W. Gowland, formerly chem-
ist of the Imperial mint at Osaka. Mr. Gowland has spent several
years in the study of the Japanese mounds, and he is the only person
who possesses sufficient accurate and valuable information upon the
subject to prepare a comprehensive monograph. It is to be hoped that
the results of his years of labor and observation will be published. His
fine collection of relics from the tombs, now in the British Museum, is
unique and of great value. It can never be duplicated. Many a day
we have tramped together on the rough mountain sides, searching for
tombs or sepulchral caves, and at evening compared notes and re-
counted experiences in Japanese hotels. I recall the cozy comfort of
those neat matted floors, the bronze hibachi with its steaming kettle,
the savory and unsavory dinners, both varieties of which are furnished
in Yamato, and many other incidents familiar to the traveler in the in-
terior of Japan.

Several distinct methods of burial have prevailed in Japan at differ-
ent periods. These may be distinguished as follows:

(1) Burial in artificial caves.

(2) Burial in simple mounds of earth.

(3) Burial in mounds with rock chambers or dolmens.

(4) Burial in double mounds or imperial tumuli.

The chronological sequence of these different modes of burial is largely
a matter of speculation. Among the earliest was interment in artifi-
cial rock caves. Such caves are quite numerous in various provinces.
In Pl. Xxx we have a view of four such caves in Kawachi. The fronts
are crumbling away and we look directly upon what were originally
the dark interiors. The largest of this group shows the remains of a
stone coffin cut from. the rock in situ. Originally the caves were en-
tered through small apertures, which were doubtless at one time closed

* Trans. Asiatic Soc. of Japan, VIII.

PLATE XXXIII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock

THOVMV NI

S3AVO

PLATE XXXIV.

1891,—Hitchcock.

’

Report of National Museum

‘NI43OD ANOLG 4O SNIVASY DNIMOHS SAVO

THE ANCIENT BURIAL MOUNDS OF JAPAN. DLS

with stones. Probably all were provided with either stone or clay
coffins, but now only fragments of these remain. PI. Xxxrv shows the
remains of the coffin just referred to. Usually the coffins are placed at
the back of the caves, raised on a shelf a few inches from the floor.

The caves vary greatly in size, but they never reach very large pro-
portions. Perhaps they average 5 feet in height and 6 to 10 feet
square. They contain no remains whatever except the fragments of
coffins. If they ever did enclose articles of pottery or treasure interred
with the dead, the vandalism of the peasants has robbed every one of
them. I have crawled on hands and knees into many of these gloomy
recesses, inhabited by bats which fly unpleasantly near one’s face, and
searched by the light of a candle for what might be found, but with no
further reward. I well remember one occasion when Mr. Gowland and
I were long entombed in the close, damp atmosphere of a cave, not far
from Kokubu. We proposed to photograph the interior with the flash-
light. To place our two cameras at the mouth of the cave required
several hours of hard digging with hammer and knife, and the contor-
tions required in focusing were too wonderful for description. We
focused on a burning candle held at different points to outline the field
of view. Finally the light flashed; and if the spirit of the departed
ancient still hovered around its tomb, as the people believe, and if it
had progressed far enough in the transcendant thought of the western
world to grasp the fantastic idea of a bodily rising from the dust, I
think it must have believed the resurrection day had come.

The most we can say of the caves is, that they are numerous in some
sections, that they were used only for burial, and that probably they
preceded in time the rock-built dolmens. No date can be assigned to
them. There is not a vestige of a skeleton, not a line of inscription,
nothing but the soft, half-decomposed rock remaining, to bear witness
of the veneration bestowed upon the dead in ages past. The great
question presented now for the ethnologist to solve concerns the origin
of the custom of cave-burial among the Japanese.

The God Take-mika-dzuchi was famous for his desperate combats
with demons. On the island of Kashima there is a mound known as
Oni-dzuka—demon mound. It is said that the God killed a devil there
and buried him, heaping the earth above him. This was before the
time of Jimmu Tenno. Such a mound doubtless represents the earliest
form of burial among the Japanese.* Examples of such simple mounds,
averaging about 4 to 8 feet in height, are numerous in the country.
Such is the character of the traditional mound of the first emperor,
dating from the seventh century B. ¢.

*H. Von Siebold has described a small mound & feet in height and about 20 feet
in circumference, without any coffin, in which six coins were found, two of which
were recognized, the first as from the time of Shofu Gempo, 1004 B. c., the second
of Seiso Gempo, 961 B. G. The importance of this find is easily overestimated, and
jt cannot be regarded as very significant of the age of the mounds,

>

SM 91, PT 2——33

Sills: REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

H. Von Siebold, in his Notes of Japanese Archeology, writes that the
earliest mode of burial in Japan was under a mound or tumulus. About
400 to 500 years after the death of the first Emperor, stone coffins, made
of several stone plates, or more rarely of a single block, were introduced.
These measured 6 to 12 feet by 3 to 5 feet and the sides were 3 to 6
inches thick. There were handles on the sides of the cover. I have
not seen any coffins made of stone plates such as Von Siebold describes,
but coffins hewn out of solid blocks of stone are not uncommon.

The date of the introduction of stone coffins, according to Von Sie-
bold, as above stated, is from B. c. 85 to A.D. 15. He gives a range
ofacentury. The Hojiki tells of the establishment of stone coffin makers
in the reign of Suinin, 29 B. c. to 70 A.D. These dates are not to be
depended upon, for the early Japanese chronology is very unreliable.
It is not improbable that stone coffins were made much earlier than the
dates given, for it is difficult to believe that the rock caves and simple
mounds in which the coffins are found are not much older than the
Christian era.

Pl. XXxv represents a simple mound of earth near Domioji, in which a
stone coffin was buried, now exposed by the washing away of the earth.
Observe the size and shape of the coffin, which is a good type. In my
experience such mounds with stone coffins are not common.

Since it is impossible to follow a chronological order in describing the
different forms of mounds, it will be more convenient to consider first the
imperial mounds.

The first fifteen Mikados were nearly all buried in the Province Yamato.
The first Mikado, Jimmu Tennod, who is reputed to have lived in the
seventh century B. G., and died at the good old age of 127 years, is said
to be buried at a famous hill in Yamato, known as Unebi Yama, This
small hill rises from the broad Yamato plain, a conspicuous object for
miles around. The spot of burial is in the plain near the base of the
hill, and is now surrounded by a fine stone fence. The photograph
(Pl. XXXVI) was taken from the hillside. The large inclosure is entered
through a broad gateway opposite the cluster of houses seen on the
right. <A fine, graveled walk surrounds the inner inclosure, and on
certain days only the people are permitted to enter and make their de-
votions in front of the torii or temple gateway, which is to be seen at
the middle of the inner wall, facing south. Every year the Mikado
sends an officer to this place to make offerings to his departed ancestor.
This ceremony takes place in the presence of officials and a company
of soldiers on the 3d of April.

The imperial tombs are known as Misasagi. To the right, and a little
beyond the inclosure of the first emperor, there is a conspicuous white
wall surrounding a mound. This is the Misasagi of the second emperor.
This mound and other imperial tombs of the same era belong to a
type which I believe is peculiar to Japan. They will be designated
double mounds because the two ends are elevated with a depression
PLATE XXXV.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

‘IPOINOG ‘7725 42 NISSOD ANOLS

p ; fi
J - oti vn) 3
ae, Cia toe

& ne: A he ye a why
‘ tA 1

. a
sy
+o
:

‘
a .
ney
; ‘
rnc r
1 ss *
aoe
.
? 3
i

‘

’
*.
«

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock. PLATE XXXVI.

MISASAGI OF JIMMU TENNO.

PLATE XXXVII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

(“yoyeys asauedep e WOI4) “YSQNITAD ‘“p
(yozeys aseuedep e Woy) “AYMLNAD HLNSAAS ‘GNNO| GsOvVYYsL “ES

(‘yoyays esourdep e Woy) “GQNNO|) 31GNOG V 4O NV1d GNNOUS *S]
(‘yoyays esauedep e& Wol4) “GNNOW 318n0g V ‘L

AML,
BEL AEOOLIEYIII_
UZ YiHyyy

= |

ZZ

Wii

PLATE XXXVIII.

.—Hitchcock.

1891

Report of National Museum

sips

“ONNS_L NYOLNIN 43O SNINWOA_L

THE ANCIENT BURIAL MOUNDS OF JAPAN. 515

between them. The mounds are entirely surrounded by deep moats
filled with water.

It is unfortunate that these tumuli are being improved and beauti-
fied by the general Government, for their original character is thereby
changed beyond recognition. We have a good illustration of this fact
in the mound last mentioned. A few years since (in 1882) it was sur-
rounded by an old wooden fence, octagonal in form, measuring about 33
paces across the southern end. Now the inclosure is square and very
much larger. The archeologist may well deplore the activity of the Jap-
anese in this direction, for these old tumuli of Mikados of the mythica]
age are being so changed that their primitive character and shape are
forever lost. White stone fences, carved stone lanterns and torii, and
graveled walks have no association with the strict simplicity of the
past. Nothing can justify to an ethnologist such alterations as have
already been carried out in Yamato.

Pl. Xxxvil is copied from Japanese drawings. For these, and for
others of the same character, I am indebted to the courtesy of Mr. K.
Yamanouchi, secretary of the imperial household department. The first
drawing on the left purports to represent the earliest form of double
mound. Here we see the wide moat and two'distinet elevations with a
depression between them. The deep depression is the result of weath-
ering and was not a part of the original design. The south end is
straight, the north end rounded. The interment was at the top of the
northern elevation.

The ground plan is more clearly shown in the lower drawing. The
sides are constricted to correspond with the depression at the top. The
two lateral projections are not often seen. The sides of the mound are
terraced asrepresented. This terraced structure will soon receive closer
attention. The interment was in the center of the smallest cirele, at
the top of the rounded end. This form of mound is ascribed by the
Japanese to the period from Jimmu Tenno to 640 A. p. As this period
embraced about twelve centuries it may be accepted as probably correct.

The original form of the double mound is only to be made out by the
careful examination of nuinerous examples, for nearly all have become
greatly changed by weathering. The tumulus of Nintoku Tenno, near
Sakai, is represented in Pl. xxx vias seen from the southeast. In this
picture may be seen the straight southern end of the mound, the exag-
gerated depression at the top, and the constricted side. The wide and
dleep moat is only an inner moat, for this mound is doubly protected.
This mound, according to Japanese reckoning, dates from about the
fourth century. The height of this tumulus is about 100 feet and the
circuit of the base 1,526 yards.

The tumulus of Keitai Tenno is a very large mound, a landmark for
miles around in the rich, flat valley of the Yodo, not far from Ibaraki.
On the signboard is an inscription which was translated for me as fol-
lows; ‘*‘Kei-tai Tennd mishima misasagi, Distance around, 519 ken 6
516 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

bu. No one permitted to go inside. No fishing or shooting allowed.”
The absurdity of this official declaration of the size is obvious when we
consider that it is the same as stating the distance around an irregular
mound to tenths of aninch. The figures would be about 3,114 feet and
0.6 of an inch. The Emperor Keitai is reputed to have lived in the
sixth century. He was one of the last Emperors known to have been
buried in a double mound.

Near Nara there are two mounds known as Onabe and Konabe. The
former was quite careftuly measured by Mr. Gowland and myself. The
length north and south was found to be 485 feet along the top, the
length at the base being considerably more. The top of the southern
end is 78 feet wide. The northern or burial end rises 20 feet above the
depression in the top.

The other mound, Konabe (PI. XXXIx), is here shown as seen from
Onabe. Here again is shown the straight southern end and a portion
of the moat. This mound is in pretty good preservation, and the con-
tour line of the top does not descend much below the height of the
southern end.

A distant view of the mound of Ojin Tenno, in Kawachi, shows well
the original shape of the double mounds. The depression between the
two ends is very slight, the northern end being somewhat higher than
the southern, the contour line between them descending gently from the
former and rising a very little to the latter. A nearer view of the same
mound (Pl. xt) shows the depression exaggerated, owing to an unfa-
vorable point of sight. But in this pieture we have another conspicuous
feature of all the recognized imperial tombs, a plain wooden inclosure
with a gateway, painted white, situated on the outer border of the moat
opposite the middle of the south end of the mound. This picture also
gives an idea of the great size of the mounds, by comparison with the
man in the field.

The wooden gateway is again shown in PI. xr. It is always closed.
The design calls to mind the gateways at the Ise shrines, the ancient
form of tort? not often seen elsewhere.

Mr. E. Satow has described two mounds in Kodzuke, one of which is
shown in Pl. XLILas represented in his drawing. In shape it is a double
mound, but it has a chamber with an entrance at the side and in this
respect it differs from all the mounds I have seen. This mound is 36
feet in height, 372 feet long, and 234 wide. The chamber is entered
through a passage 33 feet in length. There are two chambers, sepa-
rated by a low sill of stone, the outer 24 feet in length, the inner 6 feet,
the height being about 6 feet. Mr. Satow concludes that these mounds
date from about 50 B. C., but this is very uncertain.

In the year 646 the size of tombs which persons of different ranks
might build was specifically stated. “A prince might be buried in a
vault 9 feet long and 5 feet wide within, covered by a mound 72 feet
square and 40 feet high, A thousand laborers might be employed in
PLATE XXXIX

Report of National Museum, 1891 —Hitchcock.

“AGVNOYM-VYVN YVAN SNINNOAL

PLATE XL.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

ONNS3L NIFO 40 SNINWO L

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

ed
Beh TR:
ani"

me SURE

coe eam

PLATE XLI.

GATE OF TUMULUS.
PLATE XLII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

Ros Ses

(MOLYS WOU)

“AAYNZGOHY NI GNNO|W

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock, PLATE XLIII

(FROM SATOW.)

, RINGS, ETC.

LINDERS

CY

THE ANCIENT BURIAL MOUNDS OF JAPAN. 517

the construction, and the work was to be completed in seven days. A
vault for a funetionary of the highest rank was to be of the same di-
mensions, but the mound was to be only 56 feet square and 22 feet high,
while only half the number of laborers was allowed.” (Satow.)

Reference has been made to the terraced character of these mounds.
This structure is shown in a Japanese drawing of a mound of a later
date than that ascribed to the double mounds, reproduced in the upper
right-hand figure of Pl. xxxvu. This form of mound is said to date
from about the seventh century. It is a single mound.

This terraced structure is exceedingly interesting because of the re-
markable method adopted to protect the terraces from being washed
away by the heavy rains of spring and early summer. Along the
borders of the moat and around the edge of each terrace, also planted
in cireles at the top of the mound, around the place of interment, there
have been discovered rows of closely placed cylinders of clay of pecu-
liar form. These are hollow cylinders, very roughly made, with one or
more lateral apertures.

One of these cylinders is well represented in Pl. xxxvil, copied from a
Japanese drawing. This one measured: Height, 16 inches; greatest
circumference, 22 inches. The top is constricted, and this feature will
be referred to further on. Another one measured as follows: Height,
10 inches; circumference at base, about 30 inches; circumference at
top, about 24 inches.

A slightly different form, in which the lateral apertures are placed at
right angles to each other and at different heights, is figured by Mr.
Satow from the mounds in Kodzuke, concerning which he says: ‘The
mounds were builf up in three tiers [terraces]. On the top of each tier
was a fence formed of terra-cotta pipes about 2 feet high, connected by
wooden poles or bamboos passed through holes about half way from the
base.” Mr. Satow’s tubes measured 114 to 14 inches in length by 45 to
6 inches in diameter. PI. xvi, taken from Mr. Satow’s article,* repre-
sents a cylinder with apertures at right angles. This eylinder with a
constricted top Mr. Satow calls a ‘corner post,” assuming that the
holes were made for bamboo connections.

Ata mound near Nara we found some of the cylinders exposed by
weathering. Pl. xLIv shows how they occur in situ arcund the base of
the mound, The cylinders are open at both ends and have three ribs.
They vary considerably in size. One of fair average size measured as
follows: Total height, 164 inches; height to top of upper rib, 153 inches;
distance between upper and middle rib, 42 inches; distance between
middle and lower rib, 44 inches; diameter, 12 to 14 inches; lateral aper-
ture below middle rib, 12 inches; diameter of lateral aperture, 2 inches,

The eylinders were undoubtedly introduced to prevent washing down
of the terraces and the banks of the moats. They must have been

“Trans. Asiatic Soe. Japan, vit (1880), 322.
518 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 189i.

definitely known. The idea of a fence, such as Mr. Satow suggests,
made by joining the cylinders with bamboos passed through the holes
would be most obvious. But I am not aware that Mr. Satow really
found any such bamboos, and the position of the cylinders shown in
this picture, and as we examined them in situ, showed that the lateral
apertures were directed outwards, thus precluding the idea of lateral
connection. Moreover, the cylinders are placed so close together as to
render any such connection improbable.

I was quite anxious to obtain one or two specimens of these eylin-
ders for the National Museum, and my experience in this connection
may not be without interest to those who like to speculate upon the
motives of human conduct. It occasionally happens that the mounds
are sold by the Government, for agricultural purposes, when the eylin-
ders are destroyed by the plow by thousands. In the mounds still
uninjured by the laborer the cylinders are being destroyed by the effects
of the weather. Such being the case, one would naturally suppose
that the authorities would readily second any effort to preserve speci-
mens of the cylinders from destruction in public museums. But amore
pronounced case of dog-in-the-manger than was exhibited in this mat-
ter by the Japanese officials has not come to my experience.

One day Mr. Gowland and I made a trip to Nara for the purpose of
getting some cylinders from the mound represented in Plate xLtv. This,
and another mound near by, had been disposed of for agricultural pur-
poses, and we were therefore confident of success. Accompanied by
the Governor and another official of the Ken, we soon reached the
mounds, about 2 miles out, and threading our way across the mud of
the drained moat we found the exceptionally fine exposure of cylinders
which the photograph shows. But when we broached the matter of
digging them out, we were told that authority to do so must come from
Tokio. Well, there was no other course open to us, and I concluded,
that at the risk of being snubbed, I would do my best to get some
cylinders for the National Museum. My first application was to the
minister of education, Mr. Arinori Mori, but he declared that he could
not aid me in the matter. The president of the Imperial University,
Mr. Watanabe, had already assured me verbally that if I would write
to him he would be most happy to aid me. I did write to him, and his
secretary ‘was instructed to convey Mr. Watanabe’s regrets that he
could not assist” me. Finally [ ventured to apply directly to the hn-
perial Household Department. In my letter I stated that there were
two mounds near Nara “from which cylinders can be obtained with
very little digging, and it will only be a short time when they will be
destroyed by the effects of the weather.” All my letters were written
in behalf of the Smithsonian Institution and U.S. National Museum;
but they availed nothing. ‘The cylinders are being destroyed by thou-
sands, and [ could only bring home some of the fragments.

We have no clew to the date when the cylinders were introduced, but
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PEATE XIEIV:

CYLINDERS in situ, KONABE.
PLATE XLV

Hitchcock,

1891

| Museum,

ona

Report of Nat

‘IHSIV_ | NYOLOHS JO AWOL

Gee

re oe ee aed

Pee

seeemte 1
ER OS
isis

Be oe
PB DNBS Oi, eB
Be
Spee Rese
BRB ES

ae
Baneseann se

ats

i sesh 0 ARS
eee “4

‘aarepon i

PLATE XLY},

Hitchcock.

1891 .—

}

Report of National Museum

“ONNAL NIFO 4O GNNO| SHL WOYUS MSIA “SANNOJA) GAYSENVHD

<

i et
a

PLATE XLVII-

Hitchcock.

ional! Museum, 1891

Report of Nat

‘YVMVD-INOLVH YVAN SGNNO|W GSYS9WVHO

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE XLVIII.

ENTRANCES TO CHAMBERED MOUNDS NEAR HATORI-GAWA.
THE ANCIENT BURIAL MOUNDS OF JAPAN. 519

it is always interesting to know what the Japanese have to say con-
cerning their ancient monuments, although all conclusions from this
source, even when they are established by official sanction, are to be
accepted subject to considerable doubt both as to dates and sequence
in time. In response to my inauiry, Mr. K. Yamanaouchi very courte-
ously replied as follows:

The clay cylinders, or haniwa, have their origin about the year 700* [400 4. D.], and
since then they were in constant use till about the year 1600 [940 a. D.] for fortify -
ing the loose soils around misasaki and the graves of noted personages.

The lateral apertures were perhaps made for binders to keep the cylinders firmly
nm row.

Most of the clay cylinders have been destroyed, and although no entire form of
any one of them can at present be obtained, we can still discover that some of them
were made into the forms of men and animals which were used as followers of the
illustrious deceased, and buried with such persons.

The allusion to the “forms of nen and animals” will be understood
as we proceed.

Before leaving the imperial tumuli I would mention one more, the
mound of Shotoku Taishi. This mound contains a chamber which is
now closed by the temple represented in Pl. xiv, the gates of which are
kept closed. The base of the mound is surrounded by two concentric
rows of upright stones, the inner row evidently the older. Each stone
of this row bears a Sanskrit character.

Leaving now the tombs of the emperors we come to simple chambered
mounds, which are very numerous in many sections of the country.
These mounds appear as circular heaps, frequently among cultivated
fields, covered with trees. PI. XLVr shows two mounds near the tumulus
of Ojin Tenno. These are quite large. A famous place for chambered
mounds is near Hatori-gawa where the view represented on Pl. xLvit
was taken. In this may be seen four distinct hillocks on the hillside, and
many others are scattered about on every hand. These mounds all
contain rock chambers, usuaily built of rough unhewn stones, some of
them of immense size. Long entrance passages, through which one may
walk upright for 30 or 40 feet or more, sometimes lead to the chambers,
in which there may or may not be one, rarely two, stone coffins.

Mr. Gowland has recently discovered chambers in mounds in Idzumo
made of cut stones carefully fitted together, in which were stone coffins
of excellent workmanship. The coffins there have large openings in
the sides, the object of which is not understood.

When the covering of earth is removed from the buried chambers it
is found that the chambers open through the passages, usually to the
south. The earth has been washed away from many such mounds,
leaving the rocks exposed. In Pl. xLviir, from Hatori-gawa, we see the
entrances to four such chambers. The large mound in front shows the
dolnen structure well.

*The dates given are the years of the Japanese Empire, counting from 660 B. C.,
when the first Emperor ascended the throne. The reader is cautioned not to place
much dependence upon these dates.
520 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

In more exposed situations we find the rocky structure quite bare,
as in the dolmen in Pl. xtrx. A measuring stick 5 feet in length stands
near the mouth.

High above the village of Kokubu, near the summit of the hills
across the river, a great number of such dolmens are to be found. One
of these (Pl. L) shows the structure of the chambers perfectly, except
that the tunnel-like entrance has been shortened. This chamber fronts
to the right hand of the picture. In some of the larger mounds the
tunnel reaches the length of 60 feet and the chambers are correspond-
ingly large. The tunnel sometimes opens into the chamber opposite
the middle, but it more frequently runs nearer to one side than the
other. The chamber itself is sometimes partly divided into two parts
by a limb or projection from the sides and top. Such a dolmen is the one
shown in Pl. LI, the interior of which is represented in Pl. Lit. The
interior is distinetly divided into an inner and an outer chamber.

Near the summit of the hill already mentioned there is one very
remarkable form of dolmen, Pl. Lim. It is unique among fifty or more
of the usual form. It oecupies a commanding position on the crest of
the hill, the ground in front being so steep that it was very difficult to
set up a camera to make a photograph. Observe the excavation in the
back. This is better shown in Pl. Liv. Nothing like this is known any-
where else. It would seem that the rectangular recess at the back was
used as a coffin, in which the body was placed and probably cemented
in. A measuring stick 5 feet long lies on the ground, and affords some
idea of the size of the stones used in the construction. A very large
one forms the roof of the outer chamber.

Once more we will refer to the Japanese account of these chambered
mounds. The same authority from which I have already quoted, says:
“Tn all the sepulchers the first order of performing the burials was the
piling up of the sarthen mound, leaving an underground tunnel which
leads from the outside to the very center of the mound. This mound
done, the coffin, usually carved and made of stone, as represented in
the sketch,* (Pl. Lvi upper figure) in which the corpse was placed and
sealed, was then introduced through the tunnel and placed in the cen-
ter of the mound, and the tunnel was then filled up with stones.”

We have already seen that simple mounds without chambers were
used for burial before chambers were thought of, and probably before
coffins were devised. The coffins were certainly not always introduced
through the galleries, as above described. The tunnels were certainly
not filled up with stones, although their ends were probably closed with
stones. Continuing our quotation, we read:

It seems that several forms of stone coffins were in use by the ancients since about

the year 700 [40 4. bD.]. The custom had no doubt been prevalent up to about the year
1600 [940 a. D.], when the use of clay coffins became predominant. The origin of the

* The original sketches referred to in the text and some others are in the National
Museum.
PLATE XLIX,

Hitchcock

1891.—

Report of National Museum

‘GasOdx¥

YSEWVHO JO SHOOY

PLATE L.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

*daS0dX43 YSEWVHO JO SNOOY

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE LI.

MOUND WITH A DIVIDED CHAMBER,
Report of National Museum, 1891,—Hitchcock,

BS Sap:

PLATE LIl.

INTERIOR OF MOUND WITH A DOUBLE CHAMBER,
eae

SUES

ee
;

ple
Pith
oA

Report of National Museum,

1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE LIIl.

UNIQUE FORM OF DOLMEN,
PLATE LIV

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

C3LV1d SNIGS03YUd) NSW10qQ 3O YOINSLN{

"hes * id ®
Giger Vs

Pras"
i CAG

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE LV,

STONE COFFIN IN ITS CHAMBER.
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE LVI.

(From a Japanese sketch.)

|

SHANE

it

Nh {
I H

3 and 4. TsucHt NiNGIo.

(From 4 Japanese sketch.)
(From a Japanese sketch.)

z

q

&

2

Y

&

» z

4 x —— Z

Cth :

1 Mm, Ih ial
| oy MD —S
}, A=)

. CLAay COFFIN.

9
~

JAPANESE COFFINS AND IMAGES.
THE ANCIENT BURIAL MOUNDS OF JAPAN. 521

clay coffin seems to date about the year 1200 [540 4. p.], but its predominant use
can not be traced before the year 1600 [940 a. D.].

To this there is an addendum in the form of an “N. B.,” which is
worthy of note as indicative of the spirit in which suggestions or c¢riti-
cisms are received by the learned officials of the Imperial Household.
In my letter I had expressed a desire to know where the coftin repre-
sented in the sketch was to be found, and I ventured to say that the
coffins were ‘often too large to be introduced into the mounds through
the galleries, as you suggest, and sometimes there are two coffins.”
The answer was that the coffin came from Kumamoto, and the writer then
adds: ‘The fact that these stone coffins were introduced through the
galleries into the center of the burial mounds can never be disputed,
being the result of actual digging when the galleries were discovered.
The galleries that were discovered were large enough to introduce a
large stone coffin.” It would be a matter of very great labor to move
one of those heavy stone coffins through a long gallery into its cham-
ber, and since some of the galleries are 50 and 60 feet in length, and
since in some cases the coftins are wider than the galleries, it is a natu-
‘al inference that the chambers were frequently, if not usually, built
around the coffins.

One of the best preserved stone coffins I have seen is shown in PI.
LV, photographed in its original position in its subterranean chamber.
It is in a mound on the top of Domioji Yama.

Coffins made of clay were once very extensively used. Good speci-
mens are rare, but fragments can be found in great abundance. Usu-
ally they are found in sepulchral caves or in mounds without rock
chambers. They are occasionally found also in chambered mounds.
In the lower part of Pl. Lv1, from a Japanese drawing, is Shown a clay
coffin dug out of the earth in Bizen. It stands on numerous short
legs. Its principal dimensions are in Japanese measure: *

Length ..-..-.. sols sole Suomen Ske canes bao edder ae lan Sriaasaaces  opb Sone Sa adaSeger 5 shaku. 8 sun.
WKH 2 ad eceet Sedo ee acae sancabs eben paces aod sos aeasocadac Asa Ses Seng Se See acaenS 1 ys 6
THERE, Hef@ Oden Soo apcenosee oor conte SESS eas So ASS sea e SE BE apee aeeossooe 1 : play tk
SPPICUTFLG HET TMCLOS US arate eee re ee ot ete icici ees he eR oe alse cree cB apeis, Se wire RSE S eeheloratslecias. 4
Cincomicrencerotepontomw Of Leoy ens. amos ane ae tea ele eke ae 2 area eee Ie era erate lshaku.. 4 “*
ISkS nin Gir We 2s bond gtccr be castassanocesdsonone £6icegaae Jo seee SO Oe pat eeinsee eee ee on seseaeboes eer

In at least one instance we found remains of stone and clay coffins
together in a cave, showing them to have been contemporaneous.

Pl. Lvit shows a clay coffin taken from a chambered mound in
Settsu. When I first saw it and made the photograph it was perfect
but soon after it was broken in two. The inside is shown in Pl. LVut.

The mounds have yielded a great variety of articles buried with the
dead, such as iron arrowheads, iron rings covered with bronze, rings
of bronze or gilded bronze (PI. xii), harness trappings of gold and
silver, swords and other weapons, chains, glass beads, mirrors, and
other relics.

* A shaku is 1 foot; a sun is one-tenth of a shaknu.

522 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The tombs also contain vessels of pottery of various shapes, some
of which are represented in Pl. Lrx. Both the forms and style of deco-
ration of these vessels, which are rudely made, are the same as those
found in the tombs of Korea. Two very peculiar forms are shown
in Pl. Lx. Itis a remarkable fact that the decoration on pottery from
the Japanese mounds is much less elaborate than that found on the
much older pottery of the shell-heaps and Yezo pits, which is usually
designated as Aino pottery. The Aino pottery is so characteristically
marked that the merest fragment can be recognized at a glance,
without a possibility of confounding it with Japanese. It is difficult
to explain the curious anomaly that the early pottery of a people who
are famed at the present day for their productions in this kind of handi-
work should be inferior to the earlier productions of their prede-
cessors who have since absolutely lost the art of making pottery of any
kind. A plate showing some of the peculiarities of the Aino pottery is
published with an article entitled The Ainos of Yezo, by the present
writer, published in the Museum Report for 1890.

It was a very ancient custom in Japan to bury the retainers of a
prince standing upright around his grave. Like many other customs,
this came from China. In a book entitled A Collection of Several Rela-
tions and Treatises Singular and Curious, of John Baptista Tavernier,
Baron of Aubonne, London, 1680, there is a direct notice of this custom
in Tonquin. There are two illustrations of the procession of a King’s
funeral, and the description says: ‘Many Lords and Ladies of the
court will needs be buried alive with him, for to serve him in the places
where he is to go. I have observed, in passing through the Estates of
the Raja or Prince of Velouche, which border on the Easterly parts of the
Kingdom of Visapour, that the Wives suffer themselves to be buried
Alive near their deceased Husbands, instead of being burned, as they
practice in other Provinces in the Indies.”

In the time of the Japanese Emperor Suinin (97 to 30 B. C.), his
younger brother died and they buried all who had been in his immediate
service around his tomb alive. ‘ For many days they died not, but wept
and eried aloud. At last they died. Dogs and crows assembled and
ate them.” The Emperor’s compassion was aroused and he desired to
change the custom. When the Empress Hibatsuhime no Mikoto died
the Mikado inquired of his officers saying, ‘‘We know that the prac-
tice of following the dead is not good. What shall be done?” Nomi
no Sukune then said, “It is not good to bury living men standing at
the sepulcher of a prince, and this can not be handed down to posterity.”
He then proposed to make clay figures of men and horses and to bury
them as substitutes. The Mikado was well pleased with the plan and
ordered that henceforth the old custom should not be followed, but that
clay images should be set up around the sepuleher instead.

Even as late as the year 646 an edict was published forbidding the
burial of living persons and also the burial of “ gold, silver, brocade,
PLATE LVII.

Report of National Museum, 1891,—Hitchcock.

CNSLLBS 30 SONIAOY¥d)

‘NISSOD AVIO

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock,

seep enon Sect aap le ie oo bia Se

gee

PLaTeE LVIII.

(PROVINCE OF SETTSU.)

CLAY COFFIN.
Report of National Museum, 1891,—Hitchcock.

PLATE LIX,

BURIAL POTTERY.
PLATE LX.

Report of National Museum, 1891,—Hitchcock.

"AYSLLOd AVIENG

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE LXI.

(FROM SATOW.)

TSUCHI NINGIO.
-

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

TSUCHI NINGIO.

(GOWLAND COLLECTION.)

PLATE LXIl.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock. PLATE LXIll

TSUCHI NINGIO. (From Von Siebold.)
THE ANCIENT BURIAL MOUNDS OF JAPAN. 523

diaper, or any kind of variegated thing.” From this it might be inferred
that the old custom of living burial was kept up to some extent even
to the seventh century. The edict reads, “Let there be complete cessa-
tion of all such ancient practices as strangling oneself to follow the dead,
or strangling others to make them follow the dead, or of killing the
dead man’s horse, or burying treasures in the tomb for the dead man’s
sake, or cutting the hair, or stabbing the thigh, or wailing for the dead
maw’s sake.”

The figures of clay thus introduced as substitutes for human saeri-
fices, and also to take the place of horses, are known as tswchi ningio.
Specimens of them are now very rare, and this fact leads to the suppo-
sition that the figures were not buried, but left exposed on or near the
surface of the ground.

Von Siebold has figured three of these found in the Province of
Musashi. He believes they were introduced about the year 2 B. ¢.,
and used until about 700 A. Dp. Some of these figures show beads
around the neck and one of them has earrings.

I have brought together several illustrations from different sources,
showing the character of these curious figures. PI. Lv1, from a Japanese
drawing, represents two figures found in Musashi. The height of
these images is about 20 inches.

Mr. Satow has described two specimens of tsuchi ningio from Kod-
gzuke. Pl. LX1, copied from Mr. Satow’s drawing, represents, on the
left, two views of a portion of what was originally a sitting figure, com-
plete to the knees. The hat is rather curious. Around the neck are
bead-like ornaments. - Pl. Lx1t is a photograph taken from Mr. Gow-
land’s specimen, now in the British Museum. PI. LXIIT is copied from
von Siebold. The physiognomy of these figures is remarkable.

It seems probable that the figures were sometimes set on pedestals,
and I am disposed to believe that the cylinders with constricted tops,
already referred to(Pl. xLi1), were made to serve as supports for figures.
The base of the last-mentioned image was evidently made to fit into a
support of some kind. There is a circular aperture at the bottom corre-
sponding to those perforations which we have observed in the cylinders,

Figures of horses are sometimes found. One of the Japanese
sketches in the Museum represents a horse and his trappings as crudely
molded as the human figures. It measures 2 shaku, 8 sun in length.
(PL. V1.)

In closing this imperfect account of the Japanese graves, | would
again allude to the much more extended observations of my valued
friend and companion in Japanese travel, Mr. W. Gowland, and express
the sincere hope that the results of his painstaking work in this field
will soon be given to the world. The illustrations in this report are all
from original photographs, except when otherwise stated.
SOME ANCIENT RELICS IN JAPAN.

By Romyn Hrircucock.

Four stone figures in a small inclosure near Hirata Mura, in south.
ern Yamato, are probably the oldest stone images in Japan. I visited
the place, in company with Mr. W. Gowland and Mr. K. Nagai, on the
afternoon of April 1, 1888. The figures are at the foot of a small circu-
lar mound on a slight elevation, near the misasagi of Kimmei Tenno,
surrounded by a hedge, with a securely locked gate in front. The
small mound itself is said to be the burial place of Kibi hime 6, the
mother of Kokioku Tenno and Kotoku Tenno.

While at Nara we presented letters to the governor of Nara ken, and
stated our desire to have the gate opened that we might examine and
make photographs of the figures. An official letter was accordingly
sent to the man in charge, and on our arrival we were met by a police
officer, a number of local officials, and most of the villagers, who es-
corted us to the place. But when we asked to have the gate opened
we were told that it could not be done without permission from the
Imperial Household Department at Kyoto. This is a characteristic
example of Japanese official courtesy such as we more than once ex-
perienced. The workman is free to enter the mound inclosure and to
care for it, but gentlemen engaged in archeological studies are not
permitted to have the gate opened, even when they do not care to
tread inside, but only to get a clear field for a photograph. However,
with some difficulty we contrived to make several pictures. There
being no official regulation about cameras, [I ventured to plant mine
inside the hedge and work it from without, which was done without
remonstrance. The result is shown in Pls. LXIv and Lxv, which are
different views of the same figures. The resemblance between these
rude carvings and the images of Haster Island are quite noticeable.

The story told in a Japanese book, the Koko Nichi Roku, a work on
Japanese antiquities, dated the ninth year of Kwansei, was translated
by Mr. Nagai as follows: “Long ago, four stone men were dug out of
a field near Kimmei Tenno’s misasagi. The first one has three faces,
the second four, the third three, and the fourth two. Afterwards the
natives put them on the misasagi and called them Schichi fuku jin
(seven happy gods), which of course means nothing. The significance

525
526 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

of these figures is unknown, but some persons think that they were
made for the pleasure of the workmen, and perhaps this may be so.”

The figures are undoubtedly of great age, and of far more interest
than the above account would indicate. They show traces of more
than a common workman’s skill, and while speculation concerning them
is now profitless, they may some day prove of importance. The largest
stands about 4 feet in height.

We can approximate to the date of some of the old Japanese monu-
ments with some degree of confidence. For example, in the Province
of Kawachi, a short distance from a much: frequented pass over the
mountain, there are some very old relics of Buddhism. On the top of
a projecting spur of the mountain stands a weather-worn stone pagoda
(Pl. LXvt), known as the jiu-san to. Its history is unknown, but it is
probably one of the oldest Buddhist monuments of Japan. Near by and
facing it is the remains of a cave, the roof and sides of which have almost
crumbled away, leaving the back clearly exposed. Some roughly-drawn
characters may be traced on the back, one of which evidently repre-
sented a face of a Buddha. There are other rocks near, which also bear
traces of sculptures, but the formscan not be made out. Somewhatlower
down there is a spot where it is evident there once were other stone
structures, but it is impossible to infer their character or significance.
A short distance from this place, in plain view, on another hillside,
there is a second cave, evidently much larger, within which are the
ruins of a stone pagoda (PI. LXv1).

It was during the lifetime of the famous priest Shotoku Taishi,
early in the 7th century, that Buddhism became firmly established in
Japan, and many of the most celebrated temples were built by him.
Among those are Horiu-ji, in Yamato, and Tenno-ji, in Ozaka. The
tumulus of this Mikado is at the temple Eifuku-ji, near the village
called Kasuga, in Kawachi, at the foot of the mountain where these
relics are found (see Pl. XLv, in the preceding paper).

Considering the very active part taken by Shotoku Taishi, in estab-
lishing the Buddhist religion, and the fact that these ruins are found
between his two most famous temples and near his final resting place,
it seems probable that they date from his time or earlier, and are there-
fore more than 1,200 years old.
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE LXIV.

STONE FIGURES FROM YAMATO,
PLATE LXV.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

CMAIA YAHLONY)

‘OLVWVA WOUS SAYNDI4F ANOLS

?
¥
=
(om
=)
+
te

rex ie

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Hitchcock.

PLATE LXVI,

ANCIENT STONE PAGODA,
ha

PLATE LXVII.

1891 —Hitchcock.

eum

Report of National Mus

‘VGO9Vd SNOLS V 30 SNIVWSY HLIM 3SAVD LNSIONY

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE OF THE NORTH OF EUROPE,

By GEORGE H, BorHMER.

A tale of the times of old,
The deeds of the days ef other years. (OSSIAN.)

INTRODUCTION.

In studying the art of shipbuilding, as performed in the North of
Europe and illustrated by both Saga-accounts and actual remains, our
attention is drawn toward numerous similarities with the ships of
ancient Greece and Rome, which suggest a common origin. Although
this is denied by many investigators, on the supposition that the
ships of long-stretched build without sail, or only using it with favor-
able and constant wincs, upon the comparatively quiet waters of the
/Egean, Ionian and Thyrrhenian seas, could not be an example to the
people who navigated the northern seas, with their short, chopping
waves, sudden changes of wind, tremendous storms, shoal shores, and
sand bars, and that these people “ had to be their own teachers,”! yet there
lingers something in the naval structures of Scandinavia which seems
to indicate that the maritime explorations of the people of the south,
the Phoenicians, did have a tendency to influence the ancient inhabit-
ants of the north in the construction of their vessels. It is true little
is known in a direct way of the shipbuilding of the Phaenicians, yet the
art taught them by the Egyptians and illustrated in some of the ancient
relies of the seventeenth century B.C.’ may be traced to the Greeks whose
naval structures, at the height of their achievements, in many points
show a remarkable resemblance to those one thousand years older,’
and are reproduced in the Roman ships.

Of the naval structures of these two nations contemporaries have
given accounts,! and while often written without technical knowledge
their writings are not without value. Considerable attention las been
given the subject during the last three and a half centuries, as shown by

! Barthold: Geschichte der Deutschen Seemacht. In Rawmer’s Hist. Taschenbuch,
III Folge, Band I, 1850, p. 228.

2 Baumeister : Denkmiiler des Klassischen Alterthums, p. 1593, fig. 1656.

3 Graser: Flotte einer iigyptischen Kénigin.

' Hschylus, Appian, Aristophanes, Cesar, Diodor, Huripides, Hesychius, Livius,
Phitareh, Pollux, Sophocles, Thucidides, Nenophon,

KOT.
oat
528 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Dr. Emil Luebeck, one of the most recent and thorough investigators,
from whose work! I have borrowed the bibliography of authors since
1536,2 given below, and which has greatly aided me in the following
description of the construction of the ships of ancient Greece and Rome.

| Luebeck, Dr. Emil: Das Seewesen der Griechen und Rémer. Hamburg, 1890.

2 Baif, De (Lazarus Bayfius): Annotationes in L, II, de captivis et postliminis
reversis, in quibus tractatur de re nayali, Paris, 1536. Doletus: De re navali liber.
Leiden, 1537. Gyraldus: De re nautica libellus. Basel, 1540. Calcagnius: De re
nautica commentatio ad Gyraldum.  Sfewechins: Comment. ad Vegetium IY. 37.
Leid., 1592. Henricus Savilius: De Militia Romana. Heidelberg, 1601. Joseph Seali-
ger: Animady. in chron, Eusebii Thesaur, temp. Leid., 1606. Willebrord Snellius :
Typhis Batayus sive histodromica de navium cursibus et re navali. Leid., 1624.
Thomas Rivius: Historia navalis antiqua. London, 1633. Scheffer: Dissertatio de
varietate navium, 1643 (reproduced in Gronoy. Thes. Grae. antiq. XI, p. 769). Maret
Meibomii: Notie in Vitruvium (Edit. Joane de Laet). Amsterdam, 1619. Scheffer:
De militia navali. Upsala, 1654. Jacob Palmerius (Paulmier &’ Grentemesnil): Exer-
citat ad optimos fere auctores Griecos, Leiden, 1668, Meibom: De fabrica triremium.
Amsterdam, 1671.  Nicolacs Witsen: Aeloude en hedendaegsche Schaeps-Bouw en
Bestier. Amsterdam, 1671. Scheffer (pseudonym, Constantinus Opelius): De fabrica
triremium Meibomiana. Amsterdam, 1672. Rafael Fabretti: De columna Traiana.
Rome, 1683. Tsaac Vossius: De triremium et liburnicarum constructione (reproduced
in Grevius: Thes. antiq. Rom. XII, p. 709-734). Leid., 1699. Pere Languedoc:
Traité sur les triremes, ou les vaisseaux de guerre des anciens. Paris, 1721. P. P.
de Chdles and Sanadon: In Journ. de Tréyoux, Sep., 1722. Admiral Thévenard: In
Mém. de Acad. roy. de Brest. Tome I, 1733. Pere dela Maugeraye: In Journ. de
Tréyoux, Oct., 1722. Deslandes : Essay sur la marine des anciens et particuli¢rement
sur leur vaisseaux de guerre. Paris, 1748. Le Roy: Seconde Mémoire sur Ja marine
des anciens (Hist. del Acad. roy. des inserip. xxxvili. Paris, 1777. General Melvil
(by Pownall): <A treatise on the study of antiquities. London, 1782. Graf Carli:
Delle triremi. Milano, 1785. Rondolet: Mémoires de la marine des anciens. Paris,
1820. Howell: Essay on the war galleys of the ancients. Edinburgh, 1826. H.v.
Minutoli: Ueber den Seeverkehr und das Schiffswesen der Alten. In Zeitschr. f. Kunst
und Geschichte des Krieges, 1835. Smith: Ueber den Schiffbau der Griechen und
Romer im Alterthum. Translated by H. Thiersch. Marburg, 1851. Jal: La flotte de
César. Paris, 1861. Meller: Besprechung von Jal, La flotte de César. Philol. xix, 1863,
Graeser: De veterumre nayali. Berlin, 1864. Contin. in Philol. ili Supl. vol., pt. 1;
Philol. xliii. Airchhoff: Ueber die Rede vom trierarchischen Kranze. In Verh. Berlin.
Akad., 1865. Guglielmotti: Delle due navi Romane. Rome, 1866. Lupi: Il remeggio
delle navi antiche, 1875. Conze, Hauser und Benndorf: Neue archiiologische Unter-
suchungenauf Samothrake. 1880, Joly de Maizeroy: Conf. DuSein, Hist. delamarine.
Paris, 1863. Fincati: Le triremi. Roma, 1881. Leopold Brunn: In Verh. 35 Philol.
Versaminl. Leipzig, Treubner, 1881. 4. Cartault: La triere athénique. Paris, 1881.
L.v. Henk: Die Kriegstiihrung zur See. Berlin, 1881. 2. Werner: Besprechung
von Brunn ‘‘Axatos.” Géttingen gel. Anz., 1882. Roul Lemaitre: Disposition des
rameurs sur la triere antique. Reyue archéol., 1883. Boeckh : Staatshaushalt der
Athener. Boeckh: Urkunden iiber das Seewesen des attischen Staates. 4, Baum-
stark: Navigatio. In Pauly’s Real Eneyklop. v. Das Ruderboot. In Wassersport,
1883, No. 17. Saefkow: Konstrucktionsplan einer Pentere. In Wassersport, 1884,
No. 17. Gilbert: Handbuch d. griech. Staatsaltert. Serre: Les marines de guerre
de Vantiquité et du moyen dge. Paris, 1885. Breusing: Die Nautik der Alten, Bre-
men, 1886. Breusing: In Iw. Miiller’s Handb. v. Klass. Alterth. Wiss. iv. Nach-
trag. Breusing: Die Lésunge des Trierenriithsels. Bremen, 1889. Helbig: Das ho-
merische Epos aus d. Denkimiilern erkliirt. Leipzig, 1887. Bauer: Griech. Kriegs-
alterthiimer. In Miiller’s Handb. y. Klass. Alterth. Wis., Bd. iv. Bliimner: Tech-
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 529

The skeleton of the ship consists of the keel and the ribs. The keel
is a strong, square beam corresponding to the length of the ship.!
To this is secured a stout plank, the false keel, which serves in the two-
fold capacity of strengthening the keel and protecting it from injury.
In war vessels, oak was generally employed for the keel. Its ends,
slightly elevated, served as a basis for the stem and stern posts; the
almost perpendicular prow was strengthened by an apron, and carried
a top-piece? with an ornament. The sternpost, too, was strengthened
by an apron, and carried a top piece.’ The y-shaped ribs, seldom con-
sisting of one piece, were made of pieces exactly fitted and bolted
together. In order to secure firmness and prevent lateral displace-
ment of the ribs, they were provided with notches into which the keel
fitted; a longitudinal movement was prevented by the keelson, which
fitted into the intervals between the ribs, and thus kept them in place
and pressed them firmly against the keel.’

The aprons of the prows joining the keelson at an angle, it required
here a knee, which, while supporting the former upon the inner side,
connected them firmly with the keelson. These knees, made of stout,
crooked timber, imparted the strength and power of resistance to the
prows especially required by the stem for ramming.

The form of the hull is thus given by the ribs; the ship may be built
sharp upon the keel or its bottom may exhibit a shallow curve. It is
shown, howeyver,® that the war-vessels of antiquity cannot have been
built sharp upon the floor, but that even the largest of them must have
had a flat bottom.

The frame having been made, the hull was formed by the planks,
which, parallel with the keel, were nailed to the ribs. The planks were
placed upon edge, forming a smooth surface (carvel), although the
freight ships of the Egyptians were clinker-built.

A beam covered the heads of the ribs (the gunwale) into which the
tholes were inserted, which by means of leather straps offered a sup-
port to the oars that were fastened to them.

Many of the ships represented upon the Pompeian pictures and the

nologie. C. Voigt: Das System der Riemen-Ausleger im Klass. Alterth. In Was-
sersport, 1889. Assmann: Seewesen. In Baumeister, Denkmiiler, iii. Assmann, Hrnst:
Zur Kenntniss der attischen Schiffe. In Jahrb. d. Kais. Deut. Arch. Inst., 1889.
Hans Droysen: Griechische Kriegsalterthiimer. In K. F. Hermanns Lehrbuch, ii, 2.
Axatos”: Festschrift, 35 Philol. Versammlung zu Stettin.

' Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 28.

2 Assmann: Seewesen, p, 1602.

sPoltun, 1,90.

' Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 33; Cartault: La triere Athén, p. 49. Assmann :
Seewesen, p. 1601; Homer: Od. xii, 229; xiii, 74.

5 Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 30, 33.

6 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1601, 1626. Berlin. philol. Wochenschrift, 1888, No. 1, p.
98.

? Roding: Allgem, Worterb. d. Marine. Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 35. Her-
adot, 1i, 96.

sm 91, PT 2 34

530 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Trajan column show an open grating upon the railing, the angle of
which, apparently, served the purpose of thole pins and rendered their
application necessary for the upper tier of oars;' generally, however,
even the ships of several tiers of oars had for each tier holes cut mto
the planks and required thole pins.? As at present, one thole was
used in antiquity on the Mediterranean.’

The walls of the ancient war-ship, pointed at both ends,! do not ap-
pear to have been absolutely parallel amidships, but slightly bulged
out;® vertically they fell to the water-line almost perpendicularly.6 A
projection of the ship’s wall of 45 degrees toward the water-line is
suggested by some,’ but rejected by others who do not concede that
the ancient pictures justify such an assumption, since such a form would
secure but indifferent stability in the water.

The prow was often ornamented with carvings which possibly corres-
ponded to the name of the ship.? The eyes? upon both sides of the
prow in men-of-war, often taken for lLawse-holes, were either painted"
or carved and fitted in the prow. Their object appears to have been
symbolic and intended to show the watchfulness to prevent accident.!!

External strengthenirg was had by nailing planks upon the external

yall in a horizontal direction ( Wales), which by means of perpendic-

ular bolts were fastened to each other, forming a network which had
a tendency materially to strengthen the structure.” Corresponding
pieces (Weger) were fastened to the inside, possibly serving as a layer
for the lower oar-rows in polyeres, in order to spare the thin outside
planking."®

Metal covering was not applied to the ships of antiquity,’ but they
were caulked and covered with a coat of pitch and tar, and finally par-

1 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1608, 1628; Baumeister: Denkmiiler, iii, p. 1627.

2 Boeckh: Urkunden iiber das Seewesen des attischen Staates, p. 103.

3 Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 33; Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1609.

' Helbig: Das homerische Epos aus den Denkmiilern erliiutert, p. 161, foot note 1.

5 Aristol: De part. anim. 4, 10.

*Brunn; Verh. d. 35. Philol. Vers. p. 171; Lemaitre: Revue Archéol. 1883, i, p.
134; Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 39; Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1607.

7 Le Roy: Sur la marine des anciens (Histoire de Acad. roy des inseript. et belles
lettres, xxxvill, 1777, p. 542); Melvill (by Pownall) A treatise on the study of antiq.
nities, London, 1782, p. 233; Boeckh: Urkunden, p. 115; Smith: Ueber den Schiftbau
der Griechen und Romer, p. 40.

* Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1606.

“Assmann: Zur Kenntuiss der antiken Schiffe. In Jahrbuch des Deutschen
archiiolog. Instit, 1889. Heft 2, p.99; Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1597 and 1613; Boeckh:
Urkunden, p. 103; Jal: La Flotte de César; Baumeister: Denkmiiler, iii, ». 1617,

0 Bliimner: Technologie, iv, p. 455. Note 3.

1 Assmann: Zur Kenntniss, &c. In Jahrbuch d. D. arch. Inst., 1889. Hefs 2, p.
99; Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1597.

2 Assmann: Zur Kenntniss, &c. In Jahrbuch d. ). arch. Inst., i889. Heft 2, p,
102; Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1628. ;

5 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1602.

'4Ucber die Alexandreia des Hieron. vy. Syrakus.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 5d4

tially painted! in the bow, apparently to facilitate the recognition of
the direction taken by a vessel in sight.’

The war vessels do not appear to have had full decks, from the fact
that the mast had to be taken down before the battle; partial decks
appear in the bow and in the stern; the midship was open, but some
representations from the eighth century B. c.? show small bridges or
gangways (plankways) on both sides of the mast, extending from the
fore end to the aft end, partly covering the ship and forming a bridge
upon which the fighting crew stood. A narrow plank fastened to the
inside of the ship’s wall also served a similar purpose. Even at Cxesar’s
time completely covered vessels were not in general use,t and even
those called “decked” did not have what is now called “a deck.”

Before the battle the mast, which rested in a block upon the keel, had
to be laid down,® and for this purpose a small longitudinal opening had
to be left. Itwas the custom to penetrate the enemy’s line in full force,
in order to dislocate his oars. To thus render his ship defenseless to
the spur thrusts, the oars of the attacking party had to be drawn in at
the decisive moment so as to prevent their being broken. In order to ae-
complish this the small width of a decked ship would have been insufti-
cient, while a broken deck afforded ready egress above.

The peculiar method of naval warfare, consisting principally in an
effort to disable the enemy’s ship by ramming, required a resistance
searcely to be found in the comparatively slight-built ships of antiquity,
and special precautions had to be taken to secure, by means of addi-
tional devices and appliances, the longitudinal strengthening of the
otherwise rather frail strueture. Such appliances were the strut-frame
and the girding. The former was first demonstrated? as consisting of
two long beams, which, resting upon numerous supports, connected the
two frames in sucha manner as to leave a longitudinal opening for the
raising and lowering of the mast. These beams, by covering them with
planks, were converted into foot bridges tor the fighting crew.°

One of the principal dangers to which the ship of antiquity was ex-
posed, and which threatened collapse to the frail structure was from the
breaking of the back,® which was apt to happen in a vessel crossing
the waves, whereby the midship was lifted in the mass of water, while
tie prows, without any support, hanging over the trough, were apt to
sink by their own weight and thus tend to break from the keel. In

! Blimner: Technologie, vol. tv, p. 453.
2 Helbig: Das homerische Epos aus den Denkmiilern erliiutert, p, 161, note 1,
*Monumenti dell Inst. rx., pl. 40, 8 and 4; Annali 1872, p. 153.

“Cesar: De bel. ctv. 111, 7; Cicero; Ad Attic. v, 12, 13.

Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1607.

®* Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1616; Areusing: Nautik der Alten, p.48; Droysen: Griech,
Kriegsalterthiimer, p. 289; Jal: Archéol. Nav. 1, 288,

7 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1602.

®Tbid, p. 1604.

’ Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 183.
532 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

that event the walls, unsupported by connecting beams, were apt to
become loosened from their holds and cause the whole structure to
collapse.

In order to prevent this sinking of the prows the girding was applied,
consisting in the tying of the ship by means of a stout cable, the hypo-
zome (tormentum). Many views have been expressed as to the nature
and the application of the hypozome.'

According to the theory which is most consistent with the accounts
given in the ancient literature” the girding was performed by a single
or double cable fastened to the heavy plaited rings surrounding stem
and stern posts, often met with in ancient illustrations*, and running
upon stout crutch-like supports, being probably tightened by pulleys
as soon as the connections began te loosen from continued spur thrusts
or by heavy seas.

The sticks forming the supports for the hypozome, and which accord-
ing to ancient accounts were part of the articles of equipment of aship,
have heretofore been thought to be lateral supports of the mast.*

The most terrible weapon of the ancient war ship was the spur, a
structure projecting from the bow, covered with iron or copper, prob-
ably an invention of the Phoenicians, whose vessels carried it 700 B. C.
It was at first placed below the water line, but in the ancient Greek
ships it was placed above the water? at a point where keel, stem-
post, strutframes, and wales centered their combined force, in order to
make the destructive thrust as effective as possible.

The effective application of the oar is dependent on the proportion
of the inner to the outer lever, which has been found to be the most
satisfactorily accomplished with a proportion of 1:2-3.°

For determination of size but very insufficient data exist, principally
in the length and width of the ship sheds,’ which, however, can be but
relatively correct, since alongside of the ship articles belonging to it
had to be stored. A seale is also found in a passage by Vitruvius,®

' Scheffer: De militia navali, i, 4, p. 48, Upsala, 1654; Le Roy: Troisieme mémoir
sur la marine des anciens, Histoire de Académie, xxxvili, p. 589, Paris, 1777;
Schneider: Vitruv., x, 15, 6, Leipzig, 1808; Boeckh: Urkunden, p. 134; Beger: Thesaur.
Brand., m1, 406; Montfaucon: L’antiquité expliqué, iv, 2, p. 214, pl. 184; Smith:
Schiffbau der Griechen und Roémer, p. 30; Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 171;
Assmann: Jalrb. d. K. D. Inst., 1889, 2 Heft, p.99, 100; Graser (Dumichen): Flotte
einer iigyptischen Konigen; Assmann: Seewesen, pp. 1594, 1604, 1614; Baumeister:
Denkmiiler d. Klass. Alterth., 11, p. 1598, 1604, fig. 1671; Musée de Marine du Louvre,
p. 8; Berlin. Phil. Wochenschrift, 1889, Nos. 31, 32; Droysen: Griechische Kriegsal-
terth., p. 259; Breusing: Die Lésung der Tricrenfrage, p. 26.

2 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1594, 1604, 1614.

3 Baumeister: Denkiniiler d. Klass. Alterth. m1, p. 1604.

‘Berl. philol. Wochenschrift, 1889, No. 16, 31, 32.

5 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1615.

5 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1608.

7 Droysen: Griechische Kriegsalterthiimer, }). 279.

SVitruvius: de architectura, i, 2, 4, ‘fin navibus ex intersealmis, quod dimnyaiyy
dicitur;” see Marcus Meibomius: De fabrica triremium. <Aimstelod., 1671, reprinted ;
Graevius: Thesaur. antiq, Rom., xii, 553, 573, ;
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 533

in which the laws of symmetry enter into architectural construction. A
still more certain mode is found in the interscalmium; that is, the
space between the oar ports, which by practical experience is accepted
as most nearly correct at 2 ells = 3 feet. In computing the length,
then, additional to the result obtained from interscalmium measure-
ments the free space in the stem and stern will also have to be taken
into account. For a 31-seater these are accepted as 12 feet aft! and 6
feet in the stem; we thus have the following formula:

«x3d+12+4+6—length of ship.

The space occupied by each rower is estimated by Lemaitre at (1.60
meters) 54 feet in width, and allowing for the longitudinal middle space
(80 centimeters) 2 feet, we obtain an approximate width of that class of
ship of about 17 feet.

A further estimate of the width of the ships is found in the size of
the anchor cable,” of which each one-half inch thickness is computed as
representing 1 foot width of ship at the water line; hence a 6-inch
cable should correspond to a ship 12 feet wide at the water line.’ It
is, however, thought* that in view of the very sharp build of the ships
a larger factor of width may be taken for each one-half ineh of thiek-
ness of the cable.

The draft of the war-vessels of antiquity appears to have been very
small, amounting in the largest of which we have information to a
maximum of 1.5 meters.°

THE GERMANIC PEOPLE.

The first historie account of the ships of the peopie oceupyimeg the
shores of the Northern Seas we find in Cresar’s Naval Campaign against
the Veneti, in the year 54 B. c.,° as follows:

“For their ships were built and equipped after this manner: The
keels were somewhat flatter than those of our ships, whereby they
could more easily encounter the shallows and the ebbing of the tide;
the prows were raised very high, and in like manner the sterns were
adapted to the force of the waves and storms which they were
formed to sustain. The ships were built wholly of oak, and designed
to endure any foree and violence whatever; the benches, which were
made of planks a foot in breadth, were fastened by iron spikes of the
thickness of a man’s thumb; the anchors were secured fast by iron
chains instead of cables, and for sails they used skins and thin dressed
leather. These were used either through their want of canvas and
their ignorance of its application, or for this reason, which is more

' Lemaitre: Revue Archéolog., 1885, i, p. 149.

* Boeckh: Seeurkunden, p. 168.

3 Cartault: La triere Athén., p. 246.

4 Graser: De vet. re nav., p. 20.

5 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1601. Berlin. philol. Wochenschrift, 1888, No. 1, p. 28.
® Cesar, De Bello Gallico, iii, cap. xiii.
HbA REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

probable, that they thought that sach storms of the ocean and such
violent gales of wind could not be resisted by sails, nor ships of sueh
great burden be conveniently enough managed by them. The relative
character of the two was of such nature that our fleet excelled in speed
alone and the plying of the oars; other things, considering the nature
of the place and the violence of the storms, were more suitable and bet-
ter adapted on their side; for neither could our ships injure theirs with
their beaks, so great was their strength, nor on account of their height
Was a weapon easily cast upon them; and for the same reason they
were less readily locked in by rocks. To this was added that, whenever
a storm began to rage and they ran before the wind, they both could
weather the storm more readily and heave to securely in the shallows,
and when left by the tide feared nothing from rocks and shelves; ie
risk of all which things was much to be dreaded by our ships.”

The ships employed by Cvesar during his expedition to Brittany
were the naves actuarie,' vessels of surpassing speed,’ such as were
employed by the pirates. They were propelled by oars, and according
to Isidorus* also employed sails. The designation actuaria appears
to have been a multiplied ead varied one’ and embraces vessels of
various sizes, number of oars, and purposes. According to Dr. Lue-
beck? it may be assumed Sane a degree of certainty that they did not
belong to the freight ships (onerarie),® nor are they to be considered as
war-vessels proper of Cvesarian times.*

During the expedition to Brittany these actuaria took the place of
the onerarice for the transport of troops, horses, and war paraphernalia,
although it is stated explicitly that they were built as actuarie, and
for that reason Ene were enabled to keep pace with the war-vessels

1 TLuebeck, aaa ie Seewesen or Griec heh und Rome it ee 1890.

2 NC ee caine to Nonius, xiii, 9, the naves actuarize were ‘‘navicule celeres, dicta
quod cito agi possint.”

®Sall. hist., lib. ii, ‘‘pauca piratica actuaria navigia.”’

4Tsidor. Orig., xix 1; ‘ actuariwe naves sunt, que velis simul aguntur et remis. ”

5 Assmann, Seewesen, p. 1623.

6 Otic. ad. Attic., xvi, 3, 6: “hae ego conscendus e Pompejano tribus actuariolis decem-
scalmis.” And Livius, xxxvill, 38: ‘¢ Tradito et naves longas armamentaque earum, neve
plures quam decem naves actuarias, quarum nulla plus quam triginta remis agatur,
habeto.”

7Dr. Emil Luebeck: Das Seewesen der Griechen und Rémer. Hamburg, 1890. (The
author has made a thorough study of ancient Greek and Roman naval affairs, and
some of the references employed have been taken from his essay.)

’Sisenna: Histor., lib. iii (Nonius, xiii, 8): ‘‘ Quibus oecisis acluarias ad viginti
navis, item complures onerarias incendunt.”

"Cesar: De Bell. gall., v, 2, 1: ‘Ho cum advenisset, circuitio omnibus hibernis, singu-
lari militum studio, in summa omnium rerwn tropia, circiter DC ecius generis, cuius supra
demonstravimus, naves et longas xxviii invenit instructas, neque multum abesse ab eo, quin
paucis diebus deduci possint.” The words “supra demonstravimus” referring to v., 1,
3: ‘ad onera et ad multitudinem tumentorum transportandam paulo latiores, quam quibus
in reliquis wtimur maribus, Has omnes actuarias imperat fieri, quam ad rem multum
humilitas adiuvat.”
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 5dd

proper; they appear to have been connected with the war navy! with-
out themselves being men-of-war; they were, however, like men-of-wa.,
provided with a ram.’

Almost fifty years now pass, until in the year 9B. Gc. Drusus Ger-
manicus, the first Roman general who ascended as far as the North Sea,
gave a victorious battle to the Bructers upon the Ems. Strabo, in his
account, unfortunately does not minutely describe the vessels employed
by the latter, yet they appear to have been rather unsubstantial strue-
tures.

A better account is given by Vellejus Paterculus, who about 5 A. D.,
under Tiberius, served as prefect of cavalry; he gives them’ as “ cava-
tum, ut illis mos est, ex materia,” thus indicating them to have been
dugout; and in such a vessel, capable of accommodating but one per-
son, the chief of the Northalbings, the people occupying the territory
adjacent to the mouth of river Elbe, paid his respects to the conqueror.

Such a dugout, now in the museum at Kiel, was found in the Wol-
burgsau marsh in South Dithmarschen; it is 11 feet long, 2 feet wide,
1 foot deep, and is hollowed out of an oak tree.!

In 15 A. D. Germanicus® had built near the mouth of the river Rhine
one thousand ships with sharp prows, but wide, to better resist the
waves; some with flat bottoms, to enable them to run ashore with im-
punity; upon a number of them steering apparatus were provided at
both ends, so as to permit propulsion in either direction. Many were
decked, for the accommodation of throwing machines. Equally useful
for sailing and rowing, they were imposing and serviceable and inspired
the soldier with confidence. The fleet succeeded in reaching the mouth
of the river Ems, but, after a victory over the Cheruskers it was ship-
wrecked in a storm, although the wind blew from the south.°

' Cesar: De Bell., civ. 1, 34, 2: “profectum Dominitium ad occupandum Massiliam
navibus actuariis septem;” ili, 62, 2: “His paratis rebus, magnum numerum levis arma-
ture el sagittariorum aggeremque omnem noctu in scaphas et naves actuarias imponit;”
ili, 102, 5: “(Pompejus) bidwum tempestate retentus, navibusque aliis additix actuariis
in Ciliciam atque inde Cyprum pervenit.”

*De Bell. Alex., 44: “navibus actuariis, quam numerus crat satis magnus, magnitudine
quamquam non satis iusta ad proeliandum, rostra imposuit. Caes: de Bell. Goth., iii, ¢.
xili: ‘‘neqne enim his nostra. rostro nocere poterant.” A similar remark is made in cap.
xiv. The rostrum (¢30/0v) supplied a very formidable instrument of ancient naval
warfare. It was a beam springing from a part just below the prow and topped
with sharp iron points or au iron representation of aram’s head. Though formerly
always above the water, they were in later times placed below it, and thus rendered
more dangerous. Lemaitre: Revue archéologique, 1883, p. 142: “Armée Wun éperon,
elle sejetait comme un javelot sur ses adversaires pour les frapper Cun coup mortel.”

5Vellejus Paterculus, ii, ¢. 107.

*Archiy der Schleswig-Holstein Lauenburg, Gesellsch. f. vaterl. Geschichte, Bad.
XXII, te Folge. Jahrbiicher fiir die Landeskunde, Bd. xtr. Zeitschrift d. Ges, f.
d. Gesch. d. Herzogt. Schleswig-Holst. Lauenb., Bd. 11, 1872.

5 Tacitus, Ann., 6.

5 Tacitus, Ann. ii, 23.
936 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The occurrence of a general wrecking of an entire fleet when the
wind was offshore does not speak well for the construction of the ships;
inexperience with the dangers and the coasts of the Northern seas
and storms, however, may enter somewhat as an argument in favor of
the construction, although it may here be mentioned that the war-
ship of antiquity was of slight build, shallow upon the keel, and drew
about 1 meter of water,' and that their construction was effected in a
comparatively short time.’

A progressive ratio in the art of naval construction thus becomes
apparent as we recede westward from the river Elbe, where at the time
of the Roman invasion dugouts only, of small capacity, represented
the vessels of the occupants of the north coast of continental Europe.

During the years 1885 to 1889, while excavating for a free port at

3remen, seven Canoes were discovered in the alluvial land on the out-
side of the Weser dike at depths of from 2 meters (64 feet) to 4 meters
(13 feet) below the present surface level. They were dug out of the
trunks of oaks—axes apparently having been employed for the purpose—
flat-bottomed and without keel, but with the prow cut obliquely, and
with auger holes provided for the insertion of the oars. Of the seven
canoes four were entirely demolished; of the remaining three the dimen-
sions were 10.5 meters (35 feet) long, 0.75 meter (2 feet 6 inches) wide;
10 meters (33 feet 4 inches) long, 1.25 meters (3 feet 6 inches) wide;
8 meters (26 feet 7 inches) long, 1.20 meters (3 feet 3 inches) wide, with
a height of from 50 to 70 centimeters (1 foot 5 inches to 2 feet 2 inches).?

Iam also informed that several other specimens of this type are pre-
served in the municipal museum at Bremen.

The most progressive of the coast tribes appear to have been the
Chauci, Frisians, and Batavi. The elder Pliny* speaks of the piratical
ships of the Chauci which visited the rich provinces of Gallia and
carried retribution. They still were only dugouts, but able to carry
thirty men. It was the first time that Teutons had ventured upon the
open sea, and this venture formed the beginning of the naval enter-
prises of our ancestors of the northern coast of continental Europe; in
fact they soon became dangerous to such a degree that Corbulo, the
governor of Netherlandish Germania, in 47 A.D. was obliged to call
out the entire fleet of the Rhine to keep the enemy in check.’

1 Lemaitre, Revue archéologique, 1883, 1, p. 146; Assmann, Zur Kenntniss der anti-
ken Schiffe—Jahrbuch d. Kais. Deutsch. Archiiolog. Inst., 1889, 1616, 1626. Ber-
liner philol. Wochenschr. 1888, No. 1, p. 28; Brunn, Verhand., d. 35 Philol. Vers., p.
177. Luebeck, Das Seewesen der Griechen und Rémer, 1890, p. 10.

2 Plin. Nat. hist., xvi., 74; Brosius, iv, 7; Polyb., i, 38, 5f.; Ces. Bell., civ. i, 36; 4s8s-
mann, Antike Schiffe, p. 1600,

*Communieated by Prof. Dr. F. Buchenau, through the courtesy of Dr, M. Linde-
mann, Bremen, April 25, 1892.

4 Pliny: Hist. Nat. xvi, c. 76.

5 Tacit: Annal. xi, ¢. 18.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 537

In 70 A. D.,' on occasion of the Batavian and Frisian revolt under
Claudius Civilis against the Roman Government, the Roman Brittanic
fleet was attacked and the majority of the vessels sunk—the character
of the aggressive force, however, is but approximately known—and
after having taken the greater portion of the Roman fleet the enemy’s
admiral manned the biremen and other vessels, together with a large
number of vessels holding from thirty to forty men.

Although still only dug-outs, the art of ship-building appears to have
progressed so as to include structures carrying forty men, and more-
over to embody in their construction the observations made in the ships
of more progressive nations, by allowing ribs to remain for the purpose
of additionally strengthening the sides of the ship, or, in other cases,
by inserting ribs after the excavation of the tree had been completed.
This progressive idea was accompanied by the abandonment of a flat
bottom, a rudimentary keel being worked out.

Of this type of naval struetures a number of specimens are known
to exist, of which one, now in the museum at Kiel, was, in 1878, dis-
covered in the Valermoor, a marsh in Schleswig-Holstein.*

The Valermoor boat measures 12.288 meters (41 feet) in length, by 1.30
meters (4.35 feet) greatest width, 57 centimeters (19 inches) internal
depth, and 62 centimeters (205 inches) external height. The thickness
of plank is 5 centimeters (14 inches) at the bottom and 4 centimeters
(14 inches) on top. The boat had eleven ribs of which nine still exist.
Upon the gunwale, between the ribs, eleven holes were excavated for
the insertion of the oars; stem and stern aresharp. <A keel of (2 meters)
63 feet in length is worked out of the wood at both ends of the boat,
leaving the middle flat. A very interesting prehistoric repair is notice-
able in the closing of a crack by means of dovetailed cleats or wedges
(“securicule” Vitruvius).

The same form is met with in the British Islands.

Ancient boat found at Brigg, Lincolnshire, England* (Plate LXVIit).
In May, 1886, workmen engaged in an excavation for a new gas-
ometer in the town of Brigg, or more properly Glandford Bridge, Lineoln-

t Tacit: Hist. iv, 79.

2 Tacit :. Hist. v. 23.

* H. Handelmann, 35te Bericht zur Alterthumskunde Schleswig Holsteins. Kiel,
1878.

4 Stevenson, William: Ancient boat recently discovered near Brigg, Lincolnshire;
in Illustrated London News, May 8, 1886. Brock, L. P. Loftus: The discovery of
an ancient ship at Brigg, Lincolnshire; in Proceedings British Archwolog. Assoc.
Meeting, May 19, 1886, p. 279. Thropp, James: The prehistoric boat discovered at
Brigg; read before the Lincoln and Nottingham Archielog. Soc., June, 1886.  Ste-
venson William: The prehistoric boat; in Grimsby News, July 7, 1886. The ancient
boat at Brigg; in “The Builder,” London, July 17, 1886. Stevenson, William: Dis-
covery of an ancient British vessel or ship of extraordinary size in Lincolnshire;
in The Times, London, August 24, 1886. Stevenson, William, unpublished letters,
Atkinson, Alfred: On the ancient Brigg boat; in Vol. 1, Archaeologia (Society of An-
tiquaries, London).
538 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

shire, England, upon the banks of River Ancholne and about 9 miles
south of its juncture with the Humber, came upon a huge log which
upon examination revealed itself to be an enormous boat, which had
found a resting place upon what appears to be the clayey bottom of the
sloping beach of an ancient lagoon, the clay, as it accumulated, creep-
ing into every crevice and gradually covering up the entire boat to a
depth of 54 feet below the modern surface level at the bow, and 9 feet
at the stern (P]. LXTx).

The boat is made out of the trunk of an oak tree, perfectly straight,
as if turned in a lathe; it is 48 feet 8 inches long, 5 feet wide, and 2 feet
9 inches deep. The stern end represents the butt end of the tree,
with a diameter of 5 feet 3 inches; the dimensions, of course, slightly

Fig. 25.
Prow or Brice Boar.
(Drawing furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull, England. )

diminish towards the prow, which is 4 feet 4 inches, the boat represent-
ing about 700 cubic feet contents. In a tree standing, from 4 to 6 inches
should be added for bark and sapwood. This would indicate an enor-
mous tree, with a height of about 50 feet to the first branches, that are
noticeable on the sides of the prow, which is rounded off as if intended

e

for a ram (Fig. 25).

Fig. 26. Fig. 27.
CAVITY IN PRow. BOWSPRIT (?) OF BRIGG BOAT.
(Drawing furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull, England. ) (From Mr. James Thropp’s report. )

A cavity in the head of the prow (Fig. 26) is supposed to have been
intended for the reception of the bowsprit (Fig. 27), for which a piece of
crooked oak found near the prow has been taken. In the absence of a
mast, or any arrangement which would point to the propulsion of the
craft by means of sails, however, such a theory is untenable, notwith-
standing the approximate correspondence in diameter of the curved piece
of wood with that of the hole. This cavity(Fig. 26) rather appears to have
been the result of the hollow of the tree running up there, 7. e., up the
main stem. The adjoining parts of the prow are cut down on the top
PLATE LXVIII.

Report of National Museum, 1891,—Boehmer.

(9991 ‘8 Av .SSMON pogeaqsny[y] UopuoT ,, ayy wWoaz pardon)
“GNVISNS SYIHSNIOONI] ‘991Ng lv GNNOJ4 LvOg

x
J
-
i
6
x

io 4
‘ ea

fe Se

i , ion
i wr is hee
PLATE LXIX.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

(‘9get ‘et Avy ‘ddoayy, sourer ‘ayy Jo yaoday uw101z perdon)
‘GNYIONZ ‘SYHIHSNTOONIT ‘DDING LY GNNO4 LvOg

SF —- — =
S ‘M72 Y?P)9 F2 1PY 2209 JO 27PPIy’ SIOU YAY MU?) a a rasaygr tap 19a »

BN

FP1004 YIop Ate) Of poms

: |]

PUNY SOM TOIG Ii Yriym 1 UuTyisod If hurnays. —NOILVAS13 Jals

i
we Ee

Weta 2!

se LJ < - in .

SD i, ee ha

hee we vie J

4 7 i «= a

aol eas - tae
Pe a he ;

~ er) ‘ be 1 - i

5 bl
é

i y m i y sa
‘ A iP) -
bY 7% Pi i
iki F of
tare w z
, ap
ivr. aa A
. * oi
; - ’
aa ‘ T
. : ,
* ¥ A
t >
k ' a
aa
_ ene

>
ee
:
.
or
-
o
oT TS
ee hae =

*

t
——
a)
=a

y
j

=
f

-
<roe~
so

i '
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 539

so as to form a ledge to receive a board, which may have been the parent
of the later forecastle, and which in part served to close the hole on its
open side.

Upon the sides of the stem two round holes had existed, which were
closed by means of large circular plugs rounded off on the outer face
in the form of a boss driven in after the manner of bunes in barrels.
The holes may have been designed to represent the eyes of the warship
(ogdahpot), Which, aS dzotpézaa in ancient Greek war-vessels, are sup-
posed to be the symbolic significance of precaution against dangers
threatening the ship. It is, however, probable that at that point the
tree sent out two arms, which were dressed inside and closed up in the
manner described, the holes showing the grain of the wood running in
the direction of the branches, which of course could not possibly be the
case had they been pierced artificially.

The bottom is flat throughout the entire length; the keel, if it may
so be called, at the stern, is splitting, possibly owing to the great strain,
to which it was subjected in the course of removal, or to shrinkage.

Fig. 28. Pig. 29.
OVERHANGING COUNTER. FACE OF STERN IN BRIGG BOAT.
Drawing furnished by Mr, Stevenson. ) (From report of James Thropp. )

The floor is perfectly flat, but in excavating transverse stays were
allowed to stand at intervals at right angles to the sides, crossing the
bottom athwart ship. Of these ribs, which take the place of floor-
timbers in modern craft and are intended to stiffen the structure, three
remain in perfect condition. Additional strength is given to stem and
stern by allowing a greater thickness of solid wood to remain in shap-
ing the inside.of the boat.

The sides are hewn quite perpendicular; at the stern they are cut
obliquely, so as to form an overhanging counter (Fig. 28).

As previously stated, the butt end of the tree formed the stern end
of the boat, and here, probably on account of the decayed condition of
the interior close to the roots, a natural stern could not be provided,
aml a plank end was adopted, which was fitted to a groove cut down
on each side and across the bottom some distance from the end of the
tree (Fig. 29). The sides projecting beyond the plank end were cut ob-
liquely up from the bottom and a hole was pierced at each extremity
through which probably ropes or thongs were tightly drawn, or sticks
540 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

were passed, which by means of wedges or pins held the sides taut
against the plank end (Fig. 30),

The stern board (Fig. 31) is of oak planking 14 inches thick and 4 feet
in length, and consists of two boards, one of which is 17 inches wide
and the other 10 inches, the sides and bottom having been shaped to

|

|

mn
|

mt rt

Fig. 30.
STERN OF BRIGG BOAT.
(Drawing furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull, England. )
fit the grooving. Some eaulking found in the groove proved to be
moss, which it is supposed was forced into the joint in a dry state, so

as to swell and become tight when it got wet. The manner of fasten-

ing the stern board is shown in the accompanying figure 32.
Although no traces of deck were found, it is possible that the ledges

Fig. 31.

Fig. 32.
STERNBOARD. GROOVE FOR STERNBOARD.
(From report of James Thropp, Esq. (From report of James Thropp, Esq. )

cut out of the wood in the stem and forward of the stern-board groove
formed the brackets for the support of seats or decks of small dimen-
SIONS.

Along the sides of the vessel near the top edges are holes from 4 to 6
inches in diameter and chiefly elliptical in shape, which being in the mid-
dle portion of the ship and notwithstanding their apparent small dimen-

Fig. 33.
‘TRANSVERSE BARs IN BRIGG BOAT.
(Drawings furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull, England. )

sions, may possibly have served for oars. It has been suggested that
they were intended for a like purpose as the holes in the prolongations
of the stern ends, that is, for lashing the sides together and keeping
them firmly pressed against transverse stays (Figs. 33 and 354) or
stretchers, of which one was found between the gunwales and near a

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 541

pair of holes. This stretcher or thwart was not made of oak, but of
some softer wood which fell to pieces when removed. It is evident that
by such process the sides of the boat would be better enabled to stand
additional external pressure and would be prevented from closing in,
while in the lashing the stretcher would find a firm and unyielding
support against the sides; yet, in the absence of any mast or other in-
dications that the craft was intended for sailing, it may not seem unrea-
sonable to assume that the holes were intended for oar ports and that,
judging from analogy with similar structures, the mode of propulsion
was by means of oars plied from movable seats lashed to the sides of
the ship.

In the angle of junction of the sides and the bottom a peculiar re-
pair is noticeable which, in making good either a defect in the oak or a
subsequent damage, indicates an advanced knowledge of carpentry
(Figs. 35, 36, 37).

cA LAN LA,

Fig. 37.
PREHISTORIC REPAIR IN BRIG@ BOAr.

Drawings furnished by Mr. William Stevenson, of Hull, England. )

This repair is shown by a cleat 6 feet long and 14 inches wide, tap-
ered at the ends and fixed to the wound on the starboard side of the
boat. The cleat is cut out of a solid piece of wood, the edges are
beveled and bored through at distances of about 14 inches and laced
or stitched through the boat’s side with thongs of hide or leather;
three studs are left standing, which pass through the side of the craft
and receive, through circular holes cut through them, wedges or pins
to “ bring the cleat home” and secure a perfectly water-tight joint,

With regard to the antiquity of the ship various factors will have to
be taken into consideration.

The River Ancholme, in a tortuous course, drains a district of con-
siderable extent, the “ Ancholme Level,” which forms a low-lying val-
ley, and although not now of great importance for commercial purposes
which are much better seryed by the “ New Ancholine Navigation”
542 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

(Fig. 58), a navigable canal for the drainage and reclamation of the
Ancholme Level, there are indications that at some early day the river
was of much greater extent and importance, forming the drainage of a
broad lagoon or swamp, which upon a drift bottom gradually aceumu-
lated alluvial deposit, interspersed with remains of fresh-water vegeta-
tion, the age of which may be roughly estimated from the existence of
two well defined forest beds in the Ancholme Level, one just below the
surface, and the other formed in the alluvial clay that collected upon
and between the bowlders left at the close of the glacial period, both
consisting of peat with large quantities of well preserved remains of
oak, yew, hazel, ete.

The ancient lagoon was bordered on the east and west by two well-
defined ranges of hills, which contracted in the vicinity of the present
Brigg, and there afforded the people of remote antiquity the only

Fig. 38.
LOCATION OF BOAT AND PLANK WAY.

means of crossing this otherwise impenetrable morass. The first
record of any attempt to drain this marsh dates back to the reign of
Edward I. It was reported to Edward II that “ Man and Cattel pass-
ing over Glaunford Bridge in the time of flouds were seldom out of
danger,” and until the middle of the present century when the drainage
of the district was improved, the level was under water for several
months each year.

It was at this place then, that, in 1884, a most interesting discovery
was made, consisting of a Plank Road situated 6 feet below the present
level, and consisting of oaken planks riven from the tree, about 15 feet
in length, and varying in width from 9 to 16 inches, fastened side by
side and placed with the straight side up, upon small trees and branches
laid at right angles to the planks. The latter were secured by means
of stakes or round pieces of wood 8 or 4 inches in diameter, driven
through rudely mortised square holes into a bed of stone rubble under-

a
F neh

Ae ere beni he
sae Aine ies a

/
‘ ¢
pa aye 4 ety ai
i ;
aed
& k
J |
¥) : } é
: j
FP ek) ; res
s ts |
~ ze
f
q
a f
oo
7 ‘
’ . :
. Pa
: ‘
oh
TAS le
f Cog tt
; “ve
‘ é )
he
, Peal ¥
i A
: ‘
& Y
; lad x
4 if
i us
Ari %
wD
q
a
i * via
’. i 8 oy
rh tet J
: A,
= 4 : re
‘ $i i
bf
"|
ee
i .
'
P ee 2)
» ;
My }
h ig - f

PLATE LXX.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

(ddoaqy, some’ “ay JO JLOd ay WUMOAT pardon)
‘GNVIONA ‘SYIHSNIOONIT ‘DDING YVAN GNNOS LIV

ie 0.6

PIL FSS GLO

uesaul

|
= 0 OF

eae) alesse oe qt BESS —LL
ee LL ia = aan
ag a Senne ail
ie hese Ee eae Faeroe] Be
ee Ein ieee mae ae A {rel} = ay site im ar
ead we fF ee
—— ; a ae EI aa |
Eeigee ae H

aoeee (cso

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 543

lying a stratum of clay of 6 inches thickness in which were found a
human jaw bone, a ferule-shaped bone, (which, according to Dr. John
Evans, much resembles some object from the Swiss lake dwellings) a
stone celt, some rude pottery, and bones of deer, ox, sheep, and dog,

Above the road is 5 feet of dark gray alluvial clay, containing frag-
ments and remains of sedges and fresh-water plants, and underlying
2 feet of brown alluvial clay and 1 foot of peat and surface soil.

About 120 yards north of this causeway, lying at an angle of 55
degrees and 90 yards south of the junction of the old Ancholme River
with the New Ancholme Navigation (Fig. 59), a unique structure was
found, consisting of a Raft! (Plate LXx) buried 245 feet below the present
level at the fore end, and 34 feet at the aft end, having a length of 40
feet, by 65 feet at the fore end and 54 feet at the aft end.

Fig. 39.

LOCATION OF RAFT.

The level bottom consists of five boards tapering at the ends and
representing the heart wood of trees split in the middle, with the re-
mainder cut down but leaving the cleats in the solid at intervals in
parallel rows. Thecleats at the extreme ends were finished flush with
the planks and all were provided with mortised holes to receive trans-
verse or tie bars, consisting of rough branches of trees. Ten such tie-
bars passing through the holes were secured by wedges driven in at
the sides of the raft and also in the middle row of cleats to keep the
framing taut.

The joints were caulked with moss and the sides of each plank were
pierced with three-eighths-inch holes, 2 to 3 inches apart, and the

' A description of an ancient raft recently found by Messrs. Judge and Cole, in a
field adjoining the brickyard, in their occupation, belonging to the Right Honor-
able the Earl of Yarborough, situate at Brigg, in the county of Lincoln, by J,
Thropp, Assoc, M. Inst, C. E., county surveyor, Lincoln,
544 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

joints covered with straight pieces of wood 2 inches in diameter, fas-
tened by lashing, which was passed through the holes and over these
round packing pieces.

Owing to the peculiar manner of construction and method of tying
the planking and framing together, and leaving solid cleats in the
planks, speculation has connected this raft with the Viking ships of
Tune and Gokstad, in Norway. This method, however, is not confined
to the naval structures of the eighth to the tenth century, but also
oceurs in the boat of the third century found in Nydam Moss, Den-
mark, from the deseription of which, by Engelhardt! we learn that ‘‘on
all the planks there are perforated clamps of one and the same piece
with the planks themselves, having been left projecting when the
planks were cut out of the solid timber, and the ribs had perforations
corresponding to the clamps, through which bast ropes were passed,
tying planks and ribs together.

Nor does it stop here; but the same arrangement occurs in the re-
pairs shown in the ancient boat found in the vicinity of the raft, and
in a canoe of the identical type found at Valermoor, Denmark, and now
in the museum at Kiel,? thus suggesting a common origin for those ob-
jects now under consideration.

In point of type these boats correspond to those ascribed by Tacitus
in 70 A. D.’ to the Batavians and Frisians, and although it is possible
that the Romans would have employed such craft in crossing from
Gaul to Great Britain, it is safe to assume that the same mode of con-
struction may have been employed by the contemporaries in Britain,
In point of antiquity, the position of the boat, raft, and planking, rela-
tively to the geological formation does not necessarily connect them
with the period expressed by the glacial drift upon or in the immediate
vicinity of which they have found their last resting place, since even
in historic times Glanford Brigg, now 9 miles from the Humber, was
known as a fishing hamlet. This points to a more ready communica-
tion with the open water than at present, the intervening space having
gradually filled up with deposits, the soft nature of which would cause
the heavy objects, by their own weight, to find a lower level than the
one corresponding to the period to which they properly belong, that of
the Roman invasion, relics of which are found among the upper layer
of forest land underlying the modern surface land,

A third specimen of this type is that known as the

Loch Arthur Boat‘ (Plate LXx1), found by Mr. Pittendjeon of Cargen,
Dumfries, Scotland, in the summer of 1876 in Lotus Loch, or Loch
Arthur, about 6 miles west of Dumfries.

| Engelhardt, C.: Denmark in the Early Iron Age, London, 1866.

2 Handelmann H.: 85te Bericht zur Alterthumskunde Schleswig-Holsteins, Kiel,
1878.

3 Tacitus. Hist. v, 23.

' Pittendjeon, Mr.: Unpublished letter of April 26, 1886, to Mr, Wm. Stevenson, and
communicated by him to the author,
PLATE LXXlI.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

(®

puepjoog Jo AVAAING [wOLsoTOay oy JO A0JDaaIq ‘aLyiay IoOssejorg Aq YoIYS B UOAT poydeis0j0qq)
“GNVILOOS ‘YNHLYY HOOF NI GNNO4S Lvog

2 cdma eo

rage oes
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 545

The canoe was 42 feet long, dug out of oak; its width and breadth
correspond to that of Brigg, with which it has great similarity. The
grooves at the stern end were quite distinct where the board had been
fitted in; the most remarkable feature in this canoe is the prow, which
is Shaped like the head of an animal.

About one-third of this boat, the front part, is now in fhe museum of
the Antiquarian Society of Edinburgh; the aft end was so much
broken after having been exposed to the air for some time that it was
not worth preserving.

The photograph was made from a sketch made on the spot by Prof.
James Geikie, of the Geological Survey.

This type finds numerous representatives in the British Isles. In and
about Glasgow alone more than twenty canoes have been discovered
and exhumed at various times.! They were met with at different
depths, ranging’ from 10 to 20 feet below the present surface of the
land, in strata of sand, gravel, and clay that indicate marine conditions
for these deposits over the broad estuary of the Clyde, on which Glas-
gow is now built. Marine shells have been found in the strata sur-
rounding the canoes as well as attached to their wood.”

Five of these boats lay buried in silt under the streets of Glasgow,
one ina vertical position with the prow uppermost, as if it had sunk in a
storm. Twelve other canoes were found about 100 yards back from the
river at the average depth of about 19 feet from the surface of the soil,

7 feet above high-water mark, but a few of them were only 4 or 5 feet
deep, and consequently more than 20 feet above the sea level. One was
sticking in the sand at an angle of 45 degrees, another had been cap-
sized and lay bottom uppermost; all the rest were in horizontal positions,
as if they had sunk in smooth water.’

Nearly all of these boats were formed out of a single oak stem, hol-
lowed out by blunt tools; some were cut smooth, evidently with metal-
lic tools. Hencea ateaation could be traced from a pattern of extreme
rudeness to one showing no small mechanical HSE AUG Two of them

 Geihkie, James : The ee ae Tyee Tgndon 1874, p. 212. Biliotheca Topog. Brit.;
No. 2, Part 11, p. 242. Beauties of Scotland; Vol. u1, p. 419. Chapman, R.: Picture
of Glasgow; p. 152. Chambers, R.: Ancient Sea Margins; pp. 18, 158, 203-209.
Buchanan, John: Glasgow Past and Present; 1856. Geological Society of Glasgow,
Transactions; Vol. 11, p. 370. Nimmo: History of Stirlingshire; 2d edition, p. 74
New Statistical Account of Scotland: Article Errol; also Vol. v1, p. 601. Davis, J. W.:
Geology of Tremadoc, Carnarvonshire; in Quarterly Journal of Geological Society,
May, 1846. Gentleman’s Magazine. Stuart Rob: Views and Notices of Glasgow in
Former Times. Old England. Glasgow Delineated; 1826. Currie, Alex.: In Proc.
Geolog. Soc. Glasgow; Vol. 111, pt. 2, p. 370. British Assoc. Adv. Sci.; Report 1858,
p- 80. Lyell, Sir Charles: Antiq. of Man; Ist edition, p. 48. Macgeorge, A.: Old
Glasgow; 1880, p. 250. Buchanan, J.: Ancient Canoes found at Glasgow; in Brit.
Assoe. Rep., 1858. Geikie, James: Geol. Quart. Journ., Vol. Xvi, p. 224; 1862.
2Chambers, R.: Ancient Sea Margins; Jordan Hill: Mem. Wern. Soc., Vol. vin,
yet
Buchanan, 7., in Brit. Assoc, Rep., 1858, p. 80; Glasgow, Past and Present, 1856,
SM Oo, Pr: 2

” hme
DD

546 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

were built of planks, one of which, dug up in 1853, was elaborately
constructed.’ Its prow resembled the beak of an ancient galley, the
stern was formed of a triangular piece of oak, oak pins and metallic
nails had been used in fastening the planks to the ribs, and for caulking
wool dipped in tar had been employed ?

This boat was lying keel uppermost with the prow pointing straight
up the river. In one of the canoes a beautifully polished celt of green-
stone was found. In the bottom of another a hole had been closed by
means of a plug of cork,’ which, as Mr. Geikie remarks, “could only
have come from the latitudes of Spain, southern France, or Italy.”

Judgiog, then, from their construction, these vessels represent various
archeological periods, namely, the most primitive ones the Stone age,
the more finished the Bronze age, and the regularly built boats the Iron
age, and their occurrence in one and the same marine formation must
be considered as being due to the changes going on continually in the
beds of all large bodies of water by the shifting of the channel, depo-
sition, removal, and redeposition of sediments. In determining rela-
tive data attention should be paid to the stratification of the alluvium
in which the objects oceur.

The necessity of pursuing this course is pointed out by Prof. Geikie,
as follows:°

‘The relative position in the silt from which the canoes were exhumed
could help us little in any attempt to ascertain their relative ages, unless
they had been found vertically above each other. The varying depths
of an estuary, its banks of silt and sand, the set of its currents, and the
influence of its tides in scouring out alluvium from some parts of its
bottom and redepositing it in others are circumstances which require
to be taken into account in all such caleulations. Mere coincidence of
depth from the present surface of the ground, which is tolerably uni-

form in level, by no means necessarily proves contemporaneous deposi-’

tion, nor would such an inference follow even from the occurrence of
the remains in distant parts of the very same stratum. A canoe might
be capsized and sent to the bottom just beneath low water mark;
another might experience a similar fate on the following day, but in
the middle of the channel. Both would become silted up on the floor
of the estuary; but as that floor would be perhaps 20 feet deeper in the
center than toward the margin of the river, the one canoe might actu-
ally be 20 feet deeper in the alluvium than the other, and on the
upheaval of the alluvial deposit, if we were to argue merely from the
depth at which the remains were imbedded, we should pronounce the
panoe found at the one locality to be immensely older than the other,

' Lyell, Charles, Antiq. of Man, Ist ed., p. 48.
2 Chambers, k., Ancient Sea Margins, p. 205.
5Lyell, Charles, Antiq. of Man, Ist ed., p. 48.
4 Geikie, James, Geol. Quart. Jour., vol. XVI, p. 224.
5Geikie, James, Geol. Quart. Jour., vol. XVI, p. 224.

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. DAT

seeing that the fine mud of the estuary is deposited very slowly, and
that it must therefore have taken a long period to form so great a thiek-
ness as 20 feet. Again, the tides and currents of the estuary, by chang-
ing their direction, might sweep away a considerable mass of alluvium
from the bottom, laying bare a canoe that may have foundered many
centuries before. After the lapse of so long an interval another vessel
might go to the bottom in the same locality, and be there covered up
with the older one on the same general plane. These two vessels,
found in such a position, would naturally be classed together as of the
Same age, and yet it is demonstrable that a very long period may have
elapsed between the date of the one and that of the other. Sueh an
association of these canoes, therefore, can not be regarded as proving
synehronous deposition; nor, on the other hand, can we affirm any
(lifference of age from mere relative position, unless we see one canoe
actually buried beneath another.”

The positions of these canoes in the ancient estuary of the Clyde, then,
would seem to indicate that a rise of the land in Scotland of at least
25 feet above the present level of the sea must have taken place, and
while it is generally conceded that this elevation has occurred since
the peopling of the island, a much more remote period is assigned to
the event than is warranted from the indications of a considerable
change of level even in comparatively recent times.

Thus a recess in the face of the alluvium of Carron River, below Lar-
bert Bridge, in Stirlingshire, is spoken of by tradition as an ancient
harbor, and the remains of a boat and a broken anchor have been found
imbedded in the spot. !

According to Nimmo’, the Carse of Stirling was cultivated and
measured in the twelfth century, and it is quoted from Trevelius’
Chronicle that during the invasion of Scotland by Edward I, the Eng-
lish cavalry could not make their way through these ‘Loca Palustria”
in the winter season.

An indirect support is given by Robert Chambers, from whose writing?
I quote:

“The few remnants of a higher plateau throughout the Carse of
Gowrie almost all bear names in which the Celtic word for island (inch)
forms a part; as if a primitive peopie had originally recognized these
as islands in the midst of a shallow firth. Perhaps there is little con-
sequence to be attached to this fact since the extreme wetness which,
even in recent times pertained to the lowlands of the Carse, may have
appeared a sufficient reason for so distinguishing any snatch of more
elevated and firmer ground. The minister of Errol reports, unfortu-
nately not in a direct way, the finding of the remains of a small anchor,

'Chambers, I., Ancient Sea Margins, p. 158.
?Nimmo’s History of Stirlingshire, 2d ed., p. 74,
3 Chambers, R., Ancient Sea Margins, p. 18.
548 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ginch. In the same district, which is fully a mile from the margin of
the firth, a boat hook was discovered, 18 feet below the surface, ‘stick-
ing’ among the gravel, as if left by the tide on the seashore.' (Here
and for what follows, I quote a letter from a lady, the daughter of one
of the chief proprietors of the Carse.) ‘This relic has been preserved
by the farmer who found it. I am also assured that what was consid-
ered as the remains of an anchor was found some years ago in casting
a drain below Flaw Craig, a chff which overlooks the Carse between
Kinnaird and Fingask. ‘Time out of mind, it has been a popular belief
in this district that Flaw Craig rock bore the remains of a ring to which
ships were fastened when the sea ran at the bottom of the hill’ A
man living a few years ago alleged that he had seen the iron ring in
his youth as he climbed along the face of the crag in bird nesting. So
also it is told that the rock upon which Castle Huntly stands, in the
center of the Carse, once had rings fixed to it for mooring the boats
formerly used in sailing over the surrounding waters. <A circumstance
in the title deeds of at least one estate on the slopes descending to the
Carse has given more force to these popular beliefs in the minds of the
educated classes, namely, that they include a right of salmon fishing,
though the lands are separated from the firth by the whole breadth of
the Carse.”

These particulars would perhaps not be deserving of notice if they
were not in conformity with some others that are better authenticated.
According to Mr. J. B. Davis,’ “the sea is embanked out from an inlet
called Traeth Mawr, in Carvonshire. There are a series of embank-
ments higher up, which were made in the sixteenth century. Itisevident
that these embankments are not the sole or the principal cause of the
sea no longer flowing within them, but that the natural recession of
the sea (or elevation of the land) induced the inhabitants to anticipate,
by the erection of earthen mounds, that which would have been pro-
duced 1n a few years by other causes. The sea marks may be traced
upon the surface of the escarpments in several of the islands of the
Tremadoc Valley, many feet above the present level of high water.
Tradition also lends its aid. From the rocky ground of Inshir, Madoe,
one of the princes of North Wales, leaving his country, sailed to
unknown lands. And to descend to more recent times, [ was informed
that the parish register at Penmorfa contains entries showing that a
place in the parish called Yevern was once a seaport, which, immedi-
ately before the erection of the great embankment, was several feet
above high water.”

In the great charter granted to the monastery of Holyrood (A. D, 1143)
the King conveys to the monks at Renfrew ‘“‘unum tostum in reintry”
with aright not only of nets ‘ad salmones,” but, ‘et 7b¢ piseari ad al-

1 Chambers, R., Ancient Sea Margins, p. 18.
2 Davis, J. E. On Geology of Tremadoc, Carnarvonshire. In Quarterly Journal of
Geological Society. May 1846.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 5A9

lechtia libere,”' and in the reign of Malcolm Ceanmor “ Renfriw” was
entered with a large fleet.?

In 1683, while digging a water gate for a mill in the town of Stran-
rawer, the workmen came upon a ship @ considerable distance from the
shore, into which the sea, at the highest spring tide, never comes. “It was
lying transversely under a little bourn, and wholly covered with earth
a considerable depth; for there was a good yard, with kail growing in
it, upon the one end of it. But that part of it which was gotten out,
my informer, who saw it, conjecture that it had been pretty large; they
also tell me that the boards were not joined together after the present
fashion, but that 1t had nails of copper.”* The remains were left in
situ, and while the given account is rather meager, the use of copper
nails would indicate considerable antiquity.

Inreviewing the whole evidence, geological and archeological, afforded
by the Scottish coast line, Mr. Lyell* concludes that: “The last upheaval
of 25 feet took place not only since the first human population settled
in the island, but long after metallic implements had come into use;
and there even seems a strong prestumption in favor of the opinion that
the date of the elevation may have been subsequent to the Roman inva-
sion.”

In some of the boats found at Glasgow,’ and in one discovered in
1834 in the creek of river Arun, near North Stoke, Sussex,® the stern
board arrangement, fully described and figured in a preceding chapter,
on the boat found at Brigg, Lincolnshire, is noticeable, and other fea-
tures in their construction connect them intimately with those of Loch
Arthur, Scotland, Valermoor, Denmark, and with the crafts ascribed
by Tacitus’ to the Batavians and Frisians in their revolt, in A. D. 70,
against the Roman Government.

THE SAXONS.

The next tribe assuming maritime supremacy in the Northern seas
are the Saxons, who, according to their own lore,® claim vassalship under

‘Liber Cartarum Sancte Crucis, p. 5.

2Chron. Mannie in Mr. Skene’s Celtic Scotland, Vol.1, p.473; quoted by Macgeorge,
Old Glasgow, 1880, p. 261.

3 Kennedy, Alexander: Notice respecting an ancient ship discovered in a garden at
Stranrawer, in Galloway. (In ‘Archwologia Scotica,” Vol. m1, Edinburgh, 1828.)
The notice was copied from a manuscript account of the bishopric of Galloway in
the possession of Thomas Goldic, esq., of Dumfries, supposed to be a copy of the
** Description of Galloway,” written by Andrew Symson, minister of Kirkinnes, in the
year 1684, of which an elegant and correct edition has been recently printed for the
first time from a manuscript copy revised and enlarged by the author in 1692.

i Lyell, Charles: Antiquity of Man.

°>Chambers, R.: Ancient Sea Margins, p. 205.

SE. P. Loftus Brock in Proc. Brits Arch. Assoc., May 19, 1886.

(Lactt. Huist., Tv, cs 79.

SGrimm, deutsche Sagen, 1, 408. Dresser, Sachsenchronik, p. 7-8. Annolied (x1
Cent), 21, 280. Sachsenspiegel, mr, 44, 2, 3.
550 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Alexander the Great. Upon his death they took to their ships, and finally
effected a landing at the mouth of the river Elbe, where, on account of
their long knives—by the Thuringians, whom they subjugated,! called
“Sahs”—the name Saxe or Saxon was adopted. The term “sax” for a
single-edged sword occurs in the Northern sagas,’ in which also a Sax:
land is mentioned, a country situated east of the peninsula of Jutland.

At the beginning of the Christian era they are reported to have occu-
pied the land north of the river Elbe;* in A. D. 140 they are still found
im the same location,‘ and near neighbors to the Angli; in the middle
of the third century they are supposed to be coterminous with the
Chauci;? in the middle of the fourth century with the Franks;° and
about that time (363) they attempted settlement in Brittany.’

They are said to have possessed the art of sailing by the wind (tack-
ing) and their small, apparently frail vessels, buiit of willow upon a
keel of knotty oak and covered with skins,® the whole so light that,
entering far into rivers, even with unfavorable wind, they would ter-
rify the inhabitants of the Roman coast.2 Notwithstanding their lim-
ited knowledge of the stars, without compass, without charts they
found their way to the Orkneys.'°

In the times of Diocletian and Maximian the Saxons harassed the
coasts of Gallia and Brittany to such an extent that Maximian, in 286,
was obliged to convert Gesoriacum, or Bononia (Boulogne), into a port
for the Roman fleet."!

During the revolt of Carausius against the Roman Government, the
confederate Saxons, ete., built ships after the Roman model, learned

1Curiosa Sax., 1768, pp 210, 233, 842. Witechindus Corb, ¢. 3. Horndorf, Promt.
exempl., p. 277.

2Grettir Saga. ‘ When Grettir saw that the young man was within reach, he lifted
his sax high in the air and struck Arnor’s head with its back, so that his head was
broken and he died. Thereupon he killed the father with his saz.”

3 Vellejus Paterculus, 2, c. 107.

4 Ptolemy—Geog. lib., ii, c. 2. ‘Ere rov adyéva tig Kim Bpixje Xepdov7gzdov Yasovec”

5Pliny Hist. Nat. xvi, c. 76. Dr. Gustav Klemm, Handbuch der Germanischen
Alterthumskunde, 1836. S. Barth, Teutschland’s Urgeschichte.

6 Hutrop. Breviar. Hist. 1x, c. 21. Aurel. Vict. in Caes. c. 32. HEumeniustr, ec. 12.
Ammianus Marcel. Rer. Gestar. lib. xxv1, sec. 4; lib. XX vu, c. 8, sec. 5.

7Claudius 1v; Consul Honor tf, 31, 32.

88, Barth, Teutschland’s Urgeschichte m1, 288. Ziulae, anglo saxon Ceol. Isidor:
origines LXIX, v. 1, Celones. Icelandic Kiolur, Low German, Yell. Dr. G. Klemm,
Handb. d, Germ. Alterthk. 1836, p. 148. Sidonius Appolinaris Carus vil, y. 370.

‘Quin et aremoricus pyratam Saxona tractus
Sperabat, cui pelle salum suleare Britannum
Ludus, et assuto glaucum mare findere lembo.”

‘In Claudian, De laudibus Stilich 11, v. 254, Britannia says: ‘‘Illius effectum
curis, ne litore tuto, Prospicerem dubiis venturum Saxona ventis.”

0 Claudian, De Cons. Hon. tv, 31: ‘*Maduerunt Saxone fuso Oreades; incabuit
Pictorum sanguine Thule; Scotorum cumulus flevit glacialis Terne.”

| Hutropius, Breviar. Histor. rx, ec. 21. Aurel. Vict. in Caes. c. 32.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 551

regular maritime warfare,’ and occupied Batavian territory until Con-
stantinus Chlorus retook Bononia, built a new fleet, and in 298 con-
quered the Brittanic Cresar, and Ins German allies.”

In 363 the Saxon piratical craft again harassed the Gallic coast.’ It
is possible that the Saxons entered into a compact with the Picts,
whom they afterwards so successfully fought for that possession, and
around the coast of Scotland those naval battles may have been fought
which are mentioned by Theodosius’ orator,! and which freed the ocean
from the Saxons.’ But, notwithstanding, the terror they had spread
down to the Garonne and Charente,® the destiny of the Saxons was
fulfilled in the middle of the fifth century with the landing of Hengist
and Horsa upon the southeast shores of Albion, with their three yes-
sels, no longer canoes nor corakles of willow covered with skins, but
long war-vessels, according to ancient tradition, each carrying three
hundred men; not longer hollow trunks, but decked with high forecas-
tle and quarterdeck, proofs of the mighty progression.’

Nothing definite is known of the precise manner of shipbuilding
among the Saxons unless the ship and boats found in the Nydam
Moss, in the present Duchy of Sleswick, are accepted as a Saxon model.
It has, by many writers, been ascribed to the Danes, near neighbors of
the Saxons, and coinhabitants of the peninsula of Jutland.’ The
Saxon claim on this ship is weakened by the fact that it presents ex-
ceedingly fine lines denoting greater knowledge of naval construe-
tion than can ordinarily be ascribed to a people who, like the Saxons,
have occupied a short coast line, and have but for a comparatively brief
space of time been engaged in maritime pursuits.

A further doubt as to the nationality of the ship in question arises
from the exceedingly sparce and vague knowledge of the Romans, to
whom we are indebted for any and all accounts of the North and its
people. It will, for instance, be observed that Tacitus, in his Ger-
mani, not even mentions the Saxons; a few years later they are re-
ported to have occupied the country adjacent the mouth of the river

' Humenius te. 12.

> Humemius 1c. 17.

3Claudian tv, Consul Honor. 1, 31, 32.

4 Pacatus Drepanius in Panegyr. upon Theodor. M., e. 5.

*Claudian in KEutrop. 1, Vv. 392.

5 Sidon. Appolin. Enpist. viii, 6.

7 Nennii Histor. Briton., Ed. San Marte, §31 ‘‘tres ciule.” Gildas, de excidio Bri-
tan., [bid. § 23, “tribus ut lingua (Saxorum) exprimitur, cyuli, nostra lingua longis
navibus, secundis velis.” Beda, Keclesiast. Histor. gentis Anglor; 1, ¢. 15 (ed. Ant-
werp, 1550) *‘tribus longis navibus.” Sharon Turner, History of the Anglo-Saxons,
I, Lol (edit. Paris) ‘‘the vessels carried three hundred men each.” Nennius, ete., § 37,
states that Hengist had a reénforcement sent consisting of sixteen additional ciuli.

* Procopius, de Bello Gothico, lib., 2 ¢.15. Ptolemy, lib. 11, ¢. ii, speaks of the
Aavyovec or Auyyiovec as the inhabitants of southern Scania. Petersen, Danmarks
Historie i, Hedenold. Worsawv, J. J. A., Zur Alterthiumskunde des Nordens. Keyser,
&., Om Normiindens Herkomst og Folkeslii¢tskab.
552 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Elbe. Probably it was the same people whose chief rowed across the
river in a small dug-out! to pay his respects to the Roman conqueror.’
One of the finest productions of prehistoric naval architecture of a few
centuries later is to be ascribed to their skill. Neither its shape nor
workmanship suggest the Ciule* mentioned by all the early writers
in connection with the Saxon maritime power; its form is rather sug-
gestive of the ships of the Suiones,t which will be fully described in a
later chapter, and it will, I think, be safe to accept the opinion of the
renowned archeologist Hngelhardt,? and ascribe the structure to our
Scandinavian neighbors rather than to the Germans® although the lat-
ter now occupy the territory upon which this interesting find has been
made.
THE FRANKS.

The first mention in history of the name of Franks is made in a song,
which the soldiers of Aurelian, in A. D. 214, just returned from the
Northern German frontier, sang when leaving Rome for the Persian
war.’

Neither Cresar, Tacitus, nor Ptolemy mention the Franks, although
they often speak of the people that occupied the very districts in which
we afterwards find the Franks. It is, therefore, probable that Frank
is the newest Old German name and represents somewhat vaguely a
group of tribes bearing other names, although not much value is placed
by some® upon this theory.

During the reign of Aurelian they make their first appearance upon
the sea, discovering the entrance to the Mediterranean and ransacking
Taragone.?

In earlier days they dwelt on the right banks of the Rhine, and, as once
the Romans pressed on them, ere long they began to press on the Romans
in return. The oldest Frankish band was then on the Rhine; southeast
was a second group, including the Bructers and others, and beyond
these the Chatti and Suevi, to which group” the name Franks was first
given.

i Caveatum ut illis mos est ex materia.”

2Vellejus Paterculus 11, ¢, 107.

38, Barth, Teutschlands Urgeschichte 11, 288. Jsidor origines Ixix, 1. Dr. G.
Klemm, Handb. d. Germ. Alterth. Kunde, p. 148. Nenniit Histor. Briton., ed. San
Marte, § 31, 37. Gildas, de Excidio Britan., ibid., § 23.

+ Tacitus, De Germaniie, ¢. xiv.

® Engelhardt, C., Denmark in the Early Iron Age, London, 1866.

‘Werner, Admiral, Das Seewesen der Germanischen Vorzeit. Handelmann, IT. Das
iilteste Germanische Seeschiff. 1871.

7Vopiscus in Aureliano, c. 7:

‘Mille Sarmatas, Mille Francos, semel et semel occidimus,
Mille, mille, mille, mille, mille Persas quzerimus.”

8 Jacob Grimm: Geschichte der Deutschen Sprache, p. 518.

* durelius Victor in Cres., ¢. 33; Hutropius, 1x, 6; Claudius 1v, Cons. Honor, t 31, 323
Orosius Vit, c. 2; Nazar Panegyr., Constant. Aug. dict., ¢. 17.

0 Watterich: Die Germanen des Rheins, p. 166.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 553

In the middle of the tourth century they are said to be coterminous with
the Saxons.!

During the reign of Emperor Probus, transported to the Pontus, they
seized the ships, and after many adventures returned to their northern
homes.’

Nothing whatever is known of the character of the vessels employed
by the Franks, and after a short existence they again disappear as a
maritime power.®

THE SCANDINAVIANS.

The first mention of this people of the north is made by Tacitus. In
describing the ships of the Suiones, he says: ‘ Swionem civitates ipsae in
oceano praeter viros armaque classibus valent; forma navium et differt
quod utriumque prora paratum semper appulsur frontem agit: nee velis
ministrant, nec remos tr ordinem lateribus adjugunt: solutum, in quibus-
dam fluminum et mutabile, ut res poscit, hine vel illine remigium.”

In the absence of a specimen great difficulties presented themselves
to the translators of Tacitus * in correctly interpreting the meaning to
be conveyed of the structure of ships that so much differed from the
Roman and other ships known as to require separate mention, although
they really offered considerable similarity to the ships of the Veneti.
Most translators therefore inform us that the equal prows were intended
to facilitate landing in either direction and to enable the ship to effect
an easy passage through shoals. With regard to the oars the general
impression has been that they were not fixed to the sides of the ship
in a regular manner (nec remos in ordinem lateribus adjugunt) but that
they were loose (solutum) and could be used alternately (mutabile) on
either side of the ship (hine vel illine ).

Admiral Jal® explains the mutabile as implying a method similar to
that employed by the Venetian gondoliers, who use a peg in the gun-
wale as point of resistance, and on either side of which the oar could
be plied to produce a forward or backward motion. This interpreta-
tion, although avery good one considering the absence of any ship, how-
ever, does not seem to me to represent what Tacitus meant to describe.
The utriumque prora paratum semper appulsui frontem agit would seem
to imply a readiness to present in either prow a front to the enemy,
either for aggressive or defensive purposes, and that this front could be

'Ammian. Marcell. rer. gestar. lib. xxvi, § 4; lib. xxvi, § 5.

2 Zosinus 1, c. 7; Vopiscus in Probo. iv, c. 18; Humenius in Penegyr. Constant. Cres.,
XViil.

The authorities on the Franks are: Jacob Grimm: Geschichte der Deutschen
Sprache, Leipzig, 1848; Maite: Des alte Recht der Salischen Franken, Beilage zur
Deutschen Verfassungsgeschichte, Kiel, 1846; Bohm: Frinkische Reichs-und
Gerichts Verfassungsgeschichte, Weimar, 1871; /Vatterich: Die Germanes des
Rheines, Leipzig, 1872.

4 Tacitus: De Germanie ec. xliv.

54. Jal: Archéologie Navale, 1840, 2d Mémoir.
HDA REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

much easier maintained by the position of the oars which were not
fixed (nec remos in ordinem lateribus adjugunt), that is not permanently
fixed to the sides of the ship, but were (solutwm) loosely suspended (ct
mutabile) and capable of being changed in so far as to be employed in
either direction (hine vel illine remigium); or, in other words, that,
although in a measure fixtures to the sides of the ship, yet they were
hanging loosely in loops or straps fastened to the rowlocks that, like
the rowlocks for a forward motion, would act as points of resistance to
permit a backward rowing without change of oar or of rowers.

The next mention of the people of the North we find in the middle
of the second century, when the Danes are mentioned as inhabitants
of Scania,! but it is not until the beginning of the sixth century that
the Scandinavians (Danes) announce their coming to the West by en-
tering the river Maas and pillaging the vicinity of Geldern.?

A navy of ships of the kind deseribed by Tacitus must necessarily
have been the growth of centuries, and must have been the result of
active service upon the sea, in accordance with the historical truth that
powerful nations do not remain idle; and it is, therefore, to be inferred
that the Scandinavians (Suiones of Tacitus, Danes of Prokop) navi-
gated the sea many centuries before the beginning of the Christian era.

The early history of a people finds its beginning in the traditions of
the deeds and achievements of prominent men among them that were
recounted upon festive occasions and thus handed down from genera-
tion to generation. Although based on facts, they soon assumed a
mythical character and they do not now admit of being assigned a
definite period of origin, while others, becoming more and more vague,
were gradually forgotten, a circumstance much regretted by Cicero’ as
regards the loss to history of important facts.

Rock-sculptures.—The oldest form of the tradition of the people of the
North has been discovered in the rock sculptures so abundantly found
along the Scandinavian coast. They give, in an ideographic form,
an account of the important events, a permanent record to be handed
down to posterity. A second form, of much more recent date, is pre-
sented in the “ Sagas.”

lib. 2, ec. xi, xv. H. M. Petersen: Danmarks Historie i Hedenold, i, 24. Worsae,
J. J. A.: Zur Alterthumskunde des Nordens, p. 78. Keyser, R.: Om Normiindens
Herkomst og Folkesliigstkab.

2Greg. Turon, iii, ¢. 3. Barthold: Geschichte der Deutschen Seemacht (in Rau-
mer’s Histor. Taschenbuch, iii Folge, 1 Band, 1850, p. 304).

3“ Gravissimus auctor in ‘Originibus’ dixit Cato, morem apud majores hune specu-
larum fuisse, ut deinceps, qui accubarent canerent ad tibiam clarorum vivorum
laudes atque virtutes’”’ (Cic. Tuse. Quest. Iv,3). ‘‘Utinam existarent illa carmina
que multio s:eculis ante suam tatem in spulis esse cantitata a singulis convivis
declamorum vivorum laudibus in ‘Originibus’ scriptum reliquit Cato” (Cic. Brut.
XX);
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 555

ristningar,)' and among other objects they exhibit, in single outline,
more or less equipped ships, sharp at the ends, with stem and stern
curved and high. They oceur along the coast from Trondhjem south-

rard and around to and including Gotland. A few have been found
in Denmark and upon the shores of Lake Ladoga in Russia.

With regard to their antiquity a variety of opinions prevail. Bru-
nius? assigns them to the stone age and perhaps to the beginning of
the bronze age; he thinks that they have been produced by rubbing or
hammering, but that in either case they show the aid of stone utensils.
Bruzelius,’? Holmboe,* and Montelius’® place them in the bronze age
(about 1500 to 500 B. c.),° and a similar opinion is entertained by Nico-

| Aberg, Dr. L.: Hiillvistningar uti Bohusliin, 1839. Annaler for Nordiske Old-
kyndighed, Kopenhagen, 185, p. 386; 1839, pl. x; 184243, p. 348. Archiv f. An-
thropologie, x, p. 86. Baltzer, L.: Bohusliins Hiillristningar, 1881. Brunius: Forsik
till Firklaringer éfver Hellristninger, Lund, 1868. Bruzelius: Om Hiillristningar i
Jiirrestads Hiirad i Skane (I Ant. Tidsk. f. Sverige, vi). Bulletin histor. philol. de
l'Acad, des Sci. de St.-Pétersbourg, xii, No. 7, 8. Du Chaillu: Viking Age, i, p. 116.
Holnberg, A. E.: Bohusliins Historie och Beskrifning, Udervalla, 1842, p. 15, 19, pl.
i,ii. Holmberg, A. £.: Scandinaviens Hiillristningar, Stockholm, 1846. Holmboe:
Om Helleristninger (I Christ. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh., 1861). Ferguson: Rude Stone
Monuments, fig. 106, p. 303. Grewingk, C.: Ueber die in Granit geritzten Bilder-
gruppen am Onegasee. Grewingk, C.: Verh. d. estnischen Ges. zu Dorpat, vii, Heft
1, p. 25. Kemble: Horae ferales, p. 228. Montelius O.: Bohuslins Hiillristningar,
Stockholm. Montelius, O. : The Civilization of Sweden in Heathen Times (Transl.
by F. H. Woods, London, 1888). Montelius, O. : Bohusliinske Fornsaker, Stockholm,
1874, p. 24-27. Nilsson, S.: Die Ureinwohner des Skandinavischen Nordens. Nico-
laysen, N.: Langskibet fra Gokstad, Kristiania, 1882, p. 9. Petersen, Dr. Henry: Om
Helleristninger i Danmark (Aarb. nord, Oldkynd, 1875, p. 42). Petersen, Dr. Henry:
Notice sur les pierres sculptées du Danemark (Transl. by Abbé L. Morillet in Mén.
de la Soc. R. d. Antig. du Nord, Copenhagen, 1877, p. 330-342). Petersen, L.: Mere
om Helleristninger ved Allinge (Meddelse til Bornholm Tid., 30 Sep. 1884). Raw C.:
Cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculptures (in Contributions to North American
Ethnology, vol. v, U. 8S. Department of the Interior), Washington. Rygh, O.: Om
Helleristninger i Norge (Vidensk. Selsk. Krist. Forh., 1873, p. 455-470). Schwede:
Nachr. Iswestija d. Geogr. Ges. St. Petersburg, 1850, p. 68. Simpson: Archaic
Sculptures, p. 72. Stevens, Geo.: Runic Monuments, vol. i, p. 74. Vedel, E.: Born-
holms Oldtidsminder og Oldsager, Kjéb., 1886. Worsaw, J. J. A.: Nordiske Oldsager
idet K. Museum, Kjébenhavn. Worsaw, J.J. A.: The primeval antiquities of Den-
mark (transl. by W. J. Thomas), London, 1849. JWorsaw, J. J. A. : The Industrial
Arts of Denmark, 1882, p. 113. Worsaw, J. J. A.: Zur Vorgeschichte des Nordens
(German transl. by J. Mestorf, 1887, p. 67). Worsaw, J. J. A. : Zur Alterthumskunde
des Nordens.

> Brunius: Forsd till Firklaringer 6fver Hellristninger, Lund, 1868.

* Bruzelius ; Om Hiillristningar i Jirrestads Hiirad i Skane (1, Ant. Tids. f. Sverige,
vi).

' Holmboe: Om Helleristninger (I, Christ. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh., 1861.)

® Montelius, O.: Vhe Civilization of Sweden in Heathen Times, London, 1888.

° Nilsson, S.: Skandinaviske Nordens Urinvanarne, 1838-1843, Nilsson, S.: The
Primitive Inhabitants of Scandinavia, 1868.  Montelius, O.: The Civilization of
Sweden in Heathen Primes, London, 1888, p. 70. Compte Rendu du Cong. Archéolog.
de Stockholin, ii, 450. Montelius, O.: Om tidsbestiimming inom bronsaldern nal sar-
skildt af seende pa Skandinavia, Stockholm, 1885, accept the bronze age as having
occupied the period of from 1500 to 500 B. C.
556 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

laysen,’ who gives approximately the year 1000 B. Cc. as the time of
their origin. Boor Emil Hildebrand? places them in the bronze age
from the form of weapons represented, while Holmberg’ credits them
to the Vikings; the sculptures of that period, however, distinguish
themselves in a remarkable degree from those of the bronze age, as
Shown in the Hiiggeby stone, in Upland, Sweden, and in the Tjiingvide

? eft < es WY By

so SEISe J a> CdR de iN . “th Real A pli bael As ‘i \y dine

p SCs eee a ee HANG |"

BR SOO UA OND bah vee ne eae
ey fee ni ete iey (us i ne on 0 = 0 3

vi 4 HY,

al if
=

Ae a

Fig. 40
RuNIc STONE Found AT TJANGVIDE, GOTLAND, SWEDEN.
Reproduced from Du Chaillu: Land ot the Midnight Sun.
Stone, Alskog parish, Gotland (Fig. 40); similar stones of the Viking age
occur in Hjermiser, Jutland, Bornholm,‘ ete. Viktor Rydberg’ accepts
the bronze age theory from a comparison of the shaper of the eae dle-

Enicoene N:: Deore fra Ceoleatad: rena ania, 1882.
* Hildebrand: Glyphs of Ostergétland.
* Holmberg, A. E.: Skandinayiens hiillristningar, Stockholm, 1846.
* Thorsen, P. G.: De Danske Runemindesmerker. Stephens, Geo.: The Runie Hall
in the Danish Old Northern Museum,
° Balizer, L.: Bohusliins Wiillristningar, 1881 (introduction by Viktor Rydberg).
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. DDT

seribed by Tacitus,! from whose account it will be seen that the ships
of the Suiones had stem and stern alike, both offering a front against
attack from either side; furthermore, in both an inward curvature ex-
isted, while the boats of the bronze age, as illustrated by the rock
sculptures, showed a marked difference between stem and stern.

According to Montelius no undisputable traces of mast and sails
have been discovered in the rock sculptures of the bronze age, and the
boats would seem to have been designed exclusively for rowing. Wor-
save,” however, figures a boat (PI. Lxxi1) that plainly shows the mast,
which, however, may have been added at a subsequent period.

Fig. 41.

Nest oF GOLD Boars Founp Av Nors, DENMARK.

( Reproduced from * Votiv-fund fra Sten-og-Bronzealdern in Aarbéger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie, 1886

Gold Boats*® (Fig. 41).—A fuller illustration of form is furnished by
the unique find, in a bank at Nors, district of Thisted, Denmark, around
which are many small grave mounds, and among fragments of pottery,

| Tacitus: De Germanie xliv ‘forma navium eo differt quod utriumque prora
paratum semper appulsui frontem agit.”

2 Worsae, J. J. A.: Zur Alterthumskunde des Nordens, 1847, pp. 26, 27, Pl. xv.

° Votiy fund fra Sten og Bronzealderen. In Meddelelser fra det Kgl. Museum for
de Nord Oldsager (Aarboger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie, 1886, 1 Raekke, 1
Bind, Heft 3, p. 258.

558 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

dred small gold-plate boats laid within each other, as shown in the ae-
companying figure.

The railing and the ribs of these small boats are made of narrow and
thin bronze bands that are bent around one another; in the middle of
these lie sheets of thin plates of gold, whose corners overlap each other
at the bottom of the boat and are bent around the bronze bands above,
covering it. In the same manner the outside covering is effected.

The size of the boats and the number of ribs vary and some are orna-
mented with concentric circles,

Boat-shaped Monuments.—W hile the first appearance of the Northmen
upon the western seas is shown to have taken place in the beginning of
the sixth century,' there is strong and possibly conclusive evidence of
their having entertained an active and intimate intercourse with the
countries upon the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea; their traces are
found in the Baltic provinces of Russia—in Estonia, Estnish Livonia,
attaining a maximum in Livonia, and diminishing again in Courland—
and in northern Germany.

The monuments that give us an account of such intercourse are the
burial places in the form of ships; the stone ship of the land supplant-
ing the wooden ship of the sea, upon which, according to ancient cus-
tom,” the dead were cremated and their ashes, together with their
personal property, buried.

These stone, boat-shaped burial places are known by the names of
Skibsseetningar, Stenskeppar, Skeppshégar, Skeppsformer, Steinschiffe,
Schiffsetzungen, Teufelsboote, Wella Laiwe. Their home is in Sweden,’

' Greg. Turon, 11, ¢. 3. Barthold: Geschichte der Deutschen Seemacht, 1850, Bd.
1, p. 304.

2Egils Saga, c. lxi (Heimskringla text). Gylfaginning, ec. xlix (Heimskringla
text). Hakon the Good Saga (Heimskringla text), c. xxvii. Landnama, ii. Lax-
dela, c. vili. Vatnsdiela Saga, ¢. xxii. Ynglinga Saga, c. vill, xxvii.

® BLEKINGEN, Worsaae, J. J. A.: Zur Alterthumskunde des Nordens, 1847, p. 16,
and pl. m1. Sjoborg, Samlingar for Nordens Forniilskare, 1, p. 116, pl. X1v, fig. 46, and
pl. xx, fig. 60. Grewingk, C.: Zur Archiiologie des Balticums (in Archiv. f. An-
thropologie, x, p. 838. Aarbdéger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie, 1881, p. 155.
Antiquarisk Annaler, Iv, p. 297. Vedel, £.: Bornholms Oldtidsminder og Oldsager,
p. 27. Bouus.ian: Bidrag til Kiinnedom om Goteborgs och Bohusliins Fornminnen,
1874.  Grewingk, C.: Z. Arch. d. Balt. (Arch. f. Anth., x, p. 83). Holmberg:
Bohuslins Historie och Beskrifning, 11, p. 192. GorTrLAND, Dr. Sdéve: On Gotlands
dildste Fornlemninger (I Ann. f. nord, Oldkynd, 1852, p. 130-170. Vedel, E.: Born-
holms Oldtidsminder og Oldsager, p. 27. Grewingk, C.: Z. Arch. d. Balt. (in
Arch. f. Anth., x). Bidrag til Kiinnedom om Goteborgs och Bohusliins Fornminnen,
I, Stockholm, 1874. ObLAND, Alqvist: Oelands Historia, 1, p. 31. Holmberg: Bohus-
liins Historia och Beskrifning, 11, p. 192. Scanta, Grewingk, C.: Z. Arch. d. Balt.
(in Arch. f. Anth., xX). SODERMANLAND: Yellow Book, Den yngre Jernalder, p. 356.
Peterson's and Séderstrom’s Samlung. Jorsaae, J. J. A.: Z. Alterthumsk. d. Nordens,
1874, p. 16, 32, and pl. Iv. SvEARICKE: K. Vitterhets, Historie och Antiq. Akad.,
Stockholm (monthiy). Hellier, Gosselin, Sec. R. Arch. Soc. of Gr. Britain, manu-
seript letter. Brown, Mary A.: Manuscript letter, UPpLanp, Grewingk, C.; Z, Arch.
d. Baltic. (Arch, f. Anth. X).
PLATE LXXIl.

m= Bocamer

Report ot National Museum, 1891

‘LST ‘sizdieT .,‘suepioN sep apunysmanyyaeipfy az ,, s,oves.10 IM “VW ‘££ SAX 99%[q Jo Adog)
"N3G3M§ ‘3ONIM3A1g ‘HSIYWd NNVHHO]L ‘GAYSINO|] LY ONIANVO-MO0Y

‘Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer. PLATE LXXIII.

A.—Boat positions of Erwahlen, Courland.

Position IV.
ao O99
o eae 8G iawra\ Zdo 4

844.000 0080 o Nogallen.
es ° 7g)

f

.—Stone chests in Boat-positions

Te.
C

- Ki

| Fe of Granite\// Yi ee, a
Sy

Ly
a

BOAT-SHAPED GRAVES AT ERWAHLEN, COURLAND, RUSSIA.
s F : :

(Copied fr
‘a ais

Dale
Lie ;

Dian tA ee id
an Le iy soi Ot es re es
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. Do

where they represent the early iron age.’ They occur in Denmark,
upon Bornholm.? About twenty-four such positions are known, while
in Jutland® only two have existed, of which one (at Hajstrup, in Vester
Van Herrel) is said to have been built upon graves from the earlier iron
age. In Germany only two boat-shaped graves have been discovered,
at Stralsund‘ and Ko6slin.?

In the Baltic provinces of Russia forty-two boat-shaped graves have
been found and mostly examined; of these seven occur in Courland,®
all being located in the diocese of Erwahlen, and with one exception
they occur in pairs, situated behind each other. The outlines of long,
narrow, and pointed vessels are represented by a single row of stones.
(PI, LXXIIT).

The stem and stern posts are shown by large bowlders, thus indi-
‘ating for these parts a considerable elevation above the bulwark of
the boats; depressions in the board-stones indicate the rowlocks.
The general direction of these ships is an easterly one, their dimen-
sions: 31 by 8, 27 by 13, 25 by 10, 31. by 10, 50.9 by 14, 49 by 10, 47.10
by 10 feet.

1 In the Lungersas (Goteland) ship runic stones of the later iron age occur. The
skeppstorm of Lille Lundley, Sédermanland, terminates at one end in a Bauta
stone, upon which are the following words in runes: ‘ Spute and Halfdan raised
this stone after Skarde, their brother.” The ship form at Raftétaugen, Blekingen,
contained articles belonging to the later iron age.

2Vedel, E.: Bornholms Oldtidsminder og Oldsager, pp. 25-27. Petersen, L.: Manu-
script letter of July 7, 1887.

3 Major John Daniel, Spazierreise von Kiel aus nach Norden 1693 (mss.).  Arnkiel:
Cimbrische Heydenbekehrung, Hamburg, 1702, p. 340. Christiani: Geschichte von
Schleswig Holstein, 1, p.328. Thiele: Danmarks Folkesagen, 1, pp. 31-32. Mier, Pas-
tor: Handschriftl. Gemeina> Annalen vy. Osterlygum, 1812. Handelmann, H.: 28
Bericht der Schleswig Holstein Lauenburg’ schen Gesellschaft fiir die Sammlung
und Erhaltung vaterliindischer Alterthiimer, Kiel 1868, p. 31. Antiq. Annaler rv,
p. 297. Aarbéger f. Oldkynd, 1881, p. 155. Vedel, L.: Bornholms Oldtidsminder og
Oldsager, p. 27.

4Grewingk, C.: Erliuterungen z. Archaeol. Karte, ete. In Verhandl. d., gelehrten
Est. Ges., Dorpat, 1884; Bd., xu, p. 106. Hagenow: Baltische Studien d. Ges. f.
pomm. Gesch., xv, 2, p. 49. Grewingk, C.: Z. Arch. d. Balt. (Arch. f. Anth. x).

“Grewingk, C.: Erliuterungen z. Arch. Karte, p. 106.

© Doring, J.: Die Teufelsboote von Kurland in Sitzungsber d. Ges. f. Literat. und
Kunst, 1860-1863. Mitau, 1864, p. 154. Hagenow: In Baltische Studien d. Ges. f.
pomm. Geschichte, xv,2, p.49. Grewingk, C.: Das Steinalter der Ostseeprovinzen,
Dorpat, 1865, p. 45. Berg: Notiz im Coresp. Blatt d. Naturf. Ges. z. Riga, xx, 1872,
No. 7. Sievers, Graf C.: Verh. d. Berliner Ges. f. Anth. Oct. 1875. Sievers, Graf C.:
Verh. d. Estnischen gel. Ges., Dorpat, 1876, vir, Heft 3. Grewingk, C.: Zur Archaeol.
d. Balticums. (Arch. f. Anth., x). Burehardl: Baltische Monatssehrift, xxiv, Riga
1875. Sitzungsberichte d. Estnischen gelehrten Gesellschaft, May, Noy., Dec., 1876.
Grewingk, C.: Die Steinschifte von Musching und die Wella Laiwe oder Teufelsboote
Kurland’s iiberhaupt. Dorpat, 1878. Grewingk, C.: Erliinterungen z. archaeol.
Karte des Stein, Bronze, und Eisen-alters in Liy-Est und Kurland. Dorpat, 1884
(Verh. d. Gel. Est. Ges. Dorpat. Bd., x11). Grewingk, C.: Die Neolithischen Be-
wohner von Kunda in Estland (Verh. d. gel. Est. Ges. Bd., x11). Grewingh, C.: Ost.
baltische, dem heidnischen Todtencultus dienende, schifformige und anders gestaltete
Steinsetzungen. Dorpat, 1887.
560 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

At a depth of from 6 inches to a foot below the surface a large stone
plate was found, serving as a cover to chests built of plates of either
natural or artificial formation. The cells of these chests were occupied
by urns (figs. 42, 43, 44, 45) composed of gravel mixed with clay but

Be
Fig. 43. Fig. 44,
CINERARY URNS FROM BOAT-SHAPED GRAVE IN COURLAND, Russia.
(Copied from C. Grewingk: ‘‘ Die Steinschiffe von Musching, ete.,’’? in Verh. Est. gel, Gesellschatt, )

little burnt, and containing more or less cremated human remains.
The accompanying Pl. Lxx11, copied from ‘*C. Grewingk, Die Stein-
schiffe von Musching” shows in @ the arrangement and outlines of these
boat positions; in b a sectional view of one of the Musching boats; in ¢
the stone chests which have served for the reception of the cremated
remains of the dead in the funeral urns shown in figures 42, 43, 44, 45,

Similar boat-shaped graves occur in Estland,! Estnish Livonia.?
' Kruse Necrolivonica, Generalbericht 10, Tafel 59, fig. 9. Verhand. gel. Estn.
Ges, i, 2, p.9.  Grewingk, C.: Das Steinalier der Ostseeprovinzen. Dorpat, 1865, pp.
56, 74. Grewingk, C.: Ueber heidnische Graber Russisch Litauens (Verh. gel. Est.
Gesell. vi, 1870). Hansen: Sammi. inliind. Alterth. Russlands, 1875, 1876. Grewingk,
C.: Die neolithischen Bewohner von Kunda, 1884. Wiskowatow, P.: Bericht iiber
die Aufdeckung einer schifformigen Steinsetzung bei Tiirsel in Estland (in Verh. d.
gel. Est. Ges. zu Dorpat, Bd. x1i1, 1887). Grewingk, C.: Der schittérmige Aschentried-
hofbei Tiirsel (Verh. d. gel. Est. Ges., x11, p. 5-71, 1887). Grewingk, C.: Ostbaltische,
dem heidnischen Todtencultus dienende Steinsetzungen, 1887.

* Kruse, Necrolivonica, Beilage ¢.p.10. Grewingk, C.: Das Steinalter der Ostsee-
provinzen, Dorpat, 1865. Verh. gel. Estn. Ges., vi, 3, 4, pp. 266, 269. Tafel xix, fig.
40,41, Hartmann, Vaterliind. Museum. Dorpat 1871. Tat. viii, fig. 6, 7, Taf. xi, fig. 11.
Sitzungsb. gel. Estn. Ges., 1873, p. 42; 1875, p. 159; May, Oct., Nov., Dec., 1876. Gre-
wingk, C,: Z. Archeologie des Balticums (Archiy. f. Anthrop, x).
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 561

In Livonia! about thirty of such boat-shaped graves have been found
(illustrated in Figs. 46, 47, 48).

The boat-shaped urn graves of Courland (Wella-Laiwe, figured on
Pl, LXx111) indicate but a comparatively short occupancy of the terri-

. oO - oO a
Aue ee fo) oO SuESumSS 2 ® o
OY ey SOE tow EC Ae) 8 (eo) 5
808 0 62240! 40 C2 06 w@ 8 & 0%
ewan tol) 8 OO O ole) 60 2 9a O
Q o 8 je) fe) (eYe) O 0 %
ee 8 Chane ary 2 Ordo,88. 0. 9.8.0
See Jn Onairo Oo) Ser0" Bi O-0 oe
CFG ano! 2h euro oo O Oy Soe So
OFC. OO. Oo Q SIG) 0} AKO).
Fig. 46.

BOAT-SHAPED GRAVE NEU KARRISHOF, LIVONIA, RUSSIA.

(From .1. X. Ulrnga Packonkn, nponsse qeuubit BD AnesangacKoil yeoepuin. )

RO a Oar :

mel O10)

ZO OO Oo So.

Zon (och fe) feel fey fe) 3 2 O5.

8 fe) ome) & =

go) Wey) Oe) oe eS 8 ole 18) ARES
e Ss mee Qe 0. 6° OF + Oa Qa Oo Soo
eee pO, cee . 6 SF 8 nee
Aap Roo) Sista ts Stupey urs! Or ONO Coe
p< Or [oar Oo) . -Oa0- —o

ren OSE

’
S|

Fig. 47.
30AT-SHAPED GRAVE AT MAARO, LIVONIA, RUSSIA.

From J, X. Irnja Packonukn, mpouspeqenubla BL AuearAnackol yoepnin.
; yoe]

o0000
0990000 9 °° 900
o-oo (o)
eo) @ fe} S So
ce) (e) ‘I ie} O Oo
Lee) 3° fe) fe} (@}
G. im °
"5,6 S ° ° o
fo) ie)
29 oO ° 250°°
209090000002

Fig. 48.
BOAT-SHAPED GRAVE AT WILLEMI, LIVONIA, RUSSIA.

(From A. X. Uitrnja Packonku, mpousse JennblA Bb Tea ACKoll yOepain. )

tory, while the cineraria of Livonia and Estonia, by their arrangement
and contents, must have served as cemeteries during a considerable
period of time, extending, probably, over several centuries.

One of the finest structures of this kind is the Slaweek ship? (Fig.
49) upon the shores of Lake Strante; it shows a double row of stones

1 Kruse: Sige Donat 1812, Bahr, J. ie : Die Griber der Liven. ines:
den, 1850. Verh. d. del. Est. Ges. zu Dorpat 1, 1860. Greummgl C.: Das Steinalter
der Ostseeprovinzen, 1865. Siewers-Raudenhof, Jagor, von, Sitzungber. d. Est. Gel.
Ges. Feb., 1872, March, 1876. Grewingk, C.: Zur Archaeol. d. Baltic (Arch. f.
Anth. x). Sievers, Graf C.: Verh. d. Berliner Ges. f. Anth., Oct., 1875. Sievers,
Graf C.: Verh. d. gel. Estn. Ges. Bd. viii, 3, p. 24, 1876. Sievers, Graf C.: Briefliche
Mittheilungen und noch nieht gedruckter Bericht. Grewingh, C,: Erliut, 2 2, Arch.
Karte. A. X. Witnga Packonkn, mpousse Aennbia Bb InesangcKoli rydepuin. Jung, Herm, J.:
Die schifformigen Steinsetzungen im Fellinschen Kreise des Gouvernement Livland.
(In 456 Sitzungsberichte d. gel. Estn. Gesellschaft, Dorpat 1s. 13 Noy., 1878.) Gre-
wingk, C.: Ueber ostbaltische, vorzugsweise dem heidnischen Todtenkultus dienende
schifformige und anders gastaltete Steinsetzungen. 1887.

2 Sievers, Graf Karl: Bericht iiber die im Jahre 1875 am Strantesee ausgefiihrten
archiiologischen Untersuchungen. In Verhandlungen der gelehrten Estnischen
Gesellschaft zu Dorpat. Band vii, Heft 3.

SM 91, PT 2 36

562 — REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

laid perfectly straight, with fourteen cross rows or benches, between
most of which the calcined fragments of human bones, especially of
skulls, mixed with ashes, cinders, and bones, were found imbedded in
black soil; pottery was found in some of them. One hundred and
twenty-nine articles were found in the various portions of the structure,
consisting of fibule, bracelets of bronze, rings, spirals. knife blades

(OD VIBDOUPSOCID DP OOD 07 WIZ ODay o>
j tee Oa eoposro nap. ? DOD Dep, a
o 8? PO QAG ao go OD
Wika 9 g oa & z) PeCea BO ta.
Paes han jm O6mv9 fue 3 va 9 Om’ x ff xt @ or Oxn Sued | =
Rion * 0.8 Q af *@ a wa Hhuve @ by
Upria) A) Ss Nia Nie) ‘d > u, @ SY 19 & Si 3 & @s Qe
20 ONG ES. <i 38 S06 39 ag x 9 a S SQ 3B x3 8 Oop
x 9 So 999 82 a 30 S45 8 Se a ko a8 & oe
no, 8 f if ‘ Ba 8 0 i 4 Sc ag S¢ Sires ba BOO
6, raaaoee contre 2,30. atoorodieootboosnnoseosboots, By so
222.898 DWI12 OP OO OCOD OLBOTS DODO DI@ OPV SS
Fig. 49.
SLAWEEK Sup, Esronra, Russta.
(Copied from Graf C, Slevers- “ Archdologische Untersuchungen’ in Verh, Est. gel. Gesellsch. )

of iron, ornaments of bronze, and gilded beads of glass, amber, and
metal, etc. Some of the intervals show distinct traces of cremation, and
exhibit thick layers of ashes and cinders; the calcined remains, however,
were not left at these places, but were deposited in other intervals.

The boat-shaped cinerarium at Tirsel, in Estonia,' recently explored,
from its arrangement and tymbological contents, might serve as a fair
representative of the numerous Livonian and Estonian cineraria with-
out un burial. While differing from most of them in point of material
employed, consisting in calcareous slate plates against erratic bowlders,
this difference is a mere local one, and results from the absence of the
latter and occurrence of the former in the vicinity. Judging from its
dimensions and comparatively small number of caleined human re-
mains found, the ship appears to have served as burial place of a
small family, which, however, distinguished itself by the wealth and
beauty of articles < ine ornaments offered to the dead.

This cinerarium has been made the subject of a thorough study by
the late Prof. C. Grewingk, of Dorpat, from whose report? I have bor-
rowed the accompanying illustrations and notes:

“Fibula (Fig. 50) of Roman, or provincial Roman form is of frequent oe-
currence in the Balticum. It was found in the boat-sShaped graves at
Unnipicht and Langensee in North Livonia,’ near the Strante Lake in
southern Livonia, together with Roman coins from the years 69 to
79, and 161 to 180 A. D.,* in the stone ships, | of Alse DOkIDES and Sla-

uy ean Pp. 5 ihe richt ore ae Aniloeienne einer sc iene Sinan
bei Tiirsel, in Estland. In Verhandlungen der gelehrten Estnischen Gesellschaft
zu Dorpat, 1888. Band x11.

2Grewingk, C.: Der schitfOrmige Aschenfriedhof bei Tiirse! in Estland. In Ver-
handlungen der gelehrten Estnischen Gesellschaft. Band x11, 1888.

* Archiv fiir Anthrop. x, p. 95. Tf. ii, fig. 11. and 12 dspelin: Antiquités du Nord
Finno-Ougrien. tienes 1877-1884. fig. 1760

* Aspelin: Antiq, fig. 1788.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 563

week,! in Courland in the deposits of arms of Dohbesberg, in the skele-
ton graves of Ringen, and in cinerary urns in the graves of Capsehten,?
in Prussia, in cineraria with and without urns, together with Roman
coins of the second and third century*® in Rosenau, near Kénigsberg,'
at Marienburg,® in Poland,’ in Meckleburg, Nydam Moss, ete.

“Fibula (Fig. 51) of bronze with iron axis. Corresponding ones were
found near Odsen, Livonia,’ in the stone ships of Ahschekippe and

Fig. 50. Fig. 51.

FIBULA: FROM CEINERARIUM AT 'TURSEL, Russia,
Copied from C, Grewingk in Verh. gel. Est, Ges. 1888. Bd. x11.
Slaweek,* in the Polish District Augustowo.? Similar forms oceur in
the cineraria of Elbing and Olivia, Prussia, upon Bornholm, and in
Norway.”

' Sievers, Graf C.: Bericht iiber arch. Untersuchungen. In Verhandl. d. gel. Est.
Gesellschaft zu Dorpat. Bd. vil, 1876. Heft 3 mit Tafel i-ill. Sievers, Graf. C.:
Ueber ein normiinn. Schiffsgrab bei Ronneburg. In Verhandl. d. Berliner Gesellsch.
f. Anthrop. Jahrg. 1874-1875. Sitzung vom 16 October, p. 14-17 und Tafel viii. Aspe-
lin: Antiq., Fig. 1819.

2Grewingk, C.: Erliiuterung z. arch, Karte, p. 12.

3 Tischler: Ostpreussische Griiberfelder ii. In Sehoviften der physik-6knom.
Gesellsch, zu KGénigsberg x1x, 1879, p. 205. Taf. ix, Figs.6 und 11. Tischler: Ueber
die Formen der Gewandnadeln, Zeitschr. f. Anth. u. Urgeschichte Baierns tv. Heft
lund 2. Miinchen, 1881. Mit 4 Tf. p. 31.

4 Berendt: Zwei Griiberfelder in Natangen. Konigsberg 1874. Tf. viii fig. 3 and
37-10.

5 Lissauer und Conwentz: Das Weichsel-Nogat Delta. Schriften d. Naturf. Ges,
zu Danzig. 1886, p. 228. Tf. ii, fig. 31.

‘Sammlung des Collegium Jagellonicum zu Krakau, Aspelin: Antiq. fig. 1904.

7Sammlung der gelehrten Estnischen Gesellschaft zu Dorpat.

* Aspelin: Antiq. fig. 1815.

" Archiv f. Anthrop. x, 94 and 300. Also remark 139. Aspelin: Antiq. figs. 1902.

0Undset: Das erste Auftreten des Eisens in Nord Europa. Hamburg 1882, p, 481,
fig. 195.
564 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

“Fibula of iron (Fig. 52) of gigantic dimensions. The eye-shaped
holes upon the axis correspond to those from Tiirsel, Kauger, and
Odsen and appear as the trade-mark from which to conclude on similar
source and age. It resembles a specimen found at Ascheraden upon
the Duna,! which, however, is of much more receat make; similar
forms have been observed in the stone positions of Rippoka, and Lake
Strante in central Livonia.’

“ Wios. 53 and 54 are fibulie with reversed bodies; they are the first of

| ther kind found in the Baltic provinces.

Fig. 53.
FIBUL4 FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
(Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh. gel. Est. Ges. 1888. Bd, x11.)

“« Wibule similar to those figured in numbers 55, 56, 57 are known from
the boat grave of Miiaro.*

“Big. 58 had been subjected to the action of fire and was found upon
the second phalanx of the little finger of an apparently female hand.
This form is characteristic of the cineraria of the first Iron age in Livonia,
Kstonia, and Finland. They have been found in the Ostrobottnien

“Archiv f. Anthrop. x. pl. 1i, fig 5%. Undset: Erstes Auftreten des Hisens in Nord
Europa. Hamburg, 1882, pl. xvii, fig. 4.

5 Archiv f. Anthrop. x, pl. ii, fig. 5, p.94. Hartmann: Vaterliind. Museum zu Dor-
pat, 1871, p. 79, pl. vill.

*Aspelin: Antiq. fig. 1280, 1281.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 565

at Kosse, Neu-Camby, Unnipicht, Willefer,! near Lake Strante, in the
boat positions of Ahschekippe and Slaweek.? Very similar forms have
been found in skeleton graves in the district of Kowno,’ in graves at

7

Fig. 56. Fig. 57. Fig. 58.
FIBUL2 FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
(Copied from C, Grewingk, in Verh. gel. Est, Ges, 1888. Bd. xu
Brandenbureg,! and Olivia, near Danzig, Prussia;? resemblanee to this
ty] ] : y]
form is shown in fibule from Bornholm,® Gotland, and Oeland, and
from Rhenish Prussia.®

Fig. 59.
BREASTPIN FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
Copied trom C, Grewingk, in Verh. gel. Est. Ges. 1888. Bd. xii.)

‘« Breastpin or perforated fibula (Fig.59) occurs in similar form in the
Slaweek boat,’ in the district of Kowno, in the Prussian urn cemeteries

‘Hansen: Sunmiungen inlind. Alterthiimer. Reval, 1875, p. 40, No. 8, pl. viii, fig.
20. Jung: Sitzungsberichte d. Est. Ges. 1878, p. 191.

2 Aspelin: Antiq. fies. 1789, 1801, 1780, 1803, 1813, 1814.

*Archiv f. Anthrop, x. 94, pl. ii, fig. 2. Aspelin: Antiq. 1896.

4 Tischler: Griiberfelder iii, pp. 197 and 256, pl. ix, fig. 23 and 15, pl. xi. fig. 4.

5 Lissauer: Schriften d. Naturf. Ges. zu Danzig 1, 1874. PI. iv, fig. 13.
" Kasisky: Baltische Studien. Jhrg.27. Stettin 1877, pp. 168-202, fig. 25.

7 Montelius: Autiq. Suédois. Stockholm, 1873. Fie. 323, 328, 317.
‘Emele: Beschreibung der Alterthiimer. Mainz, 1833, pl. xv, fig. 5.
* Aspelin: Antiq, Fig. 1809.
566 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

of the district of Rastenbure,! ard in the Roman colonies upon the
Rhine and in Hanover.

“ Ornamented disk of bronze plate, rim turned down, with iron knob
in the middle with iron pin, is figured in 60 and 61. It recalls the
phalera of a Roman soldier, or the ornament of a warrior as found in
Nydam Moss.* Similar forms have been found in the Baltic provinces,
in Pomerania.* Their form is also approached in specimens from the
urn graves in Courland,’? in the districts of Wilna and Wilkomirz,®
and in Kast Prussia.?

‘ Horseshoe-shaped ornament (Fig. 62) resembles the armilla of a
Roman soldier.’ The cireular or disk ornamentation recurs upon the

Fig. 61.
ORNAMENTS FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
Copied from C. Grewingk in Verh. gel. Est. Ges. 1888, Bd. xiii.)
handle of a Roman treasury box,’ while the four-pointed star in the in-
terior of the disk ornamentation has been found upon articles from
Livonia and Courland.'”

“Tig, 63 is a bronze pin, apparently belonging to a buckle, nor is the
possibility excluded that it may have formed part of the horseshoe-
shaped ornament just described.

‘ Another horseshoe-shaped ornament is found in Fig. 64, the ends
being wound in spirals. The spiral is one of the oldest forms of metal
decoration of the earliest Baltic bronze age.

“Fie. 65 is a bronzering; has been injured by action of fire. Similar
rings, although somewhat smaller, occurred in the Slaweek boat.!! _

| Aspelin: Antiq. Fig. 1884. Verh. d. Berl. Ges. f. Anthrop. 1885, p. 247. Sitzungs-
ber. d. Alterthumsgesellschaft ‘‘ Prussia” in Kénigsberg. Noy. 1885~86, pp. 9, 116,
148.

2 Lindenschmit: Alterthiimer heid. Vorzeit. 1. Heft 4, Pl. 6.

3 Montelius: Die Cultur Schwedens in vorchristlicher Zeit. Berlin 1885, p. 105, eut.

+Photogr. Album d. Berliner Ausstellung, 1880, Sect. ii, Pl. 23 and 24. Catal. s.
324 No. 99, Sect. iii, Pl. 4.

» Aspelin: Antiq. Fig. 1845.

*Sammlung Prodezacynski in Krakau.

8 Lindenschmit: Alterthiimer Bd. 1, Heft 6, Pl. 5. Emele: Alterthiimer Rheinhes-
sens. Mainz 1833, Pl. 29, Fig. 2.

“Wagner: Handbuch d. Alterthumskunde, 1842, Tig. 297.

10 Aspelin: Antiq. Fig. 1776, 1778, 1784, 1785.

\' Sievers, Graf K: Bericht iiber archiiologische Untersuchungen, 1875. Verhandl.
d Estn. Gesellsch, Bd. vi, Heft 3. Dorpat 1876, Pl. i, Fig. 43, p. 8, No. 22, and p. 17,
NOs o2.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 567

“ Fig. 66 is a necklace; the form recurs in stone positions in Cour-
land,’ in the district of Kowno and Wilna, Russia,? and near Marien-
burg, in Prussia.’

LUAg

Fig. 63. Fig. 64. Fig. 65,
3RONZE PIN. ORNAMENT. BRONZE RING.

NECKLACE.

Vig. 68. Fie. 69,
ORNAMENT. ORNAMENT.
FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.

Copied from © Grewingk, in Verh. gel. Est. Ges. 1888, Bd. xii

“A necklace is also shown in Fig. 67. This form is known from the
stone boat at Fellin and other places in Estonia,! from skeleton graves
in Courland,’ in the Russian district of Kowno,® and from cineraria, at
the mouth of the river Memel, in Prussia.?

“ Wigs. 68 and 69 are the fragments of an ornament. They have thus
far not been known to have been found in graves.

' Aspelin; Antiq. Figs. 1826, 1875, 1880.

2 Aspelin: Antiq. Figs. 1892, 1900.

3Undset: Erstes Auftreten des Eisens, p. 139, Pl. xv, Fig. 13.

tAspelin: Antiq. Figs. 1764 and 1786.

5 Aspelin: Antiq. Fig. 1879.

"Hartmann: Vaterliind Museum, p. 35, Pl. ii, Figs. 20,21. Aspelin: Antiq. Fig. 1885.

7Photogr. Album d. Berliner Ausstellune 1880; Sect. i, Pl. 13; Cat. 418, Nos. 520-
542. Tischler: Griihertelder iii, Pl. e, i, Fig. 16.
568 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

“In Fig. 70, a necklace or bracelet is shown of a form found upon
Usedom, in Pomerania,! and in larger dimensions in a skeleton grave
in Mecklenburg,’ and near Thale, in the Harz Mountains.*

“Necklaces or arm rings are shown in Figs. 71,72, 73, 74. They have
been found in Courland and Kowno district.‘

Fig. 74
ARMRINGS OR NECKLACES FROM CINERARIUM, AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
Copied from C, Grewingk, in Verh. gel, Est. Ges. 1888, Bd. XII.)

‘“ Bracelet or fragment of belt hook (Fig. 75). Similar forms have been
recovered from the cemetery at Elbing and cinerarinm at Olivia, near
Danzig; they have been found in Pomerania’ and in Schwarzburg
Rudolstadt.?. Worth mentioning is the girdle hook from an urn in
Brandenburg, Prussia, and a peculiarly jointed bracelet from Oeland.®

Fig. 76.
CLASPS FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, Russia.
(Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh. gel. Est. Ges. 1888, Bd. X11.)

“ The clasp (Fig. 76) has suffered from high temperature; a similar
form is known from Courland.?

“The spiral spring of bronze (Fig. 77) occurs in the ¢edcov of the Per-
sians, as described by Herodotus, and also in the armament of Seandi-

' Berliner Photogr. Album 1880; Sect. ii, Pl. 20; Cat. 322, No. 56.

* Lisch: Friederico-Franciscanum. Leipzig 1837, Pl. x, Fig. 2.

° Berliner Album, 1880. Sect. vi, Pl. 14, Cat. 527.

4 Aspelin: Antiq. Figs. 1769 (Langensee), 1835 (Kandan), 1838 (Passeksten), 1866
(Wistu-Kappi), 1877 (Herbergen).

5 Undset: Erstes Auftreten des Eisens, pp. 147 and 140, Pl. xv, Figs.10 and 14,
Tischler: Griiberfelder 111, Pl. c, 1, Fig. 11.

® Berliner photogr. Album, Sect. iii, Pl. 19, Cat., p. 324.

7 Berliner photogr. Album, Sect. vi, P]. 22, Cat. 590, Nos. 39 and 40.

®Undset: Erstes Auftreten des Eisens, p. 200, Pl. xxi, Fig.1, and p. 386, Fig, 63.

® Aspelin: Autiq. Fig. 1797.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 569

navian warriors of the early bronze age; it has been described as a
German protective armor and appears to be very frequent during the
younger heathenish iron period in the Baltic lands. A corresponding
specimen was found in the Strante ship.

“Figs. 78 and 79 are finger-rings of bronze wire; their chemical com-
position places them nearest to the bronze fibule from Herbergen, in
Courland, whose form corresponds to one from the Ahschekippe stone
position.' These rings are of frequent occurrence in the graves of the
first Kast Baltic iron périod.

Fig. 78. Fig. 79.
SPIRALS FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
Copied from ©. Grewingk, in Verh, gel. Est. Ges. 1888, Bd. XIII.)

“ Wie. 80 is a finger ring corresponding in form to rings found in the
Estonian district Harrien,? in the stone heap of Rippoka, in Livonia.*
The same form, but in silver, together with silver nippers, was found
in a cinerarium in the East Prussian district of Gumbinnen.t These
forms may be traced to the younger iron period, as, for instance, in the
graves upon Oesel and as cast imitations inthe Wotish skeleton graves
near Gatchina.® <A like ornamentation is noticeable in Mecklenburg,®
and one specimen was taken from a Roman grave in the Upper Pala-
tinate.’

“ Rig. 81 represents a pair of bronze nippers; similar ones were taken
from the Strante ship, from the urn graves near Libau, Russia,® and
from a cemetery in the province of Prussia.’

“ Nippers of iron are shown in Fig. 82, and the same form occurred
in the Strante see Krawand, and in graves in Prussia.!"

“Fig. 83 shows a buckle of bronze of the same form as were found in
the urn graves at Libau and in Kast Prussian grave fields."'.

1Archiv f. Anthrop. xX, 301. Analysis No. 5, Pl. ii, Fig. 9.

2 Hansen: Alterthiimer. Reval 1875, p. 41, Pl. v, Fig. 21.

3 Hartmann: Vaterliind. Museum, Pl. xi, Fig. 11.

4 Tischler: Griberfelder iii, Pl. x, Fig. 13, p. 261, grave No. 31.

7 Aspelin: Antiq. Fig. 1162; also Figs. 803, 1046, 1951, 1970, 1992, 2084.

6 Lisch: Friderico-Franciscanum, Pl. xxii, Fig. 1.

7 Lindenschmit: Alterthiimer heidn. Vorzeit. Bd. 1, Heft 5, Pl. 4, Fig. 5.

8 Aspelin: Antiq. Fig. 1841.

* Tischler: Griiberfelder m1, Pl. x, Figs. 6 and 7,

WUndset: Erstes Auftreten des Eisens, Pl. x, 19; xiii, 14; xiv, 8 and 9.

“ Berliner photogr, album, 1880. Sect. i, Pl. 2.

570 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

* Nios, 84, 85, 86 represent belt fastenings of bronze; corresponding
forms occur in the stone heaps of Strantesee; they are often met with
in the first Baltic iron period, and in the younger Scandinavian bronze

age.

, BH ere
Wi Dre EAD EE ETIEB Ly EEE ET TING

Fig. 82.
NIPPERS FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
(Copied from C, Grewingk, in Verh, gel. Est. Ges. 1888. Bd. xt.)

“A lance point is shown in Figs. 87 and 88; similar point was found
in the Kaugerkrawand in Livonia, together with Roman coins of the
years 161 to 180.

“igs. 89, 90, 91, and 92 are single-edged iron knives, of a form not
otherwise known in the East Baltic Lands. Some knives from the

Fig. 83.
BUCKLE FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
(Copied from C. Grewingk, im Verh. gel. Est. Ges, J888. Bad. xtit.)

Slaveek ship! approach the form, as also some from the Finnish Dis-
trict Wasa.” Knives corresponding to those found at Tiirsel have been
taken from graves of the first iron period in the province of East
Prussia,’ and they have also occurred at Ascheraden, in skeleton graves
of the younger iron period.”!

aoa On ‘is
bili HNN im € ht
Fig. 84. Fig. 85. Fig. 86.
3ELT-FASTENINGS FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
Copied from C. Grewingk, in Verh. gel. Est. Ges, 1888. Bd. xii.

From the large number of imported bronze articles found Grewingk
concludes that the foreign intercourse with Tiirsel appears to have been
more extended than with any other portion of Estonia and Livonia;

' Sievers, Graf K., Bericht in Verhandl.d. Estn.Ges yur Heft3, Pl. i, a 3h, 13- 45.

* Archiv f. Anthrop. x, p. 81, 310.

* Berendt: Zwei Griiberfelder in Natangen. Kénigsberg, 1874, Pl. i, Fig. 26; PI.
vil, Figs. 26, 30. Sitzungsber. d. Alterthumsges. ‘‘ Prussia.” Nov. 1885-86, p. 9, Pl. iv.

4 Aspelin: Antq. Fig. 1921 and 2085.

=
PREH.STORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 571

and in view of the fact that the neolithic inhabitants of that section
obtained their flint supplies from the West Baltic lands and that such
intereourse had continued during the Scandinavian bronze age (500
B. CG.) the helleristinger of which show rowboats, he connects the
boat graves of Estonia and Livonia with the typical form of Suionian
ships as shown in the Nydam boat belonging to the identical period
(the third century), and suggests that the stone ship-burials served as
the forerunners of the wooden funeral ships of the Vikings.

LANCE POINT AND KNIVES FROM CINERARIUM AT TURSEL, RUSSIA.
(Copied from C.Grewingk, in Verh. gel. Est, Ges, 1888, Bd. xi.

Another fact to be considered in this connection is the age of the Ro-
man coins found in the various cineraria of Estonia and Livonia; they
represent the period of from 30 B.c. to 244 A.D. Among them are: de-
nars of Augustus, Vespasian, Faustina, Antoninus Pius, a Gordian, ete.,
thus representing almost the identical coins found in the Nydam boat,
the consideration of which will form the next chronological step.

3efore taking up the Nydam boat, however, the following table,
showing the dimensions of a number of boat-shaped stone positions,
may not be out of place here.

In the following table the dimensions are given of a number of these boat-shaped stone
positions.

Locality. Width.

|
Length.

tie a eS De
|

Feet. | Feet.

Res UGCA ae SOCOM) 62 fen) eae etaar le epee ene Sea eee So Lc am cele cas Cision 212 60
Nene KCHERISN OL ialvOnla) EulUuSSin 2 octal. cces 6 see eee fee ais Se eee ee ee: 189 | 57
Damp lar rss wed eer. 2. (-2.> 25 cr. tal tae ae ene amy Geren el Me oe es ea ae 182 50
NOUS ee SCO CEO RIE ON EC CU ae = cicero I een ee ek 2 eS aac 182 | 50
Williere nab VONIAIVISSIas << ct ee. weiss tate tee eee aa: aan ean heh hey sk epee eee 139 | 52
Wiestenmraniors bODmiOlM a ENINAT Kiss ~ «ose see nae cee oid sss e ose eS ems eee oeeec cet 157 | 63

3raidflor, Gotland, Sweden —-...-.
572 * REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Dimensions of boat-shaped positions—Continued,

Locality. Length.| Width.
Feet. Feet.

Strante; Wivoniasy Russie geecc acess sacteeste Soagee ae ee tne ae cans eee eee 142 on
Blonsholim:;Bohnslany Swedencesescssc cane sae nia aoe eae res heen ee ee eee eee 141 314
Gotland Ss WCAC se sec eases, scien ineve sie ain so eiaieicicle Man eet ae rep ertee Gere Sane ee eee 140 33
Slaweek#Mivonta: Russias s4s- cc sass cs sce oes Sees Seek oo eee ee ee eee 140 40
Stralsund’ German yeaa. t.st cle 6s Parainialt aie eS Se eases meee CASS Boe eR EE eee 130 16
Cawers hos sesOnNis wi LSBIAa = o<.-/ase ae ee oye he ieee ae meee nee Oe eee eee | 126 42
Maaro eivonia wRUSSIA a= 2,05,50¢ = nen 5. Seer ae eee oe aera eee yee eee ae 120 37
Vestermarie, Bornholm, Denmark .-........-.-.--. Oa AION aT Nord nt eas OER ee Ne 103 40
DDO eis Ss Beate fe ois Si5 Si 5 mys s Re efi a ag Sree eae mI ee Te capes eS 103 25.
HortehammeneBlelkin eS wed Oni sc ae lars 2 acs 4 sate he sentence oe ote ae eee eee | 100 29
iVestermariesbornholm, Denmanles. sce. a) =e 9 na ae ee eee eee | 97 143
IKTOUOVEN SO WECM sno a arrsciet soins ee aa io sare fe IS alae Stee SE oe eee ee 92 32
Waillenialsivonia;aRUSeIa: s2.5:ts ctor acit~ ooate = Ss oe wos cece See eaele eee ae etree ee ania | 89 29
Vestermarié-ebornholm,, Denmarkirs 2c. oa ose 35s nee sie ae goatee sane ace 85 144
Kawershotwihivonia, Russia. 2. crete se ee ee eee oe ela eee 70 24
Viestermarice, Bornholm, (Oenmarks.- oc acre = eee ste loi oan, Hee Seely eae Sane Ia | 62% 124
LO raters acto etn ei cias ils beso yie ane sea foig ae aie Be oe IE OE eee WIE ee oe ic ene eee ) 2683 25

IONS 3 cities Sanna Sa Ron SD ODUScanDe OO 14 SI0AS ee era -— ouodo- Seer BeemeeMcodaaoqeeaoe 523 143
Lieben, Courland -..---- Bee BSS C EE SA SAAB EE AA en ASE Donets GEER EB andiees daacawadtne : 503 14
Pista 1G Oban SW RMON iat ac oh ato y= oases ale <i io ne eT nce Oar oS ee ee One on eee 50 16
Haro, "Gotland; Sweden.=: =<... ..csiseseeeteee eerie ee Senet ee ee see a ee eee 50 8
Tiirsel, Estonia, Russia..--.-...--- Bi Retire Baan ty oe RE tre ESRC! oper RT ar eS 50 20
AVSIM KNSS Ison NO NG ID eI NEN El eee ic Gee ane e pon ide Saoenn ae sabes sce se she eeeadesse ao 84
Waidser-@oupland, RUSssiagcct 22/2) scae see eae nein ancl ne ealiers oe erepaae nie ete ek ae 49 10
Nogallensi@ oumlantd sy htss tare er se seme ase cea = Sette ee ee eee ee eee) ee 47.10 10
NWestermariesbormlolm ss Denmankses. seers = 2cer- obese aerer nee eee ee eEe oer eee 42 10
WO sec eet eatste = te iealeia sere sS aie ahs A Set ced aoe eo erctnasie oP eee 374 8h

DD Ore 58 sees See Peas See se noes Pee eee See Sea ee oan oes eee See 34} 74
ithevcund ley; socdermaniland. sired emia. hee eee eae eee nee eee 34 10
iebenwiCourland RUSSIA) 55 te Sen ecasece- SCs oe pee Oe eee eee eee 31 10
STANTS WelVONIAn RUSS Oe oe Sees ooo Soo eine eee ele eee Oe arcane SEE Ee ee aeee 31 8
Viestermarie;Bormholm-s Denmark 2 ..sss-ece 5= = ccesonieisticee sane ace cee eee es eee 31 6
MushineCourland? Russias-6 scpennos2 soe ses ee ee pene se eee aera ore 27 13
DOS okra Sen Sak Sn a ctor a cise ols eis SIS ees She sas See aslo SAO Sei Rene eee ee 25 10
PAC IM ae Lal ON: SVU SSID sare oe 2 ayes aakes ew arene a UR eG Rie eben oie ee eee Lice 3 Te eh eee 22 9

The Nydam Boat.'— The oldest Scandinavian naval relic, part of an
oar, was found in the Nydam Moss, northeast of Flensburg, in the
Duchy of Schleswig, in the year 1859, and the remaining part of the
same oar in 1862. On August 7, 1863, the remains of a boat were ex-
cavated; on October 18, 1865, a large and magnificent oak-built boat

' Engelhardt, C.: Denmark in the Early Iron Age. London, 1866. Handelmann,
H.: 35 Bericht z. Alterthmnskunde Schleswig-Holsteins, 1878. Handelmann, H.:
Das alteste germanische Seeschiff. In Corr. Bl. d. D. Ges. f. Anth., No. 12,
Dec., 1871, p. 95; No. 1, Jan. 1872, p. 8. Stephens, Geo.: Nydam Moss. In Gentle-
man’s Mag., Oct. 1863, NeW Ser., vol. xx, p. 681. Werner, R.: Das Seewesen der
Germanischen Vorzeit. In TIllust. Monatsh., 1882, Oct. PBoehmer, Geo. H.: Norsk
Naval Architecture. In Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. rx.

—_— =”
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 573

was discovered lying in the direction of the valley, from southeast to
northwest, and on October 29, 1863, a third boat, built of fir, was found
at the side of the second boat and parallel with it.

The first of these boats was in a very poor state of preservation,
having evidently been intentionally destroyed; nevertheless the frag-
ments found and taken up displayed sufficient resemblance to the
corresponding parts of the second and third boats to indicate the same
construction for all three. The second and best preserved was placed
in the hands of Mr. Stephenson, restorer of antiquities, at Copenha-
gen, and of the restored boat the accompanying Figures 93 and 94 are

Fig. 93.
NypaAm Moss Boat.

(Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘* Denmark in the Early Lron Age. )

Fig. 94.
Nypam Moss BOAT.
(Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the Early [ron Age.’ )

representations as figured by Prof. C. Engelhardt *, under whose diree-
tion the excavation of Nydam Moss had been conducted and from
whose work the following description has been taken:

“When first discovered the boat was, of course, no longer in its
original state. In course of time the washers of the bolts by which the
planks were fastened together had corroded, the ropes joining the outer
parts of the boat to the inner framework had been destroyed, the planks
in consequence had separated and resumed their original shape, the
rowlocks had fallen from the gunwale, the ribs had sunk out of their
proper places and Jay in different directions, whilst the stem and stern

574 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

the boat fell to pieces, these sank to the bottom to about the same depth,
while the peat, at the same time, grew up around them, covering and
protecting them from destruction. The shape of the boat could not
therefore be directly ascertained from the pieces found, and the sketches
of it were not made until, after the lapse of so many centuries, it had
been restored to its original form in the Museum of Northern Antiqui-
ties at Flensburg. No drawing, however, can fully convey the striking
impression produced by the large, sharp, and well-built boat itself.

“The boat is 77 feet long, measured from stem to stern, and propor-
tionally rather broad in the middle, namely, 10 feet 10 inehes, flat at
the bottom, but higher and sharper at each end (PI. LXXIrv).

KEEL PLANK OF NYDAM BOAT.

Copied from C. Englehardt, *‘ Denmark in the Early Lron Age.”

“It is clinker-built, and consists of eleven oak planks, viz., five on
either side, besides the bottom plank (Fig. 95), of which the keel form
part, the latter being only « litthe more than 1 inch deep and fully 8
inches broad at the middle of the boat, gradually diminishing and at
last vanishing entirely toward the sternpost.

“The planks are held together by large iron nails (Fig. 96), at inter-
vals of 54 inches, with large, rounded heads outside, and square burrs.

Fig. 96.

Rivers of NypAmM Boar.

(Copied from C. Engelhardt, ‘‘ Denmark in the Early Iron Age.’’)

or washers, inside. The spaces between the planks where they overlap
‘ach other were filled up—caulked—with woolen stuff and a pitchy,
sticky substance.

“The planks are cut froin very fine pieces of timber, the bottom plank
being 46 feet 8 inches long, and all of one piece. On both stems, which
are fixed to the bottom plank by means of wooden pegs (Fig. 97), there
are ornamental grooves, and each of them shows two large holes, which,
to judge from the marks of wear, most likely have served to pass the
ropes through when the boat was hauled ashore.

“On all the planks there are perforated clamps of one and the same
piece with the planks (Fig. 98) themselves, having been ieft projecting
when the planks were cut out of the solid timber, a most surprising
PLATE LXXIV.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

(osV Woly Ajlegq oy Ul YreuIUEd,, Sypaeylesug “OM w10ay pordog)
"ANVWYAD ‘SIMS3ATHOS ‘SSOI WYGAN NI GNNOJ Lvog

GLOlOtomoOmaoniomorne
® .

teeepee

ll

CORREO AC ie aOR a etl cen
iy 4 >on
eg * pe

“a
f rs 7
A 7
4 gr
‘ a.
5 ‘ ?,

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 575

fact, considering the high development to which the smith’s art had
been carried, a fact, too, which proves that they must have possessed a
great abundance of timber, as they would not otherwise have wasted
it to that degree only in order to save a few nails or to secure the clamps
so much better.

Fig. 97.
CONNECTION OF PROWS WITH KEEL.
Copied from C, Englehardt, ‘* Denmark in the Early Iron Age.”
“The ribs, which give the boat its shape (Fig. 99), are mostly in their
’ be) ’ 5,
natural crooked and irregularly bent shape, and rest on the clamps
projecting from the planks which form regular rows across the boat,
those on one plank exactly corresponding to those on the next. The
ribs have perforations corresponding to the clamps, through which bast
ropes were passed, tying planks and ribs together (Fig. 100). This is
again highly surprising in a nation familiar with the use of iron and

Fig. 98. Fig. 99.
CLAMPS ON PLANKS. CONNECTION BETWEEN RIBS AND PLANKS.

Copied from C, Englehardt, “ Denmark in the Early Iron Age.’’)

able to work it so well. At the same time it is possible that a loose
connection between the framework and the planking of the boat served
to give it more elasticity to the sides, and that boats built in this man-
ner went through the surf and great waves easier than those more
strongly built.

“Upon the gunwale were fixed the rowlocks which, although made of
the same general model, yet all differed from one another in size or in
the details of the work. Fig. 101 represents one of the best preserved.
They were tied to the gunwale by means of bast ropes; and in this case,
too, it might seem surprising that for the fixing of such important pieces
as the rowlocks recourse should have been had to such weak fasten-
ings, which must so often have required to be renewed. But this method
had at the same time the advantage of rendering it possible to turn them
when necessary and row the boat in the opposite direction, particularly
as both ends of the boat were so exactly alike that it is difficult to say
576 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

which is the prow and which the stern. It is true that the width of the
boat at the fourth rib is a few inches greater than at the fifteenth, which
corresponds to it at the other end; but this difference is so small that
it was probably not intentional, and the boat has, no doubt, been de-
signed to shoot through the waves with equal speed, whichever way it
was rowed. The oars were passed through loops of rope tied to the
rowlocks, on which the marks of wear by the oars are still quite visible.

=
=

—

Fig. 100.
INTERNAL VIEW OF STEM,
Copied from C, Engleharudt ‘* Denmark in the Early Lron Age.’’)

“At the sides, about 10 feet distant from the stern, the rudder (Fig.
102) was discovered. Its length is 9 feet 7 inches, and near the middle
it has a hole through which a rope may have been passed for the pur-
pose of tying it to the side of the boat. Just below this hole there is

Fic. 101.
ROWLOCK OF NYDAM BOAT.
(Copied from C Englehardt, *‘ Denmark in the Early Iron Age.”

a little cushion of wood fixed with three wooden pegs, intended to pro-
tect the rudder from injury by knocking or getting against the side of
the boat, and at the top there is a loose piece with two handles.

“The thwarts (Fig. 103) were strengthened by two angular boards
underneath (Figs. 104, 105) and supported by three perpendicular pieces
of wood. Only in one place, by the middle thwart, these boards were
tolerably well preserved, but even there the ends were so soft as not to
admit of any very complete examination, and it remains uncertain in

a
PLATE LXXV,

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

(oe ‘d ,‘aSy aoay ATIVY oT] UL Yavuued,, Sqprvyjesug *O wo. perdop)
“ands Jo outjyno pesoddns ‘f :suojqoes esteasuedy ‘9 “p ‘9 SeAOqe UOIJ Meas OULES *q ‘yurid w10940q JO MaIA apg “D
"ANVWYSD ‘DIMSSIHOS ‘SSO|] WYGAN NI GNNOJ Lvog-ul4

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. by ars

what way they were fixed to the sides of the boat. A wiekerwork mat
covered the bottom of the boat.

“The fir boat (Pl. LXXv) was tolerably complete when first discovered,
and its different parts were brought on shore during the next following
day after it had been laid bare aid the contents taken out on the 27th

Fig. 102. Fig. 103.

RUDDER OF NYDAM BOAY. THWARTS IN NyDAM Boat.
(Copied from C. Englebardt, ‘* Denmark im the Early Iron Age.’’)

October, 1863. In order to protect the timber of this boat until the res-
toration of the oak boat could be finished, it was covered over with peat,
but before anything could be done to save it, the country was occupied by
hostile armies. Since then parts of it have been carried away, and the
last remnant will probably soon be destroyed and disappear. Sketches
of the most remarkable parts of this boat are shown in plate LXXv.

“iy ee

[igsidtinteds
Ua eunanagead
Le; (e: =,
=,

Tig. 104. Vig. 105.
THWART SUPPORTS.
(Copied from C. Englehardt, ‘Denmark in the Early lron Age.’’)

“The bottom plank was about 51 feet, 4 inches long and ended in two
points which probably carried long and pointed iron spurs; if so, these
spurs must have been wnder water.

“The side planks have clamps ornamented with mouldings, and eut
out of the same piece of timber as the planks, just as in the two oak
boats. The shape of the rowlocks is somewhat different, and they have
formed a continuous row along the gunwale (Fig. 106).

SM 91, pt 2 37

578 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

‘‘In this boat, as in the oaken boat, the planking was tied to the ribs
by ropes passing through the holes in the clamps, and the principle of
construction was the same; the great peculiarity of the fir boat being
the terminal prolongations of the bottom plank, which probably have
‘arried iron points—a dangerous weapon of attack, equally fit for sink-
ing an enemy’s vessel or holding it firm while being boarded.

“Asin the oaken boat the bottom was covered by a mat of wicker-
work. In several places the timber had cracked, and been repaired by
patches of wood. On the inner surface there are vestiges of the ealk-
ing material, consisting of woven stuff, and a pitehy kind of substance
similar to that used for fixing the feathers on arrows.

Vig. 106.
FIXED OAR CLAMP IN NYDAM Boat.
(Copied from ©, Enelehardt, ** Denmark in the Early Iron Age.’’)

“The boats here described I consider to have been mere rowing boats,
not destined to carry sails, and in forming this opinion I rely principally
on the fact that neither masts nor any signs of rigging have been dis-
covered, nor any arrangements in the boat for fixing the necessary
ropes. It is true that in the middle of the bottom plank of the oak
boat, as well as of the fir boat, there is a hole of about 14 inches diam-
eter; but these holes are too sinall to have carried masts, and may have
served for letting out water when the boats were hauled on shore, as
was probably the case at the beginning of the winter.

‘As I have stated before, the oak boat had been intentionally sunk
by means of large holes cut in one of its sides below watermark; at the
same time it had been caused to lean over on that side which was
nearest the shore, that is, on the northeastern side. Beside this, the
stemposts had in course of time detached themselves from the bottom
plank leaving a large opening at each end. AIL these circumstances
had necessarily caused a great part of the contents of the boat to float
or drift out of it. But a part remained, and showed in several respects
an intentional arrangement, objects of the same kind being accumulated
into heaps at particular places.”

In Nydam Roman denari were discovered, embracing the period of
from 69 to 217 of our era, and of the following emperors and empresses:
Nitellius (1), Hadrian (1), Antoninus Pius (10), Faustina the Elder (4),
Marcus Aurelius (7), Faustina the Younger (1), Lucius Verus (2), Lu-
cilla (2), Commodus (5), and Macrinus (1). The latest of these coins
was minted in A. D. 217.*

“Obs: Laureate head, Imp[erator] C[aius] M[arcus] Opelfius] Sev[erus], Macri-
mus Aug[ustus], Rev. Pont[ifex], Max[imus Tr[ibunitia], Plotestate], Co[n]s{ul],
Prater] Patri). Jupiter standing, a spear in -his left hand, and -the thunderbolt
in his right.
PREHISTORIC RAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 5T9

They give us an approximate date for the object with which they
were found. Allowing some time for their transport from southern
countries, the deposit in the peat bogs can not have taken place be-
fore about the middle of the third century.

All the known coins from discoveries of this age—from mosses,
graves, and chance finds—are of the first three centuries of the Chris-
tian era; the latest known is of Macrinus (A. D. 217). Among them the
Antonines are of most frequent occurrence.

An analysis of the Nydam boat would give us the following interest-
ing table:

IeneinyDenvveengStOMS\ <2. 0= <5. cee cs eae So A esol ins feet and inches.. 69 6
esmestihineo tia Oe lee eet cree a cose ie eer Sere tae Rn ee nes a eae doweee 480
Wid above cunvwaleamidshipse-sseem sa see esas een anes eee ee doszaealOmns
Perpendicular depth from gunwale to bottom ...--.---..----.-...----: dos eS eL0
Wraivecavnrmni devotee ly seit cease Sees mia ee Steve is seine Okey ae
Db rciiiecn OU Ss Ofer me ere eons a Sete e eae Ne eae pak eee eee Wasoa 2a
Comialenuboverwabeninechesmicdile: teen sss 9 s- pee een eee eee doseaaelealo
Gunwale, abovenvwater abimhe stems ..+-- 22-52... <cc.-c2 4-22 seca se ecco esac! tb te!
ienochoruppermost water Wines 2--s5o-- 2. .-2---cc5-- - feet and inches.. 58 0
VAG GhE GLU pPPELMOSit weubemulMes eh i Neel es dee abs ee Sect a SEE Cas 7 i
AreaoLilppermosb water lime joa! 222 sot sd. 3csjees testes odes square feet -- 333
AEG CLE WANGIC UKE TRY GSE See See SOS AOS AA se Ses ee ee ee a Serre eae doze 12
WisplacementrIMECULC ee bexsss cetera sa ac ease eee ene sa ae cubic feet. - 448
Displacement center before the middle ....-.. 2... 2.2. etek eee tons. . 14
Nien OiMmOarsnonmeachh SiG ss.w--ke we cee se ceca sin esvie S282 soe Se wee eee 14
Distance between oars ..-.--...---- heed ee oka ie cee ees Sani ae feet and inches... 3 6
Middilevoan aboversurtace of. widely. << es, g:faecseh eode a sieee te sees ce Gkyeceay) 4 il
[Lorbianescti) cy Cove raat MD esp OH wes ese re rere a ms ere ee Moeseee eeO
J Bau TES CONGR CS RO Se aera ag ea sa 40
Wirlohinomerew. weapons, andl proviSiOMS 2-22 — seco +esso2- ose 5 soccer tons-_- 7
Werohnjorship sand equipmentys- a2. 522 22222-2252 seh tec becca seee meets closes ile

Prof. Handelmann! and Admiral Werner? recognize in this boat
the only well-preserved specimen of the oldest German ship, basing their
elaim on the traditions that during the third and fourth centuries
Saxon pirates had repeatedly harassed the coasts of the Roman prov-
inces of Gallia and Brittany, and that the coins found in the boats
point to about that period.

Admitting the piratical excursions of the Saxons, our knowledge of
their naval architecture (as shown on page 549) does not justify the
acceptance of such hypothesis, most especially since the boats of the
Nydam type in general appearance point to the ship of the Scandina-
vians (Suiones), explicitly described by Tacitus as being so entirely
different from the Roman ships, which, in comparison with the primitive
ships of the coast inhabitants of Germania, had attained a high degree
of perfection. A navy that produced ships of the Nydam pattern must

' Handelmann, H.: Nydam boat; Das iilteste germanische Seeschiff. In Corres-
pondenzblatt d. Deutsch. Ges. f. Anth. No. 12, Decbr. 1871, p. 95.

2 RL Werner: Das Sexvesen dor Germanischen Vorzeit. In Westermann‘s I]lus-
trirte Monatshefte, October, 1882,
580 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

have been the growth of centuries before the times of Tacitus; it is
also an historical fact that the fleets of powerful nations do not remain
idle, and we thus may infer that the Suiones navigated the sea long
before the time of Tacitus; it is not at all improbable that in follow-
ing the coast they extended their journeys to Brittany and Gallia.

The Roman writers after Tacitus mention the naval expeditions of
the Saxons and Franks, whose names do not occur in Tacitus, hence,
summing up all the preceding considerations, it is not improbable that
they are the identical people whom Tacitus described as the Suiones
and who included all the tribes of the North beyond the lhne of Roman
conquests.

Sagas.—The second and more recent record of the people of the North
is found in the sagas. With reference to these Laing! says: “It does
not appear that any saga manuscript now existing has been written
before the fourteenth century, however old the saga itself may be. It
is known that in the twelfth century Are, Frode, Seemund, and others
began to take the sagas out of the traditionary state and fix them in
writing, but none of the original skins appear to have come down to
our time, but only some of the numerous copies of them.” It is also
stated that Saxo Grammaticus has depended on many Icelandic sagas
which had then not existed in writing.

Extensive bibliographies of the saga literature are given in the
Heimskringla and in other works.’

The extent of the Northern saga literature being comparatively lit-
tle known I reproduce here a bibliographical list as given by Rasmus
B. Anderson in his latest revision of the Heimskringla. As stated by
him ‘the list is taken from that given by Thormod Torfeus in his
‘Series Dynastarum et Regu Danie,’ from that given by Miiller in
his ‘Sagabibliothek,’ and from that of Biorn Haldorson. The notes on
the date and contents are extracted chiefly from Miiller’s work. The

'Heimskringla, translation by Laing 1, 23.

2 Snorre Sturlason: Heimskringla (Laing’s translation) 1,17. Burton: Ultima Thule
1, 237. Baring-Gould: Iceland, its scenes and sagas. London, 1863. Appendix
D. Karl Maurer: Ueber die Ausdriicke altnordisiche, altnorwegische und isliindische
Sprache. Miinchen, 1867 (also in Abh. K. B, Akad. d. Wiss.). G. P. Marsh: Transla-
tion of P. E. Miiller’s ‘Origin, progress, and decline of Icelandic historical literature’
(in the Amer. Eclectic, N. Y., 1841, vols.1, 11). Lindblohm: Translation of Bishop Troll’s
Letters sur l’Islande. Paris, 1781 (cf. Pinkerton’s Voyages, vol. 1). Chavanne: Biblio-
graphy of the Polar Region, p. 95. Geo. H. Boehmer: Bibliography of the voleanoes,
earthquakes, and geysers of Iceland, p. 513.  Solberg’s list of illustrative works
appended to Anderson’s version of Horn’s list of the Scandinavian North. Poole’s
Index, p. 622, and supplement p. 214. A Compendious History of the Goths, Swedes,
and Vandals, and other northern people. London, 1650 and 1658 (translated from the
Latinof OlausMagnus). Svearikes Historia: Stockholm, 1746-62. Mallet?s Northern
Antiquities. London edition, 1847. JVheaton: Northmen. Xavier Marmier: Histoire
de V’Islande. Dahlmann, F. C.: Geschichte von Diinemark, 1840-43.  Geijer, E. J.:
History of Sweden, English translation, London, 1845; German translation, Ham-
burg and Gotha, 1832-’57.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 581

words historical or fabulous indicate only that the work is founded
on facts apparently or is a work of fiction. The editor has consulted
in this connection ‘ Catalogus Librorum?’ and the ‘ Verzeichniss,’ by the
learned Prof. Theodor Mobius of Kiel, and Gudbrand Vigfusson’s edi-
tion of Cleasby’s Icelandic-English Dictionary and his edition of Stur-
lunga Saga.

Adonius Saga (of a king and duke in Syria). Fabulous.

Alafleks Saga (of a son of a King Richard of England). Fabulous.

Alexander Mikla Saga (of Alexander the Great, translated by Bishop Brand Jonson,
by order of Hakon Hakonson). Historical.

Amicus Saga ok Amilius (of Amicus and Amilius, belongs to the story of the Seven
Wise Men). Fabulous.

Amloda Saga (of Hamlet, freely translated from Saxo). Fabulous.

Andra Rimur (rhymes of or concerning Andreas).

Ans Saga (of an Buesvinger). Mythologico-historical.

Arna Biskups Saga (of Bishop Arne, flourished 1260). Historical.

Arons Saga Hiorleifssonar (of Aron, son of Hiorleif). Historical.

Asmundas Saga vikings ins Irska.

Berings Saga fagra (of the beautiful Bering, a Saxon king). tabulous.

Bandamanna Saga (of the confederates—account of an Icelandic Jaw-process in the
eleventh century). Local history.

Bardar Saga Snefelsass (of Bard, son of King Duma, a giant). Fabulous.

Barlaams Saga ok Josaphats.

Bevus Saga (of Bevis, son of an English Count Ginar). Fabulous.

Biskupa Ségur (Sagas of the Bishops). Of these two large volumes have been pub-
lished by the Icelandic Literary Society.

Bjarnar Saga Hitdelakappa (of Bjorn of Hitdale, a contemporary of Olaf the Saint).
Historical.

Blomstrvalla Saga ( a translation from the German by Biorn, in Hakon Hakonson’s
time). The name Blomstrvalla is from a place near Alexandria, where the scene
is laid.

Bodvars Biarka Saga, Historical.

Bose ok Herauts Saga (of Bose and Heraut). Fabulous.

Bragda-Magus Saga. Mythical.

Brandkrossa Thatlr (Traits of Helge Asbiornson of Helge Droplaugson). Fabulous.

Breta Sdgur (Saga of Wales, called Bretland; the parts of England occupied by the
Anglo-Saxons were called Saxland by the Northmen). This is from Geoffrey of
Monmouth’s work.

Broddhelga Saga (of a chief who died about 974). Historical.

Bua Saga (of Bue Andredson). Fabulous.

Damusta Saga (of a Damusta who killed Ion, king of a country south of France, and
became King of Greece). Fabulous.

Dinus Saga Dromblata (of Dionysius the Proud, son of King Ptolemy, in Egypt).

Draplaugarsona Saga (of the sons, Helge and Grim, of Draplaug). History and fable
mixed; the period, the tenth century.

Drauma Jons Saga (of John, the dreamer and Earl Henry). Fabulous.

Edda, Semunds (the older Edda). Mythological; English translation by Benjamin
Thorpe, London, 1866.

Edda, Snorres (the younger Edda). Mythological; translated into English by R. B.
Anderson, Chicago, 1880.

Edwardar Saga hins helga (of Saint Edward of England).

Kygils Saga EKinhenda ok Asmundar (of Egil the one-handed and Asmund). Fabulous.

Egils Saga Skallagrimssonar (of Egil, son of Skallagrim). Historical; period, from
the middle of the ninth to the end of the tenth century. Translated into English
by Daniel Kilham Dodge, Pu. b.
582 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Biriks Saga Randa (of Eirik Red, who discovered Greenland and Vinland or Amer-
ica). Historical; period, from near the end of the ninth to the beginning of the
tenth century.

Biriks Saga Vidforla (of Eirik, the wanderer, who goes in search of the land of im-
mortality). Mythological.

Elis Saga (of Elis or Julius and Rosamund). Translated from the French, 1226, by
Monk Robert, by order of Hakon Hakonson.

Lyrbyggia Saga (of Thorgrim, whose forefather, Rolf, came from the Isle of Moster
in the west of Norway, and first planted Iceland with people from his island
(eyrbyggia, isle-settlers) to escape Harald Harfager). Historical; period, from
the first colonizing of Iceland to the middle of the eleventh century.

Fereyinga Saga (of the Farcys). Historical.

Fertrams Saga ok Plato (of Fertrams and Plata, sons of King Arthur). Fabulous.

Finboya Saga hinsramma (of Finboge theStrong). Fableand history; from the mid-
dle of the tenth to the eleventh century.

Flateyar-bok (the Flatey Codex, so called from the Isle of Flatey in Breidafiord in
Iceland, in which the manuscript was discovered in 1650. The annals end in
1395. It contains many sagas transcribed into it, and is considered a most im-
portant historical collection).

Floamanna Saga (of a Thorgil and his ancestors, original settlers in Iceland, and of
his adventures in Greenland. Thorgil died in 1033). Historical.

Flores Saga ok Blankiflur.

Flovents Saga (of Flovent, King of the Franks, inscribed by Master Simon in Lyons).

Fostbredra Saga. Historical.

Fridthiofs Saga (of Fridthiof the Bold.) This beautiful story has been the ground-
work of several poetic and dramatic imitations, of which Bishop Tegner’s in
Swedish, has been translated into English. [See Anderson’s ‘‘ Viking Tales of
the North,” which contains Tegner’s poem in English and a translation of the
original sagas. |

Gautreks Saga. Mythical.

Gibbons Saga (of Gibbon, son of the French King William).

Gisla Saga Surssonar (of Gisle, the son of Sur. Events, of the tenth century in Ice-
land). Historical. Translated into English by G. W. Dasent. Edinburgh, 1866.

Gonger-Hrolfs Saga (of Rolf Ganger, the conqueror of Normandy). Historical.

Granlendinga Thattr (events in Greenland from 1122, and a list of nine bishops and
fifteen churches). Historical.

Gragas (Gray Goose). <A collection of the laws of Iceland. Edited and translated
into Danish by V. Finsen.

Grettis Saga (of Gretter the Strong). Adventures, fabulous and historical, mixed,
of Gretter and his forefathers in the ninth, tenth, and eleventh centuries.
Translated into English by Magntisson and Morris. London, 1869.

Grimsa Saga lodinkinna (the Saga of Grim Shaggy-Chin).

Gudmundar Biskups Saga (of Bishop Gudmund) being part of the third book of the
Sturlunga Saga, or account of the Sturlung family, which ends 1264, and of
which the first books are supposed to have been written in 1201.

Gumars Saga (of Guimar, an English knight).

Gullthoris Saga (of Gold Thorer, or Torskfindinga Saga). Fabulous.

Gunlaugs Saga Ormstungu (of Gunlaug the Serpent-tongued). Historical; the period
about 1006. Translated by Eirikr Magnisson and William Morris, in “Three
Northern Love Stories.” London, 1875.

Gunnars Saga Keldugnups fifls (of Gunnar the Idiot). Fabulous.

Gunnars Saga Thidrandabana (of Gunnar, who killed Thidrande). Historical; sup-
posed to be written about the end of the twelfth century.

Heensa Thoris Saga (of Thorer, the hen merchant). Historical.

Hakonar Konungs Saga Hakonasonar (of King Hakon Hakonson) who was born 1203
and died 1261. Historical; by Sturle Thordson, a contemporary.
PREHISTORIC. NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 583

Hakonar Saga Tvarssonar (of Hakon Ivarsson). Historical.

Halfdanar Saga Bronufostra (of Haltdan, foster-son of Bran). Fabulous.

Halfdanar Saga Eysteinssonar (of Halfdan, son of Eystein). Fabulous.

Halfs Saga (of Half, who, if not altogether a fabulous personage, lived about the
eighth century, or in the sixth according to others.

Hallfredar Saga Vandredaskalds (of Halfred ‘the Skald, desperate or difficult to deal
with,” who lived in Kin y Olaf the Saint’s time. Historical.

Haralds Rimur Hringsbana of Harald, who slew Hring).

Haralds Rimur Kvingiarna (Rhymes of or concerning Harald the Woman- lowe 10).

Havarrar Saga Isfirdings (a tragic tale). Historical.

Hemings Thattr (of Heming, a fabulous personage of Olaf the Saint’s time).

Hervarar Saga (of Hervar). Mythological.

Hialmters ok Olvis Saga (of Hialmther and Olver). Fabulous.

Hogne ok Hedins Saga. Mythological.

Holinwerja Saga. Mixed table and historical facts regarding Iceland.

Hrafnkets Saga Freysgoda. Uistorical; of Harald Harfanger’s time.

Hrafus Saga Sveinbiarnarssonar (of Hrafn, son of Sveinbiorn. )

Heidarviga Saga.

Hrims ok Tryggva Rimur.

Heimskringla (the work by Snorre Sturlason.) Historical. This work has been trans-
lated into many languages.

Hrolfs Saga Kraka (a collection of Sagas, some historical, some fabulous).

Hrolfs Saga Gautrekssonar (of Hrolf, son of Gautrek). Mythological.

Hrolfs Saga Skuggafifls (of Hrolf, son of Skugge the Idiot).

Hrolfs Saga Kraka ok Kappa hans the Saga of Hrolf Kraka and his heroes).

Hromundar Saga Greipssonar. Fabulous.

Hungrvaka (the Hunger-waking; is the name of a saga of the Bishops of Skalholt
down to 1178; the author supposing it would raise an appetite for more),

Illuga Saga Gridarfostra (of Ilugo, foster-son of Grid). Fabulous.

Isfirdinga Saga (of a division of Iceland called Istirding). Historical.

Islendingabok Ara Froda (Book of Iceland, concerning the first colonization of Tee-
land, the introduction of Christianity, ete., usually called Are Frode Sched;
written about 1120). Historical.

‘Ivents Saga Artaskappa. Fabulous; translated from the French by order of Hakon
Hakonson.

Jarlmanns Saga ok Hermanns (of Jarlman and Herman). Fabulous.

Jarnsida (the law of Iceland from a. bp. 1172-1280).

Jokuls Thattr Buasonar (of Jokul, son of Bue). Fabulous.

Jomsvikinga Saga (of the Vikings of Jomsburg, in the Island of Wollin or Jom). His-
torical.

Jonales Rimur (Rhymes of Jonales).

Jons Biskups Saga (of John the Bishop, viz, Jon Ogmundson, who died 1121, Bishop
of Skalholt). Historical.

Jons Saga Leiksveins (of John the Juggler). Fabulous.

Jons Saga Baptista (of John the Baptist). “

Jonsbok (the Icelandic code of laws of A. pb. 1280, and still in use in [eceland).

Kallinius Rimur (Rhymes of Callinius).

Karlamagnus Saga (of Charlemagne).

Aetils Saga Hangs (of Ketil Haeng). Fable and history.

Kirialux Saga (of the Emperor Alexis, viz, Kurios Alexis; but this is a fabulous
emperor).

Klarus Sago Keysarasonar (of Clarus, son of the Emperor). Fabulous.

Knytlinga Saga (of the Danish Kings of the Canute Dynasty, from Herold Gormson
to the Canute VII, supposed to be Olaf Thordson, who died 1259). Historical.

Konrads Saga Keysarasonar (of Konrad, son of the Emperor).
584 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Koung-skuggsja (the King’s Mirror). A didactic scholastic werk.

Kormaks Saga (of Kormak the Skald). Fable and history.

Kraks Spa (Prophecy of Krak).

Kristinrettr (Ecelesiastic Laws, of which there are several collections).

Kristni Saga (of the introduction of Christianity into Iceland, from 981-1000).
Historical.

Kroka Refs Saga (of Ref the Cunning). Fabulous.

Landnamabok (events in Iceland from the original settlement in the ninth to the end
of the tenth century; with names of the first settlers, and of their lands, to the
number of about 3,000 names of persons, and 1,400 of places; supposed to be
written in the last half of the thirteenth century). Historical.

Langfedgatal (series of dynasties and kings in the North). Historical.

Laurentius Biskups Saga (of Bishop Laurence, who was born 1267). Historical, by
a contemporary.

Laxdela Saga (of the decendants of Aud, who settled in Laxdale). Historical.

Liosvetninga Saga lives of the descendants of Thorgeir and Gudmund, and their own
lives, between the middle of the tenth and end of the twelfth century). His-
torical; written about the end of the twelfth century.

Magnus Saga Orkneya Jarls (of Saint Magnus, Karl of Orkney, who was killed 1110),
Historical.

Margretar Saga (of Margaret and Sigurd, in Magnus the Good’s time).

Mariu Saga (of Mary, viz, the Virgin).

Mirmans Saga (of Mirman, a king in Sicily). Fabulous.

Mottuls Saga (of the magic cloak at the court of King Arthur).

Nikolaus Saga Erkibiskups (of Nicholas, Archbishop of Lucca).

Njals Saga (of Nial). Historical; and supposed to be written by Semund Trove, in
the eleventh century. The Saga of Burnt Njal is translated into English by G.
W. Dasent. The title is ‘‘The Story of Burnt Njal; or Life in Iceland.”

Nornagesis Thatty. A mythical story.

Glkofra-Thattr (A comical tale-telling how Thorkel, nicknamed Alchood, brewed the
beer at the althing). Historical.

(@rverodds Saga (of Od the Archer; literally, Arrow-Od). Fabulous.

Orkneyinga Saga (Saga of the Orkney Isles), Translated into English by Jon Hjal-
talin and Gilbert Goudie, and edited, with notes and introduction, by Joseph *
Anderson. Edinburgh, 1873.

Pals Byskups Saga (of Bishop Paul, the seventh bishop of Skalholt, who died in 1211;
probably by a contemporary). Historical.

Parcevals Saga (of Parceval, one of King Arthur’s worthies). Fabulous.

Partalopa Saga.

Petrs Saga Postola (of Peter, the Apostle).

Ragnars Saga Lodbrokar (of Ragnar Lodbrok). History with fable.

Reinalds Rimur (vhymes of Reinald and Rosa).

Reykdela Saga (a story of the feud between the good chief Axel and the evil Vemund
Koger). IJlistorical.

Salusar Saga ok Nikanors (of Saul and Nicanor, two foster brothers, one of Galatia
and one of Italy). Fabulous.

Samsons Saga Fagra (of Samson the Fair). Fabulous.

Sigurdar Saga snarfara.

Sigurdr Saga Thegla (of Sigurd the Silent, son of King Lodver, in Saxland). Fabu-
lous.

Skaldhelga Rimur (rhymes of the Skald Helge).

Skida Rimar (Rhyme of Skide).

Stiornu Odda Draumr (Star Odde, viz, the Astrologer Odde’s Dream).

Stufs Thattr (Traits of Stuf, the Skald, who lived in the time of Harald Sigurdson,
about 1050). Historical.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCH!TECTURE. 585

Sturlunga Saga (of the family of Sturla, of which Snorre Sturlason was a descendant,
from the beginning of the twelfth century to 1284). Historical. Kdited with
prolegomena, appendices, tables, indices, and maps, by Dr. G. Vigfusson. Oxford,
1878. A superb edition.

Svarfdela Saga (of Thorstein, who first settled in Svarfdal, in Iceland; and fabulous
adventures of his successors). History and fable.

Sveins Thattr ok Finns.

Sverris Saga (of King Sverre, from 1177, when Snorre Sturlason’s Heimskringla ends,
to King Sverre’s death), Historical.

Svinfellinga Saga (the story of the sons of Orm, the noted chief of the Svinfell
family). Biographical.

Thidreks Saga (of Dietrik of Bern). The same of the German story.

Thomas Saga Erkibyskups (of Archbishop Thomas of Canterbury). Edited, with
English translation, by Eirikr Magnusson. London, 1875.

Thordar Saga Hredu (of Thord the Terrible, who, in 975, left Norway and settled in
Iceland). Historical.

Thorleifs Thattr Jarlaskalds (of Thorleif the Skald of the Earls of Orkney). His-
torical.

Thormodar Saga Kolbrunarskalds (of Thormod Kolbrunarskald). Historical.

Thorsteins Saga Sidu-Hallssonar (of Thorstein, son of Hal o’ Side). Historical.

Thorsteins Saga Vikingssonar (of Thorstein, son of Viking). Fabulous. Translated
into English by R. B. Anderson, in his ‘‘ Viking Tales of the North.” Chicago,
1877.

Thorvalds Saga Vidforla (tells how Thorvald Kodranson, the far-traveled fellow-
missionary and companion of the Saxon Bishop Frederick, preached the new
faith to the Icelanders for four years, but in vain). Historical.

Ulfhams Rimur (Riymes of Ulfham).

Valdimars Saga Konungs Ce Valdemar, son of King Philip of Saxland).

Vallaliots Saga (of Ljot o’ Vall, an (Colander the story of the twelfth’ century.) His-
torical.

Valvers Thattr (traits of the life of Valver).

Vapnfirdinga Saga (tells of the feuds between the men of Hof and the men of Cross-
wick). Historical.

Vatnsdela Saga (of Ketil Thrumr, his son Thorstein, Ingemund and Szemund, his
grandsons, who settled in Vatnsdal, in Iceland.) Historical.

Vigaglums Saga (of Glum, son of Eyjalf, who went to settle in Iceland, 922). His-
torical. Translated, with notes and an introduction, by Edmund Head. London,
1866.

Viktors Saga ok Blaus (of Victor and Blaus). Fabulous.

Vilhialms Sago Siods (of William of the Treasure, a son of King Richard, in England).
Fabulous.

Vilkina Saga (History of the Vilkins). Mythological, and belonging to the Niblung

literature.
Vilmundar Saga (of Vilmund and Hierande, a son of a king in Frankland). Fabu-
? a)
lous.

Volsunga Saga. Mythological. Translated into English by E. Magnisson and W.
Morris. London, 1870.

The lives of saints (Heilagra Manna Ségur) many of which are men-
tioned in the above list, constitute two large volumes, published by C.
R. Unger, in Christiania. The Postula Sogur, legendary accounts of
the lives of the Apostles, have appeared in a large volume edited by
Prof. C. R. Unger. A large number of the Riddara Sigur, that is,
Romantic Sagas, have been published by Dr. Eugen Kolbing, Stra:
5&6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

burg, and by Dr. I. Cederschidld, of Lund, Sweden. The old Icelandic
literature also abounds in so-called Rimur, or ballads, founded on
written stories. Many of these rimurs have not yet been published.
The most of the mythical sagas are published, collected in three
volumes, by Prof. C. C. Rafn, Copenhagen.”

In 1891 William Morris and Kirikr Magnusson commenced in London,
under the name “The Saga Library,” the publication of a collection of
sagas. At present two volumes have been issued, containing the fol-
lowing sagas: Vol. 1. The Story of Howard the Halt; The Story of the
Banded Man; The Story of Hen Thorir. Vol. 11. The Story of the Ere-
Dwellers (Hyrbyggja Saga) with the story of the Heath-Slayings (Heis-
arwiga Saga). Of these the Sagas of the first volume are not mentioned
in the foregoing list.

Of the story of Howard the Halt a fragment has been preserved in
its older and purer state in pages 145-147 of the Landnamabok.

The story of the Banded Man (Bandamanna Saga) is the latest of the
independent Icelandic Sagas. According to the editors of the Saga
Library (Vol. 1, preface p. xxiti) “it has come down in two versions,
one evidently written in the north and the other in the west or south
of Iceland. The northern text is preserved in the Arnamagniean vellum
132 fol., which paleographers variously refer to the end of the thir-
teenth down to the iniddle of the fourteenth century, and was edited
by H. Fridriksson, at Copenhagen, in 1850. The western text is con-
tained in 2845¢4°, in the old collection of the Royal Library at Copen-
hagen, dating from the beginning of the fifteenth century and was
edited by Gustay J. Chr. Cederschiéld, Lund, 1874.”

The Story of the Heath-Slaying (Heisarwiga Saga), published in the
second volume of the Saga Library is pronounced the oldest of all Iee-
landie sagas. It is stated! that it was purchased by the Royal
Academy of Antiquities in Sweden in 1682, through the ageney of the
Icelander Jon Hggertsson in an incomplete state,’ and that it now forms
part of the Royal Library at Stockholm. In 1722 Arni Magntsson
obtained the loan of the first twelve leaves. He had a copy made of
them but both original and copy were destroyed, in 1728, in the Copen-
hagen conflagration; but his copyist, Jou Olafsson, reproduced them
from nemory. The best edition of the saga is that of Jon Sigurdsson,
in the volume of the Islendinga Ségur.

These then are the records from which we obtain the knowledge
of the Northmen and of their naval architecture.

Ships.—The name ship (skip) appears to have been given to any vessel
propelled by oars from benches or short seats’ that did not extend from
board to board, but having a gangway between them‘ through the

\Morris and Magnisson: The Saga Library, Vol. 11. London, 1892. Preface p.
XXV.

2Cf. Sturlinga 1 prolog. exlvii.

3Flateyarbok, 1, 396. °

4Heimskringla, p. 400.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 587

entire length of the ship. According to the older Gula law, benches
were not employed upon vessels of less than thirteen oars on each side,
and it was from the number of benches on each side (sess), not from the
number of oars, that the ship received the appellation of a 13, 14, 20,
30, ete., seater and were classed as karve (karfi) or longships (lang-
skibet).

The Karve (Karfi) appears to have been propelled exclusively by
oars,! although occasional mention is made of carvels with masts ;” its
name oceurs in various sagas.’ An ordinance of 1315* mentions the
karves as vessels of defense. The karve of Bishop Haakon of Bergen?
and one built in Nidaros in 1381° are the last two of this class of
which mention is made.

The Longship (langskibet—navis longe of the Romans) was the war-
vessel of the North. In building war ships two classes of workmen were
employed, namely, the carpenters who prepared and framed the skele-
ton, and the boarders who prepared the boards and fitted them to the
frames. After the keel had been laid upon the stocks the stem and
stern posts were placed in position, together with the knees, ribs, and
crossbeams, of which the one by the mast was called siglubite, and that
aft by the well, austrbiti. The planks were then fixed to the frames,
but the exact manner in which this was done is not known. ‘They
were, however, fastened to each other by iron bolts that were riveted
on the inner side. The planks, each tier of which had a distinctive
name, overlapped each other, and the tightening was done by the in-
sertion of a layer of oakumn, probably of cattle hair. It is thus evident
that the vessels were clinker-built, although exceptions may be admit-
ted.7 Mr. Nicolaysen® thinks that all vessels were clinker built, and
supports his theory by citing the following well-known ships:

Olaf’s Kathrinar, Sunifu, Postula, Reimar’s Susine, whose name, de-
rived from sus, suggests the clinker structure, and also by the Mariasu-
sen, built by King Sverre at Nidaros,? a ship upon a door pillar at the
church of Nesland;!° the seal of Elif, the Lawyer; the seal of the
municipality of Bergen; the seal of Gunnar Raasvein,'’® and a ship
mentioned in a testament made in 1430. He also claims” that the

1 Jal, d: Archéol. Navale 1, 411, 464.
2 Konungssbgeur—ed. Unger, p. 190. D. Nory. 11, 366.

3St. Olaf Saga, ce. L. GrettiSaga, c. xx. Egils Saga, c. xxxvi.
4Norg. gamle Love, 112.

5]). Norv. vill, No. 131.

6D. Norv. 11, 366.

7H, Miller: Sokvigshistoriens vigtigste Begivenheder, p. 4.
SLangskibet fra Gokstad, p. 15.

9SNorske bygn fra fortiden. 3 raekkje pl. v. (cited by Nicolaysen. )
0 Konungsségur, ed. Unger, pp. 83, 85, 166 (cited by Nicolaysen).
11 ]). Nory. ut, No. 47 (cited by Nicolaysen).

127). Norv. 11, No. 46 (cited by Nicolaysen).
137). Norv. 11, No. 172 (cited by Nicolaysen).
'4]). Norv. v, No. 419 (cited by Nicolaysen).
' Nicolaysen, Langskibet, fra Gokstad, p. 15.
588 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

first carvel ship in the north was the renowned galley built at Bergen
in 1566,' but two Sagas indicate the carvel built. One of them states?
that the beautiful planks of oak were fitted so tight as to represent an
appearance as though they were grown together, and the second re-
counts the building, in 999, by Olaf Trygvason, at Ladehammer, near
Drontheim, of a ship “which was larger than any ship in the country,
and of which the beam knees are still to be seen.” This is the cele-
brated Long Serpent (Ormen-hin-Lange) and an account of it, as given
in the Saga, may be of interest.*

“The length of keel that rested upon the grass was 74 ells. Thor-
berg Shafting was the man’s name who was the master builder of the
ship; but there were many others besides—some to fell wood, some to
Shape it, some to make nails, some to carry timber [this division of
labor and trades in the building of a vessel equal in length to a frigate
of forty guns gives us a very interesting insight into the civilization of
the Pagans of the tenth century and of the state of the useful arts
among them], and all that was used was of the best. The ship was
both long and broad and highsided, and strongly timbered. While
they were planking the ship it happened that Thorberg had to go to
his farm upon some urgent business, and as he remained there a long
time, the ship was planked up on both sides when he came back. In
the evening the King went out and Thorberg with him to see how the
vessel looked, and everybody said that never was seen so large and so
beautiful a ship-of-war. Then the King returned to the town. Early
next morning the King again returned to the ship and Thorberg with
him. The carpenters were there before them, but all were standing
idle with their arms across. The King asked what was tbe mat-
ter? They said the ship was destroyed, for somebody had gone
from stem to stern and cut one deep notch after the other down
the one side of the planking. When the King came nearer he saw
it was so, and said, with an oath: ‘The man shall die who has thus
destroyed the vessel out of envy, if he can be discovered, and I shall
bestow a great reward on who ever finds him out.’ ‘I can tell you,
King,’ said Thorberg, ‘who has done this piece of work.’ ‘I don’t
think,’ replied the King, ‘that any one is so likely to find it out as
thou art.’ Thorberg said, ‘I will tell you, King, who did it; I did it
myself” The King said, ‘Thou must restore it to all the same con-
ditions as before, or thy life shall pay for it... Then Thorberg went
and chipped the planks until the deep notches were all smoothed and
made even with the rest; and the King and all present declared that
the ship was much handsomer on the side of the hull which Thorberg
had chipped, and bade him shape the other side in the same way, and

! Norske Magas. I, 331, 11, 70.
2Saga of Fridthjot the Bold, ¢. 1.
* King Olaf Trygvason Saga, Heimskringla text, c. xev.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 589

gave him great thanks for the improvement. Afterwards Thorberg
was the master builder of the ship until she was finished. The ship
was a dragon, built after the one the King had captured at Haloga-
land; but the ship was far larger and nore carefully put together in
all her parts. The King named her Serpent the Long, and the other
Serpent the Short. The long Serpent had thirty-four benches for
rowers. The head and the arched tail were both gilt, and the bul-
warks were as high as in seagoing ships. The ship was the best and
most costly ship ever made in Norway.”

The long ships were subdivided into snekka (snekkja), skude (skita),
dragon (dreki), skeid (skei3), and busse (buza).

The descriptions of these varieties are somewhat indistinct and do
not permit of a definite opinion as to the real difference existing be-
tween a dragon, skeid, or buza. The ship that Harald Hardradi had
built at Nidaros, in 1160, is called skei3 and bussi, and it is further told!
that after the king had placed a dragon’s head upon its prow it might
be called a skeid or a dragon.

The Sagas have preserved accounts of celebrated ships, of which we
mention:

(a) Long ships.—Thorolf Kveldulfsson’s ship built in 872-873.?

King Olaf’s ship “ Karlhéfdi”; on her prow was a king’s nn which
he himself had carved. That head was for a long time afterwards used
on ships steered by chiefs.’

King Sverre’s ship ‘“‘ Harknifrin” (the razor), of twenty-three divi-
sions,’ and the ‘*Olafsuse,” wherein six men were placed in each divi-
sion.°

The ‘“‘ Mariasude,” built by King Sverre in 1182; she had thirty-two
divisions and was proportionately large; she was larger than any other
ship in Norway at that time.®

King Sverre’s ship “ Ognarbrand,” of thirty divisions, built in 1199,
and which had a high free board.’

Ship “Gullbringen,” belonging to Vidkunn Erlingsson, who died in
1185; she had twenty divisions and was proportionately large.®

In 1206 Urling Steinvieg, Reider the Messenger, and Karl Philippus,
of Tunsberg, built a ship which was “much larger than any ship pre-
viously constructed in SONG ” She had, what neither before nor

'G, Strom: Bauer ae ison Thea meesoKT Nn, p. 252.

*Egil’s Saga, c. ix; Olaf Trygvason Saga, Heimskringla text, c. Ixxix.

3St. Olaf Saga, c. xix.

4A division, or rim, was the distance between the rowers’ benches; the inter-
vening gangway divided the rim into half rams, which were occupied by from 2 to
8 men.

*Konungssdgur, ed Unger (cit. by Niecolaysen), p. 66.

‘Tbid., p. 77; Norske bygn fra fortiden. 3 raekkje, pl. v.

ATbids sp: L65.

®*Flateyarbok, 11, 600.
590 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

since has been known here, two tiers of holes for the oars; the oars of
the upper tier were 9.41 millimeters (314 feet) long, and “a man must
be one of the tallest who, standing on the frames, could, with his battle-
ax, touch the ceiling of the deck.” Each half division accommodated
eight men.! 3

in 1239 Duke Skule built a ship with thirty-six divisions; he called
it “*Good Friday.”?

In 1247 King Haakon set out from Bergen in his ship ‘“ Dragon,” of
twenty-five rims, to meet Cardinal William, of Sabine.’

In 1253 Gunnar had the “ Korssusen” built at Ravnsholt in Bohuslen,
which was “one of the biggest ships that had been constructed in Nor-
way;” her gunwale was 4.23 meters (14 feet) above the water line.*

The ship of Bishop Haakon, of Bergen (1339), had forty-five divisions
and was 1.88 ineters (64 feet) high.°

(b) Snekkja.—In 997 King Olaf built on the sands by Nidelv a long
ship, of the snekke kind, high stemmed, with thirty rams, which he
called ‘‘ Trane.”®

In 1020 St. Olaf built snekkias.*

Aasbjorn Selsbane, of Thronhjem, owned a snekkja with twenty rims
and accommodating ninety-nine men.

In 1026 St. Olaf built a snekke which he called ‘ Visund.”°

In 1027 Harald, of Thjste, in the battle of Helgeaa, had a ship of
twenty divisions, gilded pennant, and white sails ornamented with blue
and red stripes.!?

Hindrid the Young had a snekka of twenty rtm."

In 1247 Cardinal William, of Sabina, used a snekkja while meeting
King Haakon.”

In 1247 King Haakon used a beautiful snekk ja in sending hisdaughter
to Spain to be married.'°

Erling Skjalgsson had a twenty-seated snekkja.™

(c) Skuta.—The skuta appears to have been a fast-sailing war ship
of smaller dimensions, probably of fifteen rowers’ benches, built for
speed, as is indicated by the appellations lettiskuta (light skuta) and

'Konungsségur (cit. by Nicolaysen), p. 223,
2Flateyarbok, 111, 41.
SEDs, Lu GG:
4*Konongssogur, pp. 425, 426.
5]. Norv. vill, No. 119.
‘Olaf Trygvason Saga, Heimskringla text, c. [xxix.
7Heimskringla, ed. Unger (cit. by Nicolaysen), p. 251.
“Thid., p. 355; St. Olafs Saga, c. xxiv.
"Tbid., pp. 414,529.
MTbid., pp. 402, 428.
a) (Uy Cd Bn oi eor i
2 Wlateyarbok, iii, 161.
S Konungssdgur (cit. by Nicolaysen), p. 438.
“Magnus Erlingsson Saga, c. xxv; Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. cil; St. Olaf Saga, c.
Ib, ells
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 591

hleypiskuta (running ship),! and employed principally for boarding,
which was facilitated by the build of their bulwark.

Some of the leading skutas mentioned in the Sagas are:

A fifteen-seated skuta belonging to Hindrid the Young.

A fifteen-seated skuta belonging to Erling Skjalgsson. !

A fifteen-seater given by Thorleif to bis son Hirik.® ~

(d) Dragon.—The dragon (dreki) received its name from the decora-
tions of the prows, representing the head and tail of some fabulous ani-
mal.

The most celebrated dragons handed down in the Sagas are:

That of Thorolf Kveldulfsson, of Sandness, in Nordland, built in 872-
873. ®

Harald Haarfager’s dragon, built in 900. Of thisit is said that “the
King had fitted it out inthe most splendid way and brought his house
troops and his berserkers on board; the forecastle men were picked
men, for they had the King’s banner.”

The dragon of Chief Rand the Strong, in Sallen, which was “the most
beautiful ship in Norway.” Her captor, King Olaf, called it “The Ser-
pent” because the sail when filled by the wind would represent the
dragon’s wings. “It had thirty divisions, but was large in proportion
thereto (mikit at pvi). The prow bore a dragon’s head and the stern
was curved outward in a crook (krékr) like a tail (sporor); the figure-
head, and both curves were gilt.”’®

The ship which King Harald Hardrada had built at Nidaros was of
the same size as the Long Serpent, and every part of her was finished
with the greatest care. On the stem was a dragon head and on the
stern a dragon tail and the sides of the bows of the ship were of gilt.
The vessel was of thirty-five benches, and was large for her size and
was remarkably handsome, ‘for the King had everything belonging to
the ship’s equipment of the best, both sails and riggings, anchors and

cables.” °

The ship which King Eystein had built at Nidaros in 1103 in size and
shape was like the Long Serpent which Olaf Trygvason had built." “At
the head there was a dragon’s head and at the stern a crooked tail,

'Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. Ixxxiil, xli. Ingi’s Saga, ce. i.

2Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. xx. Egil’s Saga, c. lviii. St. Olaf’s Saga, c. exxxii,
exlix. Magnus Blind’s Saga ¢. v, xvi. Magnus Erlingsson’s Saga, ¢. xxx.

*Heimskringla, ed. Unger (cit. by Nicolaysen), p. 799.

4Maenus Erlingsson’s Saga, ce. xxy. Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. cii. St. Olaf Saga,
c. ix, el.

‘Olaf Trygvason Saga, ¢. xx.

6 HWeimskringla (ed. Unger cit. by Nicolaysen) p. 192.

7Egil’s Saga, ec. ix.

‘Harald Haarfager Saga, Heimskringla text, ¢. ix.

4Olaf Trygvason Saga, ¢. Ixxxv; Magnus the Good’s Saga, c¢. Xx.

10Harald Hardrada Saga, Heimskringla text, ¢. Lxi.

' Sigurd the Crusader’s Saga, Heimskringla text, c. xxvi.
592 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

and both were gilded over. The ship was high-sided, but the fore and
aft parts appeared less than they should be.”!

King Haakon’s dragon, used by him in 1247.?

The “ Mariasusen,” built by King Haakon in 1257, was “the most
beautiful ship hitherto built in Norway,” and had thirty half divisions.’

King Haakon’s dragon, used by him in 1263 in his expedition to Seot-
land, was built entirely of oak, had twenty-seven divisions, and the
dragon’s head, prows, and stern were all gilded.*

The largest dragon ever mentioned is that of Knut the Great; it had
sixty pairs of oars, and from the descriptions given it must have been
300 feet long.

(ce) Skeid, which was a fast sailer and occasionlly as large as a dragon;
the largest one of this kind is that of Erling Skjalgsson, which had sixty-
four oars and carried two hundred and forty men.°

({) Busse, which appears to have been somewhat similar in size to a
dragon; a buza ship is mentioned as having been built on the model
of the Long Serpent.®

The most prominent busse mentioned in the Sagas is that of Thore
Hund of Bjerk¢, which was of such height between flooring that it gave
room for ‘barrels of ale of astonishing size.”*

Harald Hardrada’s ship of the same size as the Long Serpent, but
with a dragon head fore and aft. It had thirty-five divisions.®

King Eystein’s busse, built in 1103, of the size and construction as the
Long Serpent.?

Hindrid the Young’s bussa, called the ‘‘ Draglaun.””

In calm weather the ships were propelled by oars manned by two,
three, or four men, according to their length and the size of the ship,
and exceptionally strong men only could handle an oar unaided." In
two instances only does the Saga give us an account of the length of
the oars, the one” being stated at 26 feet, and in the other instance
314 feet is given.’ Actual finds show the length of oars at 183 to 193
feet in length,“ while oars of small boats” exhibit a length of 10 feet.

1Heimskringla, ed. Unger, pp. 591, 592.

2Flateyarbok, m1, p. 161.

SIbid., 11, pp. 196, 197.

4 Konungssdgur, ed. Unger (cit. by Nicolaysen), p. 464.

Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. ev.; St. Olaf Saga, c. clxxxiv; Heinskringla, ed. Unger
(cit. by Nicolaysen), pp. 231, 414.

5St. Olaf Saga, e. exliii.

7Heimskringla, ed. Unger (cit. by Nicolaysen), pp. 591, 592.

®Harald Hardradi Saga, ¢. 1xi.

“ Heimskringla, ed. Unger (cit. by Nicolaysen), p. 684.

Tbid., p. 774.

(|! Magnus Erlingsson Saga, ¢. vi.

2 Frithjof Saga (ed. Tegner).

13 Konungsségur, p. 223 (cit. by Nicolaysen.)

4 Nicolaysen: Langskibet fra Goksted, p. 38, Pl. iv, Fig 18; v, Fig. 1; vii, Fig. 18.

15 Engelhardt, C.: Denmark in the Early Iron Age, p. 38, Pl. iii, Figs. 19, 20.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. Dae

In addition to the oars, mast and sails were used in the propulsion of
the ship.

The mast was set in an opening made in a large block fixed above
the middle part of the vessel, the aperture extending considerably
sternward, so as to facilitate its raising and lowering.

The mast was of moderate height and was lowered upon all occasions,
such as headwinds, when preparing for battle, or in making harbor,
rendering the sail superfluous.!

The mast was steadied by ropes passing around the top and lashed
to the forepost and by a few shrouds on each side. The hoisting rope
passed through a hole below the place where the shrouds met. A
wooden parral was used to hold the yard or prevent its being swung
outward, while a brace rope was placed at each end of the yard and
fastened behind the mast or held by the helmsman.?

The sails were square, but their form rendered tacking difficult, and
the sailors often preferred waiting for a favorable wind. This is men-
tioned in the Sagas, especially on occasions where thereby an oppor-
tunity was offered to show to advantage an exceptionally handsome
sail. It is said of Harald Sigurdson that, wishing to visit Constanti-
nople on his return from Jerusalem, he waited with his fleet one month
and a half for a side wind to enable him to display the sails covered with
velvet.3
_ They were sewed together with thread and strengthened at their

edges by a leech, to which hooks were attached and rings so placed as
to receive the sheets when the vessel was to shorten sail.t They also
had small ropes or reefing points to be used in reefing or shortenin
the sails.

The material used for sails was frieze, but ships best equipped for
active service employed canvas. For show, beautiful sails were highly
prized and often presented to chieftains;’ designs were painted or em-
broidered upon them. The dragon ‘“ Mariasuéen,” built by King
Haakon in 1257, had sails embroidered with historic designs. They
were often lined with velvet® and again double velvet, beautifully
woven with red, purple, and gold.° White sails are mentioned, striped
with blue and red.?°

Ornamentations seem to have played a very important part in ships
and carvings appear upon many trifling objects. The prow was gen-

! Konungsségur, pp. 165, 230 (cit. by Nicolaysen); Flateyarbok, 11, 41.

2 Laxdela, I, c. xviii.

’Sigurd Jorsalafari Saga, ¢. il.

+ Ancient Gula law.

5 Harald Hardradi; Fornmana Ségur, vi, c. 100.

6 4. Schultz: Das héfische Leben zur Zeit der Minnesinger, 11, 290 (cit. by Nicolay-
sen).

7 Flateyarbok, 11, pp. 196, 197.

‘Sigurd Jorsalafari Saga, ¢, ii.

’Flateyarbok, 11.

10St. Olaf Saga, clxviii.

€

SM 91, PT 2——38
594 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

erally ornamented with the gilded head of some fabulous animal. Or-
namentations are mentioned in many of the Sagas.!

The accompanying figures? show a number of carvings exhibited
upon objects from funeral ships. Fig. 107 is a tiller, Fig. 108 part of a

Fig. 107.
CARVED TILLER.
(Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad.”
wooden dish, Fig. 109 the top part of an oar, Fig. 110 wooden fragment
of uncertain use, Fig. 111 the carved heads on the end of the verge
board frem the vessel’s tent.

Of rudders only one form is known from the Sagas. It was placed on
the right side of the ship, which, consequently, bore the name stjern-
board, while the opposite side, back of the helmsman, was called
bakboard. In the rear of the helmsman and standing across was an
upright wooden bulkhead.

Fig. 108. Fig. 109.
CARVED DIsuH. CARVED OAR HANDLE.

(Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad.”’)

The rudder, slightly mounted with iron, consisted of a broad oar,?
the lower part of which was fastened to the side of the ship by means
of a bast rope, while the round neck ran in a hollow cylinder. A square
hole in the head admitted the tiller, which was generally taken in charge
by the commander of the ship, whose position was a little below the rud-

Saga, c. xx; Sigurd Jorsalafari Saga, ¢. xiv; Fornmana Saga, vil, 98; Receuil de
chroniques de Flandre, 1837-1841, vol. 1; Schiern, Nyere historiske Studier, 1, 1875.

>Copied from N. Nicolaysen: Langskibet fra Gokstad, Pl. vii, Fig. 7; Pl. ix, Figs.
DE SOE eles cy istitee, 2S VEG Sein Islas, Ip ats

> Bergens Bylov, rx, 18.

'Macnus Barefoot Saga, c. ii; Harald Hardradi Saga, c. xxxii; Olaf Trygvason

Saga, c. Ixxxvii,
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 595

The side helm appears to have been the prevailing form of rudder
until the fourteenth century! (Figs. 112-117), and even at the present
time in the Nordland boats, while the rudder itself is hung astern,
the steering is done from the side by means of a peculiarly constructed
tiller.

“‘But round their ship’s side hung their shields.?

From these words of Guttorm Sindre, in singing of Hakon’s pursuit of

Kric’s sons, we learn that the shields, all of one size, were hung around

us

Ute

Fig. 110. Fig. 111.
CARVED IMPLEMENT. CARVED HEADS ON ‘TENT Posts.

Copied from N. Nicolaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad.’’)

the sides of the war ship when not in use... They were placed from a
little ahead of the first oar to a little behind the last, and overlapping
ach other they served the double purpose of rendering the ship’s sides
higher and being out of the way when not needed. They formed a dis-
tinctive mark of war ships and were not found upon merchantmen.!

In battle a circle or burgh of shields was formed around the leader
and the standard-bearer, and in land battles the shield burgh appears
to have been at the apex of the triangular form of attack.

The standards and weather vanes are mentioned frequently. The

'Norske bygn. fra fortiden, 5 raekkje, Pl. v; Urkundenbuch der Stadt Luebeck
I, 759. Viollet Le Duc: Diction. d. mobil. frang, rx, 34; Bergens Bylov, rx, 18
Schultz, A.: Das héfische Leben zur Zeit der Minnesinger, 11, 290; D. Norv., 11, No.
L69S Wi:

2Hakon the Good Saga, ¢. xx.

3’Fornmana Sogur, 1, p. 100; Landnama, xi, 3; Grettis Saga, c. xix; Njala, c. 1xxxiv;

Ynglinga Saga, ¢. xxv.

48t. Olaf Saga, c. clxviil.

5Ynelinga Saga, c. xxv. Flateyarbok, 1, p. 140; 1, pp. 196, 197. Konungs
Skuggsja, p. 85; St. Olafs Saga, ce. cexii, cexxxii. Harald Hardradi Saga, ¢. ix;
Ségubrot, c. ix. Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. exv, cxx,
596 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

standard-bearer stood in the prow of the ship and ‘‘ the pennant, spun
by women, played at the masthead of the reindeer of the waters.” !

In battle the standard-bearer stood by the leader, both surrounded
by a shield burgh.’

The standards were often very elaborately worked® and the weather
vanes were often adorned with gold.‘

Fig. 112.
SIDE HELM ON BAPTISMAL FONT IN CHURCH OF LODERUP. SCANIA, SWEDEN.
(From Du Chaillu, ‘* The Viking Age,” vol. 11, p. 157, Fig. 936.)

—
———
a
= =
———
eee

SS

Fig. 113.
SIDE HELM ON SHIP IN STONE WALL AT CHURCH OF SKROBELEF, DENMARK.
(From Du Chaillu, “The Viking Age,”’ vol. 11, p. 141, Fig. 914.)

For offensive purposes some of the vessels appear to have been pro-
vided with iron spikes or regular spurs. The former is mentioned in
the description of the battle between Hakon the Jarl and the Jomsvi:
kings in which it is stated that Eirikr Jarl had a vessel the upper
part of which was provided with a skeg (beard) apparently consisting
of iron spikes.°

'Knut’s Drapa; Orver Odd’s Saga, ce. viii. Egil’s Saga, c. xxxvii; Helgi Hundings-
bani, 11.

°St. Olaf Saga, ce. 48, 212, 233; Flateyarbok, vol.1. Hakon the Good’s Saga, ¢. xxiii;
Harald Fairhair Saga, c.1x. Olaf Trygvason Saga, ¢. CXV.

3’ Helgi Hundingsbani, c. 1.

4Orver Odd’s Saga, c.8; Flateyarbok, 111, pp. 196, 197.

5Svarfdela, c. 4.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 597

The spur oceurs in @ boat found in Nydam Moss, Sleswig (PI. Lxxv),
and deseribed in the early part of this book. In this boat the ends of
the keel plank continued beyond the stem and stern and tapered into
points, and it is supposed that these points were covered with iron for
use on either side of the ship.

Fig. 114.
StmpE HELM IN A SHIP ON A STONE IN ALSNO PARISH. UPLAND, SWEDEN.
‘From Du Chaillu, ‘‘The Viking Age,’’ 11, p. 142, Fig. 915, )

For defensive purposes a war girdle (viggyrdil) or war hurdle (vigklek?)
was placed upon the ship. Their application is not quite intelligible
from the few meager accounts given. !

Fig. 115.
SIDE HELM IN SHIP ON BAYEUX TAPESTRY.

(From Edward J. Lowell, ‘‘ The Bayeux Tapestry,’’ in Scribner’s Magazine, March, 1887.)
All the ships of the Northmen of which accounts have been handed
down or of which the remains have been found show that they were

1“ King Sverri had all his ships ready and war-girdled at the gangways” (Sverri’s
Saga, ec. 52) and King Harald, pursued by King Svein, of Denmark, ordered the
viggyrdiles and other things to be thrown into the sea.—Harald Hardradi Saga, c. 35.
598 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

provided with a single row of rowers on each side of the ship. One
exception, however, is to be noted to this. It is stated! that in 1206
“Hrling Steinvieg, Reidar the Messenger, and Karl Philippus, of Tuns-
berg, built a ship Which was much larger than any previously con-
structed in Norway. The ship had, what neither before or since has
been known here, two tiers of holes (hdbora) for the oars between
both wells; the oars of the upper rank were 20 (now 15) ells long (9.41
meters=31.37 feet) and a man must be one of the tallest who, standing
on the frames could, with his broadax, touch the under side of the
flooring.” Each half division was reckoned to accommodate eight men.

SS
Fig. 116. Fig. 117.
RUDDER OF GOKSTAD SHIP. RUDDER OF NYDAM BOAT.
(Reproduced rrom N. Nicolaysen, ‘* Langskibet fra (Reproduced from C. Engelhardt, ‘ Denmark in the
Gokstad.”’) Karly Iron Age.’’)

Launching.—\n getting the ship ready for the sea it was launched by
means of rollers,’ which appear to have formed part of the equipment and
which also were used in dragging the ship ashore as was generally done
at night if satisfactory landing could be had;* if not, the ship would
remain close to shore and be connected with it by means of a gangway.*
The sail was then lowered and formed a tent under which the men slept.®

It has been suggested that the ship received a name when being
launched; there appears, however, to be no positive proof of such act in
earlier days unless an exception is made in favor of the ‘* Long Serpent.”®
Subsequent to the introduction of Christianity in the North. frequent
mention is made of naming a ship at launching.’

Burials in ships. aE ith the xe eption of the boat found i in Nydam

: Konungsségur, p. 228.

2 Ragnar Lodobroks Saga, ¢. ix; Harald Hardradi Saga, ¢c. lxii; Olaf Trygvason Saga,
ce. xvii; St. Olaf’s Saga, ¢. 24, 115, "148: Egil’s Saga, c. 19, 52, 72; Fagrskinna Saga, c. 42.

3 Olaf Trygvason Saga, ¢. 17.

4Ynelinga Saga, c. 53; Harald Haarfager Saga, c. 37; Egil’s Saga, c. 27.

5 Svarfdele Saga, c. 4; St. Olaf Saga, c. 29, 143; Egil’s Saga, c. 22, 27; Harald Har-
dradi Saga, ¢. 4, 35; Ynglinga Saga, c. 53; Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. 20; Flateyarbok, 1.

6 Nicolaysen: Laneskibet fra Gokstad, p. 17.

THarald Hardradi Saga, c. 62; Flateyarbok, iii, p. 196, 197; Konungsségur (cit.
by Nicolaysen), p. 425, 426.

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 599

Moss and described on p. 572 our knowledge of northern ships would
be very limited, and rest entirely in the Saga accounts, but for #he for-
tunate circumstance connected with the burial customs in ancient times,
in accordance with which the bodies of the more prominent dead were
taken to the ship that had been their home during life and surrounded
by their wealth became their last resting place. Two methods of burial
existed, that of cremating the ship together with its sepulchral inhabi-
tant and a like one in which a mound was erected over the ship and.
the dead. It is to the latter method that we are indebted for some
well-preserved ships, which not alone serve to confirm the Saga ae-
counts, but also extend our knowledge of prehistorie shipbuilding.

The Voluspa tells us that “the Asas took the body of Baldr and carried
it down to the sea. Stringhorni was the name of Baldr’s ship; it was
larger than any other ship. ‘The gods wanted to launch it for the
burning voyage of Baldr, but it did not move. Then the gyg (Jétun-
woman)—in Jotunheiin named Hyrrokkin—was sent for. She went to
the stern of the ship and pushed it forward at the first attempt, so that
fire issued from tlie rollers.”! The house of the living thus became the
last dwelling of the dead.

In accordance with this law Odin ordered that all dead men should
be burned and upon their pyre should be placed their property,” and
Saga accounts? indicate obedience with this order.

The pyre indicated by Odin’s law, then, was the ship of the deceased,
which, after the body had been consumed, was covered up with earth.

A second form of burial took place in ships without the burning of
the body, the ship being covered with a mound. This method was
adopted after Fry had been mound-laid (¢ haug lagdr) at Uppsilir, al-
though it is now shown* that this tradition can not extend to the
erection of the mound, traces and remains of an enormous fire having
been found there. The cremation custom, however, was not altogether
abandoned, and both methods continued together, as is shown by the
occurrence, upon the outer coast of the Trondhjem-Fjord, of the un-
burned remains found in ship mounds, while upon the inner coast ere-
mation of both bodies and ships has continued. Dr. Sophus Miiller
places the age of cremation at the beginning of the iron period, and
that of inhumation contemporaneous with the Roman invasion of the
North, while Engelhardt ascribes the different methods to local customs.

The ship grave of Mokklebyst, Bids Parish, Norway,’ explored by My.
Lorange, who beautifully described the ceremony of cremation, offers
an illustration of crematories.

1 Gylfaginning Saga, c. 49.

2Ynglinga Saga, c. 8.

3 Egil’s Saga, c. 61. Halon the Good’s Saga, c. 27. Ynelinga Saga, c. 27.

4 Mestorf, J.: In D. archiiolog. Congress in Copenhagen. Hamburg, 1874.

® Lorange, A.: In Samlingen of Norske Oldsager i Bergens Museum. Bergen, 1876,
pp. 153-161. Lorange, 4.: In Norske Aarsberetning, f. 1874, Taf. vim, p. 938.  Mes-
torf, J.: Kin Grabdenkmal eines altnordischen Seekénigs, in Globus, XXIx, p. 297.
Du Chaillu: Viking Age, Vol. U1, p. 339.

’
600 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The mound is located in a plain, gently rising from the beach and
permitting a full view of the sea, from which it is separated by a ter-
raced formation. It measures 120 by 192 feet. All around it is a ditch,
now 12 feet wide and 3 feet deep, which to the south and west is
traversed by a bridge-like dam.

The interior of the mound, an oval of 24 by 40 feet, presents two lay-
ers, one of bone splinters, intermixed with soil and cinders, and one 8
inches deep, consisting of cinders and burnt remains. Over this a num-
ber of objects were strewn, plainly indicating that here a ship had been
hauled ashore and gayly econ ted with shields around its bulwark,
and with arms and utensils of war piled up, had served as the funer a
pyre of its commander.

The ship having been consumed, the remains were collected in a flat
bronze vessel, together with some personal property of the owner, con-
sisting of two combs, three dices, six chessmen of bone, a disk-
shaped bead of dark glass with white wavy lines, a number of broken
iron utensils, and an iron arrowhead. The vessel was then covered
with twelve shield bosses which, at the time of excavation, had, by in-
erustation, gradually solidified into one mass and had become attached
to the iron so firmly that in order to examine the contents without
destroying this unique cover, it became necessary to remove the bottom
of the vessel.

The ossuary was placed in an excavation at the bottom of the mound.
Above it were piled a horse’s bit, spears, swords, shields, and bucklers,
all rusted together; eight arrowheads and other iron utensils, possibly
coming from the ship’s chest, and, wrapped in an untanned goatskin,
unburnt animal bones, possibly the portion assigned the dead for his
long journey from the funeral feast. The bottom of the mound was
strewn with hundreds of ship’s nails, mountings, mast rings, anchor
hooks, forty-two shield bosses, and other things.

The vessel of enameled bronze appears to be of foreign make. Its
ornamentation consists of ring ornaments inserted in and fastened to
the bottom by three rivets. The inside of the bottom furthermore shows
a three-leaved enameled star and the rim two four-cornered shields.
Lorange places it in the younger iron age and sees in it a captured piece
of northern French or Belgian make; but Mestorf, in view of the fact
that this enamel was not introduced in France until the twelfth cen-
tury, thinks that it might be considered the product of Rhenish post-
Roman manufacture. In point of make and color the enamel resembles
that of the Roman enamelled ornaments! and also called “ Barbarian
Grubenschmelz.”” Knameled ornaments appear in the north at an
early date. They are represented in the museums at Kiel and Copen-
hagen.? hey have been found north as far as the Stavanger district,

1 YL on ee in enn 12 SCENES re Nassaw dulien tet Veins
2 Buchner: Geschichte der Technischen Kunst.
3 Engelhardt, C.: Aarb. f. Nord. Oldk. 1868.

—
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 601

and they serve as proof of an early communication with foreign lands
and people.

It may be here stated that the four-cornered shield with ‘‘Gruben-
schmelz” occurs upon fibule from the boat-shaped cineraria at Neu
Camby and Langensee, in the Slaweck ship, and upon silvered fibula
from the Wella Kappene (devil’s grave) and Wella Krawand (devil’s
stone heap) near Lake Strante, in Baltic Russia. They are figured by
Aspelin in Antiq. fig. 1776, 1778, 1784, 1785, and belong to the first
five centuries of the Christian era.

A modified form of these ship burials, in which cremation of the dead
alone took place, after which the ashes and bones were collected,
placed in a suitable vessel and deposited with other articles in the ship,
over which then a mound was raised, is illustrated in

The Borre Ship.'—On the road from Horten to Jarlesberg and about
one-half a mile from Borre-Prestegaard, Norway, is seen to the right
the southern end of Borre Lake, whose banks are so flat at this place
that their rise is almost imperceptible. On the ridge toward the north
and northeast from the lake lies Horten Gaardene, and on the left side,
toward the lake, upon a level, almost barren slope, are about twenty-
four mounds of various sizes. There has long been a tradition that the
Kings Eystein and Halfdan lie buried in two of the most northerly
mounds.

Upon excavating one of the mounds and removing a quantity of

sand the workmen, early in 1852, struck some rivets and nails, which
led to the belief that it was a ship mound. Several articles were de-
stroyed by the eagerness of the workmen, and the work was temporarily
suspended during Se winter. The results of the excavation were a
lump of bent iron, 2 to 4 feet long and 2 feet broad, much eaten by
rust, and of aaa use; next, fragments of an ash kettle of riveted
iron plates, and of quite common form, with two ears as handles; a
quantity of rivets, often with adherent wood fragmeuts of ship’s planks
and some even with appended oakum; bones of three horses and one
dog, and finally a twisted iron chain with the pieces belonging to it;
fragments of a black glass jug with white enameled strips; an iron ax
of the oldest type; two bits of iron; fragments of three stirrups, and a
pair entire, all of iron, the one covered with thin silver plates and of
very ancient form, ite, other more like those now in use; several frag-
ments of saddles; part of a leather bridle with bits, head gear covered
with,ornamented plates, and with knobs on the end of the straps, spans,
and a small bell. These things were lying somewhat aft of the ship’s
center, and in such a position that one horse with saddle and bridle
= whose vic Ley, the ash bucket and glass jug were found) was close

LY. aealajeen: Om Bomefeedet: if, 1852. ie Berean til Norske ore
desmaerkers Bevaring Aarsberetning for 1852, p.25. The description given has been
utilized in the above account. Annaler for Nordiske Oldkyndighed og Historie,
1858, p. 186.
602 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

to the starboard side, the second horse and dog near the port side, the
third horse also on this side, but outside of the boat.

A second excavation was then undertaken with a view of learning
particulars of the shape and size of the ship, a point of so much more
interest, as little was known of the size of ancient ships.

Attention having been called to a layer of coal, about one-half of
an inch thick and extending across the mound, and that former finds
had first been made at that depth, everything above this layer was re-
moved. Just under the coal layer ship nails were found in both direc-
tions, horizontally and vertically; but it was soon discovered that the
mound had been so disordered by the first excavation that the present
object could not be attained, since the whole aft end, and with exception
of about 2 feet distance from the prow, the entire port side, was torn
away. It could only be ascertained that the ship stood toward west-
southwest and with the prow up toward the land; that by its sharp-
built fore part it much resembled the present Sogne or northern coasting
vessels, and that it, like those latter, was riveted, four boards in height,
each board 8 inches wide. Asa tolerably large piece of wood with a
nail had before been found, with which also the tar on the outer side
and a piece of the oakum between the planks was preserved, the thick-
ness of the latter could be estimated. It came to about 1 inch be-
tween the inner side of the nail’s head and the riveting plate, but as
the head of the nail is driven somewhat within the outer side of the
plank, each of them must have been half an inch thick. It was hardly
possible to determine the ship’s breadth. Its length, from the prow to
the hindermost nail, measured 38 feet, and judging from the piece of
mound which lay behind this nail, the length of the whole ship can
hardly have been more than 50 to 54 feet.

Of other things were found only a fragment of the forementioned
glass jug, one of the usual beads of white crystal, probably belonging
to a feminine neck ornament, together with a soapstone knob, pre-
sumably of a spindle or distaff.

Considering all these cireumstances, this funeral seems to have taken
place in the following manner: After the place had been determined
and the upper layer of earth to the gravel carried away, the ship was
dragged up there placed in position, and sand thrown up around it.
The interior of the ship was then filled with a finer kind of sand, espe-
cially in the vicinity of the articles and animals deposited in it, but so
as to leave open a space for the kettle. The litter with the dead bodies
was then placed on the flat side of the pile, and after they were burned
the ashes and bones were collected, placed in the kettle, and deposited
with the other articles in the ship; thereupon the hole was filled with
sand and a layer of the remnants of the pyre spread over the whole
mound, which was next given its complete form to the top.

According to the Saga,'! as related by Snorre and his informant,

'Ynelinga Saga, ¢. li.
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

cove

ow

° «¢

Ceouoe

e

° °
ry o 4
v eo
0) Se) v8
Deron
Gc 6 0%
Airee as
he 0" ce,
ie ov @
Goa 6
7 Teg
ap vel 8) Se
See:
COP
(07 US ON eS:

PLATE LXXVI.

BOAT FOUND AT SNAPE, ENGLAND.

(Copied from ‘‘ Proceedings of Society of Antiquaries of London,” second series, vol. 2, p. 177.)

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 603

Thjodolt;’ the graves of Kings Halfdan Hoitbein and his son Kystein
must be sought for in this locality,’ and it is therefore not improbable
that the mound just described is the one which was raised over the
remaims of King Eystein, who died about the year 780.

Lackalinga Boat—While excavating a mound near the river Lacka-
liinga, 1 mile from Lund, Torna district, Scania, the remains of a ship
were found, consisting of some pieces of iron and about one hundred
iron rivets, which varied in length from 24 to 4 inches, all having large
heads. Wood was found attached to a few of these nails, but not suffi-
cient to allow of any reliable estimate as to form or dimensions of the
ship, which had evidently served as the sepulchve of some important
persons, whose bones were found in an urn around which had been de-
posited the following articles: a sword and_ belt, bridle, and other
parts of a horse’s equipment, stirrups, and the jawbone of a dog. The
implements much resemble those found in a grave mound near Borre,
Norway.

The boat found at Snape, England* (Plate Lxxvt).—In the vicinity of
the village of Snape, Suffolk, England, are located several tumuli of

various sizes, and during the months of August, September, and Octo-
ber, 1862, one of these mouids, about 60 by 70 feet in diameter and
about 45 feet in height, was selected for excavation.

Among the objects found therein were several vases containing eal-
cined bones, of which that given in Fig. 118 resembles in form and color
the Anglo-Saxon urns described in the plates of Neville’s “Obsequies ;”
the urn in Fig. 119 is considered to be British.

Upon increasing the depth of excavation a few pieces of metal and
wood of doubtful character were discovered, but in such poor state of
preservation that in scraping the dirt from them they broke. They
appeared to have originally been of the thickness and length of a fin-
ger, with diameter of head of about the size of aflorin, some knobbed
rather than flat, and others with a short projecting point. An exam-
ination of the broken ones indicated their composition to be lamin of
metal and wood with a bolt through them. Owing to the state of pres-
ervation it was decided not to disturb them any more, but to trace them
out in the soil, removing the supermecumbent earth.

In continuing the excavation what seemed to be a floor of consider-
able size was uncovered with rows of these knobs projecting at reg-

'Ynelinatal.

°Norsk Tidskr. f. Vidensk. og liter., tv, 101. Norske Folks Hist., 1, 377.

3 Bruzelius, Niles G.: Lackaliinga Fyndet-Beskrifning oin ett i Skane antriiffadt
fynd fran jernaldern. In Annaler for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie. Kjében-
havn, 1858, p. 179. Bruzelius, Niles G.: Nigra fynd af fornsaker fran Bronz-och
Jernperioden. In Forhandlinger ved de Skandinaviske Naturforskers. Syvende
Mode, 1856, p. 643.

*Condensed from Septimus Davidson's description in Proceedings of Society of Anti-
quaries of London, 2(series, vol. u, p. 177. See, also, Francis Francis in ‘The Field,”
an abstract of which was printed in the Archeological Journal, vol. 20, p. 188.
604 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ular intervals of a few inches. Carefully scraping or sweeping with
the hands between the rows, it became apparent that the intervals were
of wood, but so disintegrated and crumbling as to be almost of the
color of the soil. Further search revealed continuations of these rows
at an obtuse angle from the floor upward; and finally the shape of a
boat was uncovered, and it appeared that the pieces of metal and wood
above alluded to were the rivets used in joining the planks, laid clinker-
wise, and that the boat was flat bottomed.

Fig. 118. Fig. 119.

Urns FROM BOAT FOUND AT SNAPE, ENGLAND.

Reproduced from paper by S. Davidson, in Proce. Soc, Antiq? London. Vol. 11,

The boat was 48 feet in length, 9 feet 9 inches in width, and 4 feet
high. There were 6 rows of rivets on either side and 4 or 5 at the bot-
tom of the boat, and in each row 7 rivets occupied the space of 5 feet.
All the rows terminated in 2 rivets, laying one at the stem and the
other in the stern. This will be better understood from the accom-
panying plate of the boat with longitudinal and transverse sections.

Among the articles found in the boat were some human hair of
auburn color, a couple of pieces of cloth, a ring, and some pieces of
glass. The ring was a thick band of gold with raised center, the sides
ornamented with filagree of the later Roman type; and the setting,
apparently Anglo-Saxon, held an onyx of dark color, the intaglio being
evidently of Roman origin. The general form may be compared to the
Saxon rings found at Bossington, Hants,’ Warkworth?

The glass, of light orange tint, was in minute pieces, and obviously
of Anglo-Saxon origin. In its unbroken state it must have resembled
the vases found at Fairford, Gloucestershire; * at Castle Durham ;* at

' Journal of the British Archzeological Association, Vol. 1, p. 241.

? Archeological Journal, Vol, vi, p. 191.

3“ Archzologia,” Vol. XXXIV, p. 82; Wylie’s Fairford Groves, Pl. 1.
AMINE Wola seg, Jea igs
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 605

Reculver, Kent;! in Kent;? at Chatteris, Isle of Ely;* at Selzen, near
the Rhine,‘ and at Douvrend, in Normandy.?

The most interesting circumstance connected with this find, accord-
ing to Mr. Davidson, is that a body was deposited in the boat. He says
that this has received special mention from Mr. Worsaae, who remarks®
that no instance of such burial has been brought to ight in Denmark,
although in Sweden and Norway fragments of wood have been occa-
sionally found in barrows which have been presumed to be portions of
boats.7

Among the ship graves in which cremation of the dead formed part
of the ceremony, Montelius® mentions that discovered in 1884 by S.
Séderberg and C. Follin upon the island of Oeland;° further, one exca-
vated at Ekrem, Romsdale district, !° and the ship found near Roald’s
church, in Séndmore,'! of which the keel and part of the bottom were
well preserved, while of the sides the rivets only were left; aft of the
mast a heap of burned bones and two iron axes were discovered. The
boat of Bjérnes, North Throndhjem district, '? can be traced in outline
by the rivets lying in rows as they had fallen out of the sides of the
boat; bones, nails, coal ashes, an iron arrowhead, scales of bronze, and
glass pearls constituted its inventory.

Of ship burials in mounds without cremation mention is made in the
Sagas," and it is to these graves that we must look for confirmation of
the various accounts given us of the ships of the people of the north,

A large number of tombs have been brought to light,'* but in almost
every case the woodwork had, for the greater part, decayed by its long
rest in the earth, so that but insufficient information would be collected
as to the precise form and dimensions of the sepulchral ships or their
position relative to the sea.

Only in two cases have the ships, together with their boats, been
sufficiently preserved to permit of restoration, and these ships will be

1 Ackermann’s Pagan Saxondom.

2 Now in the British Museum.

3Gent. Mae., 1766, pt. L.

4 Lindenschmit: Todtenliger bei Selzen; in Coll. Ant., Vol. 11, p. 51.

5 Cochet: Normandie Souterraine, p. 399,

5 Worsaae: Primeval Antiquities of Denmark, p. 102.

7TGuide to North. Antiq., p. 30; Worsaae: Zur Alterthumskunde des Nordens.

8 Montelius, O.: Om hoégsiittning i skepp under vikinga tiden.

°Séderberg, S.: Beskrifning 6fver den undersdkningsresa som han 1884 med anslag
af Vitterhets Akademien féretog pa Oland.

10 Aarsber. for 1880 af Foren. til Norske Fortidsm. Bev., p. 45.

‘\ Lorange, A.: I Aarsber for 1874 af Foren. til Norske Fortidsm. Bev., pp. 37, 38, 88.

2 Aarsber. for 1874 af Foren. til Norske Fortidsm. Bev., pp. 47, 48.

An Bogoveigi Saga, c. v1; Hakon the Good Saga, e. xxvii, xxxili. Laxdiela, ec.
viii; Landnama,tr; Vatnsdiela, ¢. xxii; Harold Haarfager, ¢. 42, 45, 46; Olaf Trygva-
son, Saga c. Ixxix; Ynglinga, ¢. Lit.

WN. Fornlevn, pp. 20, 179, 245, 551; Aarsber. f. Norske Fortidsmindesm. Bey., 1869, p.
94; 1879, p. 292; 1880, p.45; O. Rygh: faste fornievn og Oldsager i nordre og séndre
Throndhjems Amt, p. 241.
606 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

fully discussed later on; they are the Tune ship and the Gokstad ship,
both found in Norway.

The Vendel (Upland) boats.\—In 1882 Mr. Hjalmar Stolpe, of the Arch-
eeological Museum at Stockholm, in excavating a number of graves at
Vendel, in Upland, about 40 kilometers north of Upsala, discovered the
remains of several boats, of which he published a preliminary report
in 1883.2. The boats were found below the level of the ground, without
any mound having been erected over them. Of the boats nothing but
the rivets remained, but, as they were lying in regular rows, it was
possible to reconstruct the shape of the boats. They were found at
different depths, from 2 to 6 feet, one boat in each grave. They were
filled up with skeletons of domestic animals, kitchen utensils, ete., in
the stem, and amidships the skeleton of a warrior surrounded by his
weapons was found; that is, such was originally the arrangement in
all the graves, but, unfortunately, most of them had been plundered of
their valuables. Only one of the eleven graves was intact; in most
cases, however, the rivets were left in their places, the plundering of
the graves being confined only to the spot where the warrior and the
more valuable pieces of his equipment were to be found. On such spots
the rivets were found without any order, from the surface down to the
bottom. In all other parts of the boats the rivets were lying in parallel
rows, Showing very distinctly the shape of a boat or small vessel,
sharp at both ends. In most cases nine or ten rows of rivets are to be
seen, indicating that the boats were constructed of at least four planks
on every side. The rivets are generally about 2 inches in length; only
in two boats three larger rivets (about 4 inches) were found close to
the stems; in some instances they were connected with pieces of iron
bands, but as they were found in the places destroyed by the treasure
hunters their use can not now be stated. They may have served in
connecting the keel with the sternpost.

In boat 1 the stern was destroyed by laborers in 1851, when the grave
was discovered, and the other parts of the vessel were so covered up
with skeletons (three horses, one bull, one ram, two dogs, one sheep,
two big pigs, ete.) that it was impossible to construct a plan from the
rivetsinsitu. Fromthe length of the grave it is concluded that the vessel
measured about 30 or 35 feet in length and perhaps 8 feet in width.

No. 2, plundered and destroyed, to conclude from certain tacts, by the
laborers who built a church close by in A. D. 1300; the boat can not
have exceeded 24 feet in length.

No. 3 may have been 25 feet long, but the part left uninjured by the
grave-robbers was too much covered with skeletons of animals (the rule
is three to four horses on the starboard side, the bull in the stern, and
the smaller animals on the port side) to permit the surveying of the
rivets; and when the skeletons were broken up the rivets were dislo-
cated.

?Antiquarisk Tidskrift, Vol, vit, 1883.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 607

The length of No. 4 was about 26.5 feet by 7 feet wide amidships.
Four planks to every side.

No. 5, no rivets.

In No. 6 the grave measured 24 feet in length. Severely damaged.
Rivets found only along the south side of the grave, over a space 16
teet in length, 5$ feet in width; apparently disturbed.

In No. 7 the boat was very distinct. Length, 29.8 feet; breadth, 8
feet. In the stern 5 large rivets.

In No. 8 the grave is 25.5 long; boat uncertain.

No. 9, the only grave found intact. The boat, 29 feet 8 inches long
by 6 feet 5 inches wide. In the middle the skeleton of a man, with two
swords, two shields, one adze, one spear, arrows, comb, knife, several
chessmen, and half a Kufie coin from A. D. 914 to 943.

In No. 10 the boat was 35 feet 5 inches long, 5 feet 9 inches broad.

In No. 11 the boat was 51 feet long by 6 to 7 feet broad.

As to their age the graves differ very considerably. From the most
ancient one, dating from the beginning of the seventh century, there
is a coherent chain down to the end of the tenth century, perhaps
indicating generation after generation of a chief’s family.

Not far from the old burial-place is a lake formerly communicating
with other lakes and rivers in the province.

The Bjorké boats.'—On the island Bjérk6, in Lake Miilar, the ancient
city of Birca, mentioned by Adamus Bremensis as the place where.
Ansgarius, in the ninth century, preached the Gospel to the heathenish
Swedes, and supposed to be identical with old Sigtuna, the remains
of two large flat-bottomed boats were found within the wall surround-
ing the place where the old city once stood. The rivets indicate a size
of about 19 feet in length and 5 to 6 feet in breadth. Of their con-
struction nothing could be learned.

In the Orkneys? the sites of three ship burials have been located as
follows:

In 1841, by Mr. George Petrie, in a sandhill in Westray;? in 1855 in
a mound situated in the bay of Pierowall, and explored by Mr. Farrer ;!
in July, 1863, in a mound in the bay of Pierowall explored by Messrs.
Farrer and George Petrie.’

The contents of these burial places, however, owing to the nature of
the soil did not permit of any details and simply established the fact
of having contained ships.

In the Faroe Islands no traces of ancient ships have been found.®

» Proceedings, Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, 1879—80, p. 79.

3 [bid., vol. v, p. 16.

1 Tbid., vol. 11, p. 158.

>Tbid., vol. v, p. 300.

‘Communicated by Mr. Louis Bergh, of Thorshavn, March 23, 1892,
608 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Ultuna ship.'—In excavating a sandhill at Ultuna, three-fourths of a
mile from Upsala, Sweden, two layersof a dark substance were met which
were soon discovered to be the remains of the rotten sides, or boards, of
an ancient ship. In these layers were found a large number of iron nails
from 14 to 2 inches long, with a round head at the one end, and a square,
riveted footpiece on the other, undoubtedly used for holding together the
side planks ofthe ship. The width between the layers was about 84 feet;
their length could be followed 19 feet, but as a part of the hill’s edge
was formerly dug away, the entire length of the ship can not now be
determined. Since the ship’s bottom lay about 8 feet below the natural
surface level, it must be supposed that a depression was dug in the hill,
in which the ship was placed and the hill erected over it. Just on the
bottom layer there were found remains of a human skeleton with bones
of two horses, buried in the stern of the ship; further forward there
were also bones of some domestic animals; a double-edged sword of
iron and a large number of articles and ornaments of bronze, iron, and
bone were found under a covering of loose stones which had probably
formed a tube in the interior of the mound, which had fallen to ruin
when the deck, where such was found, had rotted and fallen to the
bottom of the ship.

Of mound-settings in ships in which the human remains were buried
unburnt, descriptions are given by Montelius,? Nicalaysen,’ and others,‘
and although in most cases the wood has molded away, the outlines of
the ship are shown by the numerous rivets deposited in rows, sharply
contrasting with the light sand in which the ships have been buried.
Among these finds may be mentioned the remains of a boat found in
1853 near Hof, in Doune’s parish, Nordland District, which contained
two human skeletons, skeleton of a dog, shield bosses of iron, and near
one of the skeletons ornaments of bronze, pins, rings, implements of
bone, an iron kettle, glass, pearl, and scissors.°

In Northern Norway (Trondhjem district) traces of boats have been
found in grave mounds, but they were so much decayed that but very
few important details have been observed; in fact, the wood was almost
everywhere completely rotted, leaving only a couple of brown-colored
lines in the gravel. Fragments of frame timbers, knees, etc., have
oceasionally been found in bogs in a tolerably uncorrupted state, but
these seem to belong to more modern times and are of no particular
interest as to construction.

| Hildebrand, B. E.: Nagra fynd af fornsaker fran Bronz—och Jernperioden. In
Forhandlinger ved de Skandinaviske Naturforskers. Syvende Méde. Christiania,.
1856, p. 645. Annaler for Nordiske Oldkyndighed og Historie, 1858, p. 188.

> Montelius, O.: Om hégsiittning i skepp under vikingatiden.

3 Nicolaysen, N.: Norske fornlevninger, p. 20, 245, 588.

* Aarsber. af Foren. til norske Fortidsmind, Bev. 1871, . 18.

® Nicolaysen, N.: Norske fornleyn, p. 681, 682; Lorange, d.: Samlinger af Norske Old-
sager i Bergens Museum, p. 192, 193.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 609

The following traces of prehistoric boats have been discovered in
Trondhjem Ait.!

In Valnesset, Bjugn parish? (63° 50’ N.) a boat was deposited over the
dead body, bottom up, 20 to 22 feet long, 6 to 8 feet broad, 74 inches
between the nails which were partly 14 and partly 25 inches long—
the latter most likely through the keel and the ribs; was placed in an
east to west direction, parallel to the near shore-line, the bow most
likely pointing to the west.°

In a mound at Tunnol, Bjugn parish, were found two rows of nails 6
feet distant from each other. A part of the stem, probably of oak,
could be seen in the east end of the mound, with a large iron loop
fastened to it. The head of the body eastward. Together with it were
here found more objects than in any of the other interments, namely,
a Silver bracelet, bronze scales, some implements of bone, ete.!

On the Isle of Snotra, Aafjord parish (63° 54’ N.), four boats, ap-
parently of fir, have been found in four different mounds, 22 to 24 feet
long. The iron nails were of the same dimensions and with the same
distance between them as above. In one of these the nails were of
three different sizes. In one of the mounds the body was deposited with
the head towards the east, in the others towards west and northeast.°

At Gravrok, Melhus parish, about 20 kilometers south of Trondhjem
and consequently as far from the coast (while the above-mentioned
finds have been made along the coast) a similar boat seems seems to
have been deposited in a mound.®

Storhaugen ship..—Upon asmall plateau formed by Karmisland (Kar-
men), about 160 miles from the shore in Avaldsnes Bay, Bergens Stift,
Norway, stands a mound in which, in 1887, the remains of a ship were
discovered, the antiquity of which appears to date back to the days of
the strife in the North between paganism and Christianity.

Oaken boards and other worked pieces of wood found occasionally
seemed to indicate the existence of a boat, but as the excavations were
carried on unsystematically and the finds represented little, if any,
antiquarian value, special attention was not given to the matter until
in 1887, when, upon proper representation, systematic excavation was
begun under the skillful management of the late Dr. A. Lorange, of
the Bergen Museum.

! Kongeliga Norske Videnskabernes Selskabs Skritter f. 1878 and 1879; Aarsberet-
ning fra foreningen til norske fortidsmindesinaerkers bevaring.

2 Aarsberetning, etc., 1873, pp. 8, 9.

3 For this information I am indebted to Mr. K. Lossius, deputy manager of the
Archeological Museum of Trondhjem.

* Aarsberetning fra foreningen til norske fortidsmindesmierkers bevaring, 1872, p.36.
* Aarsberetning, etc., 1864 and 1874, pp. 16, 17.

‘ Communicated by Mr. K. Lossius, deputy manager of the Archeological Museum
of Trondhjem.

7 Lorange, A.: Storhaugen paa Karméen, Nyt Skibsfund fra Vikingetiden. In Ber-
gen’s Museum Aarsberetning. 1887. Du Chaillu: Gunnarhang ship discovered iu

Bergen Stift in 1887. In Viking Age, vol, 11, p. 335.

SM 91, pr 2——39
610 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

In the central line of the mound a depression from north to south
was observed which continued throughout all the layers and gave evi-
dence of a general caving in in that line of the original structure; and
in that line, directly under the depression, the oaken keel of a ship was
found in a space formed by two stone walls 34 feet (1 meter) high and
broad, set 20 feet (6 meters) apart and running parallel with the keel,
which was supported by three pair of stone pillars. At this place too
several pieces of pressed and tarred seaweed were found which had
served as caulking.

Vig. 120.
STARBOARD GUNWALE OF STORHAUGEN SHIP.

(Reproduced from A. Lorange “Storhaugen fra Karmgen,’’ in Bergens Museum, Aarsber, 1887.)

About 4 feet from the center the two parellel walls were inter-
sected by a third wall, on the south side of which was found the star-
board gunwale of the ship ina good state of preservation, two planks,
and three short timbers (Fig. 120). On the inner side were the top
pieces of two ribs connected by short timbers which appear to have
given support to the gunwale; they were fastened with iron nails and
also with a rivet of the type found in the Mékklebyst ship. The boards
were tongued and grooved and riveted together; the other planks
were nailed from the outside. Owing to
the absence of floor timbers the ground
plan can not now be shown; the finding of
a piece of board with a elamp (Fig. 121)
suggests a construction similar to that of
the other known ships. In the fragment
of the top plank are three oval holes

(From A. Lorange, “Nyt Skibstund (ra Viking. Out 3 feet apart and evidently intended

Be peas for the oars. The upper part of a pine oar
was found near the ship’s side, standing perpendicular, with the handle
downward, Another finely smoothened fragment shows two patches
fastened with trenails and so carefully joined
that it requires an experienced eye to discover
them.

In the southern part of the ship, near the '
keel, were found the scattered remains of a ie ree
nimbly built boat, the boards of which, a little cea

Zs : Z x CARVED CLAMP.
more'than one-third of ‘an inch tm thickness) .....0 tase “mesennee
and finely smoothened were joined to each Mags pet”
other with clinched nails and tied to the ribs by means of carved
clamps (Fig. 122). Along the inner side of the top plank runs a strong

Wig. 121.
FASTENING OF PLANKS.

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 611

edging. Over the well-preserved fragments was placed a gangway of
fir (Fig. 123).!

The inside of the ship was lined with a layer of moss as if to prevent
direct contact’ with the soil of the mound which was to be erected over
it; the prow was filled with large lumps of iron rust.

The ship appears to have had a length of keel of 66 feet (20 meters) ;
the width, from the space between the parallel walls, may be estimated
at 164 feet (5 meters). No traces of mast or sailing arrangement havy-
ing been discovered, it is surmised that the ship was used exclusively
for rowing, with a distance between oars of 3 feet, as suggested by the
holes in the top plank.

Fig. 123.
GANGWAY.
(From A. Lorange, ‘‘ Nyt Skibsfund fra Vikingetiden,’’ 1888. )
During the progress of excavation the following articles were dis-
covered:
(1) A shovel formed tool (ig. 124).
(2) Tool of fir (Fig. 125).
(3) Tool of oak (Fig. 127).
(4) An oaken board 6 feet (1.8 meters) long and 4 inches (0.11 ineter)
wide, with two notches in the middle and two on one end; this piece is
roughly hewn and not planed.

Fig. 125.
Toots FOUND IN STORHAUGEN SHIP.
From A. Lorange, *‘ Nyt Skibsfund fra Vikingetiden,’’ 1888. )

(5) A bat of oak (Fig. 126).
(6) Oar-shaped tool 40 inches long with a short, broad blade.
(7) Club formed tool cut off at both ends.

(8) Two round poles 17 feet and 10 feet long and a little over 4 inches

diameter.

———_——

a= wiles awe 2
!Aarbog, Bergens Museum, 1886, p. 72.

612 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
b)

(9) Three profiled fragments of oak with ornamented edge.

(10) Several pieces of bast rope.

The observations made would indicate that the vessel had served as
the last resting place of a chieftain whose remains were placed in a
sepulchral chamber erected over the ship formed of rafters which found
a Support upon the stone walls beyond the board and erected for that
purpose, while the intersecting cross wall gave support to the gable
end of the roof. Inthe chamber thus formed and covered with plenty of
birch bark, as shown by the shavings left in the place, the dead was
deposited in a sitting or lying position, near the south end of the wall
upon which were found two swords, one spear, several blacksmith tools,
whetstones, a little box, fire steel and flint, ete. E

At the foot of the wall stood an iron pot with a round edge bent
over but sadly rusted away; near by two beautiful checkers, a sinker,
a waxen tablet bearing the mark of a cross, and a gold buckle.

While of animal remains only the accidentally preserved jaw of a
horse was found, its occurrence suggests the usual funeral customs ob-
served in other ship graves of that kind, after the completion of which
the mound was erected over the entire structure.

The gradual settling of the earth and the enormous pressure exerted
thereby upon the funeral chamber resulted in the crushing in of the
comparatively frail structure, the earth filling the entire vessel, tearing
it asunder and distributing its contents throughout the soil; the absence
of human and animal remains may, therefore, be ascribed to the direct
contact with the soil into which they, in the course of centuries, be-
came absorbed without leaving any distinguishable traces.

With regard to the antiquity of the ship, tradition connects the place
upon which it was found with the battle of Rastarkalv, in which Hakon
the Good defended Norway’s independency against the Danish king.
The saga tells us that after the battle was over the king had some of
the ships of Eriksson drawn ashore, placed Egil Ullsaerk and other
Slain men into it and built them an honorable grave; he had the mound
raised over the funeral ship and erected bauta-stones upon the same;
and it is, therefore, not impossible that the ship found at Storhaugen
is the ship which Hakon “‘mounded” in memory of the fallen heroes
in the year. 953.

The Tune Ship' (Plate Lxxvi1).—According to old reports, a ship
was said to be buried in a mound located on the farm of Haugen on the
Rolfsisland, about three-quarters of a mile above the town of Frederiks-

' Skillings Magazine, 1867, pp. 717-719, 724, 738-739. Polyteknisk Tidsskrift, 1867.

Gade, G.: the ancient vessel found in the parish of Tune, Norway; Christiana, 1872
[employed in the description here given]. Miller, H.: S¢krigshistoriens vigtigste
Begivenheder, p.1. Tuaxen, N. E.: De nordiske Langskibe. In Aarb. f nord. Oldk.
og Hist. Copenhagen, 1886. Parker, Foxhall A.: The Fleets of the World, New
York, 1876, p. 151. Nicolaysen, N.: Langskibet fra Gokstad Kristiania, 1882, p. 12.
Montelius O.: The Civilization of Sweden in Heathen Times; translation by F. H.
Woods, London, 1878, p. 185. Boehmer, Geo. H.: Norsk Naval Architecture; in Pro-
ceedings U. 8. National Museum, vol. rx, p. 454.
PLATE LXXVII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

CBIST SOUL, IV PUNO;T Tossa A JoLHuUy ay,, Sepey “4 uloay pordop)
"AVMYON ‘SNNL 3O HSIYVd NI GNNO4S dIHS LNSIONY

. rey, VSR iy Sale Lida

| La: cen be cee é Rea eT
My ke cai ok Te a) err os

Aan if emi

= gee lA a

vu ee rae ee ie
t ae } 7 ~- r
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE, 613

stad, and about 600 meters from Visterflo, one of the branches of the
Glommen River, in the parish of Tune, which has preserved the most
remarkable and probably the oldest of Norwegian Runie stones. Over
a century ago excavations had been made in the progress of which the
existence of the ship appears to have been determined. Acting on
these reports, the owner of the farm, in about 1865, began a search for
the ship, and after several ineffectual attempts succeeded in uncovering
a part of its inner side. The discovery being reported to the Society for
the Preservation of Norwegian Antiquities, the proprietor of the farm
desisted from further search and allowed the excavation to be made by
Prof. O. Rygh, under the direction of the society.

Big. 128.
CONSTRUCTION OF TUNE SHIP.

(From G, Gade, * The ancient vessel found at Tune,’? 1872 )

Owing to the circumstance that the ground covered by the mound
had been under cultivation for many years, its original shape had been
modified, and its former size could not be correctly estimated; it ap-
pears, however, to have been round, about 13 feet high, with a cir-
cumference of between 450 and 550 feet. It is situated on the slope of
a hill facing the river.

The lowest layer of the mound consisted of a stiff clay, and to this is
due the fair state of preservation of those portions of the ship imbed-
ded therein; the upper layers consisted of other kinds of earth, and all
portions of the vessel surrounded by them had been destroyed, not
even a trace remaining. It was best preserved in the middle, where
the clay had been thickest; the extremities had suffered considerably,
and only the very lowest portions of the prows have been preserved.
The pressure of the heavy mass of earth appears to have resulted in
the breaking of several of the ribs and in the bending of some of the
boards, but the principal parts are fairly well preserved and most of
the nails undamaged.

In the mound the vessel stood on a level with the surrounding surface
of ground. Both of its ends being almost alike and very pointed, it
would have been a very difficult matter to determine which is fore and
which aft but for the mast, whereby it became apparent that the north-
ern end is the stern. Its position relatively to the sea, therefore, con-
firms the many references made in ancient writings that the burial ship
was placed seaward or Glommenward, to be ready, under the command
of its master, to be launched upon the element that had been its home.

The ship is of oak, clinker built, and is composed of keel, stem and
stern posts, frame-timbers, beams, knees, and planking. (I*ig. 128.)
614 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The keel, with a length of 454 feet, is made of a solid piece of oak
and is fitted directly to the stem and stern (Fig. 129); the width amid-
ships, owing to the absence of some of the upper planks, can not now
be determined accurately, but may be estimated at 144 feet, with a per-
pendicular height from keel to bulwark of somewhat over 4 feet.

The frames, thirteen in number, are
united by crossbeams, and are not fixed
to the keel, but lie free above it. On the
top of the frames, fitted onto the over-
lying limbs of the knees and their con-
tinuations, rest the ends of the beams,
thus forming a ledge for the ends of the

Fig. 129.
CONNECTION BETWEEN KEEL AND STEMS. :
(From G,. Gade, ‘‘The ancient vessel found at Tune,” bottom boards to rest bay The knees are

1872. )

attached to the beams.

The ribs (Fig. 130) are built of three different layers of wood, of which
the upper and lower ones are of oak, the upper one exhibiting molding
and carved ornamentations, and a middle layer of fir, which is wider than
the others and projects on either side. The relative distance of the ribs

= 2 Od On on oS OO Ot °

Fig. 130.
Rip oF TUNE SHIP.

(From G. Gade, ‘t The ancient vessel found at Tune,”? 1872. )
is rather regular, namely, 2 feet 7 inches. The under side of the ribs
have been provided with holes, through which the ropes were passed
that connected the planks to the ribs.

The ends of the beams rest on the top of the frames, where they are
fitted on the overlying lower limb of the knees and its continuations,
and as both these are somewhat narrower than the beam, a ledge is
formed on which the ends of the bottom boards rest.

The planks (Fig. 131), twelve in height, all orna-
mented with molding on the edges, are laid in the
ordinary manner of clinker-built ships, each upper
plank projecting a little over the edge of the lower
one. Their width is from 6 to 12 inches and their
thickness | inch, with the exception of the eighth
plank from the bottom, which is more than 2 inches
thick.

Where the boards are joined they are cut off ob-
liquely and held together by three rivets having
round heads on the outside and square ones inside;
they are placed at intervals of from 6 to 9 inches.

Fig. 131.
FASTENING OF PLANKS TO

Only the bottom plank and the two top planks Ris.

(From G. Gade, “‘The ancient

are fastened to the timbers; iron spikes had been
used to fasten the garboard to the keel, and trenails
to fix the two upper planks to the knees; all the intervening planks,

vessel found at Tune,’’ 1872. )
PREHISFORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 615

although fastened to each other by bolts of iron, riveted together, have
been tied to the frames by means of apertures placed at regular inter-
vals, partly in ledges on the frame timbers and partly in cleats pro-
jecting from the planks themselves; or, in other words, on the inside
of the boards, at every rib, a long clamp had been carved out of the
wood; two holes had been made in the clamps and in the under side
of the rib a similar one, through which the rope had been run.

It seems surprising that a people so far advanced in the application
of the useful arts should have bestowed so much labor on the shaping
of the plank without some definite purpose; it would appear to us that
this peculiar method of joming had rendered the ship rather weak,
although it may, at the same time, have given it more elasticity and
increase in speed.

TINTON Roe UU ql

BUILDING OF A SHIP.

(Reproduced from Edward J. Lowell, “The Bayeux Tapestry”? 1 Seribner’s Magazine, March, 1887. )

As previously stated, the ancient Gula law specified two classes of
workmen engaged in the construction of war vessels which the district
had to furnish—the carpenters who prepared and framed the skeleton,
and the workers on thin boards, who whittled the boards and put them
on, and the latter class appears to have been charged with the laborious
task of preparing the planks, which, in addition to the cleats, were pro-
vided with beaded edges within and without. Figure 132, taken from
Edward J. Lowell’s paper on The Bayeux Tapestry,' illustrates the
method employed in shaping the planks.

The tightening of the joints was effected by means of a thin layer of
oakum made of cow’s hair.

The gunwale being entirely destroyed, the form of tholes can not be
ascertained; it may, however, be assumed that they have been of the
same pattern as is still in use in the boats on the north and west coast
of Norway. The rowlocks of all the Northland boats, from the most
ancient to the present Norwegian fishing craft, exhibit the same gen-
eral model, although they differ from one another in size and details of

'Tn Seribner’s Magazine, March, 1887.
616 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. -

work. In every case they are cut out of one piece of timber. The rep-
resentation given (Fig. 133) is from a boat built at Rannefjord, in the
Nordlands Amt, about latitude 66° north.

They are called “keiper,” and the same term ‘“ keiper” is found in
old Icelandic Sagas.' The keiper consists of a piece of wood fastened
to the gunwale by wooden pegs, bearing an oblique prolongation at
one end, and furnished with a loop of wieckerwork rope or leather

Fig. 133. Fig. 134.
OARLOCK. RUDDER OF TUNE SHIP.
(Drawing from model in U, 5. National Museam, ) (From G. Gade, ‘The ancient vessel found at Tune,’’ 1872.)

through which the oar is passed, and which prevents its slipping out
of the keiper while rowing.

Of thwarts no trace was found and their number can therefore only
be estimated from the number of ribs.

The rudder (Fig. 134), which was found lying across the vessel, is of
fir; its original position had been somewhere before the sternpost on
the right side of the ship. It consisted of a plank in the shape of a
broad oar 4 feet 7 inches long and 10$ inches wide, the lower portion
of which, in the middle and 7 inches from the upper edge, was provided
with a round hole through which it was fastened to the side of the ship
by means of a rope, while its short, round upper neck was caught by a
erummet. A small aperture in the opposite direction of the blade was
made in the upper part of the neck for the tiller, which stood perpen-
dicularly on the flat side of the blade. The rudder was mounted with
iron,” to which one or more cramps were added down toward the heel of
the rudder.

One of the points of especial interest is the peculiar manner in which
the mast was secured. <A large, square hewn oaken block (Fig. 135),
extending in uniform length over five frame timbers and five beams, is

'Fornmanna Séeur: Snorre’s Edda. 2 Bergens Bylow, 1x, p. 18.

»
—
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 617

laid amidships along the keel, notched to admit the frames, and above
it rests another still larger oaken block (about 124 feet long, a little
over 2 feet wide, and 12 feet thick in the middle, but decreasing toward
the ends, which are shaped like a fish-tail) grooved to admit the beams;
and it is further fixed to the beams by knees or crooked timberheads.
A little below the center rib a square hole, 5 feet 9 inches long and 11
inches wide is made in the upper block for the mast, which rests upon
the surface of the lower block. A stump of the mast, about 2 feet
long, was found standing in the hole, together with a stump support-
ing it, which is formed by a projecting thick knot of wood, leaving a
space between the mast and the side of the slot in the mast-block. The
intervening space was probably filled with plugs. A little in front of-
the mast there is a smaller hole, which probably accommodated some
additional support for the mast.

Mastr-Biock OF TUNE SHIP.

(From G. Gade, “The ancient vessel found at Tune,” 1872.)

Just behind the mast the unburnt bones of aman and of a horse
were found; there were also some colored glass beads, some pieces of
varved wood, some cloth and the fragments of a saddle, and a portion
of a snow skate. The inside of the vessel had been covered with a
layer of moss before the mound was thrown up over it.

According to Mr. Gade, United States consul at Christiania,’ “in
the southern end of the mound at the height of the gunwale and still
higher, traces of iron utensils were seen at many places, but they
were so rusted away that there was hardly anything left but some
stripes of rust in the earth. Nothing of it could be preserved and it
was only in a few instances possible to make out what it had been. For
instance, near the prow, at the eastern gunwale of the vessel, the han-
dle of a sword of the form used in the Viking period was clearly dis-
tinguished; nearly opposite on the western side the point of a spear
and the boss of a shield seem to have laid. Just where the prow must
have been lay along, heavy lump of iron rust, apparently a fragment
of arolled up coat of mail. On the western side of the gunwale about
opposite the mast there was a heap of horse bones, but so decayed that
only the teeth could be exhumed in any way whole. They were ex-
amined by a veterinary surgeon, who declared that there must have
been the skeletons of at least two horses, viz, of an older and a younger
animal. In that part of the mound was also found a little round bung
of oak, such as might be used for a barrel, and also several oaken

iThe ancient vessel found in the Parish of Tune, Norway. Dedicated by the
translator to Commander Stephen B. Luce, U. 8S. Navy, in remembrance of the
United States corvette Juniata’s visit to Norway in 1871. Kristiania, 1872.
618 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

sticks, 2 to 4 feet long, somewhat pointed at one end, scattered here
and there in the vessel. At many places inside the vessel, but not
equally distributed throughout it, juniper branches which had been
pulled wp with the root were lying in the clay and still so well preserved
that the needles could be distinctly seen. Finally, under the vessel, on
its eastern side were found an oaken spade or shovel and a hand-
spike made of a young oak trunk, of which the bark was partially pre-
served. The articles found in and near the vessel completely estab-
lished what might also have been supposed without their testimony,
viz, that one had come on aship-tomb from the younger iron age. The
ship was carefully drawn out of the river not far distant; it was placed
on the ground, the turf and earth having been previously removed.
The situation chosen was such aS was generally preferred for inter-
ments in heathen times, as the mound could be seen a great distance
on all sides and the deceased could thus enjoy from his last resting
place a fine view over the country where he had lived and toiled. After
the space under the ship had been filled with earth the body of the
deceased was placed in its aft part where, as its captain, he had sat
when alive. The beads and the piece of cloth indicate that the body
was buried with the clothes on. By its side a horse and a saddle, har-
ness, and snow skate were laid. Thus he had ship, saddle, horse, and
snow skates with him in the sepulehral tumulus. One involuntarily
‘alls to mind the ancient account of Harold Hildebrand, who fell at
the battle of Braavalla. Sigurd Ring ordered the body of the fallen
king to be driven into the mound on the chariot he had used in the
battle. The horse was killed, and Sigurd then had his own saddle
buried in the mound, ‘that Harold might choose whether he would
ride or drive to Valhalla.” A little farther out in the mound, and ap-
parently without regard to order, the weapons and several of the
horses of the deceased were buried. With respect to several other
articles discovered here, we can make the same remark as with the
articles now and then found in other tumuli, that it is rather difficult
to understand for what purpose they have been laid there.

We have, then, here considerable fragments of a vessel undoubtedly
belonging to the Viking period. It can hardly be supposed that this
is one of the ships in which the Norwegians of that period made their
bold Viking expeditions in the Baltic, the North Sea, and the Atlan-
tic. A vessel so small in size, and built so low and flat, could not
be adapted to long voyages in the open sea; it can only have been
used for coasting trade and shorter expeditions.”

The Gokstad ship' (Plate Lxxy111).—In midst of a woodless plain ex-
tending northeasterly from the northern terminus of the Sandefjord is
located the farm of Gokstad, and near it is a mound, for centuries known

! Nicolaysen, N.: Langskibet fra Gokstad ved Sandefjord, Kristiania, 1882.
Nicolaysen, N.: The Viking ship, discovered at Gokstad in Norway, Christiania,
1882. The Antiquary, August, 1880; December, 1881, 1882, p. 87. Popular Science
Monthly, May, 1881 (borrowing from La Nature, view of ship in situ). Nordenskiold:
‘Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer PLATE LXXVIII.

NS

RUD) ff,

I!

THE GOKSTAD SHIP: SHOWING LOCATION IN THE MOUND.
{Copied from R. Werner’s ‘‘Das Seewesen der Germanischen Vorzeit,’’ in Westermann’s Illustrirte
Monatshefte, October, 1882.)
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 619

as the “King’s Mound” because, according to popular belief, a king
had been buried there with all his treasures, and it was in the expecta-
tion of finding these treasures that early in January, 1880, the sons of
the farmers of lower Gokstad began excavations of the mound. The
Society for the Preservation of Norwegian Antiquities being informed
of these proceedings, desired to take charge of the undertaking; after
considerable negotiations with the proprietors they obtained the privi-
lege of opening the mound, and on April 27, 1880, Mr. Nicolaysen, the
president of the society, repaired to the spot to direct the work.

Fig. 136.
THE KING’s MounpD.

From J. 5S. White, *‘ The Viking Ship.’’? Scribner’s Magazine, vol. 11, No. 5.)

The excavation was conducted with great care by opening a passage-
way right through the middle of the mound, and the second day
already rewarded the diligent explorers by the discovery of a ship
stern lying right in the track of the excavation. Upon further widen-
ing the track the entire ship was gradually laid bare (Fig. 136).

Voyage of the Vega, London, 1881, vol. 1, p. 50 (illustration). Potter’s American
Monthly, 1882. Werner, Admiral R.: Das Seewesen der Germanischen Vorzeit (ip
Westermann’s Illustrirte Monatshefte Lim, October, 1882. Preble, in United Service,
May, 1883. Good Words, xx, 759. Boehmer, George H.: Norsk Naval Architecture (in
Proceedings U. 8. National Museum, vol. 1x, p. 455). Mémoirs de la Société Royale
des Antiquaires du Nord, 1887, p. 280. White, John S.: The Viking ship (in Serib-
ner’s Magazine, vol. m1, No.5). Preble, in American Flag, p. 159. Da Costa: Pre-
Columbian Discovery of America, p. xxxvii. Jox’s Landfall of Columbus, p. 3.
Popular Science Monthly, x1x, p. 80. Tuxen, N. 2.: De Nordiske Langskibe. In
Aarb. f. nord. Oldk. og Hist., 1886. Van Nostrand Eclectic Engineering Magazine, XXIII
p. 320. Higginson’s Larger History of the United States. Worsaae, J. J. A.: Pre-
history of the North (English translation), London, 1886.
620 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

In placing the ship in position at the time of the interment support:
had been provided by placing heavy, round logs at regular intervals
horizontally against both sides of the vessel, and thus the ship could
be fully excavated and left standing free without receiving additional
support. (Fig. 137.)

The vessel rested upon blue clay, and to the upper limit of this all
the woodwork had been well preserved; farther up, where the clay oe-
curred intermixed with sand, the comparative lightness of the soil and
its greater capacity for absorbing moisture had caused some of the wood
to rot away, among it the stem and stern, with the adjoining planks, and

Vig. 137.

THE EXCAVATED SHIP.

(From RK, Werner, “Das Seewesen der germanischen Vorzeit.’’ Westermann’s Ilustrirte Monatshefte, vol.’ tint, October, 1882. )

the gunwale (Plates LXXIX, LXXXx), and the same fate the rest of the ves-
sel would in all probability have shared, but for the imperviousness to
moisture of the stratum of blue clay in which it was imbedded to a large
degree, and for the pressure of the superincumbent stratum of earth
which had bent the frames at almost right angles, thus removing them
from contact with the lighter top soil.

Upon the completion of the successful excavation the vessel was re-
moved to Christiania and now forms a great attraction among the
exhibits in the Archeological Museum of the Royal Frederiks Univer-
sity. (Plate LXXxXI.)

TL had oceasion to view this interesting relic on occasion of a visit to
Norway, and I will now give an account of the same from my own ob-
servations and from the description given in Mr. Nicolaysen’s splendid
work, * Langskibet fra Gokstad ved Sandefjord,” from which I have
drawn information as well as borrowed illustrations. (Plate LXX X11.)

The dimensions of the ship are: Length of keel, 66 feet (20.10 meters),
with a length over all of 79 feet 4 inches (25.80 meters) from stem to stern ;
breadth of beam, 164 feet (5.10 meters), and perpendicular depth, 6
feet in the middle and 8$ feet at the extremities. Itis of oak, unpainted,
clinker-built, and composed of keel, stem and sternposts, frame tim-
bers, beams, knees, and external planking, and in its construction bears
wu Striking resemblance to the Tune ship, previously deseribed.

The keel is 66 feet in length, ending in strongly prominent stems
almost perpendicular at the top, joined to the keel by an intervening
tongued and grooved connection that is further secured by a double
row of spikes. The height of the keel is 12 inches, with an inner convex

.) oe
Report of National Museum, 1891,—Boehmer.

PLATE LXXIX.

STEM VIEW.

THE GOKSTAD SHIP.

(From a photograph tak

yay.)

a, Norw

stiani

Chri

en in
ete
re

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 621

curvature of 5 inches in the middle; the ends are thus higher than
the middle which, in connection with the prominent stems, has a tend-
ency to increase the strength by placing the greatest draft where the
ship is the broadest.

The ribs, seventeen in number, are not fastened to the keel, but le
free above it at equal distances of 3 feet. The beams rest on the top of
the knees, the height of which corresponds to the tenth external plank
and thus a solid basis is formed upon which the comparatively lighter
superstructure rests. From the beams frame timbers extend to the
height of the fourteenth strake, and further support is given to the
structure by short timbers placed between every alternate frame and
extending from the gunwale downward, and by similar supports
mortised into the beams and with their lower ends cut so as to straddle
the bottom timbers.

The beams being wider than the ribs upon which they are fastened
and the frames of the superstructure, a ledge is formed upon which the
ends of the bottom boards rest; these consist of thin fir boards laid
edge to edge, each pair being bound together by a crossbar nailed to
their underside with trenails; they are laid at right angles, but the
outer layers conform to the curvature of the ship. All the boards were
ornamented with concentric circles or other patterns.

The external covering consisted of sixteen planks tightened with
‘cattle hair spun into three-stranded rope, which process would indicate
that the caulking was done simultaneously with the laying of the
planks. The planks vary in width from 7 to 9 inches, with a thickness
of three-fourth inches; exceptions to this exist in the tenth strake, the
thickness of which is 14 inches, and the fourteenth, which is 1 inch
thick; the two top planks are one-half inch thick only. Additional
strength is thus given to those planks corresponding to the position of
the beam and the ends of the short ribs.

The planking (Fig. 158) was secured to the frame in the same manner
as observed in the Tune ship, namely, the ends of all the planks were
cut tapering so as to closely fit the stem and sternposts, to which they
were nailed with iron spikes; the bottom plank was fastened to the keel
with iron rivets, and trenails were used to fasten the two top planks to
the frames. All intervening planking (Fig. 139), although fastened to
each other with rivets, were tied to the frames by means of withes made
from roots and passing through clamps that had been cut out of the
solid plank and corresponding holes in the ribs.

The ribs thus resting on the planks form, in connection with the
thwarts, a solid body, stiffening the ship towards the sides; in the
Gokstad ship the thwarts are the beams upon which the bottom (or |
deck) boards rest; nor could they be absent in a ship of this size, be-
cause clinker-built ships have their principal strength in the outer
covering which is held in shape by the pressure against the well con-
622 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

structed and braced internal framework, furnishing a resistance which
the ribs alone could not offer.

To strengthen the bulkheads vertical pieces (ig. 140) of plank, in tri-
angular shape, were inserted; in the sternboard three holes are shown
which were probably intended for the passage of the rudder ropes.

SSS
il

NS

WG

SSS

FASTENING OF PLANKS.
(From N. Nicholaysen, “ Langskibet fra Gokstad,”’ 1882. )

The mast rests in a socket cut in two large oaken blocks of the shape
of a fish-tail, laid amidships along the keel, the lower one extending
over four timbers and being notched to admit them; the upper block
extending over six frames, admitting the beams and being fitted to
them by knees or crooked timber heads; the mast is also steadied by
a loose slab which fits the opening like a lid.

Between the seventh and eighth forward frame a large wooden block
is placed, probably intended to support a windlass.

Fig. 140.
CROSSPIECES TO STRENGTHEN BULWARK.
(From N. Nicholaysen, ‘‘ Langskibet fra Gokstad,’’ 1882. )

There are three stanchions, of which one is fastened to the mast
block and the other two rest in a four-cornered step after having
passed through an aperture in fish-tailed shaped blocks placed between
PLATE LXXX.,

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

(ABMION ‘VIR ysiig) ut uexyey Ydeasojoyd ev ur047)
"M3IA NYSLS “dIHS GVLSNOH SHEL

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 62

the third and fourth frames fore and aft; they may have been intended
as supports for the spars.

In addition to mast and sail the ship carried thirty-two oars, sixteen
on each side, which were plied through circular portholes (Fig. 141)
eut in the third strake from the top and placed midway between each
pair of knees. The size of the oars, some of which were found to have
carved ornamentations, diminished from amidship toward each end, and

Fig. 141. Fig. 142.

OAR Posts OF GOKSTAD SHIP. RUDDER OF GOKSTAD SHIP.

(From RK. Werner, *‘ Das Seewesen der germanischen Vorzeit.*’ Wester- (From N. Nicholaysen, ** Langskibet fra
mann’s Illustrirte Monatshefte, October, 1882. ) Gokatad.’’)

corresponding decrease is noticeable in the portholes. Back of each
hole and a little above its horizontal diameter a slit is eut, through
which the oars were shipped, and all being in the same direction all the
blades would touch the water at a uniform angle.

Influx of water is prevented by a very ingenious application in the
form of a shutter having two projections, one of which was fastened
to the inside of the ship with a spike, around which they would move
and open with a forward movement of the oar; when closed the cireu-
lar portion would cover the port, while the lower projection, resting
against a pin, would perform a like service to the slit.

The rudder (Fig. 142) consisted of a plank in the shape of a broad
oar, the lower portion of which, in the middle, was provided with a

Fig. 143.
TILLER OF GOKSTAD SHIP.
(From N, Ntenolaysen, ‘' Langskibet fra Gokstad.’’)

round hole through which it was held to the side of the vessel by
means of arope. Its short neck was caught by a grummet; the tiller
(Fig. 143) was fitted into a square aperture in the opposite direction of
the blade.

The rudder was mounted with iron and provided with a cramp toward.
the heel.

To strengthen the upper part of the ship’s side a wooden pillow, or
block (Fig. 144, 145), has been laid outward and through this the grum-
met passed. Further down a block of conical form is nailed to the ship’s
624 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

side bored through, which serves partly as a fender to keep the rudder
from the planking and also afforded passage for the rudder rope.

The question of the position of rowers’ benches is rather puzzling, as
neither have the benches been found nor do the knees or beams give
an indication of the method of the fixing of seats for the rowers. It is
true the ancient writings do not state that the rowing was performed

i z Yi;
epee eye eee ee (UM,
‘ ' fy ULL)

Fig. 14. Fig. 145-
FASTENING OF RUDDER TO SHIP'S SIDE,
(From N, Nicholaysen, * Langskibet fra Gokstad, ””)
in asitting position, yet the word sess (seat), as applied to the number of
oars by which the vessel was classified, gives a significant indication
to that effect.

Of the gunwale the greater part was decayed, yet sufficient remained
to indicate between the short timbers a continuous skirting with ree-
tangular openings which, it is Supposed, were used for the tying of the
cords by which the ship’s tent was stretched, under which most of the
hands could find shelter against the weather.

In the ship discovered at Gokstad were found the four supports of
such a tent, together with fragments of the cloth and the cords. The
supports are heavy boards, 11 feet 8 inches in length, finely carved at
the upper extremity to represent the head of some animal, and in part
painted (Fig. 146). They had been placed obliquely, so as to form two
crutches, one at each end of the tent, with the carved heads projecting,
and connected together by the pole, or rather transverse bar of the
tent, which thus formed a gable-ended roof, extending fore and aft
from the pole to the rail of the ship. The tent cloth is made of a rather
fine woolen texture, white, with broad yed stripes sewed on; the cords,
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer. PEATE EXXG:

THE GOKSTAD SHIP.
SHOWING ITS POSITION IN THE GROUNDS OF THE ROYAL UNIVERSITY AT CHRISTIANIA, NORWAY.

(From a photograph taken at Christiania, Norway.)
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 625

for fastening it are hemp. The pieces of ship’s rope, of which a good
many were found, are all made of bast.

Along the gunwale were hung shields—originally thirty-two, of
which some along the port side had disappeared at the time of earlier
attempts to open the mound. Of the remaining, some had been pressed
and bent out of shape. They measured 94 centimeters in diameter and
consisted of thin boards fastened together by means of the boss and
by the handle. They apparently had been provided with a metallic
rim which, however, had disappeared. The shields were painted, alter-
nately yellow and black, of the same tints as the colors used upon
the carved heads and upon the tiller.

Fig. 146.
TENT SUPPORTS OF GOKSTAD SHIP.
(From N. Nicolaysen, ‘' Langskibet fra Gokstad.”’ )

A large grave chamber of wood was built in the middle of the ship
from the mast toward the stern. It had the form of a gable roof, the
sides consisting of round logs and the gable ends of planks placed on
end. In this chamber the remains of the dead were deposited, un-
burnt, and no doubt on a bed, fragments of a bedstead having been
found in the chamber.

Unfortunately this ship tomb had been visited by grave robbers, in
all probability during the pagan era. They had dug into the mound
on the port side and gained access through a large opening which they
cut in the ship’s side and the wall of the grave chamber. This ac-
counts for the fact that the bones of the body had nearly all disappeared ;
that in the chamber there were but few articles of antiquarian value
compared with what it might reasonably have been expected to con-
tain; and, in particular, that no implement of war was found. The
miscellaneous character of that still remaining, however, gives reason
to infer that a manifold collection of weapons, ornaments, and utensils
had originally been deposited. Thus, several iron fishhooks and a

SM 91, pr 2——40)
626 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

burned checkerman of horn were found in the grave chamber. The
most remarkable of the remaining articles are two ornamental mount-
ings for belts or straps, one of gilded bronze, beautifully executed in
a peculiar and characteristic style, and the other of lead. Of wear-
ing apparel belonging to the deceased a few small fragments were
found, some of gold brocade.

A great number of animals must have been sacrificed on the ocea-
sion of the burial. The bones of at least twelve horses and six dogs,
as also the bones and feathers of a peafowl, were collected from differ-
ent parts of the mound.

Of the numerous articles of antiquarian value found in or about the
ship, more or less perfectly preserved, the following deserve special
mention:

(a) Fragments of three oak boats that had been broken up previous
to being deposited in the vessel, and no part of which, with the excep-
tion of the keel, can now be put together. Like the ship they were
clinker-built, but instead of holes for the oars they have rowlocks of a
peculiar form, fastened to the gunwale. Two of the boats have cer-
tainly carried a mast. Their size has been comparatively considerable,
the keel of the largest boat being 22 feet 4 inches in length and that of
the smallest 14 feet. Several of the oars belonging to the boats are
preserved. They exactly resemble those used for rowing the ship.

(b) The stock of an anchor; being of iron it had almost corroded away.

(c) A landing stage, or gangway, 25 feet long, but only 20 inches
wide. It has the upper surface transversely ribbed to give a secure foot-
ing.

(d) Fragments of sleeping berths, at least four. These berths, a
couple of which have been restored, are of much the same shape as the
bedsteads now in use among the Norwegian peasantry. They are very
low and put together so as to be readily taken to pieces and stowed
away.

(e) Parts of a wooden chair, finely carved, that would appear to have
been the high seat of the chieftain or commander of the vessel. The
side pieces—in an excellent state of preservation—are modeled at the
top to represent the heads of animals in precisely the same style as the
upper ends of the tent supports.

(f) A great variety of kitchen utensils, among which were a very
large and massive copper kettle, together with the iron chain, grace-
fully wrought, for suspending it over the fire; bits of a smaller kettle,
of iron, and of the chain belonging to it; numerous tubs and buckets
of different sizes; wooden plates; several small, finely carved wooden
drinking cups, with handles; and many other articles. No trace of a
fire place can be discovered in the ship, nor would it, indeed, have been
easy to provide one in an open vessel of this kind. Hence the cook-
ing utensils were only of service while coasting, when a harbor could
PLATE LXXXII.

‘Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

(.“PBISYOH BAT JOQLYySSUv'T ,, SWASAVOSIN' UT0.1,7)
“SNOILOSS ASYSASNVYL GNV IVWNIGNLIDSNOT IVYLNSD ‘diIHS GVLSYO4H) SHI

4A i ELL LT a Se
ZOE | | || | | SS
Lage =a ==) = | a |
( | i | (Sq aa) | ) Seer es
mm SLUT
SS: 1 pee
= al en | a ry /— }— tt tf -—TI aa ee!

ae WWM
fe VL. Seals TE 262, ee Z

Yy 7

,

22-8
= las N

at
5

ees

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 627

at any time almost be gained, and in those days a ship kept near the
shore whenever possible.!

The various articles of antiquarian value found in the mound, to-
gether with the style of ornamentation in the carving of different parts
of the ship, sufficiently attest the correctness of the inference con-
cerning her antiquity which the mere fact of entombing a vessel in
itself entitles us to draw, namely, that she belongs to the period extend-
ing from the year 700 to 1050 after Christ. (Plate LXxxm111.)

The following interesting résumé is obtained from a study of the
Gokstad ship :?

ARENA T HED ShwieCeCDiSlCLNS) se — ose se aiele al“. SEEN core ois ene oan ee eee MO iea As
Wenmuhvotekecle seer sete. ee nee emia eas sis: Asoeuee cumos cH Snesbee te csuig sec Catoye <0)
\Widlitit Aone famine. Ehiuoltaulgys. oo deos sen peSee onaonsanodeceEeesSoeeoouce 6p Je
Perpendicular depthirom: eunwale to bottom: -222 5-2 25252 22: 3-2-2550 28. ihrem ee
Wratinatamn dl dlecotke elven neti neny toes ae Babe cs eine see cee: tee Ake Shoeies
Wratintenastoro wesley. car ha isjeisen emo s sci na sinew sna eee es Woe eee Seas
Gumnvwalerab ovienwmauen,. amidships sss. ee oe set seas esas aa oe eee ee me yea tie
Grummmalerabovenwaters rat SUCLM Si sso e arc sane ase os «eee ope ere en. Mele 6.64
DEMO OL WD Semis aye ee Ne Maes anae On en oSSaSnbe ESS aac roeae 67 OF
ViGU he Ons Perm OS lava te lyin ean aes mee if se cee oleae =e eng 14’ 10”
J NEE OME OVE ANC Ne Me S58 sake cadd Keene coeaceeu \ocace square feet.. 630
NTC ARO tC GUE LD Sse sete a eee esol ene ae oe oes eae oe square feet.. 24
Displacememt assesses ocean bass cr soe Sethe ees se ec eee cubic feet-. 959
Displacement center peroresthe mid dleym se a ass - ee ere tons-= 30:2
Nim erro 1.0 ATSsOMsCACHESICO Soe. toe ctyae Satay ele ee ee eye ee a eae 16
DistanceybebweontOarsswst ston. techs Soe ae tsa te eee epee ee oe Oe
Maditleroamab ove sumaceron waversee= ss ao ses eye oe ees ne ene iMeastey
Mpa enlee foie: Oates S2-- et ee scene ate ki tse Go sees soe So aee ee eae ker 25}
NEITMAT CUO 2 ae cys aS chiens Ae epee ere ea icaaons See ee a coahe eae My STR 70
MWieio hivot crewa wat beaccouveLiments| so: osc . 2 g) =e eer eens Sven tons. - 10
Wieirbinofeship and: 6quipment..c os .)2 2 ye leet se: Seu aoe eee. ee tons-- 20. 2

Boats of the Gokstad Ship“—According to saga account every large
ship had its boats, sometimes two or more,* which were taken on board
when the ship was made ready for sea.o They ranged from two oars
(dri) to twelve oars (tolferinger), which were worked through rowlocks
(keiper) fastened to the gunwale and loops fastened thereto; two oars
were generally worked by one man. The boats were clinker-built,
fitted with mast and sail, and had a movable floor between the frames.

' Nicolaysen, Langskibet, etc. p. 25, says: ‘The cooking could only be done on
land, which is presupposed in the municipal law of Bergen (1276), where it is enacted
that the mate shall, whensoever the ship lies at anchor in harbor, cause the crew to
be put on shore and backward once a day, but the cook thrice, once to take in water
and twice to prepare food.”

? Tuxen, N. E.: De nordiske Langskibet.

3 Nicolaysen, N.: Langskibet fra Gokstad.

‘Sigurd Jorsalafari Saga, c. 6; Eyrbyggja, c. 29.

*Egils Saga, c. 60; Eyrbyggja, c. 29; Gretti’s Saga, c. 17; Flateyarbok, 111; Bis-
kups Saga, 1, 492.

°Flateyarb., 1, 396; Heimskringla, p. 784.
628 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

In the Gokstad ship fragments were found of three oaken boats with
their rudders, two mast-steps, one thwart, six triangular pieces of
board, a backboard, bottom boards, and two clamps with plugs. AI
though too much broken up to permit of restoration, the fragments give
an idea of form and point to similarities with corresponding parts of
the mother ship.

The boats are built of oak, unpainted, very sharp at the ends, and
consist of keel, framing, and planking. The keels are 7.7, 5.4, and 4.1
meters in length, respectively, and are, at each end, fixed immediately
to the stems—in the Gokstad ship an intervening piece forms the con-
nection; the boards are connected to each other by iron rivets, and are
attached to the frames by either cord or trenails. The stems lie lower
than those of the ship and spring up to a point.

The boats have no beams, but simply detached thwarts; nor have
they a mast partner, but are provided with a mast step similar to the
block, serving as support to the stanchions in the Gokstad ship; the
mast appears to have passed through a thwart, as indicated by one
found with a circular hole cut through it. The rudders are of the type
of the Gokstad ship, but are without the iron ring at the top, and only
one of them had an iron cramp at its head.
The bottom boards were fitted between the
frames and were put together in the cus-
tomary manner with connecting crosspieces
underneath; triangular pieces were fitted in

Fig. 147. stem and stern. The oars resemble those

Row1ock on Boar Fouxp ix Gox- of the Gokstad ship; they were plied from

es, ee ets ae i gama) 2OWlocks nailed to the top of the gunwale.
(Fig. 147.)

The boats are, in every respect, specimens of skillful and expert work-
manship, and, being the only specimens of this class of craft known to
exist from that period, they are of possibly still greater antiquarian
value than the ship itself to which they belonged.

The Gloppen Boat.'—During the excavation of a mound near the
Gloppen Fjord in Bergen district, undertaken in 1890, under the
auspices of the Bergen Museum, a large number of rivets were found
extending at regular distances in rows which were followed up in a
northwest and southeast direction, and, although of wood but few
remains were found completely saturated with iron rust so as to pre-
clude possibility of identification, the nails suggested the shape of a boat
which had been placed in the mound parallel to the shores of the fiord.

The boat there buried appears to have had a length-of 28 feet, by
40 inches in width; the lowest layer of nails was placed 4 feet below
the surface of the mound. It consisted of five boards on each side ex-
clusive of the top rail; it had six thwarts—distinguishable by large

beretning f. 1890, No. Vul.
PLATE LXXXIII.

Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer.

Cumesnyt [BUONeN “S ‘Q ut jepow jo ydeasojoyd)
‘dIHS GVLSHOH SHL

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTUPE. 629

first one being 5 feet from the bow. The seat for the helmsman was 7
feet from the stern.

The outlines as well as the construction of the craft exhibits a remark-
able resemblance to the modern boats of Northfiord ; both arerepresented
in the accompanying figure (148), in which the contours of the modern
craft are shown in a connected line, while those of the ancient boat are

Fig. 148.
THE GLOPPEN Boar.
(Reproduced from Gabriel Gastafson, ‘‘En Baadgraay fra Vikingetiden.’’)

indicated by the nails which were joined by lines, and an interruption
in the rows indicate the place at which the nails were disturbed.
The similarity between the two extending even to the intervals between
the nails, a general description of a Northland five-seater may be
of interest. As an_ illustration, the Séndmére boat! (Fig. 149.)
used in the fisheries along the coast of Norway from Egersund, in
Lister, round the North Cape to the frontier of Russia, a distance of
about 1,200 geographical miles, has been chosen. These boats are called
‘* Nordslandsbaade” (Northlands boats) ;? they are described as long,
narrow, and low, light and elegant, fit both for sailing and rowing,* and,
on account of their peculiar construction, are believed to be more elastic,
safer, and swifter in a sea way. These boats are clinker-built and have
four strakes, except at the bow where there are six strakes; lower bow
plank put on diagonally with end chamfered to fit on other planks, to
which they are nailed; no gunwales; strengthening pieces* along the
inside next to upper strake; heavy timbers; boat entirely open; six
thwarts; five rowlocks; deep keel, curving up like a sled runner at
each end to form stem and stern posts which are high; bottom slightly
concave with much dead rise, being nearly straight to top of upper
strake;° ends sharp and very flaring; small rudder; peculiar jointed
tiller; single mast, stepped amidships with strong rake; four shrouds
aside with toggles on lower ends that pass through beckets at the boat’s
side; single lugsail with narrow head tacks down to stem; the oars are

' Boehmer, Geo. H.: Norsk Naval Architecture. In Proceedings U. 8. National
Museum, 1886, p. 443.

2 Diriks and E. Sundt: In ‘‘Folkevennen” of 1863 and 1865,

3Model in U.S. National Museum.

4Folkevennen x11, p. 349.

5 Kli Sundt ‘‘Nordlandsbaaden,” p. 25.
630 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

plied from rowlocks, called “keips,” which name occurs in the old sagas’
(Fig. 74), consisting of pieces of wood fastened to the gunwale by wooden
pegs (in the absence of a gunwale they are fastened to the top plank
by two iron nails), having an oblique prolongation at one ead and fur-
nished with a loop of wickerwork rope or leather, through which the
oar is passed and which prevents its slipping out of the keip while

rowing. '
In the Gloppen boat a man had been buried, but; his remains could
no longer be found, nor are traces of burning shown in the mound nor:

SO

WARS ES Ss aS ee cas scree,

PASS c ee eens,

Fig. 149.
SONDMORE BOAT.

(Drawing made froin model in U, S, National Museum.)

upon the articles found within the ship, consisting of a double-edged
sword, an ax, a spear of elegant form and nine bronze nails, two arrows,
knife with worn blade, a large file, frying pan, saucer, three hundred
rivets, mostly from 24 to 34 inches long, some objects of iron whose ap-
plication could not be determined. From the location of these articles,
and most especially of the sword, which was placed with its point
towards the prow of the boat, it is surmised that the body had been
placed there with the feet in the same direction and therefore corre-
sponding to the positions found in other mounds.

The Botley War-ship.—On the banks of the small river, the Hamble,
which falls into Southampton water, about 24 miles from Botley, and
about 2 miles inland above Burslean bridge, which carries the main
road from Southampton to Portsmouth over the river, at a place which
has been inaccessible for ships for centuries, an ancient vessel of large
size was discovered in 1875,
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 631

For many years tradition spoke of an ancient vessel having been
wrecked on the muddy banks of the Hamble, and a few fragments of
blackened wood, covered with seaweed, were pointed to from time to
time when they were visible, at very low water in a double and parallel
row.

The attention of Mr. E. P. Loftus Brock, the honorary secretary of
the British Archeological Association, having been directed to the
subject, he collected many of the facts from the gentlemen who had
been most instrumental in bringing it to the public notice, and from his
report I quote:!

‘TJ am informed by Mr. Herbert Guillaum, of Botley, that about fifty
years ago a rough carving was discovered accidentally, by an inhabi-
tant of this district, to form a part of a wreck, and it was removed with
the fore part of the ship. It is spoken of as having been the figure-
head, and having the form of an animal resembling a lion. It was
removed, and its whereabouts can not now be traced.

“The course of a small rivulet having within very recent times been
turned into the river, the thick bed of mud covering the wreck has
been by degrees removed and the broken timbers were much more dis-
tinctly visible, and much local curiosity to learn more of the form of
the vessel was evinced. Francis Crawshay, esq., having become the
owner of some property in the locality at Burkedan, undertook the
work of exploration with considerable spirit and appears to have
spared neither time nor money in carrying it out.

‘<The vessel proved to be of very considerable dimensions, being about
150 feet in length and extending from close to the water’s edge into the
stream. On the mud being dug out to the depth of about 10 feet, the
upright timbers, which were 14 inches by 10 inches, were found to
be planked over with three layers of planks, varying from 4 to 6
inches in thickness. These had been bent to the shape of the ship and
their edges were beveled. The joints had been caulked with moss
and fern leaves, and these were found to be so perfect that the exact
outlines of the leaves could be made out. The timbers, which are
probably oak, were nearly black or chocolate color by age, and of
great hardness, but the grain of the wood was very distinctive when
sawed through. Traces of fire were visible upon some of the timbers.
Mr. Crawshay’s excavations were continued down to the keel of the
vessel, and the length, 150 feet, was taken along it.2. Old saw-marks
were distinctly traced on many of the timbers, and the instruments
used must have been of much greater thickness than those now in use,
in one place the saw-cuts being 4 of an inch. The timbers were put
together with oak trenails, 14 inch in thickness and about 20 inches

‘Read before the British Archeological Association, thirty-second annual meet-
ing, at Evesham, August 16 to 21, 1875.

2Tts length is much greater than that of any other ancient vessel yet met with.
The celebrated ship found in the Rother was about 60 feet long.
632 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

apart, securing the three thicknesses of boarding to the uprights.
The edges of the boarding were nailed together by iron square nails
with some round heads, now very much decayed. The wreck is said to
be that of a Danish ship. Its large dimensions warrant this supposi-
tion, but it may be unwise, as has been done, to endeavor to fix its
being abandoned on the spot where now found after so many centu-
ries, to the Danish invasion of Wessex, 871, or to the attacks upon
Southampton, a century later.”

Unfortunately the researches terminated rather abruptly, the board
of trade seizing the wreck and placing it in the coast-guard house at
the mouth of the Hamble.

The Brésen Boat' (Plate LXxx1v).—On occasion of the enlargement
of the port of Danzig an ancient but well-preserved wreck was discoy-
ered near the village of Brésen, about 1,000 feet from the present shore
line, and buried in sea sand to a depth of 15 feet. These two facts give
evidence of the antiquity of the vessel. The oldest chart of the mouth
of the Vistula, published in 1651, designated the place upon which this
vessel was found as solid land, while the Westerplatter, one of the favor-
ite beaches of Danzig, now covered with a dense forest, was then a mere
shoal. The rapid descent of the Vistula, together with the running ice
which plows the shores, may be considered as the cause of the changes
that have taken place in the configuration of the coast; yet, if the
Westerplatter required almost 250 years for its development and the
growth of forest, the place of the find, being located at three times the
distance from the beach, must, reasonably, have required three times
that space of time for the change from water to land, and the depth of
the sand would indicate even a greater antiquity.

The utensils, too, found with the ship would indicate a higher antiq-
uity. They consist of a bronze compass-| ? |lamp of 44 inches diameter,
23 inches high, and in the form of a flattened bulb, with cylindrical
projection downward; _a furrow on either side would point toward a
handle within which it was swung. The lamp shows on top an aper-
ture of 1% inches, closed by a lid; three burners within a triangle were
placed upon the are.

Within the ship were found furthermore an iron ball of 14 inches
diameter, a drinking-glass of light-green color and supplied with a leaf-
like ornamentation, two incomplete human skeletons of large propor-
tions, the bones of which were partly broken and had turned black.

The ship measured 57 feet in length by 16 feet in width and 5 feet in
height. Being open on top, and the upper ends of the ribs being broken
off, it may be surmised that its depth was greater than 5 feet and that
it may have had a deck, which possibly had been raised by the waves
and drifted away.

' Ausgrabung eines Wrackes am Ufer des Baltischen Meeres, bei Danzig. Von M.
Bischoff. In Leipziger Illustrirte Zeitung. No. 1542, 18 Januar, 1873. (Translation. )
Report of National Museum, 1891.—Boehmer PLATE LXXXIV.

Mil) Vi

Th a San
use 29

THE BROSEN BOAT.

(Copied from “ Tllustrirte Zeitung,’ Leipzig, 1874.)
/

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 633

It is built of oak of an ink-blue color and of such a degree of hardness
that it required great exertions to break it up; it is klinkerbuilt, the
planks being 14 inches thick; the ribs are notched and the planks fas-
tened to them with wooden nails of 1 inch thickness and with iron nails
of 4 inches length. The iron nails had corroded away, only leaving a
black powder and the holes connected by them. The wooden nails
are in a good state of preservation; they are of oak, juniper, and birch
trees of one year’s growth, as indicated by the wood. The present
wooden nails, made of pine, only last ten years. The caulking is done
by means of cords twisted of the black hair of elk, bear, or other wild
animal, saturated with tar that scented of amber.

It is pointed at both ends and its greatest width is one-third of the
length. The stem-post was moderately rounded off; the stern-post
straight. No trace was found of a fixed rudder. The bottom is flat
with exception of the hollow groove towards the keel. The execution
is exceedingly rough, and smooth cuts of the saw nor traces of the plane
are nowhere noticeable; even the planks appear to have been split in-
stead of sawed.

Levy of ships.—¥or the service of the king the country was divided
into ship levy districts (skipreida), each of which had to build, equip, and
man a certain number of ships of specified order, carrying not less than
twenty nor more than thirty pairs of oars. Upon the declaration of war
the War Arrow was sent to summon the warriors to their posts. The
sending of the war arrow had to be performed quickly and the ancient
law provides! that ‘when a man carries war news he shall raise an iron
arrow at the end of the land. The arrow shall go with the lendir man
and be carried on amanned ship both by night and by dayalong the high
road (the sea). Those who drop the arrow are to be outlawed. A
wooden arrow shall go into the fjords from the high road and be carried
with witness, and each man shall carry it on to the other. The one
who drops it must pay a fine of 3 marks. When it comes where a
woman lives alone she must procure ships, and food, and men, if she
can. Butif she can not, the arrow shall be carried onwards. Every
man in whose house the arrow comes is summoned within five days on
board a ship. If anyone remains quiet he is outlawed, for both thegn
and thrall shall go.”

Levies are mentioned in many sagas” and the ships thus brought
together, strengthened by the numbers of vessels belonging to individ-
uals,’ formed large fleets of whose visits to foreign shores the Saxon,
Frankish, and English chronicles recount many instances.

1 Earlier Gulathing law, ce. 312 and 301.

2Olaf Trygvason Saga, ec. 15, 17, 38, 40, 107; Hakon the Good Saga, c. 3, 23; Harald
Hardrade Saga, ¢. 31, 33, 34, 40, 46, 50, 53, 54, 83; Hakon Grayskie Saga, c. 12; Olaf
Kyrre Saga, ¢. 108; Magnus Barefoot Saga, c. 5, 8, 16; Sigurd the Crusaders Saga,
eoiG, 27.

3In the battle of Fraedarberg King Hakon the Good had 9 ships and Eric’s sons had
20 (Hakon the Good Saga, ¢. 24). Gold Harald sailed with 9 ships; Earl Hakon
(Sigurd’s son) had 12 large ships (Olaf Trygvason Saga, c.12). King Harald Gormon
634 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

~The monk of St. Gall tells us how early Charlemagne had recog-
nized the bad intentions of the Northmen,' and, foreseeing evil, he or-
dered in the spring of 800 A. D., ships to be built upon all rivers com-
ing from France and Germany and ships everywhere, and at all places
where landings of the pirates might be expected he ordered guards to
be stationed.2. The most vulnerable point was the coast of his slavic
tributary people and allies. Thus, in 808 A. D., Gotrik, a Danish king,
surprised the Abodrites (the inhabitants of the present Mecklenburg),
laid the people under contributions, and exacted a money tribute even
of the Frisians.’ In 810 A. D., the Northmen assailed the coast of Frisia
with two hundred vessels.*

In 802 A. D., a capitulet ordered all free men living along the shore to
hasten to ship upon the sounding of alarm.’ In 810 A. D., Charles mus-
tered at Boulogne the fleet which he had created, and reconstructed
the old Roman pharos.®

In 828 A. D., Harold caused the Saxon counts upon the Eider a new
loss.7. In 845, simultaneous with an attack upon Paris, EKurik, King of
the Northmen, with six hundred ships, entered the river Elbe and ran-
sacked Hamburg.’ In 852, Godfrey, son of Harold the Dane, with two
hundred and fifty-two ships, harassed the territory bordering the
mouth of river Scheldt.° In 860, during the reign of Ethelred, a large
fleet of Northmen came to land, and the crews stormed Winchester.”
In 857, the Northmen invaded the city of Paris and set fire to it. They
are said to have had a fleet of seven hundred large ships, besides
smaller ones, and landed 40,000 men."' In 861, the Danes, under their
king, Welland, set out with a fleet of more than two hundred ships.”
In 865, the Northmen entered the river Seine with five hundred ships.

of Denmark, sailed with 60 ships (Olaf Trygvason Saga, ec. 15). At the beginning of
the battle with the Jomsburg vikings, Earls Harald and Eric had 150 ships; of the
Jomsburg vikings Earl Sigvald had 20 ships and Bue and his brother Sigurd had 20;
Vaen Aakerson had 20 ships (Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. 43). King Trygvason sailed
against the Danish king with 71 ships (Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. 110). The Joms-
vikings attended the arvel of King Svein Tjuguskegg at Zealand with 170 ships
(Jomsvikings Saga, c. 37). In 840 Harold Blaténn went to Norway with a fleet of
700 ships (Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. 24).

1Monachi Sangalli Geste Caroli 0, ¢. 14, 757; Mon. G. H. T. ii.

2Kinhard, Vita Caroli M. ed. Pertz, c. 17; Einh. Annal. ad A. 800, 157; T. I. Mon.
Gig Jake

3Saxo Gram. Hist. Dan. vit, 167 (ed. Stephanii).

4Hinhard Annal a.h. a.; M. G. H. fT. 1., 197; Saxo Gram. 1, c:

5Capitularia Reg. Franc. ed. Baluz, Paris, 1780, i, 377.

6Hinh. Annal. a. h. a., 199.

7Kinhard Annal. A., 828.

8Annal. Trescens. ad A. 845; Vita Anskarii, 700.

9Eginh. Annal. a., 852.

10 English Chronicles.

Keinh. Ann. Barthold, (Geschichte d. Deutschen Seemacht), places this event in
885-6.

2Tbid., a. Sol.

13Tbid., a. 865. °
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 635

Tn 880, the Danes captured the Duke of Saxony, together with eleven
counts, two bishops, many captains and their men.' In 893.a Danish
fleet of two hundred and fifty ships landed at the mouth of the
Lymne.” In 894, the Danes among the Northumbrians and East An-
glians gathered one hundred ships and went south to besiege Exeter.*
In 927, King Aulaf entered the Humber with a fleet of six hundred and
fifteen sails.4. In 993, Olave came to Staines with ninety-three ships.
In 994, Olave and Sweyn (Olaf, of Norway, and Svein, of Denmark)
came to London with ninety-four ships.® In 986, Erik the Victorious,
of Sweden, appeared upon the North Sea with an enormous fleet, dev-
astated Flanders, entered the river Elbe, and stormed Stade.7 In
1009, Thurkills came to England with a large fleet, and after him came
another innumerable fleet of the Danes.’ In 1012, Svein, with an
enormous fleet, entered the port of Sandwich and forced acknowledg-
ment by the Anglo-Saxons.’ In 1016, Knut entered the Thames with
one thousand two hundred © (1,000, 340, or 205 vessels, !! each carrying
eighty men. ;

The largest fleet ever assembled in the north is that which in 700
met in the battle of Brayoll. It reached from Kjége to Skanér, so that
people could walk as on a bridge from Zealand over the Sound, a dis-
tance of some 20 miles. The fleet of the opposing force consisted of
2,900 ships.'?

DEDUCTIONS.

In reviewing the preceding the question of parallelism between the
Ships of the North and those of ancient Greece and Rome, suggested
in the beginning of this paper, may advantageously be introduced by a
brief description of the more important points of similarity and dissim-
ilarity of construction.

It has been shown that the war ship of antiquity was not a vessel of
great depth, but that it was rather of slight build and of compara-
tively small weight, as is evident from the fact that it was often hauled
ashore without the application of any special apparatus, and from the
very short time often required for their construction.” They had a

1Annal, Fuldens, a. h. a. 5Enelish Chronicle.

2Enelish Chron. 6 Thid.

?Enelish Chronicle. 7 Adam. Bremen, i ¢ ii e. 29, 317.
4[bid. § English Chronicle.

9Enecomium Emmae Reginae, in Langebek, Script. Rer. Dan. 11, 476.

10Knelish Chron.; Fagrskinna Saga i, c. 104; Olaf Trygvason Saga i, 89; Forn-
manna S6gur.

Adam. Brem., U, ¢. 76; Encom. Emmae Reginae, 471; Chron. Saxon.

2 Worsaae: Zur Alterthumskunde des Nordens, p. 91.

8Tt may be stated here that the (according to Polyb., 1, 20, 9, 120, according to
Orosius, IV, 7, 130) ships of Duilius and Scipio were built in sixty days, while (accord-
ing to Polyb., 1, 38,5) only forty-five days were consumed in the construction of
220 ships for Hieron.
636 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

rather flat, slightly concave floor, and because of their moderate draft!
they could venture into shallow water or easily land upon the shore.

The keel was generally of oak, and at its shghtly upward bent ends
the stem and stern posts were attached, and the connection strength-
ened by the insertion of a crooked timber. In the Nydam boat the
connection is made by means of wooden pegs; in the Tune ship a close
joint is made, while in the Gokstad ship a peculiar piece is inserted,
bound to the keel by a scarfing and two rows of spikes.

In the Greek and Roman ships the ribs. were seldom made of one
piece, but were generally formed of three layers of timber securely
bound together.’

The same process occurs in nearly all the northern ships that have
become known to us. While in the Nydam boat the ribs which give
the boat its shape are mostly in their natural crooked and irregularly
bent shape, those of the Tune and Gokstad ships were built up of three
different layers of wood, one above the other, joined together partly
by wooden and partly by iron nails, the middle piece projecting. The
same construction occurs in the beams, which rest on the top of the
frames, where they are fastened to the overlying lower limbs of the
knees and its continuation, and the ledge formed by the projection of
the central piece is employed as support for the deck boards.

The ribs were not nailed to the keel, but lay loose above it, but vari-
ous devices were adopted to keep them in their proper places. In the
Greek and Roman ships they were fitted to the keel by notches cut in
them, and were further held in place by the keelson, which, by means
of notches cut in its under side, fits upon the ribs and prevents their
lateral displacement. In the Gokstad ship this is in a measure effected
by the fish-tail-shaped blocks which, straddling the frame timbers
amidships across the 3 to 4, 6 to 12, 14 to 16 ribs, are held in place by
the beams connecting them with the short ribs of the superstructure.

A further support is given to the ribs by the planking, which in the
Greek and Roman ships was nailed to them, but in the Nydam, Tune,
and Gokstad ships iron spikes were used only to nail the bottom plank
to the keel and trenails to fix the top plank to the knees; the other
planks, while riveted to each other, were tied to the frames through
clamps left in the solid wood and corresponding holes in the ribs.

The Greek and Roman ships were additionally strengthened by sup-
plemental external and internal planks at certain intervals, and inter-
nal perpendicular bolts. In the northern ships this is attained by
double thickness allowed to certain strakes at points subjected to
greater strain and by short frames or timbers going down from the

lin, Phil. Wochenschrift, 1888, 1, p. 28, estimate a greatest draft of 1.25 meters
(4 feet).

2 Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 35.
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 637

The rig was of simple nature, and although carrying one square sail,
both mast and sail were taken down before battle or in making port.!

The Homeric ship carried one mast of fir, the foot of which, resting
in a square hole in planks fastened upon the keel, found support in a
frame formed of stout planks. In order to facilitate the lowering of
the mast without unshipping it, the mast frame was open aft and ex-
tended to the sail thwart, a beam connecting the heads of a pair of
ribs about amidships into which a semicircular excavation had been
cut which afforded the mast support against the wind pressure.

In the northern ships the mast rests in oaken beams laid amidships
along the keel and slotted to admit the frames; over this another oaken
block cut to admit the beams. This block is clamped from the middle
to each end and formed like a fish-tail. Itis further fixed to the beams
by knees of crooked timber heads and has a long opening in the back
part to facilitate the lowering of the mast.

In consequence of their build and simple rigging the ships of an-
tiquity are said to have resembled modern river ships rather than sea-
going vessels,? and their main strength consisted in the rowing by
which, independent of favorable wind, they were enabled to hurl them-
selves upon the enemy.’ Consequently, the greater part of the ship
was occupied by rowers with little accommodation for the crew. Fre-
quent landings, however, were made for the preparation of the meals®
and for the night. According to the number of oars on each side the
vessels were classed, and fifteen and twenty-five seaters appear to have
been predominating in the southern seas in the sixth century B. C.,
while among the Scandinavians the sixteen and twenty seaters appear
to have taken a prominent part as regular war ships.

In order not to disturb the lowering of the mast into the longitudi-
nal space left for the purpose, the rowers’ benches could not be placed
across the entire ship, and they must be thought as loose boards or
small seats extending along the inner board wall, in which case they
were connected at one end to the board wall, and with the other end
resting upon supports formed by longitudinal beams which, amidships,
reached along the entire length of the ship.

In the Nydam boat—without mast—the thwarts were placed across
the entire ship at the height of the frame heads, and at that height
they may have served as seats for the rowers. In the Gokstad ship
the beams rested upon the tenth strake—that is, about 30 inches above

'y. Henk: Die Kriegsfiihrung zur See, p. 22; Werner: Besprechung von Brunn’s
Axoros, in Gottingen gel. Anzeig., 1882, p. 237; Breusing: Nautik der Alten, p. 71.

2Graser: Philol., XX Xi, p. 35.

3 Lemaitre: Revue Archéol., 1885, 1, p. 142.

4 Xenoph: Oekonom., viii, 5.

5vy. Henk: Die Kriegsfiihrung zur See, p. 23; Cartault: La trieére Athén., p. 241;
Lemaitre: Revue Archéol., p. 144; Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1626; Thukyd., tv, 26;
vil, 26, 101; Nenoph.: Hell., 1, 6, 26; U1, 1,27; Eyrbyggia Saga, c. xxxix; Bergens
Bylov,1x, 16.
638 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

the rowports—hence the rowing could not have been performed in stand-
ing but in a sitting position, and, although seats were not found in the
ship, the very expression ‘ sess,” as designation of the class of vessels
as resultant of the number of oars, indicates that the rowing must have
been performed on seats, and that, consequently, thwarts must have
existed.

In the Gokstad ship three stanchions appear in the central line, each
stanchion being topped off with a cross-beam in which are two semi-
circular depressions. The middle stanchion is borne by a tripod spike:
fastened to the mast block; the other two rest on a square step in the:
bottom, after having passed through an aperture in the little fish-tail-
shaped blocks between the beams, so that the stanchions could be:
removed at pleasure. The exact purpose of these stanchions has thus:
far been but very unsatisfactorily explained. It is known that a tent
was spread over the ship, and these three stanchions have been thought
tohave been a support for the beams that served as aridge. Nicolaysen,'
however, says: “It may be a matter of doubt, and indeed seems hardly
probable, that the three stanchions, and especially their cross-arm,
had served as supports for the tilt’s ridge, and it may be proper to add
that before setting up the tilt the mast had to be lowered.”

In my opinion, the exact meaning of the lowering of the mast does
not imply its being unshipped and laid across the stanchions, since the
mast alone, representing from 2,000 to 5,000 pounds in weight, would,
for its lifting out of the socket and placing it upon the height of the
stanchions, require greater force and more expeditious action, consider-
ing the occasion of its lowering, than could be expected of the limited
crew represented in the ship, which did not carry one surperfluous hand.

A significant fact presents itself to my view in the height of the de-
pressions in the cross-beams of the three stanchions, which are on a
level with the neck of the stem and sternposts, the place at which, in
the ancient Greek and Roman ships, a braided ring? was applied,
through which the double hypozome cable, intended to prevent the
breaking of the ship’s back in transversely passing over the waves,
were passed, and which were run over crutch-like supports along the
central line of the ship. It is therefore, in my opinion, not impossible
that the stanchions may have served the purpose indicated additional
to crutch-like temporary supports, the material for which may be repre-
sented in the numerous round sticks* found in various places of the

! Nicolaysen: Langskibet fra Gokstad, p. 58.

2? Baumeister: Denkmiiler d. Klass. Alterth., 1, p. 1604, Fig. 1671; Jahrb. d. K.
D. Arch. Instit., 1889, 2 Heft, p. 100, Fig. 8.

% Tn his enumeration of the articles found with the Gokstad ship, Mr. Nicolaysen
(Langskibet fra Gokstad, p. 37) describes some implements whose application does
not appear to have been satisfactorily determined; among them are:

(a) Two large rough spars of fir resting on the cross-arms of the crutches or stanch-
ions. (Jbid., p, 37b and Pl, iv, Figs. 13, 14.)

(b) A round timber stock of pine, in standing position, having at one of its ends a
perforated clamp, (Jbid., p. 38f and PI. iv, Fig. 11.)
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 639

Nydam, Tune, and Gokstad ships, and to which thus far no use has
been assigned, although it has been suggested that they may have
served as lateral supports of the mast, a mistake into which the inves-
tigators of the ancient Greek and Roman naval structures had also
fallen until their application was practically illustrated.!

The most dangerous weapon of the ancient Greek and Roman ship
was the spur which, in early times located below the water, appears to
have been an invention of the Phoenicians, who used it in 700 B. c.
The Greek located it above the water line.2, Above the spur was a short
ram,” representing the head of an animal, which prevented the spur
from penetrating too deeply into the opposing vessel.

In Northerr naval architecture, saga refers to a ship which was
provided with a beard consisting of iron spikes applied to the prow;!
one specimen only, however, has survived in the fir boat found at Ny-
dam (Plate LXxyV), in which a prolongation of the keel in either direction,
at its juncture with the stem and sternposts, appears to have been
fitted up as a spur and probably mounted with iron or bronze, although,
owing to its long immersion in the morass of Nydam, all traces of the
metal mounting have disappeared.

One of the most difficult problems in the discussion of Northern
naval architecture is that of dimensions, there being but two instances
in which the sagas give an account of the length; one of them is in the
Ormen-hin-Lange (the Long Serpent), which is described as having ear-
ried thirty-four pairs of oars® by a length of keel of 116 rece and the

ae ae thin spars of pine or an The ieuceet 7.2 meters, ine een 5.30 meters in
length, most likely not entire in any part, slightly thinned toward one end, but
strongly at the opposite end; the third spar 4.27 meters long, with a like thinning,
and at the other end hewn square; the fourth, having a round hole at each end; the
fifth, 3.74 meters long, imperfect at one end, where it is hewn aslant, and having at
the other end a hole; and, finally, the sixth, 3.20 meters long; its thickness entire at
one end, and near that provided with a hole; round on the side toward the spar’s
upper end, but in the side toward the opposite end eight-lined. (Zbid., p. 39e and
Pl. iv, Fig. 12.)

(d) In the middle of the ship, and about 30 centimeters above its sides, a spar of fir
broken toward the thicker end, and that was lying close to the wall of the sepul-
chral chamber and regularly tapered toward its other end. It probably first rested
in the cross beams of the structure farthest aft, and at a later time it had been
erushed downward together with the stanchion, and broken by the pressure of the
overlying earth. (Ibid., p. 44a and Pl. iv, Fig. 15.)

(e) Two slender poles of pine wood standing beside each other on the aft cross-
piece of the sepulchral chamber against its wall; one of the spars cut straight at
end, fitted with an iron spike, and evenly tapered toward its sharp end; the other
from the middle, regularly tapered toward both ends, one of which is sharply pointed,
whereas the other is broadened to a knob. Both of them were at the time of the
exhumation well preserved and straight. (Jbid., p.44b and PI. iv, Fig. 16; Pl. viii,
Figs. 15, 150.)

1 Luebeck Emil: Das Seewesen der Griechen und Romer, p. 52.

2 Assmann: Seewesen, p. 1613.

3’ Montfaucon: L’Antiquité Appliquée, iv, p. 214, Pl. 134.

‘Svarfdelu: c.iv.

>Torfeus: Hist. rer. Norvegic, c. xxxiii; Jal: Archéol. Nav,, 1, 132; Du Sein;
Hist, d. 1. marine, 1, 43,

640 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

long ship of Knut the Great, which, by a length of 300 feet, carried
sixty pairs of oars.

The account of the Long Serpent is considered as somewhat exagger-
ated and it is classed among the thirty-seaters, but a little lower and
narrower, and having a crew of about 300 iment

An approximation may be had from the number of rowers’ benches,
the intervening spaces or divisions (77m), and the specified number of
men stationed therein. Reference to the longitudinal divisions (rums)
is made as follows:

Rand the Strong’s Dragon had thirty eee

Olaf Trygvason’s Trane had thirty rim.

Long Serpent was 116 feet long; it had eight men in each half ram.‘

Aasbjorn Selsbane, of Trondhjem, had a snekka of twenty ram that
carried 99 men.?

Knut the Great’s long ship had sixty pair of oars and was 300 feet
long.

Harald of Hjst# ship in the battle of Helgeaa had twenty rims.®

King Eystein built a ship in size and shape like the Long Serpent.’

King Harald Hardradi’s ship was as long as the Great Serpent and
had thirty-five ram.°

King Sverre’s ship Harknifrin had twenty-three ram.

The Mariasusen had thirty-two rum.

The Ognarbrand had thirty ram.?

Vidkunn Erlingsson’s Gullbringen had twenty divisions."

Erling Skjélgsson had a skeid which had sixty-four oars and carried
two hundred and forty men."

In the Diere, built by Erling Steinveeg, each half ram had eight
men.”

Thorlief gave his son Hirik a skuta with fifteen seats.”

Duke Skule’s ship, Good Friday, had thirty-six rim."

ee Skjalgsson had a twenty-seated ues

'Tuxren, N. B.: De nordiske femeacne p. 128.

2Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. 88; Magnus the Good saga, c. 20.

3 Ibid, c. 79

4Tbid, c. 6; Munch, P. A.: Det norske Folks Historie, 1, Bd. 2, p. 361.

5’Heimskringla, 355; St. Olaf saga, ce. xxiv.

6 Heimskringla (ed. Unger, pp. 402,428).

7 Sigurd the Crusader Saga (Heimskringla text), xxvi.

8 Harald Hardradi Saga, ec. 61.

9Konungssogur, pp. 66, 77, 165.

10 Plateyarbok ii, 600.

Olaf Trygvason Saga, e. 105; St. Olaf Saga, c. 184; Heimskringla (ed. Unger),
pp. 231, 414.

% Konungsségur (ed. Unger), p. 223.

13 Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. 20.

4 Flateyarbok ii, 121.

15Magnus Erlingsson Saga, c. 25; Olaf Trygvason Saga, c. 102; St. Olaf Saga,
c. 60, 150,
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 641

Erling Skjalgsson had a fifteen-seated skita.!

Hindrid the Young had a snekkja of twenty rim.’

King Haakon’s ship Dragon had twenty-five rtun.?

King Haakon’s dragon Mariasuden had thirty half rim.‘

King Haakon in his expedition to Scotland used a dragon of twenty-
seven rum.°

Bishop Haakon of Bergen ship had forty-five rum.®

The smallest number of men stationed in a half rim appear to have
been two;7 when three were employed, one was for rowing, the sec-
ond to protect the rower, and the third to fight." When extraordinary
speed was required four men were placed at each oar,’ while the larg-
est number of occupants of a half rim is given at eight men.!°

It is evident that with an increase of occupants of each rim or half
ram a corresponding increase had to be made in the dimensions, as
shown in the Long Serpent, which, with thirty-four rims, had a length
of keel of 116 feet, while the ship of Knut the Great, with less than
double the number of oars, measured 300 feet in length.

The vessels had five compartments, of which two were in the stern,
namely, the lofting (lypting), in which the commander had his berth,
and the foreroom (/fyrirrwim), which was occupied by those next in
rank, and which also served as storage place for the great armor chest; !!
two were in the stem, namely, the hals, stafnlok or lokit, in which the
stem-defenders who bore the standard were quartered,” and aft of this
the sax. The central part of the ship, around the mast, occupied by
the rowers, was called krapparuim. With an increase in the number
and size of the oars employed, and in the entire crew, additional
accommodations had to be provided both for quarters and for the more
successful plying of the oars, which, by an increased size demanded
increased internal leverage. While thus in a sixteen-seater, with a
crew of about seventy men (allowing two men for each half divi-
sion’), the stem and stern compares oce ed about 30 to 32

~

Ties as Palesoues Saga, ¢. 25; Olaf ae ason Saga, ¢. 102; St. Olaf Saga, c.
60, 150.

2?Heimskringla (ed. Unger, cit. by Nicolaysen) p. 724.

3Flateyarbok 1, 166.

4Tbid., 196, 197.

5Konungsségur (ed. Unger, cit. by Nicolaysen) p. 464.

67). Norv viu, No. 119.

7Flateyarbok 1, 396; 111, 41; Egils Saga, c. 58.

8Hakon Herdibreid Saga, c. 6; St. Olaf Saga, c. 48.

9 Konungsségur (ed. U ieee cit., hy Nicolaysen) pp. 60, 465.

wOlaf Trygvason Saga; Munch, P, A; Det norske Folks Historie, I, Bd. 2, p.
371.

' Heimskringla, p, 709.

27 btd,, p, 53; Egils Saga, c. 37.

One for rowing, one for protection, one for fighting, according to Hakon Herdiz
preid Saga, c.6; St. Qiaf Saga, c. 48,

ro eS Ale ene.
642 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

feet, leaving 48 feet in all, or 3 feet for each room longitudinally, the
five-fold accommodations had to be provided for the crew of Knut
the Great’s ship,! in which eight men were stationed in each half
division. Applying, then, a uniform scale throughout, each division
shonld have occupied at least 45 feet longitudinal space against 3 feet
as in the sixteen-seater. Unsatisfactory and uncertain as this method
may be, in the absence of other data it affords the only means of
approximately computing the length of the ships.

The determination of width is still more difficult, there being in the
sagas but one instance in which it is stated that a ship of thirty-two
oars on each side (probably the Mariasuse owned by King Sverre) for
its passage required a channel of 7.53 meters (20 feet, 10 inches) to be
eut through the ice.

A seale might be had in the length of oars, which for most effective
rowing require an internal leverage of 1 against 2 to 3 external lever-
age. Anoar of 18 feet, therefore, would require for its handling at least
6 feet internal space, or 12 feet for the two corresponding oars, and at
least 5 feet should be added for the longitudinal central shaft in which
the mast is to be raised and lowered, thus giving a width of ship of 17
feet for an 18-foot oar. (It may here be stated that in the Gokstad
ship, fully described elsewhere, oars were found of 16 and 183 feet in
length, while the width of the ship is 16 feet and 10 inches.)

For the determination of height but one insufficient account exists
additional to the known ships, this being in the ship built by Ealing
Steinvaeg, Rider the Messenger, and Karl Philippus of Tunberg, in
1206, which was so high that “a man must be one of the tallest who,
standing on the frames, could with his broadax touch the ceiling of the
flooring.”’ The Korsusen being built by Gunner in 1253, at Ravnholt
in Bohuslen, was 4.23 meters (14 feet) above the water line,’ and Bishop
Haakon of Bergen, ship built in 1359 was 1.88 meters (64 feet) high.*

As explained in the preceding, actual finds have shown the longi-
tudinal distance between the oars to have been 3 feet for the smaller
vessels, gradually increasing to 44 feet for the largest vessel, of which
the saga has given an account; allowing them a constant of 16 feet for
each, the stem and stern cabins, we are enabled to give an approxima-
tion of the length of the various classes of vessels.

The 15-seater would thus have a length of 71 feet; 15-seater, 77 feet;*
16-seater, 80 feet;® 20-seater, 92 feet; 22-seater, 95 feet; 23-seater, 101
feet; 25-seater, 119 feet; 27-seater, 126 feet; 30-seater, 137 feet;?

'Konungségur (ed. Unger, cited by Nicolaysen, Langskibet fra Gokstad, p. 186).
2 Konungs ségur (ed Unger, cit. by Nicolaysen) p. 223.

3 Tbid., p. 425, 426.

4). Norv. vit, No. 119:

» Actual length of Nydam boat, which is a 15-seater.

® Actual length of 16-seater Gokstad ship.

7Computed by N, £, Tuxren: De Nordiske Langskibet at 160,
PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 643

32-seater, 152 feet;' 54-seater, 159 feet; 56-seater, 167 feet; 45-seater,
212 feet; 60-seater, 3502 feet;? 64-seater, 315 feet.

The following table is a résumé of the length of the ships discussed in
the preceding pages:

Locality. Sait Se nits ule | Year. | Length.
"eet
Innileys, Wine hinG |. oose5 sosoonecconsess cobcroco ceSdseasoesesnes IBIRNOS sbosccsccenemooe | 1875 150. 00
GORGE NID AO eoncsceoseeueocoHoue bsHeERocES oa noacesaeaee INTC Olay Sener eee 1880 80. 00
Nidan Denmarke cc. oc ceiecina cen seasesonecaseoss- sdseene Hngelhardt........... | 1863 77. 50
PING ON OnWa yin oe cis eee cee cs aeielelofare-Inioe Sbiee ciate eee re. < lity lil, Soeasesecssapoce | 1867 | 73. 33
SLonheusen. bergen, NOCWaYo-.- -- <1 -coce- ese = = ioe ee Worange'..ss-ccs~- c= 1887 *66. 66
Isigsen, Deinvale, (Ch one scossonossadusoer Ss soccs coos! 55|basecGoccncscoseopecesse | 1874 r 57.00
Well, ney ING atin pepeenosn sas se eeneheeaese-on a necaccssoce Nicolaysen ....--2-.-. 1852 53. 33
smnmnna, TAG Nils eco seeck aS aesnosadese sane Souebcoedede done Wawidsonyes 2 see cee ae | 1862 48.00
Nr dan Denmark. Ship!s:bOag 9. -msese se -e -nleleeien = - =m Engelhardt -....--.... 1863 55. 00
Went Weak Mayra Sone seco cecsn se oesseSscacrosccisasooe = InStolpersaseree = eet | 1881 34. 66
Wenulsl jolie nie so5e-s55s cen dseccsous seSeneeumosscer ecosQ) ssecedecnessecoe: 1882 31.70
NenwdelmUip land. boaitiekee sar tata se .ncs= =o see ele = = mice ea em sO see cease ras = aes | 1882 sea ly
Wmrilall,, Wiinlennd banthe-s Geese beacaanes abeoose seseccetodace saa: Sse paupbosesconsoses 1882 50. 66
Wennulal Winbinal leeks WatiesaS oes Sones Seencboceucdasoceecsedor Jo Once soe ee 1882 29. 67
GokstadeNonway. Ship is DOA - some. ce sees e= 2 een cn Nicolaysenise=-— <= se 1880 25. 66
(Giisjergin, Tat. - .ocss5hes seeder aeepoSeser poooas Saacaocesens Gustetsonlpe sess eeeee 1890 28. 33
Weamglal Winerdh api nite cee sac ssneuS cecbCeeHee Ue aGECeaatosse leStolpercsecree cee aoe 1882 26. 66
Sinner Ane oan gaeaeosses ConCeeeoce desea seeose oan oe. RS oti bors, sce Fs 1874 25. 00
\Wemndlal WyokinGh WOR imi oc. 250 Sh Ses seep ae cuouecooeadpae sees Stolpetseseasa-eeseh eee 1882 24. 66
Weng Wain md yeni 05 SeSeespaea5 66 se oceeee spo scocoasosetd sam On Perce tien eee re 1882 | 28. 66
TOLrAPLrOnd by OMas a2 sa. occ mre csc ces ce = ciscee cesses | WEG Cocoscodgesdest 1874 | 23.00
Wali asgeyi igaynGl yy Gieeae ae seo Sences eee eec ap aaproes docecas Je -- SCOR esses seis eee eoe 1873 21. 67
Weng ell jalan) |MORi al aseoccco de pnceco se ecoco sae sarcbornaas \sGtol nelson scar ater 1882 21. 67
Gokstad, ship’s boat.......... Sees ee Peete eae Toa re Eee cra eos | INicolaysenle se. 5-sesee 1880 18, 23
TGR, NIGER? & abo hace posoeoCbas pause soso Cpao Rao BHaanre eae ieee eee eee Fea 1884 | 20.00
Nalum, Norway «yp i PRE ak al NESE eee, © od OS | Seer hive ee Ss, SA Sa 1887 | 19.00
(Oks tade Ship WO Ave crs sac ve secins Sele widows tiene se seececencee ie eedowe sense see cee 1880 | 13.66
«Keel
WITHOUT IDENTIFICATION.

hackalanga., Sweden 2. -sso-rces se ceye ss tn ciate cteo ie enelsiciee sere | Bruzelius......-.....: | ast wal heepeanae
Mokkileby st, NOLWay eo. tse ans sobre acne = eis) aee testes Wbovante ya cee= sacs ase ts tees
Aiton aan U pp) aC) << = cies « ccrlsoe oe ae eis mince Soe nero aae Nicolay. snus = seeeeee |" 855) ul ees ee
Thov, Nordland........-.- Beri Sana SS Sachs HEAR GaSe | IG = sevotane scores: S53 eeeoreas

In considering the subject of ancient shipbuilding absolute depend.
ence should not be placed in the accounts handed down in the sagas,
which were often considerably overdrawn in an attempt to bestow
praise upon the originator, or, if even correctly conceived, by transmis-
sion experienced modifications which finally were incorporated in the
written records made at a much later period, and which formed the

'Long Serpent, according to saga account, was 160 feet in length.
* Knut the Great’s ship is said to have measured 300 feet in length.
644 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

only sources of information until, within recent years, comparisons have
become possible by the finding of ancient ships in a more or less perfect
state of preservation. The knowledge gained from these structures
has been employed by the late N. EB. Tuxen,! director of the dockyard

PLAN OF A PROJECTED ‘LT WENTY-SEATER.”
(Copied from N. E. Tuxen, ‘‘ De nordiske Langskibe.”’)

at Copenhagen, Denmark, in preparing construction plans of two ves-
sels of capacity often mentioned in the sagas, His résume is appended
in tabular form.

In order to obtain good lines and IE the cinestions of displace-

rien INE ORE ane eae Langskibe. ie ics £. etal Oldk, og , Hist. Copen-
hagen, 1886,

PREHISTORIC. NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 645

ment should be the first to be found, and this is obtained by computing
the weight of the ship, together with all the material, crew, equipment,
etc. In the present instance it is a 20-seater, that is a ship carrying
twenty oars on each side, that engages our attention.

The dimensions of a 20-seater (Fig. 150) should be as follows: Length
of keel, 713 feet, with a curve of 6 inches; length between stems, 90
feet; width amidship, 17 feet; perpendicular height amidships, 8 feet,
curving toward the prows, which are elevated several feet above the
gunwale.

: Vy LUN SS AMERSN A bs SONS SOS OP ES :
SSS 4 SSSELOZZESSSEZZESSSEIO HS

0. FE

Fig. 151.

PLAN OF A PROJECTED ‘* ‘THIRTY-SEATER.”’

(Copied from N. E. Tuxen, ‘De nordiske Langskibe.’”)
~The material employed to be oak or spruce with strong, stout ribs,
keelson and gunwale; the planking 14 inches thick, fastened to the
timbers with iron rivets. The deck in the hold 2 feet below the water
line and 4 feet above the keel to be covered with boards 14 inches
thick, and represents an area 900 square feet. Upon it and resting
against the ship’s side are benches 5 feet long amidships, and decreas-
ing toward the stems and from these the oars, twenty on each side, are
plied through holes placed 3 feet above the water and 3 feet apart,
646 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

The seats are separated longitudinally by an opening 7 feet wide for the
raising and lowering of the mast which by a height of 614 feet and
a weight of 2,000 pounds carried a sail that represented a surface of
1,400 square feet.

The forecastle room is 12 feet long, 10 wide, and 64 feet high, and the
cabin in the stern 15 feet long by 114 feet high.

A crew of ninety men required for the ship together with accouter-
ments and provisions for about four to six weeks weighs 24 tons.

The entire weight of the ship inclusive of crew and equipment is com-
puted at 66 tons. The corresponding displacement is obtained by
length of water line of 82 feet by 16 feet in width and a draft of 43 feet
in the middle.

The 30-seater (Fig. 151) is constructed on the same general plans as
the 20-seater, but is built stronger and having between each pair of ribs
a Short rib reaching to the water line.

The length of the ship is 120 feet keel with a curvature of 12 inches;
length of hold 107 feet; between stems 160 feet; width 235 feet, and
depth amidships 9 feet, the gunwale curving 5 per cent bring the stems
about 17 feet above water. The forward cabin is about 11 feet above
the water, 22 feet long and 15 feet wide, while the stern cabin is 26 feet
in length.

The deck, representing 2,000 square feet, is 4 feet above the water,
and upon it are thirty seats upon each side, the twenty in the
middle being 8 feet and the stem and stern banks only 5 feet wide, with
an interval of 34 feet between the oars which are plied through holes 6
feet above the water.

The central longitudinal space between the seats is 7 feet in width;
the mast has a height of 80 feet weighing between 4,000 and 5,000
pounds and carries a sail representing a surface of 2,550 square feet.

The crew is estimated at two hundred and sixty men, which, with
their accouterments and provisions, will weigh 118.5 tons; the weight
of the ship, built of spruce, together with its equipment, is 153 tons;
its water line is 144 feet in length by 23 feet in width and 74 feet draft,
representing a displacement of 271.3 tons.

The Long Serpent, according to Saga account, was a thirty-four-
seater, and had a length of 74 ells. The ell, according to authority, is
1$ English feet; hence, length of ship is 111 feet. In aship of that length
the extreme breadth is computed at 22 feet, with a depth of 133 feet,
and a displacement of 296 tons.

The following table represents the results obtained by Mr. Tuxen!
in computing and preparing construction plans for a twenty and a
thirty-seater:

'Tuxen, N. E.: De nordiske Langskibe. In Aarb. f. nord, Oldk. og Hist. Kjiében-
hayn, 1886.

PREHISTORIC NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 647

Table showing dimensions and results of computation for projected vessels,

Specitied details. Cale eee Ok
Enron e uw CONaS LENA S sesamiae et ease ian = lee ec ee == Se 90’ 0" 160’ 0"
ert riho ta Coleen rs soe aa a Oe manera eae ne ie. area te Swain =a = 71’ 6 120’ 0"
Mitdhhiabove oullwale AMNIGSHIDS! soa aes] 8 oes mie me ses oc wailed Nie 20 23) 61"
Perpendicular depth from gunwale to keel.......-.--...--------+--------- OnerG 15) 6!
WreathAimuadleOr, Keel = 2. ae oe «ce siees eee enero ele cw soso ote Meir Saleses a) TaGe
DEVAL GG Oe keLD eerste os Sc Aa ae ee ne re eee 4’ 3! 6" (64
Cumnwaledbowe water amid ShupSias2 sass see 2 oa e ee ay) s(t Sor
PriLUNWL OTA DOMe Walerr du SCCLM Gas set eee ae ee te ke ice 2 airs Sole S10! 17 ol
MexAethOb WUppermost, water Linect < 3— sem eect tele ale Ber anemia iene 82! 0! 144 0
WaKoNOL tp pPerMmos bwater lM. 222 ein. ae te alate alee tee are ech eres LG; 231: Ore
Ames Obl ppPeLmMosh Water lING:.--2- 2s. .se2s6,o=—- = ie = - square feet.. 920 2,314
iAreaonnid dle Til: =... 2-2 SRE OE Barre a nse ON oE ee docaes 42,7 101.3
DisMlacenent MNCUDIG teS bea ae ae mies se yalariere le ete ele aie ee cubic feet. 2, 085 8 614
Displacement center before the middle-..-.....-.....---..---.----- tons... 65.7 2hESs
Metacenter above uppermost water line .....---.-----..--.+.---------- ac 5. 405 6. 204
Center of gravity of system above water line..--.:....-.-.---------+----- 1, 941 2.493
Metacenter above center of gravity ------------:----------25-----------=-- 3. 464 3.711
Pte eronb Of WAS bo eee eee a= =o =o PS er ae GG 80’ 0”
TLEMa A Ge Sl s-han CRe ke sees eee eao aq stinéce Hebe occas separ Seaecsanc 36’ 0 49’ 0!
‘Area Ob. Sails 55.2 22322. 2%. Ee Aen eee carson aeee SQuaremeeb a: 1, 400 2.550
Coenteroh sail/above center of pressure. ---.-2--2. ---- sees a 38/ 875! 44° 750"
Stiiness moment.) sall moment--=-.--2=- = - <2. - =. === esa eeaee he Gye 17’ 650"
Deeks above uppermost water line. ------ ~~ = =- see. eee ae eee eee ne 1 a AO?
iLemeiln oP INO bey HeION)) Sedans CeoaesbcabecoacoEss paae war ede =aeee a nmne 60 LOT OM
INTER HOM Seta CISL Cee ee seem cle t= eels sce acs 2 slaps ae oma arel os acaia inten 20 | HD)
Oyster eree NET MeN IS og a de oe oe eee os Obonacodasenesctocccsenceraude snes he LAE Bh
Middleosmaboue: surtace of water -<.5-=so-coecc 22 cscs 2 ono ee ee cee ee Seow GE Om
Tatyana ONG CBRE 6 Saa8 56 ook ae sug sone ane nob de deenoemen sa aesussen are 1Bue0v S020"
(Ome Ol (een ON Ee eS SESE Sas Shocceeuuconceosccses yeaa s524- secede 80 220
IMMTINGICLOW sas - = == ota 5 SAS COR ae DAE Oe IE Se aeRO eee 90 206
Weight of crew, weapons, provisions, etc..-...-.-.--.-------------- tons- 24. 0 118.3
NWielontiOn ship.and equipment. -.--s2ees- 6 sce c- snc ~ Bea RE ESE do... 41. 7 153

These proportions are fully represented in the Gokstad ship, which so
beautifully illustrates the art of shipbuilding in the north, and of which
Mr. Nicolaysen on page 17 of his description of the northern Longship
from Gokstad justly and proudly says:

“'That there may yet be found in many parts of our country, near the
coast, tumuli containing ships in tolerable preservation is by no means
uncertain. . . . Certain, nevertheless, it is that we shall not disin-
ter any craft which, in respect of model and workmanship, will out-
rival that of Gokstad. For, in the opinion of experts, this must be
termed the masterpiece of its kind, not to be surpassed byaught which
the shipbuilding craft of the present age could produce. Doubtless, in
the ratio of our present idea, this is rather a boat than a ship; never-
theless, in its symmetrical proportions and the eminent beauty of its
lines is exhibited a perfection never since attained until, after a much
later but long and dreary period of clumsy tuishapeliness, it was once

more revived in the elipper-built craft of our own country.”
it
1 gas

cy bt of A AD : : >?
Shipper Ft) os >
mee heroes

a) ley Pree ai z

if gett a ,
pin! PAS, <8

FIRST DRAFT OF A SYSTEM OF CLASSIFICATION FOR THE
WORLD'S COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION.

-By G. BROWN GoopgE, LL. D.
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of U.S. National Museum.

(Submitted to the Hon. Thomas W. Palmer, President of the World’s Columbian
Commission, September 1, 1892. )

The paper now submitted is emphatically a first draft,* and should
its general features meet with approval, it must still require careful
revision and some rearrangement before it can be said to be ready for
actual use. The time allowed for its preparation has been very short,
and I have not had sufficient opportunity for conference with certain
experts whose critical revision of the groups with which they are ind1-
vidually familiar is essential to the perfection of the plan.

I am aware that some of the groupings proposed may probably be
unsatisfactory to the representatives of special interests, manufactur-
ing or commercial, who will feel anxious to have all of the exhibits in
which they are interested kept together. The textile men, for instance,
may wish to have felt hats exhibited with other articles of felt, rather
than in the department of costume; the wool men may desire a special
collection of wool and all its produets; the printing trade may expect
to have printing presses shown by the side of paper and books, rather
than with machinery in motion. In such cases as these, concessions and
changes may be made, for intending exhibitors have rights which must
be carefully regarded.

Many millions of visitors will see the Exposition, and it is for the visitors’
interest especially that the objects on exhibition ought to be arranged.
They should be selected and installed, first of all, with reference to
attractiveness. Visitors must be drawn from every village in America,
and after coming to Chic..go must be led to visit the Exposition repeat-
edly, and to examine the displays in as many as possible of the thou-

* Special acknowledgments are due to Prof. W. O. Atwater, Prof. Otis T, Mason,
Mr. J. Elfreth Watkins, Dr. Cyrus Adler, Col. G. E. Gordon, Mr. R. KE, Earl], and
Mr. W. V. Cox for advice and criticism in connection with the work of preparing
the system of classification.

Acknowledgment is also due to Prof. Melvil Dewey, the author of the “Decimal
Classification and Relative Index for the Arrangement of Libraries.” His book has
been constantly in my hands for several years, and its great usefulness in the hand-
ling of books and literary material suggested the desirability of forming a similar
plan for use in the arrangement of Exhibition material,

649
650 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

sand classes. First of all, | repeat, visitors must be induced to come to
the Exposition and to look at the exhibits. The next thing to be accom-
plished is, by means of careful installation and labeling, to make each
object teach some useful lesson.

The interest of the exhibitors is identical with that of the managers
in this respect, and their codperation in this higher class of exhibition
work is indispensable to its success.

The classification scheme of every important exhibition of the past
forty years has been studied for the purpose of embodying in the pres-
ent plan the best features of all which have preceded it, and it is my
hope that, after this has been modified to meet the special needs of the
coming Exhibition in Chicago, it will prove to be thoroughly available
in practical use.

I need searcely remind you that no rules for the construction of ex-
hibition classifications have ever been formulated. No two persons can
possibly arrive at the same results in preparing a plan of arrangement,
and it is unlikely that any scheme can ever be fully satisfactory to all.
A plan of classification is a matter of compromise and convenience,
and the only test of its value is in its practical working.*

An attempt has been made to present in this plan of classification a
certain logical sequence of ideas. This sequence is perhaps somewhat
obscured by the combination of many quite distinct groups in a few
primary divisions, and a general review of the arrangement 1s there-
fore given.

A primary division into ten groups or departments is proposed,
Their composition is shown in a general way below, as follows:

PRIMARY OR PRODUCTIVE ARTS.

1. Agriculture and Allied Industries, including—
Agriculture, in a limited sense.
Viticulture.

Horticulture and gardening.

“A unit of classification 1s not necessarily a unit of installation. Your officials in
charge of installations may at any time combine a number of classes, or combine
all the classes in a division for purposes of exhibition. Similar combinations will of
course be made for jury work.

Please note particularly the possibilities in connection with Department 10, to
which, in the form of Collective Exhibits, the management may assign, for mono-
graphic display, in separate halls or buildings, special subjects for which such treat-
ment is desired.

When, for any reason, it is decided to remove a given group of objects from the
place where it logically belongs, to some other place where it is more convenient to
display it, it is possible by a system of cross-references in the catalogues and on the
labels to keep its other relationships in the mind of the visitor. Indeed, it is often
desirable to exhibit the same class of objects twice in different relationships.
Cotton in the bale, for instance, is a final product of agriculture and the raw material
of one of the textile industries, and for purposes of exhibition belongs in both de-
partments, although, possibly, subject to jury award only where if appears as a
product; and there are many similar cases with which you are of course familiar.

The importance of the cross-reference system, then, is very great.
Ue

2

S

Us

ion)

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD'S FAIR. 651

Agriculture and Allied Industries, including—

Forestry (including, perhaps, the wood-working industries. )
Stock-raising, poultry, ete.

Dairy industries.

Minor animal industries.

Hunting and trapping for profit.

The Mines and Metallurgy, inclading—

Mining.

Metallurgy and metal-working (simple products only).
The quarries and stone-working.

Water and ice supply.

The Fisheries, including also, for reasons of installation, all marine and aquatic

interests, as follows:
The fisheries.
Fish culture.
Vessels and boats.
Life-saving and subaquatic operations.

SECONDARY OR ELABORATIVE INDUSTRIES.

Manufactures and Elaborative Industries, ~ including—

Motors of all kinds.

Machinery in motion.

Railway plant.

Vehicles of land transportation.

Electricity and its application.

The chemical industries.

Pottery and glass-making.

The metal-working handicrafts (partly also under Mines and Metallurgy).

The wood-working industries (perhaps to be arranged under Forestry ).

The stone-working industries and masonry (perhaps to be arranged with
Mines and Metallurgy).

Fur and leather working. :

The textile industries.

Paper manufacture.

Other industries and machines.

UTILIZATION OF RESOURCES AND MATERIALS.

. Food and its accessories, including—

Food substances and cookery.
Beverages.
Tobacco and other narcotics. t

House and dress, ineluding—

Domestic architecture and house-fitting
Furniture (of dwellings and publie buildings).
Heating, lighting, and ventilation.

Costume and its accessories, and the toilet.
Jewelry and trinkets.

*The subordination of so many important industries under one general head may

at first sight be deemed inadvisable. It should be borne constantly in mind, how-
ever, that « system of classification is only a device to facilitate administration, and that
the subordination of a given subject and the size of the types in which it is printed
in the classification, have no relation whatever to its relative importance.

tThis grouping may seem inappropriate, but it is that which for forty vears has,

for reasons of convenience, been adopted by exhibitions.
652

\

. REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

THe Finn ARTs.

%. The pictorial, plastic, and decorative arts, including—

Photography.

Decorative arts in general.
Sculpture.

Architecture.

Engraving.

Drawing.

Painting.

Tur PHYSICAL, INTELLECTUAL, AND MORAL CONDITION OF MAN (includirg the

“‘ Liberal Arts” of the French classifications and much more).

8. Social relations and public welfare (physical and social condition of man),

Folk-lore and ceremony.

Communication and record of ideas (language, writing and printing. Books
not shown as literature).

Engineering and constructive architecture.

Property, trade, commerce, and intercommunication.

Recreation and amusement.

Musie and musical instruments. The theater.

Medicine, surgery, pharmacology, hygiene.

Public convenience and safety.

Government and law.

Societies and federations.

9. Science, religion, education and human achievement (intellectual and moral condition

10.

of man).
Institutions and organizations.
Science (research and record).
History and biography. Representative men.
Literature and books.
Journalism.
Religious organizations
Primary education.
Secondary instruction.
Superior instruction.
Human achievement.

Collective or monographic exhibits.

Collective exhibits of foreign governments.

The Government of the United States. Collective exhibit of the Government
Departments.

American States and cities.

The woman’s department.

Collective exhibits, isolated by the board of management for reasons of con-
venience. -

Special industries. Collective exhibits (such as the leather, textile, or brew-
ing industries).

North American ethnography, and that of other countries (with tribes or
families living in native dwellings).

Special monographie exhibits, showing the civilization of countries which
have contributed largely to the peopling of America.

Special collective exhibits to be arranged for by the commissioners.

It will be observed that in the sketch of the plan of arrangement

given above, no attempt has been made to follow the details of the
secondary classification as presented in the formal plan. My idea has
—

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 653

been simply to show the relation of the ideas which underlie the main
classification.

The minor headings may be made the basis of an alternative arrange-
ment, which is quite practicable, if the commission should prefer to
adopt a plan with a larger number of main departments. A rearrange-
ment of the details would be simply an affair of paste and scissors.

Your attention is invited to the proposed adoption of the decimal
system in the numeration of the classes.

Each number used in the classification will indicate in itself, in the
simplest and clearest manner possible, the class, division, and depart-
ment to which the object designated belongs. There are ten divisions
in each group or department, and ten classes in each division, making
one thousand classes in all.

At first sight this system may seem artificial and not practical. Its
advantages are, however, many and positive, especially when in use by
persons untrained in exhibition administration. It is not by any means
a new idea. A somewhat similar system of class numeration was used
with excellent results in the Philadelphia Exhibition of 1876. A simple
illustration of the plan is found in the customary way of numbering the
rooms and floors in large hotels, the numbering of the rooms on the first
floor beginning with 1, those on the second floor 2, and so on.

The use of the decimal system is not, however, an essential feature
of the plan and another method of designating the classes may readily
be substituted.

This plan is purposely more minute and elaborate than that used by
any previous exhibition, in order to call out material that otherwise
might not be sent. If the classification were intended simply for the
installation of material on the floors of the Chicago buildings, this one
is surely fuller than it need be. If, however, the most important fune-
tion of a plan of classification is to serve as a stimulant and a guide to
exhibitors and to show them what kind of objects they can and ought to
send to the Exposition, it is scarcely possible to have it too comprehen-
Sive.

It will be noticed that some classes are much more minutely subdi-
vided than others. This is usually intentional. Where the details of
a subject are to be found in the cyclopedias and common treatises, they
are not included here. For instance, the breeds of poultry are not cata-
logued, because it is unnecessary.. Sometimes, on the other hand, the
omission is unavoidable, because the author of the classification is
ignorant of the subject and has not as yet been able to find the proper
persons to supply the needed information. So far as necessary, addi-
tions and alterations-can be made in the next edition of the plan.

Let me say, however, that the classification is intended to be suggestive
rather than exhaustive.

This plan calls for much material and information—historical, statis-
tieal, scientific, and educational—which no previous exhibition has
obtained or asked for, J do not believe that private exhibitors will
654 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

undertake to supply any considerable amount of this kind of material,
though much will be done by societies, commercial organizations, and
public-spirited men and women who may become interested in the
development of certain subjects. I am confident, however, that a
moderate expenditure of money and effort in this direction on the part
of the officers of the Exhibition will produce most satisfactory results.
By no other means can the attractiveness, the educational value, and
the permanent usefulness of the exhibition be so greatly enhanced.

If I understand rightly the spirit of the proposed exhibition, it is to
Show the history of our continent since its European occupation and its
influence upon the history of the world. It is to expound, as far as may
be, the steps of the progress of civilization and its arts in successive
centuries, and in all lands up to the present time and their present
condition; to be, in fact, an illustrated encyclopedia of civilization. It
is to be so generous in its scope that in its pictorial and literary remains
will be preserved the best record of human culture in the last decade of the
nineteenth century. If such is to be the character of the undertak-
ing, it will be necessary to depart very largely from the traditional
methods of previous exhibitions, which have usually been preéminently
industrial,

As a student of museum and exhibition administration for twenty
years, and as commissioner in charge of the exhibit of the United
States at two international exhibitions abroad and officially connected
with all the home exhibitions in which the Government has ever taken
part, it has been my privilege to observe the tendencies of public opin-
ion in regard to such matters.

T am satisfied that more is expected of the Chicago Exhibition than
of any previous undertaking of the kind, and that a pronounced de-
parture from traditional methods and the introduction of features new,
useful and improving are the conditions of a magnificent success.

Since 1876 a notable change in the theory and practice of exhibition
administration has taken place. Magnificent as was the success of the
Philadelphia exhibition in its day, if it could be reproduced exactly in
Chicago in 1892, it would probably not be considered at all a remark-
able affair.

The successes of the Paris Exposition of 1889, and the equally re-
markable achievements of the quartet at South Kensington, namely,
the Fisheries Exhibition in 1885, the Health Exhibition in 1884, the
Inventions Exhibition in 1885, and the Colonial and Indian Exhibition
in 1886, as well as of other special exhibitions in the European capitals,
have, it would seem, left little new to be done.

Installation methods are much more elaborate and effective than
ever before; catalogues and labels are more accurate and scholarly.
There has been developed a system of handbooks, manuals, and expert
reports which, after the close of the exhibition, standing on the shelves
of all the great libraries of the world, constitute a lasting monument
of the enterprise. A series of international conferences and assem-
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 655

blies of experts, bringing together in council wise men of all nations,
were most successfully carried out at Paris. These were in many re-
spects the most important features of the exhibition, and were so
regarded by its management.

In the meantime the old system of competitive awards and medals
has been falling into disfavor, just as similar methods are going out of
educational institutions. What was once the chief feature is now only
an incidental one, and, although doubtless still a necessary accompani-
ment of exhibitions, it is one which is usually a source of dissatisfae-
tion to all concerned.

The theatrical features, at one time in favor in exhibitions, are less
effective than in the past; unmeanmeg and pretentious display is not
advantageous. Stupendous towers, barrels as big as houses, temples
of cigar boxes, or armorial trophies of picks and shovels, though they
have their uses for advertising purposes, and, it may be, for decoration,
are matters of but the slightest importance in an exhibition which is
intended to commemorate the anniversary of a great historical event.

The historical and educational idea is the one which seems to be
most in keeping with the spirit of America at the present time, and no
great exhibition has by any means exhausted the possibilities of effect-
ive work in this direction, wherein seems to he the chief opportunity of
doing something which has not already been magnificently done else-
where.

The public has a lofty ideal for the Columbian Exposition. The
tendency of thought has been well set forth in the admirable letters by
Mr. Edward Atkinson to the New York Tribune on the subject of the
plan of the World’s Columbian Exposition, and in the interest mani-
fested in the essay of M. Berger, the director general of the Paris Ex-
position, recently published in the Century Magazine. The Chautauqua
movement and the National Agricultural Experimental Station enter-
prise illustrate the demand of the public for concrete information, and
that of the highest order.

The visitors to the National Museum in Washington are numbered
by hundreds of thousands and come from every portion of the United
States. The Museum is, in a certain way, a permanent exposition of
science and industry. Time after time new features have been intro-
duced, seemingly in advance of the public taste, yet in every case the
people have not only appreciated the idea at once and been pleased
with it, but have also shown by their comments and suggestions and
generous aid how further advances might be made in the same direction,

Please allow me to refer once more to the subject of labels and label-
ing. Bya label I mean not merely the card attached to a given article,
giving its name and that of its exhibitor: I mean all illustrative and
explanatory matter displayed in connection with any group of objects,
such as placards, pictures, maps, and books, placed where the visitor
ean use them. ILonce attempted to make a definition of a museum—
an ideally useful museum—in the following words:
656 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

“An efficient educational museum may be described as «a collection of
instructive labels, each illustrated by a well-selected specimen.”*

The same principle, with obviously necessary modifications, may be
said to be applicable in the administration of exhibitions.

A live exhibition is one in which each group of objects is made intel-
ligible and instructive by the constant presence of a staff of experts
to explain the teachings of the objects on view, and by an effective sys-
tem of labels and explanatory placards.

The exhibition of the future will be an exhibition of ideas rather than
of objects, and nothing will be deemed worthy of admission to its halls
which has not some living, inspiring thought behind it, and which is not
capable of teaching some valuable lesson.t

A leader in the educational work of America writes to me in the fol-
lowing words:

In the history of no nation before has there been such a thirst for knowledge on

the part of the great masses of the people, such a high appreciation of its value, and
such ability and readiness to acquire and use it. No other people get so much of
education from what they read and see. No other nation has so large a body of cit-
izens of high intelligence; never before has the publie been so willing, and indeed,
s0 anxious to receive with respect and use with intelligence the information which
the thought and experience of the age are furnishing; never before haye that
thought and experience had so much to give. Let the Exposition be a display not
merely of material products, but of the teachings of science and experience as re-
gards their value, importance, and use,
- The Exposition should be not merely a show, a fair, or a collossal shop, but also
and preéminently, an exposition of the principles which underlie our national and
individual welfare, of our material, intellectual, and moral status; of the elements
of our weakness and our strength, of the progress we have made, the plane on which
we live, and the ways in which we shall rise higher. It should be an exposition of
knowledge, illustrated by the material objects shown. It should teach not only to
our people, but to the world, what a young republic, with all the crudeness of youth,
but heir to the experience of the ages, has done in its brief past, is doing in the
present, and hopes to do in the greater future for its people and for mankind.

These are lofty ideals, but I believe that those of the principal pro-
moters of the Chicago Exposition, and of the members of the World’s
Columbian Commission, are not less comprehensive.

The occasion is an inspiring one, and it may well be that the world
will witness in Chicago the greatest of international exhibitions,

Very respectfully,
G. BROWN GOODE.

*Smithsonian Report, 1881, p. &5.

The labor and thought required will be very great, and the expense will be not
inconsiderable. Notonly the advice but the active cobperation of the best talent of
the country will be necessary. Services of this character will be required, not only
in bringing the material together, but still more in its installation, and in the prepa-
ration of adequate labels, handbooks and catalogues.

Should a system of salaried jurymen, such as that recommended by My. Porter,
be adopted, some of these men will doubtless be able to render professional and
expert service of other kinds to the Exhibition,

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD'S FAIR. 657

GROUPS OR DEPARTMENTS,

Agriculture and Allied Industries. (Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry,

Stock-Raising, Etc.)

2. The Mines and Metallurgy.

OOIHDA

Marine and Fisheries.

Manufactures and Other Hlaborative Industries. (Machinery, Processes,

and Products. )
Food and Its Accessories.
The House and Its Accessories. Dress and Personal Bquipment,
The Pictorial, Plastic, and Decorative Arts.
Social Relations and Public Welfare.
Science, Religion, Education, and Human Achievement,

10, Collective Exhibits,

DEPARTMENT 1.—AGRICULTURE AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES.

DIVISIONS.

. THE SCIENCE AND PRINCIPLES OF AGRICULTURE.

FARMS, BUILDINGS, TOOLS, AND MACHINERY.

. CULTURE OF CEREALS, GRASSES, AND FORAGE PLANTS, ETC,

CULTURE OF TOBACCO, TEXTILE PLANTS, ETc,

VITICULTURE AND ITS PRODUCTS,

Economic HoORTICULTURE—VEGETABLES AND FRUITS,

ORNAMENTAL AND RECREATIVE HORTICULTURE, WINDOW GARDENING, Etc,
FORESTRY AND FOREST PRODUCTS.

DOMESTICATED ANIMALS, STOCK-RAISING, THE DAIRY INDUSTRY, ETG

THE MINOR ANIMAL INDUSTRIES,

DEPARTMENT 2.-THE MINES AND METALLURGY,
DIVISIONS.

THE SCIENCE OF MINES. ECONOMIC GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY,
MINE ENGINEERING.

MINING AND METALLURGICAL TOOLS AND MACHINERY.

SELECTED MINING INDUSTRIES—SPECIAL MONOGRAPHIC ENHIBITS,
QUARRYING AND STONE-WORKING.

COAL, PETROLEUM, AND NATURAL GAS,

WATER AND Ick. SURFACE DEPOSITS.

METALLURGICAL AND METAL-WORKING PRODUCTS.

28. MINE PRODUCTS, NOT CLASSED ELSEWHERE.

MINERS, QUARRYMEN, AND OPERATIVES.
sm 91, pr 2—49

658 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT 3.—MARINE AND FISHERIES.
DIVISIONS.

30. THe SEA AND INLAND WATERS. (PHYSICAL CONDITIONS. AQUATIC LIFE.)
31. SEAPORTS AND HARBORS—OCEAN AND RIVER COMMERCE,

39. MARINERS, FISHERMEN, MARINE-CAPITALISTS, AND OUTFITTERS.

83. BOATS AND SAILING VESSELS.

34. STEAMSHIPS AND STEAMBOATS.

35. SEA FISHING.

36. FRESH-WATER FISHING AND ANGLING.

87. FISHERY PRODUCTS—THEIR PREPARATION AND USES.

88, FIsH CULTURE AND ACCLIMATIZATION.

39, LIFE-SAVING AND SUBAQUATIC OPERATIONS.

DEPARTMENT 4.—MANUFACTURES AND OTHER ELABORATIVE
INDUSTRIES *

DIVISIONS.

40, MACHINERY AND MOTORS.

41. MACHINERY, ETc. (CONTINUED). RAILWAY PLANT.

42, ELECTRICITY AND ITS APPLICATIONS. A MONOGRAPHIC EXHIBIT.

43. CHEMICAL MANUFACTURES, OILS, SOAPS, WAXES, GLUES, PAINTS, DyEs, ETC.
PAINTING AND DYEING.

44, POTTERY AND ITS MANUFACTURE.

45. GLASS AND ENAMELS.

46. MeTAL-WORKING HANDICRAFT—CLOCKS AND WATCHES, CUTLERY AND OTHER
PRODUCTS.

47. OU AND LEATHERS. ‘TANNING AND CURRYING.

48, THE TEXTILE INDUSTRIES.

49a, PapER MANUFACTURE AND ITS APPLICATIONS,

498. APPLICATIONS OF ANIMAL, VEGETABLE, AND MINERAL MATERIALS NOT ELSE-
WHERE CLASSED.

DEPARTMENT 5.—FOOD AND ITS ACCESSORIES.
DIVISIONS.

50. THE SCIENCE OF FOOD AND NUTRITION.
51. ANIMAL Foops AND Propucts From THEM.
52. VEGETABLE Foop PRODUCTS.
53. SuGAR. CONFECTIONERY. FATS AND OILS.
54. Foop ADJUNCTS. CONDIMENTS AND STIMULANTS.
55. BEVERAGES AND MATERIALS FOR BEVERAGES.
56. TOBACCO.
57. PECULIAR AND LESS COMMON FOOD AND Foop PRODUCTSs.
58. CooKkING UTENSILS. PRODUCTS. COOKING SCHOOLS,
59. CONSERVATION AND TRANSPORTATION OF FOOD, Food Surry.
Nos. 51 to 56 may inelude adulterations and methods of adulterating. With the
eee ared penis, the machinery and methods used in preparation may be shown.

*Stone-working industries, see ee ision 29. Stone- working industries, see er
sion 17.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 659

DEPARTMENT 6.—THE HOUSE AND ITS ACCESSORIES, COSTUME
AND PERSONAL EQUIPMENT.

DIVISIONS.

60. CiTIES, TOWNS, AND VILLAGES.

61. DOMESTIC AND ECONOMIC ARCHITECTURE—DOMESTIC APPLIANCES.
62. INTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FIXTURES AND DECORATION.

63. FURNITURE OF THE DWELLING HOUSE.

64. FURNITURE AND FIXTURES FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

65. HEATING, LIGHTING, VENTILATION, AND WATER SUPPLY.

66. COSTUMES AND PARTS OF COSTUMES.

67. JEWELRY AND TRINKETS.

68. THr TOILET AND ITS APPLIANCES.

69. ACCESSORIES OF COSTUME AND PERSONAL EQUIPMENT.

DEPARTMENT 7.—THE PICTORIAL, PLASTIC, AND DECORATIVE
ARTS.

DIVISIONS.
71. PHOTOGRAPHY.

72. PHoro-MECHANICAL AND OTHER MECHANICAL PROCESSES OF ILLUSTRATING.
73. Tot DECORATIVE ARTS.

74. SCULPTURE.

75. ARCHITECTURE (AS A FINE ART).

76. ENGRAVING, ETCHING, AND LITHOGRAPHY.
77. DRAWING.

78. PAINTING IN WATER COLORS, ETC.

79. PAINTING IN OIL.

DEPARTMENT 8.—SOCIAL RELATIONS AND PUBLIC WELFARE.

DIVISIONS.
80. FOLK-LORE.

81. COMMUNICATION AND RECORD OF IDEAS.

$2. ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTIVE ARCHITECTURE.

83. PROPERTY, TRADE, COMMERCE, AND INTERCOMMUNICATION,
84. RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT.

8. Music AND MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. THE THEATER.

86. MEDICINE. SURGERY. PHARMACOLOGY. HYGIENE,

87. PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND SAFETY.

88. GOVERNMENT AND LAW. THE ART OF WAR.

89, SOCIETIES AND FEDERATIONS,

DEPARTMENT 9.—SCIENCE, RELIGION, EDUCATION, AND HUMAN
ACHIEVEMENT.

DIVISIONS.

90, INSTITUTIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS.
91. SCIENCE (RESEARCH AND RECORD),
92. HISTORY.

93. LITERATURE AND Books.

94. JOURNALISM.

95. RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS.

96. EDUCATION, PRIMARY.

97. EDUCATION, SECONDARY.

98. EDUCATION, SUPERIOR.

99. HUMAN ACHIEVEMENT,
660 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT 10.—COLLECTIVE AND MONOGRAPHIC EXHIBITS.
DIVISIONS.

101. FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS. COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS.

102. THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES. COLLECTIVE EXHIBIT OF THE GOy-
ERNMENT DEPARTMENTS.

103. AMERICAN STATES AND CITIES.

104. THE WOMAN’S DEPARTMENT.

105. COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS, ISOLATED FOR REASONS OF CONVENIENCE,

106. SPECIAL INDUSTRIES. COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS.

107. NorTH AMERICAN ETHNOGRAPHY AND THAT OF OTHER COUNTRIES.

108. SPECIAL MONOGRAPHIC EXHIBITS, SHOWING TILE CIVILIZATION OF COUNTRIES
WHICH HAVE CONTRIBUTED LARGELY TO THE PROPLING OF AMERICA.

109. SPECIAL COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS TO BE ARRANGED FOR BY THE COMMISSIONERS.

DEPARTMENT 1.—AGRICULTURE AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES,

10. The Science and Principles of Agriculture.

100. THE HisToRY OF AGRICULTURE,
Retrospective exhibits.
Agriculture of the past.
Agriculture of other countries not elsewhere assigned,
Agriculture of the Indians.
Western ranch life. Frontier life.

101. AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE AND EDUCATION.* EXPERIMENT STATIONS.
History of the development of experimental agricultural science.
Experiment stations of the United States and other countries.
Agricultural geology, physics, chemistry, and biology. (Economic botany

and zodlogy.) Physiology of plant and animal life. Agricultural meteor-
ology.
Literature of agricultural science.

102, AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES.

Resources by geological formations,
Resources by regions,

103. SOILs.

Classified by characters and by regions.
Experimental exhibits.

104. SYSTEMS OF TILLAGE.

Planting and cultivation. Rotation,

105. DRAINAGE.

106. IRRIGATION.

107. FERTILIZERS AND THEIR APPLICATION.

Results of chemical and physiological experiments,
Statistics and history of natural and artificial fertilizers.
See also Subclass 116.
108. AGRICULTURE IN RELATION TO STOCK-RAISING.
109. STATISTICS OF AGRICULTURE AND THE COMMERCE IN ITS PRODUCTS.

*For Agricultural Schools, see also Group 9.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 661

11. Farms and Farmers. (Agricultura! Engineering and Architecture. Buildings, Tools, and
Machinery.)
110. History oF FARMS.
Systems of land-ownership among early peoples, with reference to history
of systems of tillage and primitive methods of government. Land and vil-
lage systems of the early Germans and English.
Maps and plans of ancient farms and farm communities.
Plans of early farm buildings not elsewhere shown.
Historical exhibits relating to other rural oceupations.
111. Farm LaNnps.
Maps and statistics showing relation of agriculture to other industries.
Areas of agricultural holdings in various States and countries.
Percentages of population, agriculturists to others.
Sizes of farms and holdings.
Statistical exhibits of all kinds, showing the utilization of land for pro-
ductive industry.
Prices of land in various localities. Renting values. Land grants (treated
historically and statistically). Individual erants. Homestead grants.
Timber grants. Military and other bounty grants.
Grants to corporations. Railroad grants and their relation to agricultural
occupation.
Exhibits showing increase or deterioration of productive value of land in
varios localities.
Railways and other transportation systems in relation to the agricultural
lands of various localities.
112. THE FARMER. HIS RELATIONS TO THE COMMUNITY AND HIS CONDITION AND
PRIVILEGES, PAST AND PRESENT.
Social and economical condition.
Special and economical statistics. Capital in agricultural investment.
Profits of agriculture. Wages of agricultural laborers.
Farm literature; agricultural and rural books and journals.
113. FaRM ENGINEERING.
Maps of farms and farming regions, showing road systems, locations of
buildings, utilization of water supply, ete.
Laying out and improving farms.
Local irrigation and drainage—drain tiles.
Fences and gates—models and plans.
Farm roads and bridges—systems of construction for country roads.
Water and tide gates. Drains and embankments. Outfalls.
Wind-mills, water-wheels, and other motors and power appliances for farm
Uses.
Stack building and thatching.
114. THE Farm House.
Plans and pictures showing farm houses for all localities, interior and ex-
terior, with all appliances.
Furniture of all kinds for farm-houses.
Farm cottages and tenements and other dwellings for farm-laborers, with
their fittings.

Log cabins and other dwellings for Southern farm-laborers.
Appliances of domestic industry, peculiar to the farm-house.
Pictures and other representations of farms and farm-houses, memorable as
the places of birth or residence of famous men.
115. FarM BARNS AND OUT-HOUSES.
Barns in general: plans, sections, elevations, photographs, and models.
Representations of groups of farm buildings.
662 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

115. FARM Barns AND OuT-HOUSES—Continued.

Stock barns, stables, and folds. Poultry houses, apiaries, cocooneries, Pig-
geries. Kennels.

Hay barns, ricks, barracks,

Vegetable store-houses, silos.

Granaries, fruit-driers, smoke-houses.

Dairy buildings, spring-houses, ice-houses,

Tool-houses, wagon-houses.

Hot-houses and other accessories of farm horticulture.

Slanghter-houses, compost-houses, manure-pits.

116. AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND AGENCIES.

Implements of clearing: Woodman’s tools—axes, ete. Stump and root
pullers. Stone implements.

Implements of tillage: Manual implements—spades, hoes, rakes. Animal
powerand machinery—plows, cultivators, horse-hoes, ¢lod-crushers, rollers,
harrows. Steam-power machinery— plows, breakers, harrows, cultivators.
Digging and trenching machines.

Implements for planting: Manual. implements—corn-planters and hand-
drills. Animal power—grain and manure drills, corn and cotton planters.
Steam-power machinery—grain and manure drills.

Implements: for harvesting: Manual implements—scythes, grain cradles,

reapme hooks, sickles. Animal-power machinery—reapers and headers,
mowers, binders, tedders, rakes, hay-elevators, and hay-loaders. Potato
diggers.

Implements used preparatory to marketing: Flails, thrashers, clover-hullers,
corn-shellers, winnowers; hay, cotton, wine, oil, and sugar making ap-
paratus.

Implements applicable generally to farm economy: Portable and stationery
engines, chaffers, hay and feed cutters, slicers, pulpers, corn mills, farm
boilers and steamers, cider presses.

Dairy fittings and appliances: Churns for hand and power, butter-workers,
cans and pails, cheese presses, vats and apparatus.

Wagons, carts, sleds, harness, yokes, traction engines.

Apparatus for road-making and excavating.

117. FERTILIZERS.

Phosphates, potash salts, nitrogen compounds, ashes, marls, and plasters,
ete.

Cotton seed, fish scrap, ete.

Manufacturing establishments.

Statistics of trade and consumption.

Farm manures and their value. Production, Management. Application.

118. AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES AND LEAGUES.

Literature and statistics. History.

Departments and boards of agriculture.

The Grange, the Wheel, the Alliance, the League, and other farmers’ societies.

119. AGRICULTURAL FAIRS AND EXHIBITIONS.

Literature and statistics. Pictures.

72. Cereals, Grasses, and Forage Plants.

Under each head are to be shown the natural history of the plant under con-
sideration; theories and methods of culture, past and present; peculiar
implements for its tillyge, planting, harvesting, preservation [ensilage],
preparation for market, and specimens of the final produets as ready for
the market.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 663

In special instances, as in the tobacco class, for instance, it may be found
advisable to install in this section the methods and products of its final
treatment.

Pictures and other illustrative exhibits to be shown in each class.

121. INDIAN CorN. (MONOGRAPHIC EXHIBIT. )

Natural history of Indian corn. Varieties, and their history. Geographical
distribution of corn-eulture. Corn-cultire in other countries, Maps, ret-
rospective and for the present.

Culture and use of corn by the American aborigines. Instruments of tillage
and utilization. Stone hoes and spades. Mortais and pestles. Aborigi-
nal forms of use. Hominy, samp, pones, succotash, and their history.

Planting, tillage, and harvesting of corn. Husking and shelling tools.

Exhibits of all varieties of corn.

Utilization of the grain. Exhibits of all food products: Flours, meals,
hominies, popeorn preparations; also cooked preparations, so far as prae-
ticable.’

Utilization of stalks and husks. Stuffings. Mats, brushes, horse collars,
and other domestic manufactures. Broom-corn and its uses.

Distillation of corn, alcohols, whiskies, ete.

Folk-lore and legend of corn. Shucking bees. Indian ceremonials, Lit-
erature of corn. Corn as a motive in the decorative arts, ete.

122. THR SUGAR CANE AND SORGHUM.

Treatment as for Indian corn.

If a monographie display is desired, molasses and cane sugar and rum might
be shown, and even the preparation of sugar and its utilization in general.t

Sorghum, its culture and applications included here.

123. THE OLD WORLD CEREALS. }
Wheat, rye, barley, oats, ete.

124. Rick AND ITS CULTURE.

125. THE GRASSES.
Hay and its management.

126. THE FORAGE PLANTS.
Clover, alfalfa, cowpea, and other leguminous species.
Other forage plants.

127. FARM GARDENING. :
Field culture of esculent plants and roots.
Peanut culture.

128. TROPICAL PLANTING, NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED.
Yapioca, arrowroot, ete.

“A special temporary exhibition might be held for the display of all cooked prepa-
rations of this peculiarly American grain, in counection with a monographie display
of all other matters connected with its history and uses.

t By building a light protection of glass and an occasional use of steam, it would
be possible to show all the operations of a Southern sugar plantation —planting and
raising the cane, gathering and making the molasses, ete.—on the Exposition grounds,
employing a characteristic gang of Southern negroes, who would form a most peeul-
iar and interesting feature of the exhibition.

t Under wheat, Assistant Secretary Willits, of the Department of Agriculture, sug-
gests an exhibit of varieties grown in this country and other parts of the world,
accompanied by data which will bring out the effects of climate, soil, culture, and
other conditions upon the size, shape, color, weight, hardness, chemical composition,
and other properties of the grain which decide its value for milling, cooking, and
nourishment. The ultimate object would be to determine and illustrate for different
varieties the quantity and quality of produce, changes under influence of varied
conditions, and the adaptations of varieties to different localities.
664 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

129. Tur BaMBOO, PALM, AND OTHER TROPICAL PLANTS, THEIR CULTURE AND AP-

LSE.

132.

140.

WT.

142.

143.
144.

PLICATIONS IN THE ARTS.

13. Textile Plants. Tobacco and Medicinal Plants.
Corton.
Cotton on the stem, in the boll, ginned, and in the bale,
Treatment similar to Indian corn.
A monographie display not impracticable. *
TOBACCO.
Treatment as for corn and cotton.
Tobacco growing, picking, drying, pressing, and cigar and cigarette making,
with laborers and music of the negro operatives.
FLAX AND HEMP.
Monographie displays possible.
Primitive spinning, on old wheels, and modern methods.
Hatchels and combs.
A rope-walk of the old style by the side of modern machinery.
Net makine, by hand and by machinery.
Primitive looms and weaving.
OTHER TEXTILE PLANTS AND THEIR CULTURE.
Jute, ramie, etec., ete.
Hops, TEA, COFFEE, Spices, AROMATIC HERBS, ETC.
Culture and preparation,
INDIGO AND OTHER DYE PLANTS AND THEIR CULTURE.
CINCHONA AND OTHER MEDICINAL PLANTS.
Acclimatization of cinchona in Africa and the South of France, and Enealyp-
tus in California and elsewhere.
OPIUM AND ITs CULTURE.
The opium trade.
OTHER MEDICINAL PLANTS.
The castor bean, etc.

14. Viticulture.

VITICULTURAL ECONOMICS.

The natural history of the vine.

Eneinies of the vine and their preven tion.

Folk-lore and history of the vine.
VARIETIES OF THE VINE.

Collections of vines and illustrations of the varieties.
SYSTEMS OF VITICULTURE AND VINE TRAINING.

lnplements. Trellises and supports.
GRAPE RAISING FOR THE FRUIT MARKET.
TH RAISIN INDUSTRY.

Methods of drying and packing.

Statistics of trade,
WINE-MAKING.

Processes and history.
BRANDY AND OTHER DISTILLED PRODUCTS OF THE GRAPF.
WINE CELLARS, VAULTS AND VATS.

Manipulation of wine and distilled products.
VITICULTURE OF THE EAST. (SPECIAL EXHIBIT. )
VITICULTURE OF THE West COAst. (SPECIAL EXHIBIT.)

position grounds by a gang of Southern negroes living in their log cabins, with

characteristic domestic life, music, ete.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 665

15. Economic Horticulture (Vegetables and Fruits.) *

150. GARDEN ECONOMICS.
Soils and fertilizers.
Principles of gardening.
Tools and appliances as distinct from those of agriculture.
Folk-lore and history of gardening.
Species of vegetables and specimens of cultivation, indicating the character-
istic types of the kitchen gardens and fruit gardens of every country.
151. Hot-housEs, ETC., FOR GARDENING.
Plans and drawings.
Devices of construction. Arrangement of glass.
Interior fittings. Methods of heating.
152. PULSE, CEREALS, AND FRUIT-LIKE VEGETABLES. t
Beans of all kinds.
Okra, martynia, peppers, tomatoes, ete.
Squashes, pumpkins, melons, ete.
Sugar-corn, etc.
153. PLANTS CULTIVATED FOR SPROUTS AND LEAVES, BUpsS AND FLOWERS.
Asparagus, cabbage, cauliflower, endive, kohl-rabi, lettuce, rhubarb, spin-
ach, sprouts of all kinds, ete.
Capers, nasturtiums, onions, etc.
154. Roots, TUBERS, ETC.
Artichokes, carrots, egg-plants, parsnips, potatoes, radishes, salsify, turnips,
yams, etce., ete.
Cryptogamic plants—mushrooms, truffles, tuckahoe.
155. POMOLOGY OF TEMPERATE AND TROPICAL REGIONS.
Culture of apples, pears, quinces, peaches, nectarines, apricots, plums,
grapes, cherries, strawberries, melons, etc.
Culture of oranges, bananas, plantains, lemons, pine-apples, pomegranates,
figs, cocoanuts, ete.
156. Nuts AND NUT-LIKE SUBSTANCES, SPICES AND CONDIMENTS, AND THEIR CUL-
TURE.
Nuts of all kinds.
Pits, as almonds and pistachio nuts,
Tubers, as peanuts.
Berries, fruits, seeds, buds and leaves.
Barks and roots used for flavoring.
Aromatic herbs.
157. GARDEN SEEDS, PRODUCTION AND COMMERCE.
Seed-raising. Methods and appliances.
Special exhibition of seeds, and methods of preparation, labels, ete.
Tests of purity and vitality.
Statistics of trade.
158. Markrr anp Truck GARDENING.
Statistics and history.
Special methods in the vicinity of different towns.
159. THE FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MARKET.
Packing and transportation,
Packing devices.
The market stall.
Statistics of trade, prices, ete.

*Fresh vegetables and fruits to be the subject of special temporary exhibitions.
Models and pictures shown here.

+Under each class of gardening, all methods and tools to be shown, with statistics,
ete.
666 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

76. Ornamental and Recreative Horticulture. *

160. THE PLEASURE GARDEN.
History and folk-lore. Literature of the pleasure garden. Periodicals.
Pictures of representative gardening, past and present.
Dutch topiary or formal gardening.
Japanese miniature vardening.
Other examples of the curious and beautiful in the art of zardening.
Species of plants and specimens of cultivation exhibiting the characteristic
types of the outdoor and indoor gardens of the natives of every country.
161. MopDERN LANDSCAPE GARDENING.
Plants and drawings.
Photographs of finished work.
162. BEDDING PLANTS, ORNAMENTAL BULBS, AND THEIR USES.
168. HARDY PERENNIALS, SHRUBBERY, ROSES, FTC.
Shade and ornamental trees.
Nurseries and the nursery trade.
164. Tok WINDOW AND ROOF GARDEN. Housrk PLANTS.
The Wardian case. Fern culture. House plants in ¢eneral,
Window gardens.
165. THE LAWN AND Its Carr.
Special seeds and fertilizers.
Mowers and trimming tools.
166. THE PLEASURE CONSERVATORY.
167. THE ORCHID HOUSE AND ORCHID CULTURE.
168. CoLD GRAPERIES, GRAPE HOUSES, PINERIES, AND OTHER RECREATIVE FRUIT
PROPAGATING HOUSES.
169. FLOWER MARKETS.
Bouquets. The flower trade. The seed trade.

17. Forestry and Forest Products. The Wood-working Industries.

Note.—This classification is based upon that prepared by Dr. B. E. Fernow, Chief
of the Division of Forestry, U. S. Department of Agriculture.

170. ForEsST BOTANY.
Distribution of forests, of genera, of species (maps).
Wood sections and herbarium specimens of the economically important tim-
ber trees. Seed collections—not herbarinum—ete.
Illustrations of forest growth, typical trees, botanical features.
Anatomy and structure of woods. (Veneer sections and photo-micrographs. )
Peculiarities of forest growth—cypress-knees, burls, ete.
Diseases of forest trees and timber. Tnjurious insects.
171. TIMBER CULTURE.—PLANT MATERIAL.
Conifers, seedlings and transplants.
Broad-leaved trees—seedling's, transplants of various sizes, cuttings.
Seed collections and means for storing seed.
Means employed in gathering and preparing seed and other plant material
for market and seed-testing.
172. TIMBER CULTURE CULTIVATION.
Implements for the cultivation of the soil. Special adaptations.
Sowing machines and tools.

“It is suggested that florists and gardeners be encouraged to show all the classes
of gardening provided for in this class in actual growth, A wonderfully attractive
exhibition might thus be made. A Duteh bulb garden, with Dutch gardeners,
would be a striking feature, and others might be added.
172

173.

174.

176

ran

LTTE

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 667

. TIMBER CULTURE CULTIVATION—Continued.

Implements and machines used for planting.

Implements used in after-culture.

Means of protection against insects, animals, climate.

Seed beds and other graphic illustrations of nursery practice.

FOREST MANAGEMENT.

Maps, plans, illustrations, calculations illustrating forest management.

Instruments for measuring standing timber.

Growth of different ages and soils. Graphic or other illustrations showing
rate of growth. Graphic or other illustrations showing influence of various
management on tree growth.

Statistics of lumber trade and of forestry.

Exhibits showing relation of forests to climate.

Literature and educational means.

LUMBERING AND HARVESTING OF FOREST PRODUCTs.

The lumbering industry. Logging and transportation. Implements, ma-
chines, plans, drawings, and statistical material. Loggers’ tools—stump-
pulling devices, marking devices, measuring tools. Loading devices—
sleds, flumes, slides, rope tramways, railroads, methods of water transpor-
tation, rafts, booms, ete.

The tan-bark industry. Other barks.

The turpentine industry.

The charcoal industry.

5. PREPARATION AND MANIPULATION OF LUMBER

Dressing, shaping, and preparation of wood. Hewine of logs, spars, ete.
Shaping of knees. Sawing and milling.

Drying and seasoning of wood.

Seasoning, kiln-drying, steam-bending, ete.

Preservation of wood by use of antiseptics, ete.

Saw-mills and saw-mill tools.

Wood-working machinery.

Wood-working tools and minor appliances.

. FOREST PRODUCTS.—WOOD.

Wood for fuel.

Raw materials, unshaped and partly shaped.

Trees, round timber, masts, knees, hoop poles, telegraph poles, piles, posts,
and all other material used as grown.

Saw logs, blocks and corded wood.

Shaped or otherwise prepared material.

Hewn timber, building timbers, railroad ties, ete.

Rived or split material—Coopers’ stock, shingles, staves, ete.

Sawed lumber.

Rough—Boards, planks, ete.

Finished—Matched, molding, ete.

Veneers and fancy woods—Curly woods, bird’s-eye, burls, ete.

Turned material.

Charcoal and by-products of its manufacture—Wood-vinegar, tar gas, ete.

Pulp manufacture, cellulose, ete.

Impregnated woods, various processes.

FOREST PRODUCTS OTHER THAN WOOD, AND THEIR DERIVATIVES.

Chemical and pharmacological substances.

Barks, galls, resinous substances for tanning, coloring, scenting, ete. Tex-
tile substances.

Naval stores, resin, gum, caoutchoue, gutta-percha, vegetable wax.

Potash in the raw state.
668 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

177. FoRrEST PRODUCTS OTHER THAN WOObD, AND THEIR DERIVATIVES—Continued,

Fruits, nuts, and edible plants or produets of same.

Roots, herbs, lichens, mosses, fungi.

Other materials, obtained withont cultivation.

178. ‘THE Woopd-WoRKING INDUSTRIES.

Carpentry, joining, and cabinet-making.

Sash, door and blind manufacture.

Wood-working auxiliary to carpentry. Machine-planing and polishing.
Dovetailing, mortising, ete., by machinery. Turning. Manufacture of
veneers. Wood stamping.

Wood carving, ete. Architectural carving. Carving of ornamental articles,
Bowl and spoon making.

Marquettas and inlaying,

Wood engraving (see 58).

Furniture mannfacture.

Parquetry, wood tapestry and faney wood-work,

Toy manufacture.

Carriage, car, and wagon building,

Ship and boat building.—Cooperage products.

Wood-working machinery, tools.

Tool stocks, handies, mill-work.

179. THe Minor Woob-WORKING ARTS.
Manutacture of bent wood articles.
3amboo and rattan splint wares, makine “ excelsior’

Wood composition and wood pulp (see 30).

Manufacture of chip hats, chip baskets, boxes, plates, wooden shoes (see 29),

Cork and substitutes for cork, as root of Ochroma lagopus, Anona paiustris,
etc. Materials and products.

Brier-root pipes. Root and knot carving.

Birch bark in various uses.

Piths and their uses.

Match manufacture. Toothpick manufacture.

Straw goods, willow ware, and basketry.

,

chips, ete.

18. Domesticated Cattle—Stock Raising, Dairy Industries, etc.

180. PRINCIPLES AND ECONOMICS OF ANIMAL CULTURE.

Illustrations of heredity and the variations of animals under domestication,

Charts showing methods of breeding, inbreeding and outcrossing, with
results. Pedigrees of general interest.

Results of scientific experiment, by breeders, or by research stations, tend-
ing to the advancement of the animal-breeding industries, or to the im-
provement or better utilization of the product,—tabulated and arranged
either in this class or by the side of the exhibit which they most fully
illustrate.

The geographical distribution of the animal-breeding industries, the origi-
nal source and present site of special breeds, and the principal centers of
trade and hnes of traffic, shown by maps and tables.

Prices of live stock, past and present, shown by tables and curves; similar
exhibits of the aggregate and per capita values of live stock by districts
and countries,

Breeding establishments, private and publie:—maps, plans, statistics and
literature.

“The details of the classification of the stock-raising industries are taken without
material alteration, except a few additions, trom the plan prepared by Col, G. E.
Gordon, which he has permitted me to examie.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 669

180. PRINCIPLES AND Economics or ANIMAL CULTURE—Continued,

Animal pathology, surgery, and dentistry. History and literature. Methods
and instruments. Research upon contagious disease, its origin and pre-
vention. Sanitation and quarantine.

Feeding of animals. Results of experimental feeding and chemical and
physiological research. Feed-standards and rations. Economy of feed-
ing stutts.

Illustrations of results of feeding for specific objects, as bone and muscle,
meat, fat, milk and butter, wool, etc. ~

181. THE HORSE AND ITS MANAGEMENT.

The breeds of the domesticated horse. History shown by models, maps,
pictures.

Thorough-bred horses.

Standard-bred horses, and horses of record.

Light harness horses. Roadsters and trotters. Racing stock. Driving
turnouts,

Coach horses. Coach turnouts.

Saddle horses, hackneys, hunters, cavalry horses. Combined riding and
driving horses.

Edneated and trick horses.

Ponies. Performing ponies, ete,

Draft horses.

Asses and mules,

Harness trappings and saddles. Carriages, wagons, ete., not elsewhere
classed. Shoes and farriery. Grooming appliances.

182, CarrLe.

The breeds of domestic cattle. History shown by models, maps, pictures
and literature.

Beef cattle. Breeding cattle. Registered breeding stock and fat cattle,
registered and grade.

Dairy cattle. Registered breeding stock and cattle entered for comparative
yield of product.

Cattle useful for general qualities.

Oxen. Oxen at work.

Crosses of domestic cattle with the buffalo,

Brands, ear-marks and stamps, tethers, bells, ete.

183. THE Darry INTEREST.

Geographical distribution of dairy farms, etc., in North America,

Farm products, butter, cheese, ete., with churns and other implements for
the domestic dairy industry. Domestic creamery implements,

Fancy butter and cream for luxurious markets,

Milk supply of towns and cities.

Milk supply to evaporating factories.

Spring-houses and dairy-building generally.

For dairy products, see Class 189, and also in conneetion with food products
in Division 5, where the methods and statistics of secondary handling, fac-
tories, etc., will be shown.

Dairying in foreign lands and among primitive people.

184. SHEEP AND GOATS.

The breeds of the sheep, goat, ete.

Sheep for mutton.

Fine-wooled sheep.

“Use of animals for food shown in detail in Class 43. An educational exhibit of
same might well be repeated here with such other applications of the results, pri-
mary or secondary, of the animal industries as is of value to the breeder.
670

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

184. SHEEP AND GOATS—Continued.

185.

Middle-wooled sheep.

Loug-wooled sheep.

Sheep and goats for dairy use.

Miscellaneous dairy animals.

Miscellaneous fiber-producing animals.

Sheep pastures, washing and smearing, shearing, and care of fleeces.

SWINE.

The breeds of swine. Fat swine,
Donestic products of the hog.

185-A. OTHER DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.

Camels and elephants, llama, vicugna, alpaca, guanaco, yaks, etc.

186. POULTRY, PIGEONS, ETC.

187.

The breeds of poultry and pigeons, and all domesticated birds. Poultry
shows. Standards of perfection. Literature.

Fowls and capons.

Ducks and geese. Swans.

Turkeys.

Pigeons and pigeon-lofts. Homing pigeons.

Guinea fowls, peafowls, ostriches, etc.

Pheasants and other ornamental birds. Pet birds in general. Cages.

Poultry and bird houses and their fittings. Incubators.

Artificial stuffing, caponizing, paté de foie gras.

The market for poultry, eggs, feathers, down, quills, and all products.
Methods of packing and transportation. Prices. Statistics, ete.

Doas.

All races and breeds of dogs. Ancestry of the dog. Bench shows. Breed-
ing kennels, registers, standards and literature.

Sporting dogs. IT ield trials.

Watch-dogs and pet dogs.

Dogs used as burden bearers.

188. RABBITS, CATS, FERRETS, ETC.
189. PRODUCTS OF THE STOCK-RAISING INDUSTRIES.

Results of all scientific experiment by stock-breeders or stations tending to
the advancement of the animal-breeding industries orto the improvement
or better utilization of the product, tabulated in the most effeetive man-
ner—and arranged here, or by the side of the individual exhibits.

Meats—Fresh, salted, dried, smoked, the products of farm industry. Imple-
ments and methods of preparation. Butchers’ tools and methods. Abat-
toirs.

Dairy products—Milk, cream, butter and cheese. Lnplements and methods

of preparation.

Oils and fats—Lards, tallows, butterines. ete. Implements and methods of
preparation on the farm.

Hides and skins of farm animals as prepared on the farm, salted or rough-
tanned, with examples of factory-tanned hides, so far as necessary for
study.

Fleece and wools, washed and unwashed, as they leave the farm. (With
such illustrative matter in the way of results of experiment and manufac-
tured products as may be necessary for the proper understanding of the
methods and results of scientific sheep-breeding.

Hairs of all kinds produced on the farm, or stock establishment :—horse,
goat, cow, cashmere, angora goat, etc.

Waste products of the farm. Hoofs, bones, etc, Jmplements and methods
of preparation.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 671

189, PropUCTS OF THE StOCcK-RAISING INDUSTRIES—Continued.
Cold storage, refrigeration and transportation of farm products by farmers,
Applances, methods, and statistics-
Markets. History. Prices, commissions, freight charges, ete., from the
standpoint of the farmer.

19. The Minor Animal Industries.

190. WiILb-PRODUCT GATHERING.
Primitive hunting, ete.
Gathering of animal products, obtained without culture, and not elsewhere

classed.

191. BEES AND BEE CULTURE.

Natural history of bees. Geographical distribution of the bee industry.
Hives and housing. Feeding and care. Protective devices.

Honey and wax. Gathering, preparing, packing and uses.

Commerce in the products of apiculture. Literature and statistics,

192. SILK CULTURE AND SILK REELING.

Natural history and geographical distribution of the silk-worm and related
forms used as substitutes. Larva, pupaand imago of each species.
Cocoons and silk of each from the industrial standpoint, with tests of
strength, ete.
Methods of caring for the eggs, feeding of iarvee, care and gathering of
cocoons. Food plants and prepared food. Lnplements and processes.
Cocoon stifling.
Implements and methods of filature. Pictures of reeling establishments.
Markets and prices.
History, statistics and literature.
193. Tur COCHINEAL INDUSTRY.
Care of the cochineal bugs.
Gathering and primary preparation of cochineal.
194. Tue Leecu and MaGGor TRADES AND OTHER UTILIZATION OF INVERTEBRATE
ANIMALS NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED.
Leech gathering—Leech culture, methods and statistics of trade.
Maggot culture for bait and pet-bird food.
195. Tuk Witp Brrp’s EGG AND DOWN INDUSTRY.
Monographie exhibit. Literature and statistics.
196. THe Ivory TRADE.
The elephant hunt and ivory traftic of Africa.
Fossil ivory in the far North.
197. THe FuR TRADE. HUNTING AND TRAPPING FOR PROFIT.
Trappers’ methods and implements. Hunters’ methods.
Peltries, hair, feathers, down, horns, teeth, bones, musks, castoreum and
similar products, and other results.
History, literature and statistics.
198. Tau Witp ANIMAL AND MENAGERIE-SUPPLY TRADE.
Literature and statistics.
Methods of administration in menageries and zodlogical gardens.
199. PROTECTION OF WILD ANIMALS AND GAME. GAME LAWS. PRESERVES.
672 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT 2.—THE MINES AND METALLURGY,

20. Economic Geology and Mineralogy, and the History of Mines, Etc

201. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF MINERAL DEPOSITS.

Maps, relief-models, and pictures to illustrate the resources of countries and
regions, the location of mines and mineral localities; to illustrate specific
mines and deposits.

Treatises on general resources of regions, and on special mines and deposits.

202. FORM OF MINERAL DeEpostrs. MINERAL STRATIGRAPHY.

Sections—graphie and stereographic—to illustrate veins, their location and
character. Strata and beds, oils and gas layers, water layers,

Pictures of mines, quarries, and workings.

203. CHARACTER OF MINERAL Deposits. HKCONOMIC MINERALOGY.

Collections of minerals arranged topographically—to illustrate the resources
of regions; to illustrate the character of special deposits ; arranged system-
atically ; to show the present state of knowledge; for comparative study of
local resources.

Analyses of special deposits.

204. Rock DEPOSITS, ETC. DISTRIBUTION, FORM AND CHARACTER.

Quarries, beds, ete., illustrated by maps, sections, pictures and literature.

Collections of rocks, arranged stratigraphically, to illustrate location of
deposits; arranged by regions; arranged systematically ; arranged to show
possibilities of application.

Collections of other non-metallic mineral substances,

205. METALLURGICAL CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS.

Methods and results to be shown from standpoint of direct value to the
industrial arts.

Historical exhibit to show the importance of these sciences to the arts of
mining and metallurgy.

206. PETROGRAPHY AND ITS ECONOMIC APPLICATION.

Methods and results, as in Class 205,

Microscopic structure of rocks, shown by slides, ete.

Tests of strength and resistance power of building stones, with machinery.

Tests of durability, weathering, etc., with examples.

207. History OF MINES AND MINING.

Prehistori¢ mining in Europe and America.

Early commerce in metals,

Specimens of primitive tools and products.

History and relics of special mining enterprises, and their relation to the
history of civilization, e. g., the gold mines of California, the diamond
mines of Africa, etc,

Retrospective exhibits of all kinds,

Literature and statistics,

208. MINING COMMERCE.

Markets and centers of consumption, past and present,

Storage methods. Piling coal, ete.

Prices, past and present. Duties, ete,

Transportation routes and methods. Export and import.

Petroleum, pipe-lines, etc.

209. MINING SANITATION AND LIFE-SAVING METHODS.

(See also Class 865, )
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 673

21, Mine Engineering. (Illustrated by Models, Maps and Sections.)

210. HisToRY OF MINING METHODS.
Retrospective exhibits. Plans of abandoned mines. Ancient methods.
Early literature of the art. Pictures and models.
211. PROSPECTING AND PLOTTING OF MINES.
Surface surveying and maps. Nature and extent of deposits.
Underground surveys and projection of work, location of shafts, tunnels,
etc.
Surveys for aqueducts and drainage.
212. MINING SHAFTS AND TUNNELS.
Sinking and lining of shafts, wells, adits, tunnels, levels, aqueducts, timber-
ing, lagging, etc.
Cutting stalls, headings, ete.
Opening, stopping and breaking down ore.
Hoisting and delivery of ore. Raising and lowering miners.
213. DRAINAGE, VENTILATION AND LIGHTING OF MINES.
Drainage by pumps, pumping engines, buckets or adits.
Ventilation—Methods and apparatus.
Lighting—Lamps, safety lamps.
Signals. Parachutes. Safety apparatus.
214. SUBAQUEOUS MINING, BLASTING, ETC.
Methods, apparatus and history.
215. QUARRY ENGINEERING.
216. Om WELLS: MACHINERY AND MANAGEMENT.
(See Class 153.)
217. NaruRAL Gas: MACHINERY AND MANAGEMENT.
(See Class 154.)
218. INSTRUMENTS OF PRECISION USED IN MINE ENGINEERING.
219. MODELS AND PLANS OF REPRESENTATIVE MINES.

22. Mining and Metallurgical Tools and Machinery.

220. ANCIENT TOOLS FOR MINING, QUARRYING AND SMELTING.
Retrospective exhibits, literature, ete.

221. MINERS’ TOOLS.
Hammers and mauls, picks, chisels, crowbars, wedges, drills.
Other tools and articles of personal equipment. Sieves, shovels, scoops and

barrows.

222, DRILLING AND BORING MACHINES FOR USE IN ROCK AND EARTH.
Machinery of shaft and well-cutting.

223. MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR COAL CUTTING, ETC.

224. EXCAVATING AND DREDGING MACHINES.
Steam scoops and shovels. Steam dredge scoops, suction excavators, etc,
Machinery for hydraulic and placer mining.

225. HOISTING MACHINERY FOR MINEs.
Hoisting appliances for miners or product.
Machinery used in pumping, draining and ventilation,

226. BLASTING AND EXPLOSIVES,
Retrospective exhibit. History of blasting, Literature.
Explosives of all kinds (exhibit to be by model or empty package),
Fuses and accessories of blasting.

227. CRUSHING AND SORTING MACHINERY, ETC., FOR ORES AND ROCKS.
Crushing, grinding, sorting and dressing machines. Breakers, stamping

mills, sieves, screens, jigs, concentrators,

sM 91, PT 2 43

674 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

228. SMELTING FURNACES, ETC.
Furnaces and smelting plant of all kinds.
229. BESSEMER PLANT, ETC.
Notr.—A place is also assigned to mining and metallurgical machinery in connec-
tion with the general machinery exhibit. It may be installed in either place, but
would probably be more instructive here.

23. The Principal Mining Industries. Special Monographic Exhibits.

231. GOLD MINING.
Stream-bed and placer working.
Lode working.
Monographie exhibit—Tool, methods, miners and results.
Extraction of free gold from auriferous gravel by amalgamation, and from
auriferous pyrite in quartz by stamping and amalgamating.
Extraction of gold from auriferous mispickle (arsenical pyrites) by roast-
ing and chlorination.
Extraction of gold and copper from auriferous copper ores by the fusion
and electrolytic process.
The manufacture of gold leaf.
232. SILVER MINING.
Extraction of silver from base ores by chlorodizing, roasting, and milling
(amalgamation).
Smelting of argentiferous lead ores and the refining of the base bullion (sil-
ver and lead).
The refining of base bullion (silver and lead).
233. IRON AND STEEL.
Monographie exhibit.
234. COPPER.
Native copper, sulphide ores, oxidized ores.
Smelting and refining of copper by the fusion process.
Refining of pig copper.
Rolling of copper.
235. DIAMONDS AND PRECIOUS STONES IN GENERAL.
236. LEAD, QUICKSILVER, ANTIMONY, TIN, NICKEL, ARSENIC, BISMUTH, CADMIUM
AND COBALT, ETC,
237. ZINC.
238. BARITES, FELDSPAR, ETC.
239. OTHER INDUSTRIES.

24. Quarrying and Stone Working.

240. HistoRY OF THE USE OF STONE.
Early quarries and stone masonry. Literature. Folk-lore.
241. HistoRY AND STATISTICS OF QUARRIES AND BUILDING STONE.
Prices, past and present. Markets and traffic.
Comparative use of stone and other materials, past and present, and in vari-
ous localities.
Social and economic condition of operatives.
242. GRANITE, GNEISS, PORPHYRY, ETC.
243. MARBLE AND LIMESTONE.
244, SANDSTONE, FREESTONE, AND OTHER MASSIVE BUILDING STONES.
245. SLATES FOR ROOFING, ETC., AND THE OTHER FLAGGING AND SHEATHING
STONES.
246. BUILDING STONE, MARBLES, SLATES, ETC.
Rough hewn, sawed or polished, for buildings, bridges, walls, or other con-
struction, or for interior decoration.
247.

248.

249,

to
—P)
—_

263.

264

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 675

. BUILDING STONE, MARBLES, SLATES, ETC.—Continued.

Stone ready for use for building-decoration, statuary, monuments and fur-
niture, in blocks or slabs, not manufactured.
STONE WORKING. METHODS AND PRODUCTS.
Stone breaking, crushing, and pulverizing.
Stone-dresser’s art.
Carver’s and seulptor’s art. (From mechanical side.)
Lapidary’s and gem-cutter’s art.
MASONRY. (See also Construction. )
Stone and brick laying in mortar, ete.
Stuccoing and plaster molding.
Construction of concrete and other roads and pavements.
MOosAIcs AND ORNAMENTAL STONEWORK. :
(See DEPARTMENT 7.)

25. Coal, Petroleum, and Gas. A Comprehensive Monographic Exhibit.

HISTORICAL EXHIBIT OF MINERAL COMBUSTIBLES AND THEIR USES.
CHEMISTRY AND GEOLOGY OF COAL, ETC.
THE COAL MINES.
THE PETROLEUM REGION.
History of petroleum.
Methods of exploitation.
Transportation and conswnption.
NATURAL GaAs.
A monographie display.

“ILLUMINATING GAS AND ITS MANUFACTURE,

BITUMENS AND ASPHALTUMS, TARS.

BWA EtG:

THE APPLICATIONS OF COAL, PETROLEUM, ETC.—A MONOGRAPHIC DISPLAY.
The objects to be shown here for a special purpose in limited number will,
of course, be shown elsewhere in their customary relationships.
COMMERCE IN COAL, PETROLEUM, AND THEIR DERIVATIVES.
Historical and statistical data showing relations of coal and petroleum to
all the arts of civilization,
Prices. Routes of traffic, etc.

26. Exploitation of Water and Ice and other Surface Deposits.

WATER SUPPLY.
Springs and fountains. Utilization. Retrospective exhibits.
Cisterns and storage tanks. Other receptacles.
Artesian wells. Pumps. Well apparatus.
Water supply (independent of engineering and sanitary considerations),
Dams, aqueducts, sluices.
THE IcE INDUSTRY.
Harvesting ice. Tools and methods. Pictures.
Ice storage. Ice supply. Methods and statistics.
Ice manufacture, refrigerators, cold storage, etc., may possibly be conven-
iently shown in this connection,
MINERAL WATERS.
Geographical distribution. Chemistry.
Sources. Exhibits of special springs, with pictures, ete,
Methods of bottling, ete. Transportation, prices, markets,
THE SALT LYDUSTRIES.
Salt springs and evaporating works.
676 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

264. Tuk Sarr INDUSTRIES—Continued.
Sea salt. Natural evaporating basins, and artificial methods, as on Cape
Cod. Methods, statistics and history.
Salt mines. Methods, tools, products, trade, ete.
265. PHOSPHATE AND MARL INDUSTRIES.
266. THE GUANO ISLANDS.
History, statistics, methods and product
267. AMBER DREDGING.
Monographie exhibit.
268. SAND OF SEA AND RIVER AND OTHER STRAND WORKINGS.
269. SuLPHUR, EARTHS, CLAYS AND SALTS, NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED
Monographie exhibits of each industry.

27. Metallurgical Products. *
270. Precrous METALS.
Examples in various stages, not shown elsewhere
271. IRON AND STEEL.
In the pig, ingot and bar.
Plates and sheets.
Specimens of slags, fluxes, residues, and products of working.
Edge tools.
272. COPPER.
In ingots, bars and rolls.
Specimens showing stages of production,
273. LEAD, ZINC, ANTIMONY, ALUMINUM, ETC., THE RESULT OF EXTRACTIVE PROC-
ESSES.
Illustrations of manufacture and products.
274. ALLOYS USED AS MATERIALS.
Statuary, bronze, gun, bell and speculum metal.
Brass, and alloys used as a substitute for it.
White alloys, as Britannia metal, German silver, pewter, etc,
Type metal, sheathing metals, and other alloys.
Babbitt or anti-friction metals.

3. PRODUCTS OF THE WORKING OF CRUDE METALS.
Castings, bells, ete.
Commercial iron. Special kinds of iron. Architectural iron and railroad
iron, ete. Plates for sheeting and construction.
Sheet iron and tin. Sheet iron coated with zine or lead.
Copper, lead and zine sheets, ete.
277. WrRouGHT MATERIALS.
Forge work.
Wheels and tires.
Chains.
Unwelded pipe.
278, PRODUCTS OF WIRE DRAWING.
Needles and pins.
Wire rope. Wire in general. Barbed and other fence wire. Wire gauzes,
lattices. Perforated iron.
279. MISCELLANEOUS PRODUCTS OF METAL WORKING.
Tin-ware of all kinds.
Sheet-iron work.
Copper sheet and its applications.
Wrought and forged work not elsewhere classed.

— ——— — = — = ———_-—

“For products of the metal-working arts, see Class 46,

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 677

28. Products of Mines not Elsewhere Placed.

281. CEMENTS, LIME, ETC,

Lime, cement and hydraulic cement, raw and burned, accompanied by spec-
imeus of the crude rock or material used, etc.

Specimens of lime-mortar and mixtures, with illustrations of the processes
of mixing, ete.; hydraulic and other cements.

282. ARTIFICIAL STONE, ETC.

Beton mixtures and results, with illustrations of the processes.

Artificial stone for building purposes, building blocks, cornices, ete.

Artificial stone mixtures for pavements, walls or ceilings.

283. CLAYS, ETC.

Clays, kaolin, silex, and other materials for the manufacture of porcelain
faience, and of glass, bricks, terra cotta and tiles, and fire brick; refractory
stones for lining furniture, sandstone, steatite, ete., and refractory fur-

z nace materials, bricks, and tiles.
284. GRAPHITE, ETC.

Graphite—crude and refined—for polishing purposes, for lubricating, elec-

trotyping, photography, pencils, ete.
285. POLISHING AND ABRADING MATERIALS.

Hones, whetstones, grindstones; grinding and polishing materials; sand
quartz, garnet, crude topaz, diamond, corundum, emery, in the rock and
pulverized, and in assorted sizes and grades.

Sandpaper and its manufacture.

286. BRINES AND ALKALIES.
Natural brines, saline and alkaline efflorescences and solutions.
287. MINERAL FERTILIZERS.

Mineral fertilizing substances, gypsum, phosphate of lime, marls, shells,

coprolites, etc., not manufactured.
288. MINERAL COMBUSTIBLES.

Coal, anthracite, semi-bituminous and bituminous; coke, coal waste, and
pressed coal; albertite, asphalt, and asphaltic limestone; bitumen, min-
eral tar, crude petroleum. (See also Class 117. )

289. ASBESTOS AND ITS APPLICATIONS.

29. Miners, Quarrymen, and Operatives.

291. NUMERICAL Statistics. NATIONALITY, ETC.
292, SOCIAL STATISTICS—PHYSICAL CONDITION.
293. INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL CONDITION.
294. CUSTOMS, DIALECTS.
295. Foon.
296. CLOTHING AND PERSONAL EQUIPMENT.
297. HABITATIONS.
298. MINERS’ SOCIETIES.
299. MINING TOWNS.
Mining towns in America and other countries, Pictures, maps. Special
local exhibits.

DEPARTMENT 3.—MARINE AND FISHERIES.

30. The Sea and Inland Waters. Physical Conditions. Aquatic Life.

300. TH SEA AND ITS PHYSICAL CONDITIONS. (THALASSOGRAPHY. )
Oceanic basins. Coast lines. Depths and soundings, Temperatures, Cur-
rents. Salinity. Pressure. Light.
Characteristic deep-sea deposits. Character of the bottom. Characteristie
plant and animal life of the great depths.
678 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
300. THe SEA AND Its PHystcAL ConpItT1oNS—Continued.

Geology of the depths. Maritime geography. Charts of ocean areas.

Models in relief of the oceanic basins.

Fishing grounds. Models and maps. Special research.

301. INLAND WATERS. CONTINENTAL HypROGRAPHY.

Hydrographic basins. Maps showing limits. Maps and relief models of
special basins. Watersheds and divides. Elevations. Special hydro-
graphic faunas.

Rivers and their characteristics. Fall, and its relation to water power.
Obstructions, natural and artificial.

Cataracts and rapids. Plans. Pictures of surrounding scenery.

Lakes and ponds. Pictures. Surroundings. Physical characteristics.

Brooks and creeks.

302. MARINE METEOROLOGY.
Winds and storms. Tornadoes. Fogs.
Storm charts and warnings at sea.

303. THE SCIENCE OF NAVIGATION.

Charts of all kinds. Routes of travel.

Instruments and methods of observation.

Signal codes.

Obstructions to navigation. (Ice, derelicts, ete.)

304. VOYAGES AND EXPLORATIONS.

Literature and history of voyages.

Voyages of circumnayvigation, deep-sea exploration, ete.

Arctic and antarctic voyages.

305. MARINE AND AQUATIC RESEARCH.

Institutions and organizations. Fish commissions.

Literature.

Apparatus.

Methods and instruments.

306. LIGHT-HOUSES.

History and literature.

Methods of construction.

Distribution, maps, ete.

307. LIGHT-SHIPS.
308. AQUATIC LIFE: SCIENTIFIC COLLECTIONS AND LITERATURE.

Works on ayuatie zodlogy and botany. Maps illustrating geographical dis-
tribution, migration, etc., of fishes and other aquatic animals.

Specimens and representations illustrative of the relations between extinct
and existing forms of life.

Specimens (marine and fresh water), fresh, stuffed, or preserved, in aleohol
or otherwise, casts, drawings, and representations of.

Algie, genera and species, with localities.

Sponges, corals, polyps, jellyfish, ete.

Entozoa and Epizoa.

Mollusea of all kinds and shells.

Starfishes, sea urchins, holothurians.

Worms used for bait or noxious; leeches, ete.

Crustacea of all kinds.

Fish of all kinds.

Reptiles, such as tortoises, turtles, terrapins, lizards, serpents, frogs, newts,
ete.

Aquatie birds.
Aquatic mammalia (otters, seals, whales, ete.).
309. AQUARIA IN OPERATION.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 679

31. Seaports and Harbors. Ocean Commerce. River Commerce.

310. HistoRY OF WATER COMMERCE.
Retrospective collections. Seaports and fishing ports of old times. Maps,
views and literature.
311. MODERN SEAPORTS AND FISHING TOWNS.
Maps and views. Statistical statements.
Systems of marine insurance. Systems of salvage. Wrecking systems.
Maps showing relationships and commercial connections.
312. OCEAN COMMERCE.
Routes of traffic. History and statistics.
History and statistics of trading companies.
Foreign trade and coasting trade. Tonnage statistics.
313. RIVER AND HARBOR COMMERCE.
Maps and charts.
History and statistics by rivers and by countries. Ferry systems.
314. LAKE COMMERCE.
Treatment as above. -
315. CANAL SYSTEMS.
History and literature.
Maps and systems.
Methods and apphances. Locks and towpaths.
316, FERRIES.
Treatment as above.
317. HARBOR PROTECTION AND REGULATION.
Breakwaters.
Other appliances for breaking the force of the sea at the entrance of harbors.
Harbor lights and signals. Beacons, bells and whistles.
Buoys and buoy systems.
Harbor police. Police boats. Quarantine.
318. PIERS, SLIPS AND Dry Docks.
Wharves of all kinds.
Floating docks and landings.
Dry docks. Graving docks.
Marine railways.
319. PrLoT SYSTEMS.
History and literature.
Systems of organization. Pilot boats and signals.
Fees and financial methods.

32. Mariners and Fishermen. Outfitters and Capitalists.

320. THE FOLK-LORE OF MARINERS, ETC.
Literature of sea-faring life, ete.
Dialects as shown in books, songs, ete.
Tales and traditions of the sea.
321. SHORE LIFE OF MARINERS.
Houses and boarding houses. Places of amusement.
Churches and bethels.
Seamens’ homes and retreats. Hospitals.
Shops and outfitting establishments.
322. SEA LIFE OF MARINERS.
Interior views and plans.
Sleeping accommodations, bunks and hammocks.
Rations. Galley and its outfit.
Handicraft. Ropework. Secrimshandy. Tattooing.
Amusements.
680 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

323, COSTUME AND PERSONAL EQUIPMENT OF MARINERS, ETC.
Clothing of sailors and fishermen of all nations.
Waterproof garments, etc.

Personal equipment, knives, etc.
Clothing of fisherwomen and fish-women of all nations.

324. ECONOMICAL CONDITION OF MARINERS AND FISHERMEN.
Wages and profits.

Insurance systems. Benefit societies.

325. STEAMBOATMEN. ECONOMIC CONDITION, ETC.

326. POPULATION OF SEAPORT TOWNS. ECONOMIC CONDITION, ETC,

327. CAPITAL AND ITS EMPLOYMENT IN MARINE AFFAIRS.

328. MARINE INSURANCE SYSTEMS. UNDERWRITERS.

History and literature.

33. Boats and Sailing Vessels.

330. SHip BUILDING AND Boar BUILDING.
History, literature and statistics.
Pictures of shipyards and of vessels on the stocks.

The evolution of the ship, of rigging, and of hull, shown by progressive series

of building models.
Methods of designing and projection.
Lines of representative ships.
Tools of shipbuilding. Materials and their sources.
Timber and forms.
Shipbuilder’s hardware.

Riggers’ lofts and methods of rigging. Riggers’ tools. Ropes and canvas.

Ways and launchings.
Boat building.
331. SHip RIGGING, CANVAS AND CORDAGE.
Spars and masts, and all accessories.
Sails and sail-making. Tools and methods.
Canvas for sails and other marine uses. Sails, awnings, etc.
Cordage of all kinds for marine use.
Riggers and sail-makers. Lofts, etc.
332. SHIP CHANDLERY AND Boat FITTINGS.

Hardware of all kinds for use on vesselsand boats. Blocks and cleats, row-

locks.
Anchors, killicks and drags.
Steering gear of all kinds.
Oars, sweeps and boat-hooks.
Ship tools. Carpenters’ tools. Boatswains’ tools.
Other fittings.
(For ship’s instruments, see Class 358. )
383. SQUARE-RIGGED VESSELS.
Models and pictures.
3uilders’ models and lines.
Evolution of hull and rigging.
334. ForE AND Arr RIGGED VESSELS.
Models, pictures, etc., as in previous class.
The American schooner: Monographie exhibit,
The English cutter: Monographie exhibit.
Fishing vessels, pleasure yachts, ete.
Pilot boats (see also Class 319).
335. SEAGOING VESSELS OF FOREIGN TYPEs.
Junks, ete.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 681

336. SAILBOATS OF ALI. KINDS AND NATIONS.

Catboats, ete.

Sloop-rigged sailboats.

Schooner-rigged sailboats.

Cutter-rigged sailboats.

Sailboats of other rigs.

Flying proas, ete.

Ice boats.

337, CANOES AND ROWBOATS.

Coracles and curraghs. Skin boats, as the Eskimo kyak and umiak.
Bark canoes. Dugouts. Punts and scows for poling. Modern canoes for
cruising and fishing. Other types.

Dories and sharpies, ete. Sneak-boxes, etc. Yawls, dingies, etc. White-
hall boats and others of similar construction. Whale-boats, seine-boats,
etc. Racing shells and barges. Other types.

338. Scows AND LIGHTERS. CANAL Boats.

Coal barges. Dredging scows. Boats for carrying telegraph cable or rail-
road trains.

““Camels.”

-339. BOATS FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES.

Water boats, fire floats, bathing boats, house boats, screw and floating
docks, police boats, portable boats, canvas boats, folding boats, rafts,
catamarans, balsas, used for navigation or life-saving.

Life boats.

34. Steamships and Steamboats.

340. HIstoRICAL AND RETROSPECTIVE EXHIBIT.
Drawings and models. Relics of the work of Rumsey, Fitch, Fulton, Stev-
ens and other pioneers.
341. OCEAN STEAMSHIPS AND COAST STEAMERS.
Paddle-wheel and screw-propeller.
342. STEAMBOATS.
River, lake and sound steamboats.
Paddle-wheel and screw-propeller and stern-wheel.
343. ARMORED CRUISERS, TORPEDO BOATS AND APPLIANCES.
344. LAUNCHES, TENDERS, ETC.
Boats burning coal, napthaline and petroleum. Eleetrie boats,
345. STEAM LIGHTERS AND FLOATING ELEVATORS.
Car floats, barges, ete.
346. THE STEAM PLEASURE YACHT,
Monographie exhibit.
ENGINES AND MACHINERY.
Single, double and triple expansion boilers.
Coal handling and stoking appliances.
Steam and steam-steering appliances.
Devices for hoisting sail and handling cargo. Winches and ships’ pumps.
348. SHIP INSTRUMENTS AND FURNISHINGS.

Compasses, barometers, telescopes, quadrants, and sextants, trumpets, fog
horns, lamps and lanterns. Electric search lights, luminous paints, logs,
and log-lines, lead and lead-lines. Log-books and ship stationery.

349. STEAMER’S COMMISSARY.

Cabins and state rooms. Cabin and deck furniture. Emigrant bunks.
Culinary and eating arrangements. Store-rooms and refrigerating appli-
ances.

i)
pes
=I
682 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

35. Sea Fishing and Angling.

350. HistoRY OF FISHING, FISHERY LAWS, AND FISH COMMERCE.

Ancient fishing implements or their reproductions. Models. Pictures.
Books. Emblems. Charters and seals of ancient fishermen’s guilds.

Fishery laws of different countries.

Copies of treaties, conventions, ete., dealing with international fishery
relations.

Reports, statistics and literature of fish, fishing and fisheries.

Reports of acclimatization of fish, and of attempts in that direction.

351. GEAR OF EVERY DESCRIPTION AND OF ALL NATIONS, USED IN TRAWL, HkErR-
RING, LONG Liner, HAND LINE, AND EVERY OTHER MODE OR SYSTEM OF
FISHING.

352. Fish Hooks, JIGS AND DRAILS.

353. FISHING LINES AND RIGGED GHAR.

354. FisHinc Rops AND REELS FOR LINES AND NETs.

355. NETS AND SEINES, RAKES AND DREDGES, AND MATERIALS USED IN THETR MANU-
FACTURE.

356. Fish TRAPS, WEIRS AND POUNDS.

357. FISHING STATIONS AND THEIR OUTFIT.

358. KNIVES, GAFFS AND OTHER APPARATUS.

359. ILLUSTRATIONS OF SPECIAL FISHERIES.

The whale and seal, cod, mackerel, halibut, herring, haddock, pollock,
menhaden, swordfish, bluefish, oyster, sponge, and other sea fisheries.

36. Fresh-Water Fishing and Angling.

361. History AND LITERATURE OF ANGLING.
Waltonian literature.
Folk-lore. Anglers’ trophies.
362. SALMON NETS AND FIXED APPLIANCES FOR CATCHING SALMONIDA IN ALL
THEIR VARIETIES.
363. SALMON Rops, REELS, LINES, ARTIFICIAL FLIES AND BAITs, GAFFS, SPEARS,
CREELS, ETC.
364. Bass, Prxr, Peron Rops, REELS AND TACKLE, ARTIFICIAL SPINNING Batts,
LOB Ors
365. Traps, Ners, Bucks, WHEELS, AND ALI KINDS OF APPARATUS FOR CATCHING
EELS, LAMPREYS, ETC.
366. ANGLERS’ APPAREL OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
367. THE ANGLERS’ CAMP AND ITS OUTFIT.
368. ILLUSTRATIONS OF SPECIAL FRESH-WATER FISHERY.
Shad and alewife, sturgeon, eel, salmon, whitefish, and Great Lake fish-
eries, etc.

37. Products of the Fisheries and their Manipulation.
A. Preparation, Preservation and Utilization of Fishery Products.
a. For edible purposes.

371. MODELS OF FIsH-CURING AND CANNING ESTABLISHMENTS.
Methods of and models and other representations of any appliances for dry-
ing, curing, salting, smoking, tinning, cooking, etc.
372. Fisu, Drimp, SMOKED, CURED, SALTED, TINNED, OR OTHERWISE PREPARED
FOR Foop.
373. ALL PRoDUCTS PREPARED FROM FISH, SUCH AS OILS, RoEsS, ISINGLASS, ETC.
374. ANTISEPTICS SUITABLE FOR PRESERVING FISH FOR FOOD.
379.

391,

392.
393.
394.
395.
396.
397.
398,
399.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 683

b. lor other than edible purposes.

O1Ls, MANURES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS PREPARED FROM FIsH.

. METHODS OF AND MODELS AND OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OF APPLIANCES FOR

PREPARING Om AND MANURES FROM FISH.

. SEA AND FRESH-WATER PEARL SHELLS; MoTHER-OF-PEARL MANUFACTURED;

PEARLS SORTED.

. PREPARATION AND APPLICATION OF SPONGES, CORALS, PEARLS, SHELLS, AND

ALL PARTS AND PRODUCTS OF AQUATIC ANIMALS, ETC., TO PURPOSES USE-
FUL AND ORNAMENTAL, WITH SPECIMENS.

B. Transport and Sale of Fish.

APPLIANCES FOR CARRYING FISH, AND FOR PRESERVING FISH DURING
TRANSPORT OR OTHERWISE, AND MODELS OF THE SAME. MODELS OF FISH
MARKETS AND APPLIANCES CONNECTED WITH THS& SAME.

38. Fish Culture.

THE History OF FISH CULTURE.

HATCHING, BREEDING AND REARING ESTABLISHMENTS, INCLUDING OYSTER
AND OTHER SHELL-FISH GROUNDS.

APPARATUS AND IMPLEMENTS CONNECTED WITH FISH CULTURE AND FOR
TRANSPORTING FISH AND FISH Ova. Foop FoR Fry.

REPRESENTATIONS ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRESSIVE
GROWTH OF FISH.

. MODELS AND DRAWINGS OF IIsH Ways AND FISH LADDERS.
. DISEASES OF FISH, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THEIR ORIGIN AND CURE.

MoDELS AND DRAWINGS.

PROCESSES FOR RENDERING STREAMS POLLUTED BY SEWAGE AND CHEMICAL
OR OTHER WorKsS INNOCUOUS TO FisH Lirk. (Illustrated by models
and drawings. )

. PHYSICO-CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION INTO THOSE QUALITIES OF SALT AND

FRESH WATER WHICH AFFECT AQUATIC ANIMALS; INVESTIGATION OF THE
BOTTOM OF THE SEA AND OF LAKES, SHOWN BY SAMPLES; AQUATIC PLANTS
IN RELATION TO FISHING, ETC.; RESEARCHES INTO THE AQUATICA FAUNA
(animals of the several classes, preserved in alcohol or prepared, etc.) ;
APPARATUS AND IMPLEMENTS USED IN SUCH RESEARCHES,
ACCLIMATIZATION OF FISH. MARKING OF INTRODUCED FISH FOR PURPOSES
OF IDENTIFICATION.
SQ£ATISTICS OF THE RESULTS OF FISH CULTURE.
Specimens of fish artificially propagated or introduced.

39. Aquatic Life-Saving Systems. Swimming and Diving.

DIVING APPARATUS.
Apparatus for diving and swimming practically exhibited.

LIFE PRESERVERS, SWIMMING BELTS, ETC.

APPLIANCES OF MARITIME LIFER-SAVING SERVICE.

MORTARS FOR CASTING LINES.

LIFE BOATS, ETC.

APPARATUS TO PREVENT COLLISION AT SEA.

DISTRESS SIGNALS.

THE RESUSCITATION OF THE APPARENTLY DROWNED.

DIvING MACHINERY, DiviINnG BELLS, NAUTILUSES, DIVING ARMOR, ETC. SUB-
MARINE Boats.
684 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT 4.—MANUFACTURES AND OTHER ELABORATIVE
INDUSTRIES.*

40. Machinery and Motors.

401. MoTORS AND APPARATUS FOR THE GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION OF POWER

Early history of motors and power.

Boilers and all steam and gas generating apparatus for motive purposes.
Appliances for removal of boiler incrustation.

Water-wheels, turbines, water engines, hydraulic rams, water-pressure en-
gines, wind mills. Utilization of tide forces.

Steam, air and gas engines, stationary and portable.

Apparatus for the transmission of power—shafting, belting,
cables, ete.

Serew propellers, wheels for the propulsion of vessels, and other motors of
similar nature. (See also Class 347.)

Implements and apparatus used in connection with motors: Steam gauges,
dynamometers, pressure gauges, etc.

Lifting appliances and cranes, hoists, screw jacks, ete.

Klectric motors. (See Division 42.)

Hydraulic motors and hydraulic lifts. (See Class 412.)

402. HYDRAULIC AND PNEUMATIC APPARATUS, AERONAUTICS AND LIFTING. (See

also Class 261.)

Pumps and apparatus for lifting and moving liquids. Tympanums, hy-
draulic rams, ete.

Stop valves, cocks, pipes, ete.

Pumps and eet for moving or compressing air or gas or vapors.

Pumps and blowing engines, blowers, and ventilating apparatus.

Hydraulic jacks, presses, elevators, lifts, cranes, and all appliances for mov-
ing heavy weights.

Fire engines—hand, steam or ehemical—and fire-extinguishing apparatus,
hose, ete. (See also Class 865.)

Soda-water machines, bottling apparatus, corking machines, beer engines.
(See also Classes 557 and 559. )

Diving apparatus and machinery. (See Class 391.)

Aeronautics. A monographiec display. t

gear-wheels,

Books, MSS., photographs, drawings and models relating to aeronautics.

Raw materials used in the construction of balloons, such as silk, cotton, rope, nets, cane, ete.

Gas balloons, captive or steering, montgolfiers, and separate parts used in the construction
or working of balloons.

Parachutes, kites and mechanical birds.

Instruments for use in aeronautic meteorology, such as barometers, thermometers, hygrome-
ters, registering appliances and photographic apparatus.

Apparatus for making pure hydrogen, carbureted hydrogen, and carbureted air.

Light motors, gas and petroleum engines.

Electrical apparatus, susceptible of being utilized in aeronautics, such as motors, telegraphs,
telephones and electric lamps.

Appliances for aerial correspondence by optical telegraphy ov by carrier pigeons. -

403. MACHINERY AND APPARATUS OF MINING, METALLURGY, CHEMISTRY, ETC.
(See also Department 2.)
Rock-drilling machinery. Well and shaft boring. Apparatus for artesian

wells and water STIS in general. Quarrying, ete.

actone. yorum seaneinen see Doaen 29. weeds working industries, see Divi-
sion 17.

t Classification that of the Aeronautical Exhibition, Paris, 1883.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 685

403. MACHINERY AND APPARATUS OF MINING, METALLURGY, CHEMISTRY, EtTc,.—
Continued.

Hoisting, and machinery accessories, pumping, draining, and ventilating,
for mines. ;
Crushing, grinding, sorting and dressing. Breakers, stamps, mills, pans,

screens, sieves, jigs, concentrators, compressors.

Furnaces, smelting apparatus, and accessories.

Machinery used in Bessemer process.

Chemical manufacturing machinery. Electroplating. (See Class 42%. )

Gas machinery and apparatus. Natural-gas appliances.

404. MACHINES AND TOOLS FOR WORKING METAL, WOOD AND STONE. (See also De-
partment 2 and Division 46.)

Machines and tools used by carpenters. Planing, sawing, veneering, groov-
ing, mortising, tonguing, cutting, molding, stamping, carving, cutting
veneers, and cask-making machines, etc. Cork-cutting machines, scroll-
saws; direct-acting steam sawing machines, with gang saws.

Machines for cutting moldings, borders for frames, floor squares, furniture,
etc. Turning lathes and different apparatus of joiners and cabinet makers.
Machines for sharpening saws.

Rolling mills, bloom squeezers, blowing fans.

Furnaces and apparatus for casting metals, with specimens of work.

Steel, trip and other hammers, with specimens of work. Anvils, forges.

Planing, drilling, slotting, turning, shaping, punching, stamping, slotting
and serew-cutting machines. Lathes. Wheel cutting and dividing ma-
chines, emery machines, drills, caps, gauges, dies, ete. Coining presses.
File-cutting machines. Engineers’ machine tools. Boiler-makers’ tools,
punching, riveting, drilling, plate-planing and welding machinery, ete.
Nail and rivet making machines.

Stone sawing and planing machines, dressing, shaping, and polishing, sand
blast, glass-grinding machines, etc. Coal-cutting machines.

Brick, pottery and tile machines. Machines for making artificial stone.

Furnaces, molds, blowpipes, etc., for making glass and glassware.

405. MACHINES AND IMPLEMENTS OF SPINNING, WEAVING AND FELTING. (See also
Division 39.)

Appliances used in preparatory operations: Fiber-extracting machines, up-
right looms, and methods of spooling. Accessory apparatus. Machines
for fulling, calendering, embossing, watering, measuring, folding, ete.

Appliances for hand-spinning separate pieces pertaining to the appliances
of spinning mills. Machines and apparatus used in the preparation and
spinning of textile substances. Apparatus and methods used in the opera-
tions complementary to these, drawing, winding, twisting, and throwing;
mechanical finishing. Apparatus for drying and determining the thickness
and numbering the threads.

Appliances of ropewalks, round cables, flat cables, tapering cables, ropes,
twine, wire cable, cables with metal core, fuse, quick matches, ete.

Machines and looms for the manufacture of plain fabrics, of silks, figured
and embroidered stufts.

Machines for the manufacture and printing of cotton and linen goods,

Machines for the manufacture of woolen goods and mixed fabrics. .

Looms for manufacturing carpets and tapestry. Looms and machines for
the manufacture of hosiery and net. Appliances for lace making. Ap-
plianees for making trimmings. Rug-making machinery. Mat-making
machines.

Machines for the manufacture and printing of felting.

Machines for the manufacture of India-rubber goods,
686 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

406. MACHINES, APPARATUS, AND IMPLEMENTS USED IN SEWING, MAKING CLOTHING
AND ORNAMENTAL OBJECTS.

Sewing and knitting machines, clothes-making machines. Tools for sewing
and making garments. Machines for sewing, hemming, stitching and
embroidering.

Machines for preparing and working leather cutters.

Machines for making, nailing or screwing boots and shoes.

Machines for washing, ironing, drying and scouring, not shown in Class 632.
Plant for public laundries.

Machines for making clocks and watches.

Machines for making jewelry and trinkets.

Machines for making buttons, pins, needles, ete. Machines for manufacture
of rubber goods.

Machines for making brushes.

407. MACHINES USED IN PREPARING FOODS, ETC.

Flour mills. Mills for arrowrcot, starch, etc.

Sugar-refining machines. Confectioner’s machinery.

Machines for making capsules and other pharmaceutical products,

Oil-making machinery. Presses and stills.

Appliances and machines for manufacture of tobacco.

Mills for spices, coffees, etc.

Evaporating machinery for making condensed milk. Fruit evaporators.

Machinery and plant of abattoirs and slaughter-houses.

Distillers’ and brewery machinery. Bottling machinery.

408. MACHINERY FOR PAPER MAKING AND PAPER WORKING, AND ALSO FOR 'TYPE-
SETTING AND PRINTING. (See also Classes 816, 817.)

Paper-making machinery of all kinds.

Printing presses.

Bed and platen machines, hand presses, lithographic presses, and copper
and steel plate presses.

Cylinder printing machines.

Rotary machines.

Type-setting and type-casting machines, ete.

Type-casting and type-finishing machines.

Apparatus for electrotyping, stereotyping in papier-mache, plaster, celluloid,
rubber and kaolin.

Type-setting and casting machines.

Type-setting and distributing machines.

Matrix type-setting and type-casting machines.

Matrix-waxing and type-casting machines.

Book-binding machines.

Machines for book sewing and stitching. Cover making and printing ma-
chine, embossing and stamping, slotting and stapling, paging and number-
ing.

-aper-folding machines.

Newspaper and book folding machines.

Newspaper wrapping and addressing machines.

Folding attachments for printing presses.

Bag-making machines. Tag machines.

Paper and card cutting machines.

Book trimming and edge cutting.

Paper cutters: Guillotine, under-cut, plow cutters, slitters (rotary), shear

knife.
Card cutters: Rotary, shear knife, perforating, punching and stamping
machines,

Envelope and embossing machinery.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 687

409. WHEEL VEHICLES, ETC.

History of wheel vehicles. Retrospective collections. Early methods re-
placed by present ones. Sedan chairs, litters, ete.

Carts and wagons and trucks for movement of heavy objects and goods.

Farm and country wagons. Milk and market wagons. Emigrant wagons.
(See also Class 116.)

Freight and express wagons, drays, trucks, dumping wagons, ete.

Wagons for special use. Merchants’ delivery and advertising wagons, ice-
wagons, furniture vans.

Carriages for pleasure and travel: Coaches and carriages of all kinds, drags,
buggies, road-wagons, sulkies, carts, buekboards.

Public vehicles: Stages, omnibuses, herdics, cabs, hacks, droskys, cab
systems, etc. Hearses, ambulances, etc.

Parts of vehicles and wheelwright’s work. Wheels, tires, hubs, axles, ete.
Shafts and poles, bodies, covers, seats, springs, and systems of hanging
vehicles. Cushions and upholstery, lamps, wheelwright machines, hard-
ware.

Hand trucks, handcarts, wheelbarrows, bath chairs, jinrikishas, ete.

Road and street machinery. Rollers on wheels. Street-sweeping machines,
street-sprinkling, road machinery.

Sleighs, sleds, and sledges. Snow-plows.

Cyclist’s wheels. Bicycles, tricycles—foot, chain, steam, electric. (See
also Class 832.)

Harness and saddlery: Saddles, pack-saddles, bridles, and harness for riding
animals. Stirrups, spurs, driving and riding whips, blankets, robes, etc.
Sleigh bells. (See also Class 181 and Class 837.)

41. Machinery and Motors (Continued). Railway Plant. (See also Class 822.)

Notr.—For the arrangement of Classes 410-419, as well as that of 340-449 (relating
to the steamship) I am indebted to Mr. J. Elfreth Watkins, of the National Museum.
410. LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEs.

Steam engines, passenger and freight.

Electrical engines, passenger and freight.

Compressed-air and gas engines.

Boilers and gates. Gauges.

Pumps, injectors, and gauge cocks.

Pistons, slide valves, and steam chests.

Throttle levers and reversing gear.

Spark arresters, extension smoke boxes, and cinder collectors.

Tenders, tanks, water scoops and coal magazines.

411. Cars.

Passenger cars, parlor, dining, sleeping, special, observation, emigrant,
sportsman’s, officer’s and paymaster’s.

Express and baggage cars.

Mail cars: Appliances for dropping and picking up mail bags, for storing
mail bags, and handling mail.

Freight cars: Box cars, gondola cars, coal and mineral cars, tank cars, re-
frigerator cars (meats and fruits).

Seats and furniture.

Lighting plant: Oil, gas, electricity.

Heating plant: Stove, hot air, hot water, steam, electricity.

412. PARTS AND APPLIANCES FOR LOCOMOTIVES AND CARS.

Wheels, wheel centers and tires.

Axles, journals, journal boxes and lubricating apparatus,

Truck frames, springs and appliances,
688 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

412. PARTS AND APPLIANCES FoR LOCOMOTIVES AND CAaRS—Continued.

Couplers and buffers, draw bars, vestibule appliances.

Brakes—Air, direct and automatic, steam, vacuum, electric.

Reservoirs, valves and other appliances.

Brake beams, brake shoes.

413. PERMANENT Way.

Rails and splices.

Cross-ties, spikes and rail fastenings.

Splice bars, track bolts, stop washers.

Frogs and crossings.

Switches, points, levers, switch stands.

Models and drawings of permanent way, excavation and embankment, re-
taining walls, ballast, drainage systems, pipes and culverts.

414. SIGNALS.

Block system and semaphores.

Interlocking switch apparatus (lever, pneumatic and electric).

Railway telegraph and train telegraph apparatus.

Draw-bridge and tunnel signals.

Train signals—Bell cord and gong, pneumatic and electric.

Train flags, lanterns, torpedoes, fusees.

415. MECHANICAL ACCESSORIES TO RAILWAY PLANT.

Machine shops—Special tools for construction of rolling stock, erection of
locomotives and manufacture of appliances for permanent way. Portable
cranes and special tools for wreck cars and construction cars.

Graders, ditchers, andsteamshovels. Snow plows and centrifugal excavators.

Wreck cars, dump ears, hand-lever cars and trucks.

416. STATIONS AND ENGINE HOUSES.

Passenger and freight elevators, transfer tables, furniture, ticket racks,
baggage barrows.

Engine and car houses, turn tables and round houses, water tanks, track
tanks.

417. RAPID TRANSIT IN CITIES.

Street railways—Permanent way. Rails, chairs, cross-ties and longitudinals.
Switches and frogs.

Street railways and tramways—Horse cars and street-rolling stock.

Underground railways—Entrance to stations, stairways, platforms, safety
gates, exit signals. Snow scrapers and track brooms. Grip devices,
brakes. Lighting and heating arrangements. Safety gates.

Steam, electric and compressed-air motors.

Traction cable and pneumatic systems.

418. TICKETS, TICKET PUNCHES, FARE REGISTERS, STATION AND STREET ANNUNCI-

ATORS, AND ALL MECHANICAL APPLIANCES FOR COLLECTING FARES ON ELE-

VATED AND STREET RAILWAYS.

419. GRAVITY ROADS AND TELFERAGE SYSTEMS.
Inclined planes, rack railroads, vertical railroads.
Telferage and suspended-cable lines. Machinery and appliances.

42. Electricity and its Applications.* Special Monographic Exhibit.

420. HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRICITY.
Instructive apparatus to illustrate the history and to demonstrate the laws
of magnetism and electricity to the student of natural philosophy.
Friction machines, Leyden jars, etc.

" *For the arrangement of this class Tam indebted to Mr. J . Elfreth Watkins, of
the National Museum,
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 689

421, MAGNETS, ETC. 4

Lodestone, compasses (marine and surveyors’). Horseshoe and other mag-
nets. Magnetic needle.

Appliances for making permanent magnets.

422, MACHINES AND APPARATUS FOR PRODUCING AND STORING ELECTRICITY (FOR
POWER AND LIGHT).

Chemical batteries, coils and electro-magnets.

Dynamos—High and low voltage, direct and alternating, For are and in-
candescent systems.

Storage batteries.

Portable batteries,

Special shafting and appliances for increasing speed,

423, APPLIANCES FOR THE TRANSMISSION AND REGULATION OF THE ELECTRICAL
CURRENT.

Cables, wires and insulators, rheostats, switches, ammeters, resistance boxes,
indicators and meters, voltmeters, hydrometers and converters,

Safety and protective appliances.

Lightning rods and ornaments, insulators, rods, cables and ‘‘ grounds.”

424, APPLIANCES FOR THE UTILIZATION OF ELECTRICITY DIRECT OR BY STORAGE
BATTERIES.

Boat and car motors, boat-steering apparatus, electric locomotives, Over-
head and underground systems. Fan, sewing-machine, dental and other
small motors. Cables, insulators, ete.

Thermal batteries, ete, Electricmusicalappliances, Magnetic locks. Chan-
delier and lamp lighters. Appliances for igniting torpedoes and explosives,

Apparatus for removing incrustation from steam boilers,

495. ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH AND SIGNALS.

Transmitters, receivers, switch boards, and all special appliances for single,
duplex, and quadruplex telegraphy, Keys, relays, repeaters, Tickers
and brokers’ lines.

Bells, burglar alarms, clocks.

Mechanical code transmitters.

426. ELECTRIC LAMPS AND FIXTURES.

Are lamps—Single, duplex. Carbons and attachments. Incandescent lamps,
etc.

Plugs and all other appliances for lighting.

427. TELEPHONES. (See also Class 813.

Receivers, whisperphones, switch boards, indicators and safety appliances,
annunciators. Special wiring.

Auxiliary apparatus for central stations and series systems.

428. ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY.

Electro-metallurgy, electric welding, electrolysis.

Electroplating. Reproduction of relief work and works of art.

Electrotyping. Appliances used for making plates for printing and illustra-
tion.

429, THERAPEUTIC AND OTHERAPPLIANCES, NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED.

Medical machines, baths, brushes, rollers, galvanic chairs, circuit terminals,
body wear, electrodes.

Instruments for criminal execution may also be shown.

Electric pens and gravers.

43. Chemical Manufactures, etc., Oils, Soaps, Waxes, Glues, Paints, Dyes, etc., Painting and
Dyeing.
430. PRINCIPLES OF APPLIED CHEMISTRY.
431. THE MANUFACTURE OF ACIDS AND ALKALIES.
Vegetable acids—Acetic, citric, tartaric, oxalic, ete:

sM 19, pt 2——44
690 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

431. THE MANUFACTURE OF ACIDS AND ALKALIES—Continued.

Mineral acids—Sulphuric, nitric, boracic, hydrochloric, ete.

The common commercial alkalies—Potash, soda and ammonia, and their
compounds.

Neutral salts of the alkalies, as saltpeter, borax, sulphate of soda, nitrate of
soda, ete.

Lime, magnesia, barytes, strontia, alum, ete.

Acetate of lime, etc.

432. MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCTS OF INORGANIC ORIGIN, PYROTECHNICS,
EXPLOSIVES.

Sulphur, and its uses.

Non-metallic substances, as sulphurate of carbon, chloride of sulphur, prus-
siate of potash, etc.

Metallic compounds, as salts of iron, copper and lead.

Explosive and fulminating compounds.

Black powder of various grades and sizes. Nitro-glycerine and the methods
of using and exploding. Giant powder, dynamite, dualin, tri-nitro-
glycerine.

Pyrotechnics for display, signaling, missiles.

433. THE MANUFACTURE OF GASES.

Manufacture of illuminating gas and coke. Tanks and plant.

Nitrous oxide, oxygen, for heating, lighting, metallurgical and remedial
uses, chlorine and carbonic acid gases.

434. DISTILLING INDUSTRIES. MANUFACTURE OF PERFUMES, ETC.

Distillation of spirits. Wood alcohol.

Distillation of turpentine and its products.

Distillation of coal-tar products.

Refuse petroleum, slate oil, paraffine, phenyl, acid benzoic, aniline, ete.

Distillation of essential oils and perfumery manufacture. Materials, meth-
ods, products.

Musk, civet, ambergris.

435. OILs, FaTs, SOAPS AND WAXES. ‘THEIR PREPARATION AND USE.

Organic oils and fats: Mammal oils and fats. Whale and sperm oils. But-
ters, lards, tallows. Bird and reptile oils. Fish oils, derived from body
tissue (as menhaden oil), and from liver (as cod-liver oil).

Vegetable oils, from various seeds—Olive, cotton-seed, peanut, palm, cocoa-
nut, ete.

Methods and implements of oil rendering. Boiling and steaming. Sun
rendering. Cold pressing. Chemical processes. Churning.

Products of organic oils, soaps and detergents. Glycerine. Stearine.
Oleomargarine, etc. Pomades and cosmetic products. Drying oils, can-
dles, of stearine, glycerine, paraffine, etc.

Lubricating oils.

Waxes, spermaceti, etc.

Bees-wax and other animal waxes, wax candles.

White wax and other vegetable waxes.

Vegetable substitutes for soap, such as soap-berries (Sapindus saponaria),
soap-roots (Saponaria officinalis), inillac bark, ete.

Spermaceti and sperm candles.

Mineral oils: Petroleum and its manipulation.

Petroleum products, paratfine, vaseline, benzine, napthaline, aniline, ete.

436. GLUES AND CEMENTS, GUMS AND RESINS.

Gums and mucilaginous substance. Mucilaginous seeds, barks, pods and
alge. Guns, made artificially, as ‘‘ British Gums.” Glues prepared from
vegetables.

~~
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 691

436. GLUES AND CEMENTS, GUMS AND RESINS—Continued.

Resins. Gum resins and balsams. Tars. Gum elastics and gutta-percha.
Distilled resins.

Mineral resins, polishers and glues. Asphalt and bitumen. Coal tar,
Soluble glues. Mortars. Cements. (See also under 22.)

Varnishes and japans, and their manufacture.

Gelatines. Glues, etc., of animal origin, from mammal hides and hoofs.
Fish glues. Isinglass, ete. Court-plaster.

437. INDIA RUBBER AND CELLULOID.

India rubber, gutta-percha and caoutchoue.

Impermeable articles—Clothing and foot wear, hydrostatic and air beds,
water and air cushions, gas bags, bellows, valves, water and air-proof
articles of every description.

Elastic articles—Elastic webbing and its uses, accessories of costumes,
springs and buffers of every description, washers, valves, ete., surgical
and hygienic articles, rubber corks and stoppers. ;

Molded, embossed and colored. Maps, bottles, bags, furniture covers,
ete.

Vulcanized rubber, in all its applications and in combination with metals,

Gutta-percha in all its applications as a solid material and in solutions.

Other uses of rubber.

Celluloid and its applications.

‘¢Coralline,” and other similar materials.

438. PIGMENTS AND DYEs.

Pigments, stains and dye materials of animal origin. Galls, etc., from ani-
mals: Ox gall. Colors from insects: Cochineal lac, ete. From mollusks:
Tyrian purple, ete., lehia, Essence d’Orient, or pearl white. Mummy
pigment, bone black, animal charcoal. Hydrocarbon blacks. Thick-
eners used in dyeing albumen.

Pigments and stains from vegetables. Flowers and leaves: Indigo, Persian
berries, safflower, saffron. Roots: Madder, turmeric.

Dye-woods and barks: Log-wood, Brazil wood, sandal-wood, peach wood,
cane wood, fustic, quercitron, ete.

Nutgalls from Hymenopterous inseets and Aphides.

Lichen colors: Archil, cudbear.

Argol, cream of tartar, oxalic acid.

Astringents used in dyeing: Sumac, myrobolans.

Pigments, stains, etc., from earths, oxides of iron, lead, zine, ete.

Chemical dyes: Prussiate of potash, album grecum, permanganate of potash,
ete.

Aniline, napthaline and phenol dyes.

Mordants, salicylic acid, tin, iron.

Mineral thickeners, metallic paints for vessels, gilts, bronzes.

Flockings.

Colors and dyes mixed for use.

439. PAINTING, DYEING, STAINING, VARNISHING, GILDING, BLEACHING, ETC.

Use of water colors.

Use of distemper colors, kalsomines, fireworks.

Use of oil colors.

Painting with vitrifiable colors on glass or pottery. (See 25-126.)

Staining and dyeing of silk and wool.

Color printing on ¢otton, ete.

Color printing in manufacture of wall paper.

Staining glass. (See also Class =)

692 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

439. PAINTING, DYEING, STAINING, VARNISHING, GILDING, ETC.—Continued.
Varnishing, lacquering, japanning, polishing, preserving on wood and met-
als. Samples of lacquer. Inlaid lacquer, etc.
Gilding with gold leaf and water gilding.
Bleaching materials and processes.
Cleansing of soiled fabrics
Fabrics of all kinds, shown as results of dyeing or painting processes.

44. Pottery and its Manufacture. The Ceramic Art.

440, HisToRICAL COLLECTION.

Prehistoric pottery: Old World, New World.

Pottery of uncivilized races: Asiatic, Australasian, African, South Ameri-
can, North American.

Oriental Pottery: Egyptian, Phenician and Judean, Assyrian and Babylo-
nian, Western Asiatic, Arabian and Maghreb, Persian, Hindoostanese,
Chinese, Corean, Japanese.

European Pottery—Classical Period: Grecian, Etruscan, Roman and of the
Roman Colonies.

European Pottery—Medival Period: Hispano-Moresque, Italian, French,
German, English.

European Pottery—Renaissance and Recent Period: Italian, French, Ger-
man, Swiss, Dutch and Belgian, English, Spanish and Portuguese, Scandi-
nayian, Russian.

South American Pottery: South American and Mexican.

North American Pottery: United States.

441. Sorr Porrery,

Unbaked bricks, adobe, ete,

Terra-cotta, bricks, common and pressed, tiles, architectural forms, etc.

Tessar from powdered clay,

Unglazed pottery.

Lustrous pottery.

Glazed pottery (drain tiles, sewer pipes, etc.).

Enameled pottery (including delft, majolica, enameled Java, etc.), Enameled
tiles.

442. HARD POTTERY AND ITS MANUFACTURES.

Fire bricks, crucibles and pots.

Stone ware, hard pottery, iron stone china. Druggists’ and chemical ware.

Floor tiles. Encaustic tiles.

Brown ware, with salt glazing, colored and uncolored bodies.

Other articles of hard pottery.

443. PORCELAIN AND ITS MANUFACTURES.

Hard paste porcelain, including parian, statuary, porcelains, etc. Bisenit
ware.

Soft paste porcelain, tender and with silicious bodies, implements and proc-
esses.

444, MATERIALS OF MANUFACTURE.

Clays (china, ball, sagger), kaolin, feldspar, etc., enameling and coloring

materials.

445. LATHES, APPARATUS FOR ENGINE TURNING, STAMPS, ETC.

446. PROCESSES AND IMPLEMENTS OF PAINTING, PRINTING, GLAZING, CRACKLING,
ETC.

On bisque by hand.

On bisque transferred.

On the glaze by hand.

On the glaze printed by force.
446.

447.
448.

449,

452.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 69%

PROCESSES AND IMPLEMEN'IS OF PAINTING, ETC.—Continued.
On the glaze printed by hand.
Gold, silver and steel lashes.
Enameling.
Gilding.
POTTERY OVENS AND ENAMEL KILNs.
DICTIONARY COLLECTIONS.
Forms of vessels and other articles of pottery.
Manufacturers’ marks.
POTTERY AND PORCELAIN FOR ARCHITECTURAL, TABLE AND TOILET Uses.

45. Glass and Enamels.

ANCIENT GLASS AND ITs History.
Glass of Assyria and Cyprus. Ancient European glass.
MATERIALS FOR GLASS MAKING AND THEIR COMBINATIONS.
Sands. Limestone. Potash.
Gass CASTING. MANUFACTURE OF PLATE GLASS.
Plate glass—rough, ground and polished. Pressed. Rolled.
Glass for floors and pavements.
GLASss MOLDING.
Molded bottles and other wares.

D4. GLASS-BLOWING AND ITS PRODUCTS.

455.

456.

Manufacture of cylinder glass. Glass for windows, of all grades and qual-
ities.
Manufacture of bottles, vials, tubes and pipes. Chemical glassware.
Fancy glass blowing and welding.
PREPARATION OF “ SURFACE GLASS,”
Polishing glass.
Grinding glass surfaces. Cut glass and crystal for table use.
Engraving with lathes.
Etching and embossing.
Sand-blast processes.
MANUFACTURE OF ORNAMENTAL AND DECORATIVE GLASS.
Bohemian glass-working. Venetian glass. Austrian glass. Ruby glass.
Manufacture of Roman pearls, beads, etc., crustated jet, spun glass, paste
jewelry, colored glass for mosaics, etc., stained glass, pot metal and tinted.
Other ornamental glass—crackled filigree, tempered.
Millefiori and aventurine glass.
MANUFACTURE OF LENSES AND OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Lenses for telescope, microscope, photo-camera refractive apparatus. Pris-
matic lenses for light-houses.
MIRROR FABRICATION,
Mirrors for optical and decorative use.
Looking-glasses.
ARTICLES OF GLASS, OR GLASS IN COMBINATION, NOT ELSRWHERE CLASSED.
Manufactured windows. Ventilators and shades.

.

46. Metal-working Handicraft: Clocks and Watches, Cutlery, and other products, not else-

461.

where classed.

PRODUCTS OF THE SILVER AND GOLDSMITH’S ART.
Hall marks in plate. Church plate. Decorative and table plate. Articles
of gold and silver for personal use or the house. Trophies and prizes.
694 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891

462. PRODUCTS OF THE CUTLER’S ART.

Grinding, sharpening, polishing, burnishing.

Hand tools and instruments used by carpenters, joiners, and for wood and
stone in general.

Miscellaneous hand tools used in industries, such as jeweler’s, engraver’s, etc.

Cutlery, knives, penknives, scissors, razor straps and other implements.

Other edge tools.

463. PRODUCTS OF THE CLOCK MAKER’s ART.

Watches, chronometers, clocks, mantle clocks, and all other timepieces and
reckoners, not shown as accessories of costume, of house fitting, of the
decorative arts, or of sciences.

Astronomical clocks and chronometers.

Public clocks and their illumination.

Pedometers.

464, PRODUCTS OF THE GUNSMITH’S ART.
Firearms, guns and pistols, not shown as military and hunting weapons.
465. PRODUCTS OF THE BELL-MAKING ART.

Hand bells, steeple bells, ete.

466. HARDWARE (SHOWN AS A PRODUCT, RATHER THAN AS A MATERIAL OR AC-
CESSORY).

Hardware used in construction, exclusive of toolsand instruments. Spikes,
nails, screws, tacks, bolts, locks, latches, hinges, pulleys. Plumber’s and
gasfitter’s hardware, furniture fittings, ship’s hardware, saddler’s hard-
ware, and harness fittings and trimmings.

467. GOLD-BEATING AND THE MANUFACTURE OF FOILS.
Materials, processes and products.
468. CASTINGS IN VARIOUS METALS, NOT ELSEWHERE PLACED.
469. FoRGED WORK IN VARIOUS METALS, NOT ELSEWHERE PLACED.

47. Furs and Leathers.—Tanning and Currying.

€

471. LEATHERS.”

Tanned leathers—belting, grain, harness leather. Sole leather. Oak, hem-
lock and union leather. Upper leather, and leather tanned for all other
purposes. Calf, kip and goat skins tanned and finished. Sheepskins tan-
ned. Splits tanned. AJl other tanned leather.

Curried leathers—calf, kip and sheep skins finished. Sides of finished
leather for all purposes. AJl other skins finished.

Patent and enameled leathers. Morocco—black enameled leather. Black
japanned grain leather. Colored enameled leather (Morocco finish). Black
and colored splits. All other products.

Other leathers—rawhides, babiche, etc. Bull sinew. Rough-tanned leathers;
crop kid, offal, bragils. Horse butts and hides; calf, seal and hog skins.
Alligator, porpoise, walrus and kangaroo leather. Russia leathers; im-
ported and American. Oilleather; buckskin, doe, calf, lamb, sheep, ox,
cow, cape sheep. White or alum leather. Horse, calf, sheep, lamb, kid,
for gloves, white and dyed. Parchment for deeds and bookbinding.
Vellum for bookbinding, painting, drumheads, and gunpowder sieves.
Bladder. Gold beater’s skin, ete. Catgut. Fish leather, eel skins, sha-
green. Stamped and embossed leather. Other leathers.

472. FURS AND SKINS.
Furs of the cat tribe.
Furs of the wolf tribe.

*The classification of tanned, curried, and patent leathers is that adopted by the
Eleventh Census.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 695

472. FuRS AND Skins—Continued.

Furs of the weasel tribe.

Furs of the bear tribe.

Furs of the seal tribe—fur seals, Alaska, Oregon, South Georgia, Shetland
and Siberia, undressed, plucked and dyed. Hair seals—Greenland and
Labrador seals, spotted seals, silver seal, harp seal, saddle-back.

Furs of rodent animals, squirrels, chinchilla, beaver, hares and rabbits.

Skins and rugs of hoofed animals.

Miscellaneous furs.

Bird skins treated as furs—swan and swan-down skins, goose and goose-
down used as swan-down, grebe, eider duck, penguin.

473. ‘TANNING MATERIALS.

Tan barks, as hemlock, oak, Brazilian, acacia, ete.

Oak and hemlock bark extracts.

“Pods, berries, seeds, and fruits, as Algaraab, acacia, Nib-Nib, and Divi-
Divi pods.”

Galls.

Catichu Kino. Gambier. Sumae.

Mineral substances, as alum.

Currier’s oil.

474. METHODS OF TANNING AND PREPARATION,

Tanning and currying of leather.

Dressing fur skins. Indian tanning. Oil dressing.

Preparation of white or alum leather, red leather, ete.

Preparation of parchment and vellum.

Manufacture of enameled and japanned leather.

Manufacture of Morocco, roan and other dyed leathers.

Manufacture of rawhide, babiches, ete.

Plucking and dyeing furs.

475. BOOT AND SHOE MAKING.
Products of all kinds.
476. HARNESS AND SADDLERY MAKING.
Products of all kinds, not shown in Class—.
477. MANUFACTURE OF TRUNKS AND BaGs.
478. MANUFACTURE OF BRACES, BELTS, ETC.
479. LEATHER ARTICLES NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED.

48. The Textile Industries.

Note.—For the arrangement of this division I am indebted to Mr. S. N. D. North.
The classification is that adopted for the Eleventh Census of the United States, and
it is suggested that, for purposes of future comparison and reference, the uniformity
thus insured will justify the somewhat more minute specification than would other-
wise be necessary. *

480. THE HISTORY OF CARDING, COMBING, SPINNING, WEAVING AND I INISHING.
Implements, and their evolution.
(Machinery now in use under 405. )
481. TEXTILE FIBERS, VEGETABLE, ANIMAL AND MINERAL.
Systematic collection of types.
Tests of tensile strength.
Illustrations of all fibers at all preliminary stages of manipulation.

* Certain products of the textile industries will, of necessity, be shown in Depart-
ment 6, in connection with house fittings and costume. In many instances this
display will be made by dealers, while manufacturers will arrange their products in
Department 4.

696 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

482. CORDAGE,
Ropes and twines, and all applications.
Cordage in genetal is shown in connection with its manufactures in Class
405,
483. COTTON FaBrics
Yarns, twines, sewing cotton.
Tapes and webbings.
Battings and waddings.
Plain cloths for printing and converting.
Print cloths.
Brown and bleached sheetings or shirtings.
Drills, twills and sateens.
Ginghams.
Cotton flannels.
Fine and faney woven fabrics.
Duck, ticks, denims and stripes
Bags and bagging.
Upholstery goods—tapestries, curtains, chenilles.
484. WOOLEN AND WORSTED FAaBrics.
1. Partly manufactured produets.
Woolen card rolls.
Woolen yarns, all wool; union or merino.
Worsted tops, noils and yarns.
Shoddy and mungo.
Wool extracts.
2. Woolen goods—all wool.
Woolen cloth. Doeskins, cassimeres, cheviots, indigo flannels and
broadcloths, for men’s wear.
Overcoatings, cloakings and kerseys, for both men’s and women’s wear.
Carriage cloths of all weights.
Wool dress goods, sackings, tricots, ladies’ cloth, broadcloth, and other
all-wool goods, for women’s wear.
Flannels, blankets, horse blankets, carriage robes.
Buntings.
Woven shawls (woolen).
3. Worsted goods.
Worsted coatings, serges and suitings, for men’s wear.
Worsted dress goods, cashmeres, serges and other worsted goods, for
women’s wear.
4. Union or cotton mixed woven goods.
Unions, tweeds, cheviots, cassimeres, and other goods for men’s wear.
Overcoatings and cloakings.
Sackings, tricots and dress goods for women’s wear.
Flannels and linseys.
Blankets, horse blankets.
5. Goods woven on cotton warps.
Cassimeres, doeskins, jeans, coatings and suitings for men’s wear.
Overcoatings and cloakings.
Satinets.
Worsted-filling dress goods, delaines, cashmeres, serges, mohairs, alpacas,
and other stuffs for women’s wear.
Wool-filling dress goods and repellents
Domett flannels and shirtings.
Cotton-warp blankets.
Linings and Italian cloths, lastings.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 697

484, WOOLEN AND WorRSTED FABRICS—Continued.
6. Upholstery goods.
Woolen upholstery goods—tapestry, terry, rep and damask.
Worsted or mohair upholstery goods—tapestry, plush, terry and rep.
7. Sundries atid small wares.
Webbing and gorings.
Bindings, beltings, braids, galloons, fringes and gimps,
Cords and tassels.
Suspenders, braces, and all elastic fabrics,
Dress trimmings, embroideries, etc.
8. Felt goods.
Felt cloths.
Trimming and lining felt,
Felt skirts and skirting.
Table and piano covers.
Felts for ladies’ hats. Saddle felts. Druggets.
Endless belts for printing machines.
Rubber-shoe linings and other foot wear.
Hair felting.
9. Carpets and rugs.
Ingrains, two-ply and three-ply and art carpets.
Tapestry and body Brussels.
Tapestry velvet, Wilton or Wilton velvet, Axminster, moquette.
Tapestry, Wilton, moquette, ingrain and Smyrna rugs.
Other woolen rugs.
Rag carpets.
10. Wool Hats of every description.
485. SILK FABRICs.
Organzine, tram, spun-silk yarn.
Machine twist and sewing silk.
Fringe, knitting, embroidery and floss silk.
Tie silks and searfs.
Gimps and trimmings, braids and bindings.
Ribbons, laces.
Dress and cloak trimmings.
Military trimmings.
Dress goods, figured and plain.
Tailor’s linings.
Upholstery goods—Tapestries, curtains, velvets, plushes.
486. Hostery AND KNIT GOODS OF COTTON, SILK, WooL, OR MIXED FIBERS.
Shirts and drawers, hosiery, mittens and gloves.
Jersey cloths.
487. FABRICS OF Hemp, FLAX, JUTE, AND OTHER VEGETABLE FIBERS OTHER THAN
COTTON.
Hemp jute and linen yarns.
Bags and bagging, twines, threads.
Linen cloths and drills, plain and mixed.
Cambrics.
All other fabrics of flax, hemp, jute, ramie, and other vegetable fibers.
488. MIXED AND SPECIAL FABRICS, NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED.
Laces of thread and cotton; laces of silk, wool, or mohair, made with the
needle or loom, and not classified with the tine arts.
Silver and gold lace.
Silk and cottonet, plain or figured.
Embroidery and tambour work.
Crocheting, etc. Embroidery in gold, silver and silk.
Embroidery, tapestry and other work done by hand.
698 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

49a. Paper Manufacture and its Applications.

490. HisTORY AND SCIENCE OF PAPER-MAKING.
A historical series showing the development of paper as a material. Papers
of primitive peoples, as ‘‘tappa.”
Materials for paper-making. A systematic series, with illustrations of source,
and examples of simple applications of little-known fibers.
491. METHODS OF PAPER-MAKING. (Machinery may also be classed under 408.)
Appliances and products of the manufacture of paper pulp, rags, wood,
straw, ete.
Methods and products of the bleaching of wood fibers.
Appliances for the manufacture of paper by vat and by machine.
Apparatus for pressing, glazing, watering, embossing, water-marking and
ruling paper. Machines for cutting, tearing and stamping paper, ete.
Appliances for bleaching, coloring and finishing paper and tissues.
Appliances for printing paper hangings and tissues.
492, WRITING PAPER.
Stationery, envelopes, blank-book paper, bond paper, tracing and linen-
tissue paper, etc., as industrial products. (See also Classes 815-19.)
493, PRINTING AND WRAPPING PAPER.
Printing paper for books and newspapers.
Wrapping paper of all grades.
Cartridge paper. Botanical driers and covers.
Paper bags.
494, CARDBOARD AND PASTEBOARD. WALL PAPER.
Cardboard and cards. Playing cards (as articles of paper manufacture).
Binder’s board and its uses.
Pasteboard, paper or cardboard boxes.
Pasteboard for walls, board roofs.
Tar-board and tar-paper.
Wall papers of all kinds, from paper-maker’s standpoint.
495. PAPER PULP AND ITS USES.
Papier-maché, and articles of all kinds made from it,
Use of paper in making boats, buckets, etc.
Paper-felt for car wheels.

49b. Applications of Animal, Vegetable and Mineral Materials not Elsewhere Classed.

496. MISCELLANEOUS HARD TISSUES OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN.

Ivory, of elephant, whale, walrus and alligator.

Bones of cattle used in the arts, handles, etc. Albatross bones, for pipe-
stems.

Horns of mammals, used solid and in laminz. Horn combs, jewelry, ete.

Antlers, used for handles, etc.

Tortoise shell, and applications not elsewhere shown.

Whalebone, and applications not elsewhere shown.

Egg shells, as materials. Ostrich and emueggs. Japanese egg-shell lacquer.

Quills and spines, for handles, ete., used in embroidery.

Quills, and their uses for pens, toothpicks, ete.

Bristles, as used in anatomy, etc.

Mother-of-pearl, or nacre, of pearl oyster, unio or river mussel, paliotes, for
handles, inlaying, buttons, etc.

Corals, precious and white, and their use in the arts.

Corals and cameo shell, and other shells, used as material. Other uses of
shells.

Fish scales, used in the arts. ‘Scale jewelry.”
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 699

496. MISCELLANKOUS HARD TISSUES OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN—Cont’d.
Vegetable ivory, and its applications.
Nuts and nut shells used in arts.
Berries used in arts. Doom palm nuts, coquilla nuts, nicker nuts, sea
beans, etc.
Gourds, calabashes, cocoanut shells, for dippers. Dutch rushes, aloe fiber,
ete.
Teasels.
Fancy woods, used as material in small work, and illustrations of their use.
497. BRUSHES AND BRUSH-MAKING. (See also under 37.)
Brushes of hair and bristles, feathers, baleen, broom and other vegetable
fiber.
Materials and methods of manufacture.
498. WADDINGS AND STUFFINGS.
Hair, bristles, feathers and other substances used.
Hair and wool of mammals.
Feathers and down of geese, ducks and swans.
Eider down.
Sponges, byssus, etc., used for stuffing.
Leaves and other vegetable products. ‘‘ Pine tags.”
Shavings (excelsicr), chips and sawdust, used as stuffing.
Asbestus, hay, wool, etc.
Cushions and mattresses, not elsewhere shown.
499. FANCY AND DECORATIVE MANUFACTURED ARTICLES, NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED.
Feathers, plumes, etc., of feathers or mammals’ tails.
Birds stuffed for decoration, or wings used. Fans and screens of feathers.
Decorative taxidermy.
Feather garments and robes. Feathers used as fur.
Hair embroidery. Chains, guards, jewelry.
Artificial flowers, not shown as articles of costume.
Embalmed flowers.
Ladies’ ornamental and artificial work in wax, feathers, paper, wool, leather,
or other material.
Decorative devices in shells, mosses, dried ferns, sea weeds, animals, birds,
insects, or any natural production.
Articles of stone, metal, and wood, not elsewhere classed.
Other similar objects, not mentioned in detail.

DEPARTMENT 5.—FOOD AND ITS ACCESSORIES.*

50. Science of Food and Nutrition.

Notr.—For the arrangement of this division Iam indebted to Prof. W. O. At-
water, Director of the Office of Experiment Stations of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.

500. THe History OF Foops. LITERATURE. FOLK-LORE.
Geographical distribution of special foods.
Food constitutes the largest of our agricultural productions, of the living expenses
of the people, and of our export to Europe.
The agricultural production of the United States is one-sided. Our food supply
for man and beast contains an excess of the materials which make fat and serve the
body for fuel, and is relatively deficient in the nitrogenous compounds which make

“Nos. 51 to 56 may include adulterations and methods of adulterating. With the
prepared products, the machinery and methods used in preparation may be shown.
700 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

blood, muscle, and bone. The farmer loses because his products do not fit the de-
mands of the home and foreign markets. At the same time our national dietary has
become one-sided, so that though we live upon a high nutritive plane, our food might
be better fitted to our needs.

Wage workers and people of me erate incomes generally spend and must spend
more than half their earnings for food. They do not understand either the relation
of the nutritive value of food to its cost or its physiological effects. The result is
great waste in the purchase and use of food, loss of money, and injury to health.

The agricultural production and exchange of this country and Europe are out of
balance. European nations do not avail themselves fully of the food supplies of
which we have too much and they not enough. This is illustrated in their opposi-
tion to American meats. It is as unfortunate for them as for us. The laboring classes
in Europe are underfed. To give them the bodily strength and vigor which charac-
terize our own working people, they need the very nutriment which we produce in
such large excess.

The research of later years is showing clearly how the products of our farms may
be better adapted to the demand of home and foreign markets. It is bringing the
information which the people need to help them to fit their diet to the demand of
health and purse. It is also showing why foreign nations should, in the interest of
their poorly fed masses, remove the barriers they now oppose to our meats and other
food products.

It is eminently fitting that these things be illustrated at the Exposition, which is
to be for the education of both our own people and those of other countries.

501. THE CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD AND DRINK.

Composition of foods. Constituents of foods, and their uses in nutrition.

Nutritive values of different food materials.
502. DIETARY STANDARDS AND ACTUAL DIETARIES.

Food of people of different occupations, districts, countries, ete. Dieta-
ries of factory operatives; mechanics; of the poor and the well-to-do.
Prison and workhouse diet. Army and navy rations.

503. FoopD AND HEALTH.

Hygienic effects of food and drink. Over-eating and drinking. Unwhole-
some and improper foods, and diseases due to them. Ptomaines and other
poisons occurring in foods. Bacteria in foods. Animal parasites.

504, ADULTERATIONS.

Adulterants used, harmless and injurious. Coloring substances. Adul-

terated articles. Apparatus used nm compounding.

51. Animal Foods and Products from Therr.

510. HistToRY OF ANIMAL FOoDs.
Statistics and literature. Conditions of animal food.
511. MEATS, AND PRODUCTS PREPARED FROM THEM. (See also Class 189.)
Beef, mutton, pork, etc. (Fresh meats of different kinds and qualities illus-
trated by models and charts.)
Salt meats. Meat preserved by various processes. Dried. Smoked. Hams.
Sausage. Other prepared meats. Cannedmeats. Preparations for soups.
Meat extracts. ‘‘ Peptones” and kindred preparations from meats. Pro-
prietary articles.
512. POULTRY, GAME AND EGGs.
513. FISH.
Salt fish, pickled fish, codfish, herrings, etc. Fish preserved in oil—sar-
dines, pickled tunny fish, ete. Canned fish. Caviar. Products prepared
from fish. (See also Classes 371-373.)
514. SHELL FISH, ETC.
Crustacea and shell fish—lobsters, shrimps, oysters, preserved oysters, an-
chovies, etc. Canned oysters, lobsters, etc.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 701

515. Mink AND DaIRY PRODUCTs.
Condensed milk, butter, cheese of all kinds, kumys,
516. GELATINE AND KINDRED SUBSTANCES,

52. Vegetable Food Products and Preparations from Them.

521. CEREALS AND PRODUCTS PREPARED FROM THEM.

Wheat, rye, barley, rice, maize, millet, and other cereals in the grain and
when ground.

Flours and meals.

Hulled or decorticated grains. Grits, ete.

Crushed grains, ete.

Starch from potatoes, rice, lentils, etc. Tapioca, sago, arrow root, various
starches, mixed farinaceous products.

Italian paste, semolino, vermicelli, macaroni,

Gluten and kindred products,

Products of the bakery and pastry shop.

Bread, all kinds, with or without yeast, fancy bread and bread in shapes,
crackers, compressed bread for traveling military campaigns, etc., sea bis-
cuit.

Various kinds of pastry peculiar to each country,

Ginger bread and dry cakes fit for preservation.

Domestic and home-made bread, cakes, pastry, etc.

Alimentary preparations as substitutes for bread, nouilles, pap,

Other products,

522. LEGUMES, BEANS, PEAS, ETC., AND PRODUCTS FROM THEM,
523. VEGETABLES AND PRODUCTS,
Potatoes, sweet potatoes, turnips, beets, carrots, ete.
Jabbages, cauliflowers, lettuce, ete.

Melons, pumpkins, ete. Onions, garlic, ete,

Vegetables preserved and prepared by various processes, pickled, desiceated,
compounded, canned.

524, FRUITS.

Apples, pears, peaches, plumbs, cherries, grapes, ete,

Fruits preserved in sugar. Fruits preserved with sugar,

Dried fruits, figs, raisins, ete.

Canned fruits.

Nuts and nut-like substances.

Other fruits and preparations from them,

53. Sugar, Confectionery, Fats, and Oils.

531. SUGARS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS.
Cane sugars, sirups, molasses, ete.
Sorghum sugars, sirups, molasses, ete.
Beet sugars, sirups, etc.
Maple sugar, sirups, ete.
Palm sugar. Milk sugar.
Grape and fruit sugars, natural.
Glucoses, etc., prepared.
Honey.

532, CONFECTIONS AND CONFECTIONERY.
102 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

533. ANIMAL FATS AND OILS USED FOR Foon.
Lard.
Oleomargarine. Artificial butter.
Cod liver oil.
Other animal fats and oils.
534. VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS USED FOR FooD
Olive oil.
Cotton-seed oil.
Other vegetable fats and oils.

54. Food Adjuncts, Condiments, Stimulants.
541. SALT.

Table salts and salts used for preserving foods.
542. BAKING SALTS AND POWDERS.
Chemical salts, saleratus, cream of tartar, etc.
Proprietary articles. Baking powders.
543. Sprces, MUSTARD, ETC.
Allspice, pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, etc.
Mustards, curries, compound sauces. Proprietary articles.
544. FLAVORS AND FLAVORING EXTRACTS.
Natural flavors and essences. Vanilla, lemon, orange, ete.
Artificial flavoring matters.
545. AROMATIC HERBS.
546. VINEGARS.
55. Beverages and Materials used for Them.

550. HistORY AND FOLK-LORE OF BEVERAGES.
551. CARBONATED WATERS, SODA WATER, GINGER ALE, MINERAL WATERS.
552. TEA, COFFEE, AND OTHER MATERIALS CONTAINING ALKALOIDS, AND USED FOR
INFUSIONS.
Teas, coffees, coffee substitutes, chicory, ete.
Cocoa. Chocolate, ete.
Proprietary articles,
553. MALT BEVERAGES.
Beers.
Ales.
Brewers’ supplies.
5d4. WINES AND CIDERS.
Wines of all kinds.
Cider, perry, etc.
Coloring materials and flavoring extracts.
5d5. DISTILLED LIQUORS.
Rums, whiskies, brandies, gins, absinthes, ete.
556. PECULIAR AND LESS USUAL ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS.
Pulque, palm wine, etc.
557. ADULTERANTS AND ADULTERATING PRODUCTS.
Flavoring materials, colors, and other substances used in changing charac-
ter of liquors.
558. APPLIANCES CONNECTED WITH THE USE OF BEVERAGES.
Drinking glasses and cups, etc.
Samovars, tea and coffee pots, etc.
Decanters, bottles, ete.

56. Tobacco.
560. HISTORY AND FOLK-LORE, LITERATURE, ETC.

561. Cur ToOBAcco.
562, PLuG TOBACCO.
563.
564.
565.
566.
567.
568.
569.

580.

581.

582.
583.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 703

CIGARS.

CIGARETTES.

SNUFES.

PIPES OF ALL NATIONS.

ACCESSORIES OF CIGARS AND CIGARETTES.

ACCESSORIES OF ALL OTHER KINDS.

FACTORIES OF ALL KINDS FOR MANUFACTURE OF ARTICLES SHOWN IN THIS
DIVISION.

57. Peculiar and Less Common Foods and Food Products.

Foops OF THE PEOPLE OF INDIA AS REGULATED BY CASTE AND TRADITIONS.
OTHER NATIONS.
FooDS USED BY AMERICAN INDIANS.

. FOODS USED BY PRIMITIVE PEOPLES ELSEWHERE.
. MATERIALS NOT USEFUL FOR NUTRIMENT, BUT USED BY LESS INTELLIGENT

PEOPLE.
Clay used by clay-eaters, ete.

58. Cooking Utensils, Products, Cooking Schools.

Chemistry and physiology of cooking.
HIsTORY OF CoOKING.
Literature. Folk-lore.
DOMESTIC COOKING.
Utensils. Stoves, kitchen and pantry conveniences, in use or otherwise.
Products.
CooKING IN PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. UTENSILS. METHODS. PRODUCTSs.
COOKING SCHOOLS.
The cooking-school movement in the United States and elsewhere.
Cooking as taught in public schools and by private enterprise.

59. Preparation, Conservation and Transportation of Food. Food Supply of the United

590.

591.
592,

593.

States and Europe.

APPARATUS AND PROCESSES FOR STORING, CONVEYING AND DISTRIBULING
Foops.
REFRIGERATION, ICING.
DRYING AND DESICCATING.
Drying without salt. Jerking. Desiccating. Drying withsalt. Dry salt-
ing.
PICKLING AND CONSERVING (WITH ANTISEPTICS, SALT, VINEGAR OR SUGAR).
(a) In salt, brine, pickling.
(b) In vinegar, pickling.
(ec) In sugar, conserving.

4. CANNING.

PREPARATION OF FOOD MATERIALS, EXTRACTS, ETC.
Machinery and appliances for the preparation of articles under Class 407.

. TRANSPORTATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF FOOD.
. THE PRESENT AND PROSPECTIVE Foop SUPPLY OF THE UNITED STATES AND

OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD.
Exportation and importation, Shown by statistical charts, diagrams, ete.
704 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT 6.—THE HOUSE AND ITS ACCESSORIES—COSTUME
AND PERSONAL EQUIPMENT.

60. Cities, Towns, and Villages.
Historical matter, plans, views, ete,
61, Domestic and Economic Architecture, Domestic Appliances.

611. THeé DWELLING HOUSE,
Models and designs for, and specimens of, buildings,
612. MANUFACTURED PARTS OF BUILDINGS.
Sash, blinds, ete.
Fittings and accessories for dwelling houses.
613. MATERIALS FOR HOUSE CONSTRUCTION.
Materials for roofs, walls, damp courses, solid floors, damp proof, wall cov-
erings, cements, ete.
614. LITERATURE OF DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE.
Models, pictures, disgrams, ete.
615. LABORING MAN’s HOUSE.—CITY AND COUNTRY.
616. THE VILLAGE HousR.
As above,
617. THE SUBURBAN COTTAGE AND VILLA,
As above.
618. THE Ciry House.
Drawings and models of dwellings characterized by cheapness, comfort,
health. Cheap, moderate, expensive,
619. THE FLAT AND THE TENEMENT HOUSE.

62. Interior Architectural Fixtures and Decoration,

620. PRINCIPLES OF INTERIOR DECORATION AND ARRANGEMENT AND SANITATION,
PLANS AND LITERATURE,
621. FLOOR COVERING.
Carpets of all kinds. Rugs. Druggets. Matting.
Oil-eloths and linoleum.
622. WALL COVERING AND DECORATION.

Printed papers. Paper with velvety surface, marbled, veined, ete. Artistic

papers. Enameled and varnished papers. Imitations of wood and leather.
-ainted and printed shades.
Frescoing. Masticking. Papering, plastering, panneling, cornices, brack-
ets, picture frames. ‘‘Carton-Pierre,” ‘‘ Lincrusta,” ete.
Covered and decorated walls. Drawings.
623. WINDOW AND DOOR ARRANGEMENTS.

Curtains, screens, movable screens.

Fixtures. Cornices and brackets.
624. SEATS AND CHAIRS. SOFAS, DIVANS, ETC.
625. TABLES, FLOOR SCREENS, ETC.
626. CLOSETS, ETC.

Cupboards, wardrobes, sideboards, bookcases.

27. MANTELPIECES, ETC.
628. FABRICS USED IN FURNISHING.

Such as cotton, wool, or silk, plain and figured. Fabrics of horsehair,
vegetable, leathers, moleskin, etc. Leathers used for hangings and fur-
niture. Oil-cloths and linoleums,

629. IMPLEMENTS OF DOMESTIC INDUSTRY, NOT ELSEWHERE PLACED.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 705

63. Furniture of the Dwelling House.

631. THE KITCHEN, PANTRY, AND LARDER.

Stoves and ranges for cooking. (See also Class 651.)

Cookery utensils of all kinds.

Tinware.

632. THE LAUNDRY.

Appliances for washing. Washing machines, clothes wringers, mangles,
clothes bars, and other drying devices. (See also Class 406.)

Ironing tables. Irons, crimping and goffering machines.

633. THE DINING Room.

Tables, chairs, sideboards, buffets.

Table furniture. Glass, china, metal. Tureens, dishes, épergnes, tea and
coffee urns and kettles. Decanters, wine coolers, castors. Knives, forks,
spoons, chopsticks, etc. Nut crackers. Toothpicks. Drinking vessels.

634. THE SLEEPING Room.

Bedsteads, bed fittings, mattresses, bed covering, folding and adjustable
beds.

Wardrobes.

The dressing and toilet table. Toilet mirrors.

635. THE NURSERY.

Cradles, cribs.

Baths and toilet fixtures.

Perambulators, ete. Baby carriages.

Nursery toys.

636. THE LIBRARY.
Bookcases, desks, tables, chairs, cases.
637. HALL, PoRCH, AND Lawn.

Hat and coat racks, cane and umbrella racks.

Chairs, benches, rustic furniture.

Hammocks.

Lawn seats, tents, ete.

638. RECEPTION Room.
Chairs, tables, and all fine furniture.

64, Furniture and Fixtures for Public Buildings.

641. OFFICES AND COUNTING ROOMS, BANKS.

Desks, safes, file cases, etc.

642. SHOPS AND STORES.

Counters. Show cases. Shelf appliances.

Fittings for special establishments, as grocers, butchers, druggists, tobacco-
nists, confectioners, batters, hardware, books and stationery. News
stands.

Devices for display of goods.

Lay figures.

643. HOTELS AND RESTAURANTS.

Special furniture.

Furniture of ordinary types.

Annunciators.

644. PUBLIC HALLS, THEATERS, ETC.

645. CHURCHES.

646. SCHOOLS.

647. RAILWAY AND RAILWAY STATIONS.

648. VESSELS AND STEAMERS.

649. OTHER SPECIAL TYPES OF FURNITURE, NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSED,

SM 91, pT 2——45
706 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

65. Heating, Lighting, Ventilation and Water Supply.

651. STOVES, ETC.
Fireplaces, grates and stoves for domestic use. Apparatus tor heating and
warming, by hot air, gas, hot water, steam. (See also Class 631.)
Smoke abatement, ete.
Apparatus for the use of mineral oil for domestic and industrial purposes.
652. VENTILATING APPARATUS.
Ventilators, air inlets and outlets, cowls. Air straining and cleansing.
653. LIGHTING APPARATUS. (Shown also in Class 426.)
a, Electrical apparatus for illumination and domestic use, secondary bat-
teries, electroliers, ete.
b, Apparatus for lighting by gas, gas-producers, gas meters, gas fittings,
chandeliers, ete. :
c. Oil and other lamps; mineral oil, vegetable and animal oils.
d. Candles and candle-holders.
e. Accessories of lighting, matches, safety matches,
654. FIRE PREVENTION APPARATUS.
Extinguishers, portable engines, domestic fire escapes, ete.
655. WATER SUPPLY.
Water supply and purification. Meters, water fittings, cisterns, ete.
656. HOUSE DRAINAGE.
Drains, construction and ventilation. Sewer, disconnection; sinks, traps,
gulleys; the disposal and utilization of house refuse.
Disinfectants for domestic use.
657. CLOSETS.
Water and earth closets, ash closets, hot-air closets, commodes, latrines,
disinfecting powders and fluids, insect-destrovers,
658. BATHS, ETC.
Bathing requisites of all kinds. Shower baths. Puble and private wash
houses; washing apparatus, etc.
659. HOUSEWIFERY.
Sweepers, washers, dusters, polishers, detergents.

66. Costumes and Parts of Costumes.

660. TH History OF COSTUMES, ETC.
Retrospective collections. Costumes of all lands and times. Costumed fig-
ures. Costumes as shown by pertraits and other pictures. Fashion plates.
Literature of dress.
Curiosities, etc., of dress and bodily adornment. Tattoo patterns and proc-
esses. Mutilation and deformation.
Physiological effects of abuses of dress.
661. FEMALE CosTUME IN 1892-795.
Complete costumes and separate outer garment. Fashion plates of the day.
662. ACCESSORIES OF FEMALE DREss, 1892-'93.
Head covering. Bonnets and millinery.
Gloves, etc.
Foot covering.
Linen and made-up articles of all kinds.
Shawls, ete.
663. MALE CosTUME IN 1892-’93.
Complete costumes and separate outer garments.
Fashion plates of the day.
664,

684.

685.
686.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 707

ACCESSORIES OF MALE DREss, 1892-’93.
Hats of all models.
Boots, shoes, ete.
Gloves, mittens, ete.
Underwear and made-up articles of every description.
Haberdashers’ goods in general.
Ready-made clothing in general.

. SPECIMEN FABRICS OF ALL KINDS FOR MATERIAL FOR DREss, NOT SHOWN IN

CONNECTION WITH ITS MANUFACTURE.

ARTISTIC AND DECORATIVE TISSUES FOR USE IN DREss.
Laces.
Embroidered tissues.

FURS, ETC., IN CONNECTION WITH COSTUME.

. FEATHERS AND OTHER DECORATIVE MATERIALS.
. COSTUMES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES.

Stage costumes.

Dress of yarious trades and handicrafts.

Athletic and recreative costumes. (See also Class 892. )
Masquerade and fancy dress.

67. Jewelry and Trinkets.

HISTORY AND FOLK-LORE OF JEWELRY.

. ORNAMENT PINS, BROOCHES, CLASPS, BUTTONS AND STUDS.
. FINGER RINGS.

EAR-RINGS, NOSE-RINGS, AND LABRETS.

. CHAINS AND ORNAMENTS CONNECTED WITH TIME-KEEPERS.

Chatelaines, pendants, seals, keys and amulets.
ORNAMENTS CONNECTED WITH COIFFURE.
Tiaras, pins, combs.

. APPENDAGES TO GARMENTS.

Buckles.

TRINKETS OF ALL KINDs.

Decorated objects.

PRECIOUS STONES IN MOUNTING.

Manner of setting and cutting. Imitations. Jewelry of jet. Amber, pearl,
mother-of-pearl, coral, steel, ivory, feather and hair work jewelry. Plated
and imitation jewelry.

SNUFF-BOXES. CASES.

68. The Toilet and its Appliances.

HIsTORY AND FOLK-LORE OF THE TOILET.
Retrospective collections. Literature.

. DRESSING CASES.

Mirrors, brushes, combs, hair-dressing utensils.

Work-hboxes, glove cases, fancy notebooks, jewelry boxes, caskets and

scent bottles. Vinaigrettes, ete.
COSMETICS AND PERFUMERY.

Pomatums and bandolines. Almond paste, enamels, whitening powders, and
rouges. Toilet masks. Actors’ make-up articles. Perfumed oils, essences,
extracts, and scent water, powders, pastiles, and scent bags. Aromatic
vinegars, perfumes for burning, toilet soaps, anointing oils.

APPARATUS AND APPLICATIONS FOR BEAUTIFYING THE HANDS.

Manicure outfits.

APPARATUS FOR DRESSING THE Hatre.
APPARATUS FOR SHAVING AND TRIMMING THE BEARD,
708 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

69. Accessories of Costume and Personal Equipment.

690. GENERAL ACCESSORIES.
Brooches, buckles, pins, buttons, hooks and eyes, flowers and their holders.
Artificial flowers.
691. MASKS, FANS, ETC.
692. CANES, UMBRELLAS, ETC.
Canes, umbrellas, parasols, hand screens.
693. BAGS, TRUNKS, ETC.
Bags, trunks, baskets, valises, saddlebags, pocketbooks, and other recep-
tacles.
694. SMALL GOODS AND FANCY ARTICLES.
Eyeglasses, lorgnettes, ete.
Cigarette cases, cigar pipes, and pipe cases. Cigar and cigarette holders
and cases. Snuff boxes.
Miscellaneous fancy articles and small goods in leather, wood, metal, glass,
ivory, Shell, lacquer, basketry.
695. POCKET CUTLERY AND WEAPONS FOR PERSONAL USE AND PROTECTION.
696. TRAVELING RUGS AND CUSHIONS.
697. WATERPROOF GARMENTS.
698. MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL ACCESSORIES OF TRAVELING.
699. Camp EQUIPAGE.
Tents, etc. (See also Class 849.)

DEPARTMENT 7.—THE DECORATIVE, PLASTIC, AND PICTORIAL
ARTS.

71. The Decorative Arts.

710. HistoRY AND METHODS OF DECORATIVE ART,
Architectural exteriors and interiors. Decorative arrangement. Frames,
pedestals and other accessories for uses of art.
711. ARTISTIC POTTERY.
Porcelains, tiles, ete.
Mosaics, tesselated, sectile, fictile, vermiculated, and groove. Venetian,
Alexandrine, Florentine, Roman, and Indian.
712. ARTISTIC GLASS.
Engraved, painted, chased, etched, iridescent.
713. ECCLESIASTICAL AND OTHER ARCHITECTURAL GLASS.
714. ENAMELS.
Incrusted, cloisonné, champlevé, translucent, in relief. Painted enamels,
Niello enamels. Incrustations of all kinds and inlaid enamels.
715. TAPESTRIES, EMBROIDERIES, AND NEEDLEWORK.
Products of the Jacquard loom.
716. METAL WoRK.
Cast, forged, repoussé work.
Art bronzes and castings. Ormolu.
Gold and silversmiths’ art. Filigrees. Galvanoplastic reproductions.
Castings with metallic coating. ,
Gems and precious stones in metal work.
717. CARVINGS.
Carvings in stone (jade, agate, rock crystal), wood, ivory, and other hard
materials.
730.
731.
732.
733.
734.
735.
736.

DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 709
WALL DECORATIONS.

Marquetry in fresco, distemper, polychromy, and by other methods.
COMPOSITE PRODUCTS OF DECORATION.

72. Architecture.

. HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE.

Schools of architecture.

. ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNS FOR BUILDINGS.

METHODS OF STRUCTURE.
(See Engineering. )
ARCHITECTURAL MASTERPIECES.
Representations or plans of existing buildings.
Restorations from ruins or documents.
INTERIOR PLANS AND REPRESENTATIONS.
Apartments and details.
MONUMENTS AND MAUSOLEUMS.
PLANS OF FOUNTAINS AND STRUCTURES NOT EDILFICES.

7. STUDIES AND FRAGMENTS.
. LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE.

Parks and grounds.

73. Sculpture.

HISTORY OF SCULPTURE.

STATUARY IN STONE.

STATUARY IN BRONZE AND OTHER METALS.
BAS-RELIEFS.

CARVED SEALS, DIES, AND GEMS.

MEDALS, DIE-ENGRAVING, ETC.

MODELS AND CASTS.

74. Drawing.

METAL-POINT DRAWINGS.

Silver point, ete.
LEAD PENCIL DRAWINGS.
CRAYON DRAWINGS.

Black chalk.

Sanguine, ete.

Colored crayons or pastel.
CHARCOALDRAWINGS.
PEN-AND-INK AND BRUSH-POINT DRAWINGS.
WASHED DRAWINGS.

India ink.

Sepia.

Other monochromes.
CARTOONS AND STUDIES FOR FUTURE WorK.
DRAWING FOR PROCESS WORK. (See 806.)
MATHEMATICAL AND Map DRAWING.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Poker (burnt wood) pictures and other “ sports.”
710 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

75. Painting in Water Colors, etc.

750. WATER-COLOR PAINTING.
751. MINIATURES.

752. PAINTINGS ON POTTERY, PORCELAIN AND ENAMEL, AND ON MUSICAL INSTRU-

MENTS, FURNITURE.
753. PAINTING ON GLASS.
754. PAINTING ON TEXTILES, PAPER-MACHE, ETC.
55. PAINTING ON Ivory, TALC, ETC.
756. CARTOONS FOR FRESCOES AND STAINED GLASS.

76. Painting in Oil,

760. HISTORY OF PAINTING.

Art museums. Portraits of artists. Schools of painting, etc.

prints, etc.)
761. ANCIENT PAINTINGS AND PICTORIAL DESIGNS.
762. ITALIAN SCHOOLS.
763. FRENCH SCHOOLS.
764. GERMAN AND AUSTRIAN SCHOOLS.
765. DuTrcH AND FLEMISH SCHOOLS.
766. ENGLISH SCHOOLS.
767. SCANDINAVIAN, RUSSIAN, AND MINOR EUROPEAN SCHOOLS.
768, AMERICAN SCHOOLS.

(Literature,

77. The Reproductive or Multiplying Processes not involving Photography.

770. RELIEF-ENGRAVING.
Wood-cutting.
Wood-engraving.
Relief-engraving on metal.
Machine-ruling applied to relief-engraving.
771. INTAGLIO-ENGRAVING.
Line-engraving.
Etching.
Soft-ground etching.
The sand manner.
Dry point.
Mezzotint.
Rowlette work.
Aquatint.
Punching. (Opus mallei.)
Imitation of crayon.
Stipple.
Machine-ruling applied to intaglio-engraving.
Mixed methods.
772. PLANOGRAPHY. (LITHOGRAPHY, ZINCOGRAPHY. )
Crayon.
Pen-and-ink and brush work.
Engraving.
Etching.
Spattering.
Stamping, washing, scraping, ete.
Machine-ruling applied to planography.
Autography.
x DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORUD’s FAIR. 711

773. SUBSTITUTE PROCESSES, t. e., PROCESSES PARTLY CHEMICAL, PARTLY MECHAN-
ICAL, DEVISED AS SUBSTITUTES FOR THE OLDER HAND PROCESSES,
Rehef-etching.
Clay-surface processes.
Graphotype.
Wax processes.
Methods involving the use of soft blocks.
Stenochromy.
Galvanography.
Processes involving the use of mercury.
Processes involving the use of gelatine surfaces.
Engraving by machinery. Relief.
Engraving by machinery. Intaglio (medal-ruling).
Nature-printing.
The Anastatic process.
774, COLOR-PRINTING.
From relief blocks.
From intaglio plates.
From planographie surfaces.

78. Photography.

lod

780. HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES OF PHOTOGRAPHY.
The Daguerreotype.
781. APPARATUS AND ACCESSORIES.
Cameras of all kinds.
Flash apparatus, ete.
782. MATERIALS, FILMS, NEGATIVES, POSITIVES.
The studio and its accessories.
Silver prints, platinotypes, carbon prints, ete.
783. PORTRAIT WORK. COMPOSITIONS.
784. LANDSCAPE AND ARCHITECTURAL WORK.
7&5. APPLICATION OF PHOTOGRAPHY TO THE ARTS AND SCIENCES.
Prints on wood, stutis, enamels, ete. (For photo-mechanical processes of
engraving, see Division 79.)
786. PHOTOCHROMY.
787. THe STEREOSCOPE. ‘THE STEREOPTICON.
788. ENLARGEMENTS (SOLAR AND ELECTRIC) AND RETOUCHED PHOTOGRAPHS, ETC.,
IN CRAYON, WATER COLOR, BY AIR BRUSH, ETC.
789, AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY AND ITS RESULTS.

79. Photomechanical Processes.

790. PROCESSES PRODUCING RELIEF BLOcKs (Line-Work, Half-Tone).
791. PROCESSES PRODUCING INTAGLIO PLATES (Line-Work, Half-Tone).
792. PROCESSES PRODUCING PLANOGRAPHIC PRINTING SURFACES, 7. e., PHOTO-
LITHOGRAPHY AND PHOTO-ZINCOGRAPHY (Line-Work, Half-Tone).
793. COLLOGRAPHIC PROCESSES.
794. WOODBURYTYPE.
795. THE PHOTO-MECHANICAL PROCESSES APPLIED TO COLOR-PRINTING.
From reliet blocks.
From intaglio plates.
From planographic surfaces.
From collographic films.
From Woodburytype molds.
796. DRAWING FOR PROCESS WORK, INCLUDING AIDS DEVISED FOR THIS KIND OF
DRAWING. (See 747.)
12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT 8.—SOCIAL RELATIONS AND PUBLIC WELFARE.
80. Folk-lore.

Nore.—For the arrangement of this Division I am indebted to Prof. Otis T.
Mason, whose judicious advice has also been of the greatest service in connection
with the general plan.

800. FOLK-LORE IN GENERAL. *
Treatises upon the whole subject, encyclopedias, dictionaries. Systems of

nomenclature.
Societies, their scope, organization and methods. Their publications, peri-
odicals.

Libraries of books devoted to this subject.
Museums or collections of folk apparatus.
801. FoLK-TALEs.

Sagas, hero tales, place legends, and all folk-philosophy or belief embodied
in stories or in verse. In short, the method of accounting for natural
and historical phenomena.

Books, toys and other illustrations.

802. FoLK-WIsSDOM.

Weather-lore, predictions, signs, omens. Whatever the folk pretend to
know about the future of natural phenomena.

Books and other illustrations.

803. FOLK-SAws.

Proverbs, riddles. The gathered wisdom of the follk.

Rule of thumb, ete.

Illustrations and literature.

804. FOLK-CRAFT.

Medicine, leecheraft, magic, hoo-doo prescriptions, whatever ignorant peo-
ple do to heal the sick.

Amulets and talismans.

Pocket pieces, such as the os mirabilis of the raccoon, the horse-chestnut, the
hare’s foot, the nicker nut, ete.

805. FoLk-LAW (PRACTICE, TRIAL, JUSTICE, ETC.).
All things and practices of the folk for administering justice.
Lynch law, ete.

806. NursERY RHYMES.

Lore of and for children. Child-lore has two meanings: 1. What the folk
believe and practice about children. 2. Counting-out rhymes and other
lore of the children themselves.

Books, toys, pictures, etc.

807. FOLK-RELIGION.

What the folk believe and practice respecting the spirit world. Their

simple creeds and quaint worship.
808. FESTIVALS.
Public gatherings of all kinds for merry-making or celebrations.

* Folk-lore is the beliefs and practices of the folk. By folk we mean all peoples
that are uncivilized, all unlettered people among the civilized, and even the most
enlightened persons when they are controlled by the beliefs of the unlettered or fall
into their practices.

It will be readily seen that the materials of this science are embodied in what is
said, called folk-moot; and what is done, called folk-life or custom. In each divi-
sion of the subject will appear both kinds of material.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 713

809. CEREMONIES.
Christenings, ete.
Weddings—Ceremonies and other accessories.
Funerals—<Accessories of all kinds.
Other ceremonies.

81. Communication and Record of Ideas. (Language, Writing and Printing. Books not
shown as literature.)

810. PRIMITIVE LANGUAGE.
Sign language. Pictographs.
811. LANGUAGES OF ALL NATIONS.

Alphabets, ete.

Examples in manuscript and printed.

Dictionaries and grammars.

Geographical distribution of languages, shown by charts, ete.

Linguistic systems.

Jargons and dialects. ‘‘ World languages.’”’ Volapuk, ete.

812. ARTIFICIAL LANGUAGE.

Cryptograms and cipher systems.

Telegraphic and commercial codes. Code books, ete.
Semaphores, military and railway systems.
Stenography in all its aspects.

815. MESSENGER SERVICE.

Animals and birds. Carrier pigeons.

Mail and mail express systems, not governmental. History of mails.

Pneumatic messenger service. The ‘‘ Rohr post.”

$813. TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONE, ETC.
The electric telegraph. History and accessories. Operatives and organiza-
tion of service. Geographical distribution, ete., shown by maps. Statis-
tics and literature.
(For instruments, etc., see 42.)
Telephone. Aérophone.
The photophone.
The graphophone and the phonograph.
Annunciators. ‘ Tickers.”
814. WRITING MACHINES.

The typewriter in all its forms.

The typewriter applied to type-setting. The linotype, ete. (See also 408.)
815. WRITING IMPLEMENTS AND METHODS.

Tools and methods. Historical—inscribed stones, notches on trees and
sticks, primitive tallies. Tablets of stone, wood, metal (bronze), clay,
wax. Palm leaves, bark, papyrus, skins, leather, parchment, paper.
Parchment writings. Old manuscripts. Specimens of calligraphy of all
nations. Systems of penmanship.

Stylus pencils of all kinds, for writing or drawing.

Pens and accessories.

Reservoir pens.

Inks and colors. Inkstands, ete. Erasers and all the appliances accessory
to writing.

Duplicating apparatus. Stamps and pads. Stencils. Hectographs, ete.
Electric pen. Manifolding. Presses and copy books.

816. THE ART OF PRINTING.

Type and its history. (See also 408.)

Type-setting and proof-reading.

Make-up. Sizes of books.
714 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

816. THe Art or PRINTING—Continued.

Imposing and press work.

Examples of the art of printing in all countries and at all times.

Incunabula. Curiosities of printing.

Results of the various methods of illustration of books in black and colors,

817. THe ART Or BOOKBINDING.

Historical series. Examples of the finest work. Curiosities of binding.

Binders’ materials and examples of the work in each. Vellum, leathers of
all kinds, woven fabrics, papers, woods, metals.

Blank-books of all kinds, and blank-book paper, diaries, note and memo-
randum books. Journals and record books. Books for office and count-
ing house. Albums and scrapbooks.

Portfolios and cases, pads and other forms.

All products of printers’ and binders’ work for use in writing, for economy of
writing, and for use on the desk or writing table.

818. STATIONERY IN GENERAL. (See also 490-493. )

Paper of all kinds in form for writing or printing. Embossed and deco-
rated note paper. Designs and methods.

Ruled paper. Specimens of ruling.

Receptacles for paper, envelopes, ete. :

Blotting paper and pounces of all kinds.

Paper weights, files, cutters.

Clips, fasteners, binders, etc.

Wafers, glues, and all similar appliances, with their receptacles and acces-
sories.

Sealing wax, signets and seals, and all accessories,

Scales, ete.

Blanks and bill-heads.

819. FILING AND INDEXING.

Appliances of all kinds for the permanent preservation and convenient use
of letters, memoranda, cuttings, manuseript, and printed matter of all
kinds.

&2. Engineering and Constructive Architecture.” (Illustrated by Models and Drawings.)

820. HisTORICAL AND RETROSPECTIVE EXHIBIT.

Illustrating methods of ancient engineer architects—Chaldean, Eeyptian,

Babylono-Assyrian, Greek, Etruscan, Roman, Byzantine, Arabie.
821. SURVEYING AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ENGINEERING.

Surveys and division of the public domain.

State boundaries, monuments, boundary stones, and methods of marking ter-
ritorial divisions.

Location, surveys and plots of cities and towns, parks, streets and sub-
urban extension.

Routes of internal communication.

Plans for turnpikes and highways, and devices for construction and main-
tenance of roads, streets and subways, sewers, underground water pipes,
gas mains, conduits, cables,

Systems of drainage.

822. HYDRAULIC AND MARINE ENGINEERING. (Marine Architecture
etc., see 336. )

Plans showing methods of reclaiming land, arresting and controlling the
flow of water—dikes, weirs, dams and water gates, aqueducts, reservoirs,
water-works (water supply, see 261; canal system, see 315), canals, locks,
slack-water navigation, removal of marine railways, slips, and hydraulic
docks.

shipbuilding,

* Arrangement © Mi. Ae Elfreth Wateine
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 715

822. HYDRAULIC AND MARINE ENGINEERING—Continued.
Obstructions in rivers and harbors.
River, harbor and coast surveys. (Seaports and harbors, see 31.)
Plans of submarine structures—foundations for piers, light-houses, docks
and breakwaters. (Light-houses, see also 306; harbor protection, ete.,
317, 318; for tools and machinery for hydraulic work, see 402.)
823. BRIDGE ENGINEERING. (Illustrated by drawings and models. )
Bridge designing. Drawings and charts showing methods of caleulating
stresses.

Foundations, piers, abutments, and approaches of stone, wood, ete.

Arch bridges of stone, wood or iron.

Suspension bridges of fiber, iron, chain and cable.

Truss bridges of wood, iron and steel—pony, bowstring, and plate girders,
lattice girders, Fink, Bollman, Howe, Pratt, Warren, Post, Long, Whipple,
and other trusses of special design.

Cantilever bridges. Draw-bridges. Rolling and swinging machinery.

Tubular bridges.

Railway, aqueduct, and other bridges of special design, not elsewhere classed.

(A chart showing date of completion, span, rise, weight and cost of the
great bridges of the world would be of interest. )

824. TUNNELS. (For mine engineering, see 210-219.)

Profile and sectional plans of tunnels, shafts and approaches.

Air shafts and special devices for hghting and ventilation.

Shields, cases and protection of tunnel walls against water and landslides,

(For building stones, see 242-246).

(For tools and machinery for blasting and drilling, see 222; blasting and
explosives, see 226.)

Charts of the St. Gothard Railway and other great tunnels might be shown.

825. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.

The designing of locomotives, engines, and machines.

Plans of machine shops, and systems of machinery for manufactories and
metallurgical establishments.

Machines for moving and handling heavy weights—cranes, ete.

(See also Classes 401-419).

826. RAILROAD ENGINEERING.

Location of railways—topographical inaps showing preliminary surveys,
profiles of cuts and fills, estimates of excavation and embankment, methods
of determining curves and grades, locations of bridges and tunnels.

Plans of terminals with reference to water courses or other railways.

(For Permanent Way, Stations and Rolling Stock, see 41.)

827. MittrAary ENGINEERING.

Plans of fortifications and other military works.

Methods for the rapid construction of roads, railway bridges, telegraph lines,
ete., In time of war.

Pontoons and other temporary bridges and structures of timber, ete.

Plans of portable hospitals and other buildings.

Field telegraphs, methods of transporting and erecting telegraph lines,
captive balloon telegraph.

Field signal train.

(For War, see 886, A).

828. THE DESIGNING OF BUILDINGS AND MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION.

Plans of public buildings for special purposes. Large and small dwelling-
houses.

Drawings and specifications for foundations, walls, partitions, floors, roofs
and stairways.
716 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

828. ‘THE DESIGNING OF BUILDINGS AND MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION—Continued,

Estimates of amount and cost of material.

Designs and models of special contrivances for safety, comfort and conven-
ience in the manipulation of elevators, doors, windows, etc.

(For Heating and Lighting Systems, see 65. )

(For Drainage and Sanitary Plumbing, see 650 and 873.)

Working plans for the mason, carpenter and painter—designs and models of
bonds, arches, coping, vaulting, etc; plastering and construction of par-
titions; painting and glazing.

Plans of appliances for hoisting, handling and delivering.

Building materials to artisans—scaffolding and ladders. Special scaffolding
for handling great weights. Portable cranes and power elevators.

Illustrations of the strength of materials.

Plans and sections of special architectural forms—metallic floor beams and
girders. Hollow bricks and other architectural pottery for heating and
ventilation. Metallic cornice and conduits. Shingles and sheathing.
Glass roofs, floors, and accessories. Architectural hardware.

Methods of combining materials.

Protection of foundations, areas and walls against water.

Working plans for paving and draining.

(For Timber, see 176; for Building Stones, see 242-246; Masonry, see 248;
Brick, Plain and Ornamental, see Division 44; Iron and Metals, see 276.)

(Cements and Mortars, see No. 281; Artificial Stone, see Class 282.)

829. INSTRUMENTS OF PRECISION FOR THE ENGINEER AND ARCHITECT.

Instruments of the draftsman.

Field instruments for measuring angles and leveling—compasses, theodolites,
transits, rods and flags, levels, leveling by barometer.

Instruments for measuring lengths—rules, rods, chains, and tapes. Methods
of adjusting instruments for temperature.

Instruments designed for rapid work for calculating cross-sections, ete.

Plumb lines for great depths, and appliances.

Testing machines and other instruments, not elsewhere classed.

829a. ENGINEERING SOCIETIES AND ASSOCIATIONS,

83. Property, Trade, Commerce and Intercommunication.

830. HistoRY OF COMMERCE AND INTERCOMMUNICATION.

Early routes of traffic and commerce. Commercial centers in past ages,
shown by maps, etc.

Statistics and literature.

831. METHODS AND MEDIA OF EXCHANGE. STORES AND SHOPS.

Money—coinage and its equivalents. A collection to show the actual media
of exchange in America in each period of a quarter of a century from the
first settlement to the time of the confederation, and in each Presidential
term since.

Similar collections of money for other countries and periods (not to be con-
founded with a numismatic collection which includes coins only) with
bank notes and other paper circulating mediums.

Special collections of tokens, ‘‘shin-plasters,” ‘‘ wild-cat money,” etc., illus-
trating the financial history of the country. Confederate bills. Conti-
nental bills. Postage-stamp money.

Commercial paper—bills of exchange, securities.

Methods of barter.

Weights and measures as used in commerce. Scales, balances, solid and
liquid measure as sold to merchants.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 717

$31. METHODS AND MEDIA OF EXCHANGE—Continued.

Methods of conveyancing. Deeds and titles. Bills and receipts. Examples
of papers and systems and everything pertaining to record of commercial
transactions between two parties.

Precautions against counterfeits and misappropriation of funds, bell-
punches, cash and check registers.

Counting-houses, stores, and shops. Organization. Methods of bookkeep-
ing. Plans and drawings of exteriors and interiors. Ground plans, show-
ing systems of arrangement. Counters,

Mechanical devices for distributing change.

Furniture and fittings.

Methods of distributing goods to purchasers. Devices used for wrapping
and tying. Baskets and boxes.

Pictures of representative houses in America and abroad.

(For Advertising Systems, See 838).

Auctions and auction houses.

Auction catalogues.

Pictures of representative establishments.

Boards of trade. Merchants’ produce, and stock exchanges.

Market houses and their accessories. Bazaars. Arcades.

832. EXPORT AND IMPORT. INTERSTATE COMMERCE.

History of traffic. Early routes. Commercial routes.

Routes of transportation and traffic.

Land transportation, with reference to transporting commercial wares.

Warehouses and their arrangement—plans and pictures.

Cars and other vehicles, as arranged for special traffic.

Devices for loading and unloading.

Water transportation, with reference to commerce. (Heads as under Land
Transportation. )

Express and delivery companies.

The handling and delivery of goods (Manutention. )

Methods of record, ete. Custom-house methods.

Bills of lading, ete.

Duties. Bonded warehouses.

833. MARKETS. CENTERS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND.

Maps, statistics and literature, showing the lines of distribution from the
principal producing centers of the world to the countries which depend
upon them for supply.

Similar exhibits, showing the lines of supply for the principal centers of con-
sumption of mercantile wares.

Similar exhibits, showing lines of distribution for each of the principal arti-
cles of commerce.

Special market exhibits, showing the kind of wares especially acceptable to
purchasers in non-producing countries. (Especially textiles, tools and
food-products. )

Special collections showing the nature of articles exported or imported in
large quantities from little-known countries.

Pictures of great market centers or other matters of interest in connection
with the subject.

834. PRICES.

The history of prices as shown by ancient bills, ete. Ledgers, literature and
statistical tables.

Curves showing fluctuations in prices and their causes.

Curves showing fluctuations of prices of real estate in America to town, in
connection with increase of population and trade.
718 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

854. PRICES—Continued.

Descriptive catalogues and price-lists—historical and of the present time.

Trade journals—current numbers and files of back volumes.

Wages in different parts of America and of the world. Wages of dif-
ferent occupations, past and present, shown by curve diagrams, literature
and statistical tables. (Treatinent same as for prices.)

Cost of living in different places as shown by comparison of prices of com-
modities and of labor.

835. CAPITAL AND ITS INVESTMENT.

Loans and their management. The broker’s trade and its methods.

The pawnbroker’s business. Curiosities of same.

Mortgages and securities. Mortgage investment companies.

Building and loan associations.

Stocks and stock brokerage. Methods and appliances. Stock exchanges.
Picturesand plans. History of American stocks, and the enterprises upon
which they have been established. Literature and statistics.

The real estate business. Methods of advertising and exploiting. Real
estate affairs in the several cities of the United States. Title companies.
Examples of plats and methods of subdivisions.

Banks and banking. Methods. Pictures of buildings.

836. INSURANCE.

Fire insurance. History, literature and statistics.

Pictures of offices.and buildings.

Marine insurance.

Life insurance. Companies. Mutual companies and societies.

Accident insurance.

Live-stock insurance.

Title insurance.

Glass and other special insurance systems.

Security and trust companies.

Safe-storage systems and companies.

(In every case the companies to be invited to exhibit to visitors in the ex-
hibition the peculiar features of their systems. )

(Buildings to be shown by pictures and models. Literature and statistics
to be exhibited and, if desired, distributed. )

837. SAFES AND TREASURE STORAGE.

Fire-proof and burglar-proof safes of all kinds.

Safety locks.

Safe-storage warehouses.

Burglar alarms, etc.

838. THE ART OF ADVERTISING.

History of advertising. Curiosities of advertising.

Sign boards and sign symbols. Tobacconists’, barbers’, and pawnbrokers’
signs, ete. Photographers’ show frames.

Show windows, and the art of arranging them. Examples and pictures.

Sign bills, posters, dodgers. ‘‘Sandwich men.”

Delivery wagons, decorated and grotesque.

Gift and prize systems. Cards and pictures. Cigarette cards, ete.

Phonograph and other announcement systems.

Pictures and devices te be shown in public places. Actors’ photographs.

Theatrical and amusement devices.

Mechanical and other devices in cars, steamboats, and other public places.
Albums and book coyers.

The circular systems. Mailing lists and mailing companies.

The agent and canvasser system, Sample sales,
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 719

838. THe Arr or ADVERTISING—Continued.

“Nickel-in-the-slot machines.”

The advertisement pages of papers and magazines and their utilization.
Pictures. Narrative and facetious methods, ete.

Advertising agencies.

Trade and advertising journals. Specimens and files,

Advertising labels and trade-marks. Attractive methods of wrapping and
packing.

839. AMERICAN TOWNS AND CITIES AS TRADE CENTERS.

Collective exhibits from individual towns, arranged by States.

Pictures of business streets and blocks.

Transportation facilities. Stations and depots. Warehouses. Elevators
and manufacturing establishments.

Characteristic industries, fully illustrated.

Plans of suburban and other subdivisions.

Publie buildings, churches, schools, markets.

Characteristic scenery.

Representative men.

Local newspapers and directories.

Books by local authors and publishers.

History, literature and statistics.

(Each town to be assigned space like an individual exhibitor, on application.)

84. Recreation and Amusement.

840. THe HIsToRY OF RECREATION. AMUSEMENTS OF PRIMITIVE PEOPLES.
Amusements of all nations. Pictures and models.
841. Toys FOR CHILDREN.
Infants’ toys. Rattles, trumpets. ete.
Moving and mechanical toys. Harlequins, ete.
Dolls, doll-houses and furniture.
Blocks, puzzles, ete.
Fireworks.
842. ATHLETIC EXERCISES AND SPorTs.
Gymnastic and calisthenic exercises and their accessories, and all devices for
physical development.
Boxing—gloves, costumes. Prize fights.
Fencing—foils, masks, etc.
Cycling—wheels of all kinds, and accessories.
Winter sports—skates, sleds, toboggans andslides. Costumes.
Ball games—baseball, cricket, lacrosse, lawn tennis, polo, golf, football.
Quoits, bowls, skittles, shuffleboard.
Croquet.
Archery.
843. AQUATIC SPorRTS. (See also Department 3.)
Boating—row-boats. Portable boats. Shells and racing.
Canoeing—canoes, for paddle and sail.
Sail-boats and their use.
Ice boats.
Yachts and yachting—pictures and models.
Swimming and surf bathing
844. SHOTGUN AND RIFLE.
Marksmanship—the shooting gallery. Rifle practice at long and short range.
Pistol and air orspring gun. Weapons, targets, and methods of organiza-
tion.

appliances and dress.

Hunting—blinds, decoys, sink-boxes, dogs, and their accompaniments and
accessories, Costumes and accoutrements, Accessories of all kinds,
720 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

844a. ANGLING. (See Fisheries. )
844). AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY. (See 71.)
844ce. SKETCHING AND PAINTING. (See 75-77. }
845. ANIMALS AND Pets. HUNTING.
The saddles. Equestrian outfits. Saddles and harness for pleasure use.
Whips and stocks. Spurs. Male costume and woman’s habits.
Tournaments, anise-chases, hurdle-riding, ete.
The pleasure vehicle and its equipment. Harnesses, etc.
Hunting and pet dogs (see 187). Whips, whistles, collars, harnesses, blank-
ets, etc.
Pigeons and homing matches. (See 186.)
Poultry. (See 186.) The game-cock. Mufts. Gaffs.
Pet birds and other pet stocks. (See 186.) Cages. Pens.
Horse-racing.
Fox hunting, coursing, ete.
846. GAMES OF SKILL AND CHANCE, INDOOR.
Billiards—tables and all accessories.
Cards—playing-cards and all accessories of all games. Schemes of games.
Dice and accessories of all games. Exhibits of gamblers’ methods.
Draughts, dominoes, backgammon and similar games.
Chess—artistic chessmen. Schemes of games.
Miscellaneous games—puzzles and paradoxes of all kinds. Mechanical
puzzles.
847. SOCIAL AMUSEMENTS, SHOWS AND DIVERSIONS.
Dancing and its accessories. Ball-room accessories. Favors. Masks and
fancy dresses.
Ball-room decorations.
Private theatricals and tableaux vivants.
Pyrotechnic displays.
Fétes, lawn parties.
Spectacles, pantomimes.
Panoramas and dioramas.
Stereopticon shows.
Jugglery and legerdemain.
Circuses, menageries, etc.
848. COLLECTING AND OTHER INDIVIDUAL RECREATIONS.
Amateur collections in natural history—minerals, fossils, birds, eggs, insects,
antlers and trophies of the chase, plants, ferns, sea-weeds, etc.
Collections of coins, stamps, heraldic designs, advertising cards.
Collections of autographs, portraits.
Collections of play bills and historical pictures.
Collections of photographs, stereographs, etc.
Collections of prints, etchings, engravings.
Collections of pottery and porcelain.
Collections of general bric-a-brac.
Collections of literary bric-a-brac. Grangerized and extra illustrated books.
Collections, etc. First editions.
849, OUTDOOR COSTUME AND EQUIPMENT. TRAVELING EQUIPMENT. CAMP OUTFIT
AND ACCESSORIES.
Athletic and outdoor costume for man and woman and for general and spec-
ial use.
Canes, staves, alpenstocks.
Hammocks and settees, camp stools and camp beds and cots.
Tents and canopies.
Portable houses.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 721

849. OUTDOOR COSTUME AND EQUIPMEN?T—Continued.
Camp-cooking outfit and other accessories.
Traveling costumes. Rugs.
Traveling bags, valises, shawl straps, ete.
Trunks, chests.
Steamer chairs.
Lunch baskets and boxes. Hampers.
Picnic outfits for table.
Traveler’s and camper’s food and beverages.
849 a. PLEASURE RESORTS AND ROUTES OF PLEASURE TRAVEL.
Seaside and mountain resorts.
Pictures, maps, and all illustrative literature.
Hotels, guides, camps.
Fishing and hunting privileges.
Sportsman’s gazetteers and directories.
Sporting literature. Libraries. Journals devotee to athletics, travel and
outdoor affairs. ~
Public pleasure gardens, fest gardens, schuetzen parks, etc.

85. Music and Musical Instruments. The Theater.

850 History AND THEORY OF MUSIC.
Music of primitive people.
Crude and curious instruments. Combinations of instruments, bands and
orchestras. Music books and scores. Musical notation. ;
History and literature of music. Portraits of great musicians.
851. SELE-VIBRATING INSTRUMENTS.
Drums and tambourines. Cymbals, triangles, gongs, castanets, ‘‘ bones.”
Bells, chimes, and peals.
Bell-ringer’s instruments. Musical glasses.
Glockenspiels, xylophones, marimbas.
Music boxes.
852. STRINGED INSTRUMENTS PLAYED WITH TILE FINGERS OR PLECTRUM.
Lutes, guitars, banjos and mandolins.
Harps and lyres.
Zithers, dulecimers.
853. STRINGED INSTRUMENTS PLAYED WITH A Bow.
The violin.
The viol, viola da gamba, viola, viola di amore.
The violoncello and the bass viol.
Mechanical instruments—hurdy-gurdy and violin piano,
854. STRINGED INSTRUMENTS WITH KEYBOARD.
The pianoforte—square, upright and grand.
Actions and parts of the piano.
The predecessors of the piano: Clavicytheriun, clavicymbal, elavichord,
manichord, virginal, spinnet, harpsichord and hammer harpsichord.
Instruments and methods of manufacture.
Street pianos.
855. WIND INSTRUMENTS WITH SIMPLE APERTURE OR PLUG MOUTHPIECE.
The flute, flute-a-bec. Syrinx. Organ pipes. Flageolet.
856. WIND INSTRUMENTS, WITH MOUTHPIECE REGULATED BY THE LIPS.
The eclarionet, oboe and saxophone.
857. WIND INSTRUMENTS, WITH BELL MOUTHPIECE, WITHOUT KEYs.
The trumpet (simple) and the bugle. Oliphant. Alpenhorn.
The trombone (with slide and with finger holes).
The serpent, bassoon and bagpipe.
SM 91, Pr 2 46

(22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

857a. WIND INSTRUMENTS, WITH BELL MOUTHPIECE, WITH K¥ys.
Key bugles, cornets, French horns. Cornopeans, ophicleides.
857b. WIND INSTRUMENTS WITH COMPLICATED SYSTEMS.
Accordion, concertinas, and mouth organs.
Melodeons and harmonicas. Reed organs of all kinds.
Hand organs and organettes. Automatic organs, orchestrions, ete.
The pipe organ.
857c¢. ACCESSORIES OF Musica INSTRUMENTS.
Strings, reeds, bridges.
Conductors’ batons, drum-majors’ staves. Mechanical devices for the
orchestra.
Tuning forks, pitch pipes, metronomes, music stands, ete.
858. Music IN RELATION TO HUMAN LIFE.
Musical composers. Portraits. Biographies.
Great performers. Great singers.
Concerts and the concert stage.
The opera. Its history.
The oratorio. Masses.
Church music and sacred music of all periods. Hymnology, ballads, folk-
song and folk-music of all lands,
National airs.
859. THE THEATER AND THE DRAMA.
The stage. Plans and models of stages and theaters.
History of the drama, so far as can be shown by literary reeord, Portraits
of actors. Relics of actors.
Playbills, ete.
Costumes, masks, armor.
Scenery. Appliances of illusion, ete.
Plays of all ages and peoples.
The passion play of Oberammergau.

86. Medicine, Surgery, Pharmacology, Hygiene.

860. Hisrory oF MEDICINE.
Schools of medical theory. Portraits of physicians.
860a. APPLIANCES OF RESEARCH IN ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, BACTERIOLOGY, ETC,
(See Science, 9216-9256. )
860b. APPLIANCES OF INSTRUCTION. (See 986.)
861. PATHOLOGY.
862. HYGIENE. PUBLIC HYGIENE AND SANITATION,
Hygienic chemistry.
863. INSTRUMENTS OF EXAMINATION AND APPARATUS OF GENERAL, LOCAL AND
SPECIAL SURGERY. ANASSTHETICS.
Instruments for physical diagnosis, clinical thermometers, stethoscopes, op-
thalmoscopes, etc. (except clinical microscopes, ete., for which see Class
324).
864. APPARATUS FOR DRESSING AND CARE OF WOUNDS, ANTISEPTICS.
Surgical instruments and appliances, with dressings, apparatus for deform-
ities, prothesis, obstetrical instruments.
Anesthetics. Antiseptics.
865. APPARATUS USED IN PLASTIC AND MECHANICAL PROTHESIS.
Orthepedic apparatus.
Apparatus used in hernial surgery.
Bath and hydrotherapeutic apparatus.
Apparatus for medical gymnastics.
Appliances, instruments and apparatus used in special therapeutics.

-
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 723

866. DENTAL SURGERY AND DENTAL MECHANISM.
Operative dentistry.
False teeth and substitutes.
Office appliances, chairs, ete.
867. VETERINARY SURGERY AND MEDICINES.
(See also 180.)
868. PHARMACOLOGY, DRUGS, PHARMACY, ETC.
Medicines, official (in any authoritative pharmacopmia) articles of the mate-
ria medica, preparations, unofficial.
Pharmaceutical apparatus.
869. MISCELLANEOUS APPARATUS FOR THE USE OF THE SICK, INFIRM AND INSANE.
Accessory articles used in the medical, surgical, and pharmaceutical sery-
ice of hospitals and infirmaries.
Vehicles and appliances for the transportation of the sick and wounded, on
shore or at sea.

87. Public Convenience and Safety.

870. DEVELOPMENT OF PATERNAL AND PROTECTIVE RELATIONS OF GOVERNMENT
TO PEOPLE.

Historical collections.

871. PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION BY ACT OF GOVERNMENT, OR UNDER Its REGULA-
TION.

Public highways—Roads and paths, streets, bridges, parks and squares.

Water supply—Public fountains and springs, ‘‘the town pump,” domiciliary
supply, public water privileges for industrial uses, reservoirs, aqueducts
and their accessories, public baths and laundries.

Light supply (so far as regulated by the Government)—Street illumination,
gas works and gasometers, electric-light plant. (For mechanical display,
see 422 and 433.)

Transportation (so far as regulated by the Government)—Street passenger
vehicles; railways and steamboats; common carriers; baggage and ex-
press; mail and messenger systems, not governmental; telegraphic and tel-
ephone service.

872. PROTECTIVE SUPERVISION.

Sanitary supervision—Vaccination and its enforcement. Isolation of con-
tagious disease. Quarantine. Prevention and elimination of animal epi-
demics.

Food inspection: Treatment of adulterated foods. Inspection and analysis.
Treatment of stale food substances. Regulation of abattoirs, mills, ete.
Regulation of sale of horses. Protective devices.

Building inspection, ete.—Building regulations and inspection. Building
drainage and plumbing. Fire regulations, fire escapes, ete.

Personal inspection—Color tests, etc., for transportation hands, ete. Pro-
fessional examination for licenses.

Immigration—Reception, care and protection of immigrants. Statistics of
enumeration.

873. PUBLIC AND DOMESTIC HYGIENE.

Appliances, instruments, and apparatus used in hygienic investigations.

Sanitary appliances and methods for dwelling houses, buildings, and cities.
Direct renewal of air—heating, ventilating, lighting, in their relation to
health. Conduits of water and sewage. Drains and sewers. Flushing
tanks, hydraulic syphons, water-closets, public and private latrines.
Sinks, night-soil apparatus, sanitary plumbing, walls, bricks, roofs, floor-
ing,ete. Sanitary house decoration, non-poisonous paints and wall papers,
floor coverings, washables, decorations, etc.
724 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

873. PUBLIC AND DOMESTIC HyGIENE—Continued.

Apparatus for carrying off, receiving and treating sewage. Slaughter-house
refuse, city garbage.

Apparatus and methods for filtering water and cleansing water courses.

Apparatus intended for the prevention of infectious diseases. Methods, ma-
terials and instruments for purifying and destroying germs and disinfect-
ing.

Meteorological instruments, such as are used in climatological investiga-
tions: Barometers, aneroids, thermometers, earth thermometers, ther-
mometer stands, hygrometers, anemometers, air meters, rain gauges, au-
tomatic meteorological apparatus, sunshine reporters, evaporation gauges,
ozone papers, ozonometers, etc.

Diagrams, models, and apparatus illustrative of (a) the climatal conditions
prevailing in various parts of the world; (b) the relations between health
and disease; (c) rainfall, percolation, evaporation and flow from ground ;
and (d) other subjects embraced by the exhibition.

874. HYGIENE OF THE WORKSHOP AND Facrory. (Classification modified from
that of the London Health Exhibition. )

Designs an’ models for improvements in the arrangements and construction
of workshops, especially those in which dangerous or unwholesome proc-
esses are conducted.

Apparatus and fittings for preventing or minimizing the danger to health
or life from carrying on certain trades: Guards, screens, fans, air jets,
preservative solutions, washes, ete.

Objects of personal use: Mouthpieces, spectacles, dresses, hoods, ete., for
use in certain unhealthy and poisonous trades.

Illustrations of diseases and deformities caused by unwholesome trades and
professions. Methods of combating these diseases. Preservative meas-
ures. etc.

Sanitary construction and inspection of workshops, factories and mines.
New inventions or improvements for ameliorating the condition of life of
those engaged in unhealthy occupations. Means for economizing human
labor in various industrial operations.

Literature, statistics, diagrams, ete.

875. HYGIENE OF THE SCHOOL-ROOM.

Designs and models of improved buildings for elementary schools, infant
schools, and creches.

Apparatus and fittings for warming, ventilating and lighting schools, school
latrines, closets, ete.

Special school fittings for storing and drying clothing.

School kitchens and arrangements for school canteens. Methods of warming
children’s meals, etc.

Precaution in schools for preventing the spread of infectious diseases, school
sanitaria, infirmaries, etc.

Special apparatus for physical training in schools, gymnasia; apparatus for
exercise, drill, ete.

Literature, statistics, diagrams, etc., relating to school hygiene.

876. LIFE-SAVING.

Life-saving at fires and prevention of fire.

Means for rendering materials incombustible, and for preventing the spon-
taneous combustion of coal. Fire-proof rooms and safes, Fire alarms and
alarm systems. Fire indicators. Apparatus and chemical substances for
giving alarms. Fireengines. Firemen’s equipments, Fire escapes.

Lightning conductors.

Safety from floods—appliances for indicating a rise in the water of rivers.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 725

876. Lire-SAvING—Continued.

Safety from explosions—storing and transportation of explosive gases and
inflammable substances. Gas-escape indicators. Alarm signals, feed appli-
ances, and pressure gauges for preventing boiler explosions. Fire-damp
indicators and safety lamps for miners.

Safety from accidents of land transportation—Brakes for horse vehicles.
Railway signals, level crossings, automatic couplers. Precaution against
color blindness.

Safety from accidents of water travel—Light-house systems. Vessel signals.
Fog signals. Life-preservers, buoys. Appliances and organization of
life-saving service.

Safety from rabid or venomous animals.

Relief of victims of accidents—relief of victims of suffocation. Relief of
those apparently drowned. Relief of those who have taken poison. Treat-
ment of cuts, bruises, and fractures. Aids of sick and injured.

Transport: By human agency—stretchers, litters, dhoolies, palanquins,
handearts. By animal traction—for accidents and injury, for infectious
diseases, for ordinary sickness. By mechanical means—railway carriages
for sick and injured, water carriage. Treatment (with appliances)—(«)
shed hospitals for infectious fevers and epidemic diseases; (0) tent hos-
pitals; (¢) hospital ships; (d) furniture and fittings for sick rooms.

Aid to sick and wounded in war. Transport: (a) By human agencies—
stretchers, litters, dhoolies, palanquins, handcarts, stretchers on wheels;
(b) by animal traction—mule litters and chairs, camel and elephant litters,
wheel carriages; (c) by mechanical means—railway ambulances, ship or
water carriage. Treatment (with portable applances and portable
drugs)—(a) on the field; (>) inshed hospitals; (¢) intent hospitals. Naval
and military hygiene.

877. PUBLIC CHARITIES.

Asylums—instruction and care of the defective classes. Blind asylums
Deaf and dumb asylums. (Plans, furniture, etc.)

Reformatory institutions—Inebriate asylums. Magdalen asylums. Créches
or day nurseries.

Orphan asylums. Foundling asylums. Children’s aid societies.

Insane asylums.

Homes for the destitute, aged and infirm, for the maimed and deformed,
soldiers’ homes.

Emergency and lying-in, convalescent, and other hospitals. (From non-
medical standpoint. )

Treatment of paupers—Almshouses, feeding the poor, lodging houses,

Emigrant aid societies.

Treatment of aborigines.

Prevention of cruelty to animals.

88. Government and Law, The Art of War.

880. History OF ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENTAL INSTITUTIONS.

Primitive systems. Governments of primitive people.

Evolution of monarchial systems.

Evolution of representative systems. The town meeting, the hustings, ete.,
in America,

Literature, ete.

Maps showing graphically the geographical distribution of governmental
systems, past and present.

Municipal government.
726 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

881. POPULAR PARTICIPATION IN GOVERNMENT.

Choice of rulers. Primitive methods. Sueccessions and dynasties.

Ballot systems. AJ] accessories of the ballot and voting. Voting machines.
882. Law AND Justick. (A suggestion. )

Legal codes. Retrospective collections. Legal codes of Babylonia. The
Jews. India, Greece, Rome, shown by casts, fae-similes, and books. Doc-
uments in the history of English law. American law. Louisiana (civil
or Roman law). Pacific coast and New Mexico. Literature.

The court. The judge. Usages and customs. Costume, The jury. Meth-
ods of polling. Arrangement of the hall of justice and its furniture.  Lit-
erature. Pictorial illustrations and models. Customs of special courts,

The legal profession in all its ramifications. Lawyers im court and other
professional relations. Costumes. Special residences (Inns of Court, the
Temple, etc.). Pictures, portraits, literature.

Laws of individuals. Master and servant. Husband and wite (forms of
papers relating to marriage and divorce). Parent and child. Guardian
and ward. Orphans’ court. Chancery.

Bonds and agreements. Methods of signing, sealing, and delivering paper.

Oaths and affidavits. Papers and other literature illustrating legal forms
and methods of procedure. Writs (habeas corpus, ejection, etc.).

Police and police systems—Organization of local police. Costumes and
weapons and other equipments, patrol wagons and wagons for transport-
ing prisoners.

Detectives and systems of detective work.

Prisoners and malefactors—Statistics of crime. Criminal genealogy as shown
by family trees of noted criminal families.

Portraits of criminals—Rogues’ galleries. Thumb-mark identification, Com-
posite portraits of special criminal groups, showing characteristic physi-
ognomy of special crime tendencies.

Characteristics of the different kinds of lawbreakers—Implements and ac-
cessories. Weapons. Costumes and disguises.

Gamblers and gambling—Dens and halls. Implements and accessories of
faro, rouge-et-no1r, etc.

Burglary and theft—Forgery, etc. Pickpockets. Implements of house-
breaking. Highway robbery. Sneak theft.

Counterfeiting—Tools and products in metal and paper. Altered coins and
notes.

Murder and yviolence—Fights. The duel and its history.

Dissipation—Drunkenness. Opium and hasheesh.

Vagrancy and disorder—Riots. Bombs and dynamite.

Cruelty to animals. Illustrations of cruel methods, Societies for preven-
tion of cruelty to animals.

Administration of justice.

Arrest—Manacles and handcuffs.

Punishments—History. Stocks. Ducking stool and whipping postin Amer-
ica. Historical collections.

882 a. INTERNATIONAL Law.

Sovereignty over seas—Ministers, diplomatic agents, consuls, forms, pass-
ports, certifications, ete. Features, Fac-similes of important treaties.
Photographs, ete., of important diplomatic meetings (Berlin Congress,
e.g.). Naturalization. Extradition. Allegiance and citizenship.

883. PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES.

Buildings, plans, and pictures of exteriors and interior arrangements. Cells.

Prisons of all lands and times. Historical collections.

Dress and personal equipment of prisoners. Prison dietaries.

——
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 727

883. PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES—Continued.

Convict labor—in confinement, and in confinement and outside gangs. Con-
vict labor leases. Examples of convict workmanship.

Prison discipline, instruction, and reform.

Reform schools and houses of detention,

Punishment at sea.

884. GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.

National, state and provincial capitals. Pictures and plans. Executive
dwellings. Palaces. Administrative offices. City and town halls. Cus-
tom and post offices. Public edifices of all kinds and all lands, not else-
where classified.

885. TAXES AND CUSTOMS AND THEIR ADMINISTRATION.

Tax systems. Historical collections. Literature and statistics.

Tax collecting. Assessment.

The custom-house—appraisement. Collection of duties. Inspection of
goods and baggage of passengers. Bonded warehouses. Systems of ad-
ministration. Plans and pictures. Bonded distilleries.

The Revenue-Marine Service—revenue cutters. Revenue officers.

Smuggling—methods. Devices for concealment about person and otherwise.
Curiosities of smuggling.

Illicit manufactures—distilleries, ete. Moonshiners and their methods.

886. ARMIES AND NAVIES.

The military class in alllands in the past. Historical collections. Pictures.

Military costumes and accoutrements.

Costimme and accoutrement of naval forces

Arms of all kinds (ordnance excepted), with all accessories.

Dietaries. Camp equipment and material.

Recruiting, and its methods.

Asylums and pension systems.

Militia—national guard, landwehr, etc. Illustrations of methods of organ-
ization. Collective exhibits for special localities.

Campaign and battles. Plans and pictures of engagements by land and sea
in all lands. Historical collections, literature and relics.

Military and naval leaders and heroes. Portraits and biography. Personal
relics.

886a. MILITARY ENGINEERING, ORGANIZATION AND ACCESSORIES.

Retrospective collections,

Fortifications. Coast and river defenses, not aquatic.

Heavy ordnance and projectiles, and all accessories.

Light artillery, composing guns, machine guns, mitrailleuses.

Military small arms, muskets, pistols and magazine guns.

Ammunition and its accessories.

Military topography and geography.

Systems of transport. Trains and wagous. Pontoons and bridges.

Camps, tents and barracks.

Arsenals and armories.

Clothing and supplies. Food.

Systems of organization. Composition of armies. Officers.

Systems of tactics.

887. THE ART or NAVAL WARFARE.

Retrospective collections. War ships of all nations. Pictures, plans and
models.

The modern war ship. Armored cruisers.. Torpedo boats.

Ordnance and projectiles for naval use. Ammunition, ete.

Economy of ship life as modified for military purposes.

marines.

128 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

887. THE ART OF NAVAL WARFARE—Continued.
Clothing and supplies for ship use.
Food supplies.
Organizations of naval forces and squadrons.
Naval tactics.
Coast and harbor defense.
Torpedo warfare. Special torpedo boats.
8874. WEAPONS AND ARMOR OF ALL NATIONS.
Clubs, staves, slung weights, flails, maces, ‘‘ morning stars,” ete.
Swords, cutlasses, glaives, scythes, battle-axes.
Daggers, rapiers, lances, spears, pikes, spades, halberds, bayonets.
Hand missiles—Boomerangs, knob kerries, javelins, slings and all sling-
stones, bolas, sling boards and darts.
Bows and arrows, cross bows, blowguns and arrows, sumpitans.
Catapults, balistas, spring guns.
Fire-arms and projectiles.
Armor of personal defense—Shields, helmets, suits of armor,
888. THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
(See collective exhibit. )
888a. THE STATE GOVERNMENTS.
Similar exhibits arranged by States.
889. FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.
Resources and powers of other governments arranged in a similar manner.

89. Societies and Federations.

890. BANDS AND LEAGUES OF Past TIMEs.
891. BENEVOLENT SOCIETIES.
Humane and life-saving societies.
Early bands and leagues.
892. COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATIONS.
893. INSURANCE AND MUTUAL BENEFIT SOCIETIES.
894. TRADE UNIONS, ETC. INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS.
895. PATRIOTIC SOCIETIES.
Military organizations and orders.
896. LITERARY SCIENTIFIC AND HISTORICAL SOCIETIES.
897. SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS.
Clubs and club houses.
898. POLITICAL SOCIETIES AND ORGANIZATIONS.
899. SECRET ORDERS AND FRATERNITIES.

DEPARTMENT 9.—SCIENCE, RELIGION, EDUCATION AND HUMAN
ACHIEVEMENT.

90. Institutions and Organizations.

901. INSTITUTIONS OF GENERAL SCOPE FOR THE INCREASE AND DIFFUSION OF
KNOWLEDGE.
Such as the Royal Institution, the Smithsonian Institution, the Institute of
France. Their organization, history and results.
902. ACADEMIES OF SCIENCE AND LETTERS.
The Royal Society of London, the National Academy of Sciences, the British
and American Associations for the Advancement of Science and others,
State Academies of Science, etc.
903. LEARNED SOCIETIES NOT DEVOTED TO THE EXACT SCIENCES.
Historical. Antiquarian, ete.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’s FAIR. 729

904. SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES, DEVOTED TO LIMITED SUBJECTS.
Mathematical, astronomical, chemical, geological, geographical, zodlogical,
botanical, ethnological, philological, ete.
905. EDUCATIONAL SOCIETIES AND ORGANIZATIONS.
Government Educational Board.
Societies, ete.
906. PUBLICATION SOCIETIES.
Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge, ete.
907, PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES.
Engineering, military, legal, medical, dramatic, ete,
908, 909. OTHER ORGANIZATIONS.

91. Science and Philosophy.

910, HISTORY OF SCIENCE AND PHILOSOPHY,
Portraits and memorials of philosophers and scientific investigators.
911. METHODS OF INVESTIGATION.

Mathematics—Arithmetic, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, analytical ge-
ometry, calculus.

Physics—Mechanics, statics, dynamics, molecular physics, hquids, gas, sound,
light, heat, electricity, magnetism.

Astronomy—Solar system, sun, moon, planets, stars, meteors, comets, earth,
geodesy, ete. Chronology.

Chemistry —Inorganic and organic. Mineralogy and crystallography.

Geology—Physical and dynamic. Meteorology.

Biology—Zodlogy, botany, physiology, paleontology.

Anthropology and ethnology—Philology.

Sociology and history—Political economy and statistics. (overnmental
institutions.

Geography and physiography in general—Maps and atlases, geographical,
topographical, hydrographical and astronomical. Relef maps. Eco-
nomic geography.

912. INSTRUMENTS OF PRECISION FOR TEST AND RECORD OF SPACE, DISTANCE, DI-
MENSIONS, QUANTITY AND CAPACITY, FORM AND DIRECTION.

Scales of length—Standards of length compared. Accessories to scales of
length, as calipers, verniers, micrometers, micrometric screws, dividing
machines.

Quantity and capacity tests—Measures, gauges, for barrels, tonnage and
cordage tests. Gas and water meters. Tell-tales, indicators, etc. Gaugers’
tools.

Pedometers, odometers, viameters, perambulators, ete.

Geodetic and surveying instruments—Theodolites, transits, needle com-
passes, base apparatus, etc., and other appliances for surveying, leveling,
geodesy, topography. Instruments for underground surveys. Sounding
apparatus.

Apparatus for astronomical observations—Transits, transit circles, zenith
sections, equatorials, collimators, reflecting and repeating circles, heliostats
and siderostats, bolometers, etc., and other apparatus used in observations,

Nautical astronomical instruments. Sextants, quadrants, repeating circles,
dip-sections.

Form: Appliances for registry of form—Geometrical record (with models),
clinometers, crystalometers. Facial-angle systems. Draftsmen’s instru-
ments, pantagraphs, ete. (See also Pictorial arts.)

Direction: Leveling instruments and apparatus—Carpenters’ and builders’
levels, land levels, water levels, engineers’ levels.

Compasses and their variations.

Plumb lines.
730 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

913. INSTRUMENTS OF PRECISION FOR THE TEST OF FORCE, SPEED, ETC.

Weight and specific gravity: Standards of weights and their comparison—
Scales, balances, steelyards, assay balances, and ordinary scales for heavy
weights special finding.—Instruments to determine specific gravity and
density — Hydrometers, aérometers, invariable pendulums, etc.

Speed: Tachymeters. Current meters, ships’ logs, electrical logs.

Force: Dynamometers. Gauges for hydriule, pneumatic and steam ma-
chinery.

Heat and other physical effects: Thermometers and other instruments to
measure meteorological effects. Barometers, pyrometers, eudiometers,
electrometers, rheometers, magnetometers, etc. (See also Meteorology,
Class 926.)

Tone: Tuning forks and pipes.

Electrical apparatus: Friction machines. Condensers and miscellaneous
apparatus to illustrate the discharge. Galvanic batteries and accessories
to illustrate dynamical electricity. Electro-magnetic apparatus, induc-
tion machines, Ruhimkorff coils, ete. Magnets and magneto-electrie appa-
ratus.

914. INSTRUMENTS OF PRECISION.

Number, time, ete.

Number.

Tallies, automatic registers and abaci. Mathematical instruments. Caleu-
lating machines.

Time. (Horology.)

Ancient chronometry. Planetary motion. Dials, hour-glasses.

Modern chronometry—Clepsydra, clocks, weight, spring and balance, electric
and astronomical, Watches, chronometers, stop watches.

Almanacs, calendars and time-tables. Ephemerides.

Registration of musical time or length. Metronomes.

915. INSTRUMENTS ACCESSORY TO RESEARCH.

Comparative meteorology: Scales of weights and measures of different
countries.

Instruments accessory to research: Microscopes and lenses and their acces-
sories. Telescopes and lenses and their accessories. Apparatus for polar-
ization, refraction, photometry, etc. Spectacles and eye-glasses, field and
opera-glasses, graphoscopes and stereoscopes. Instruments for the investi-
gation of the principal mediums of heat, light, electricity, ete. Speetro-
scopes and accessories for spectrum analysis. Polariscopes. Thermotic
apparatus.

Instruments used in anatomical and physiological investigation.

Instruments used in chemical and assay work.

Tables of all kinds for use in computation.

916. METEOROLOGY.

Modern meteorology and weather forecasts. History and present methods.

Meteorological instruments. (See also Class 922.)

Barometers, hygrometers and rain gauges. Maps, bulletins, Blanks for
reports. Methods of recording, reducing and reporting observations.

917. APPLIED SCIENCE.

Mechanical engineering.

Civil engineering.

Navigation.

Invention.

All other departments of applied sciences, literature, statistics, and full ex-
hibition of methods and imstruments not elsewhere shown,
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 731

918. LABORATORIES AND OBSERVATORIES.
A chemical laboratory in operation.
A physical laboratory in operation.
An astronomical observatory in operation.
An astrophysical laboratory in operation.
A biological laboratory in operation.
An anthropometrical laboratory in operation.
A taxidermist’s workshop in operation.

919. SCIENTIFIC EXPLORATION.
History and literature. Maps. Portraits.
Relies of all great exploring expeditions of the past.
Methods and results of recent explorations.

92. History.

920. PREHISTORIC ARCHAOLOGY.
America and Europe. *
Ethnographical collections, illustrating the life of primitive man and mod-
ern savages, with specimens of prelustoric habitations.
921. Hisrortc ARCHEOLOGY.
Europe and Asia.

922. EARLY EUROPEAN HISTORY.

Especially England, Ireland, Scotland, Scandinavia, Germany, France, Italy,
Spain and Portugal.

923. THe DISCOVERY OF AMERICA AND THE EARLY PERIOD OF EXPLORATION AND
CONQUEST. THE COLONIZATION AND SUBSEQUENT HISTORY OF LATIN
AMERICA.

924. Tuk COLONIAL PERIOD IN NORTH AMERICA.

925. THe PERIOD OF THE REVOLUTION AND OF THE ORIGIN OF THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE UNITED STATES.

926. LATER HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, 1789-1892.

927. LATER HISTORY OF EUROPE, FTC.

928. BIOGRAPHY AND FAMILY HISTORY.

Portraits of representativemen. Genealogical collections: Literature, pedi-
grees, heraldry, arms, private and public. =

93. Books and Literature.

NorE.—The classification is that of the Dewey Relative System, which may be
used in detail to excellent advantage in many departments of the Exposition work.

930. GENERAL WORKS.
Cyclopedias, magazines and newspapers. Bindings. Specimens of typog-

raphy.

931. PHILOSOPHY.

932. RELIGION.

933. SOCIOLOGY.

934. PHILOLOGY.

935. NATURAL SCIENCES.

936. UsrruL ARTs.

937. FINE ARTs.

938. LITERATURE.

939. HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY.

“An elaborate arrangement of this division has been prepared by Dr. Thomas Wil-
son, to which the attention of the commission is especially directed.
132 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

94. Journalism. (Special Monographic Exhibit.)

Norn.—The details of the arrangement of this division are not worked out, The
possibilities of an interesting display are very great. It should exhibit fully the
history of journalism, and American periodical literature, past and present, should
be very fully shown.

93. Religious Organizations.

950. RETROSPECTIVE COLLECTIONS.
951. HistoRY OF RELIGIOUS AND ECCLESIASTICAL ORGANIZATIONS.
Statistics and literature of religious organizations and systems. Origin,
nature, growth and extent of various religious systems and faiths.
952. ECCLESIASTICAL EDIFICES.
Plans, models, and pictures of exteriors and interiors. Interior fittings.
Furniture.
Decoration. Windows. Painting.
Vestments and other accessories of ecclesiastical costume.
Church plate, ete.
953. ReLiaious Music.
Choirs. Hymnology.
954. ACCESSORIES OF PRIVATE DEVOTIONS.
955. CHARITABLE AND REFORMATORY WORK.
Church guilds, ete.
956. SPECIAL EDUCATIONAL WORK.
Systems and methods of religious instructions and training for the young.
Sunday schools, furniture and apparatus.
Associations for religious and moral improvement.
Academies and colleges under denominational control.
957. MISSIONS AND MISSIONARY WORK.
History of missions.
Maps, showing missions, past and present, in regard to geographical distri-
bution.
Societies and organizations for the propagation of systems of religion by
missionary efforts.
Spreading the knowledge of religious systems by publications.
958. THE BIBLE.
Versions in every tongue. Editions of all kinds.
The English Bible.
Bible societies. Colportage.

96. Education, Primary.*

960. PRINCIPLES OF PRIMARY EDUCATION.
Literature, statistics and diagrams. Statistics as to the effects of ‘‘cram-
ming” and overwork on the young, ete.
961. HOME EDUCATION OF INFANTS.
Edueational toys. Toy-books, home primers, children’s periodicals.
962. KINDERGARTENS AND INFANT SCHOOLS AND CRECHES.
Apparatus and fittings, toys, games, and kindergarten amusements. Models
and appliances for teaching, examples of school work.
963. PRIMARY SCHOOLS, Ciry AND COUNTRY.
School houses and furniture. Apparatus and fittings. Models and appliances
for teaching, text-books, diagrams, examples. Specimens of work in ele-
mentary schools.

*The classification is essentially that of the Philadelphia Exhibition.
DRAFT OF A CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 733

64. DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING FOR GIRLS.

Models and apparatus for teaching of cookery, housework, washing and
ironing, needlework and embroidery, dressmaking, artificial flower mak-
ing, painting on silk, crockery, ete. Specimens of school work.

965. HANDICRAFT TEACHING IN SCHOOLS FOR Boys.

Apparatus and fittings for elementary trade-teaching in schools, Specimens

of school work.
966. SCIENCE TEACHING.

Apparatus and models for elementary science instruction in schools, Appar-
atus for chemistry, physics, mechanics, etc. Diagrams, copies, text-
books, etc. Specimens of the school work in these subjects.

967. ART TEACHING.

Apparatus, models and fittings for elementary art instruction in schools,
text-books, etc. Diagrams, copies, text-books, etc. Specimens of art-
work, modeling, etc., in schools.

968. TECHNICAL AND APPRENTICESHIP SCHOOLS.

Apparatus and examples used in primary and secondary schools for teaching
handicraft. Models, plans and designs for the fitting up of workshop and
industrial schools. Results of industrial work done in such schools.

969. EDUCATION OF DEFECTIVE CLASSES.
Deaf, dumb, blind schools, ete. Adult schools for the illiterate.

97. Education, Secondary. (Grammar School. High School. Seminary and Academy
Gymnasium.)

971. SYSTEMS OF SCHOOLS (State, city and town).
Organization, gradings, discipline, ete.

972. BUILDINGS AND THEIR ARRANGEMENTS.
Sanitary condition. Furniture.

973. APPARATUS OF GENERAL INSTRUCTION.
Maps, globes, diagrams.

974, PHYSICAL TRAINING.
Gymnasium. Military drill. Summer camp.

975. TRAINING IN DRAWING, MUSIC, ETC.

976. TRAINING IN PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Apparatus, laboratories, ete. Cabinets.

977. Books.
Text-books and other appliances.

978. MANUAL, AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL EDUCATIONS.
Commercial and trades schools.

979. EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS FOR ADULTS.
Polytechnic schools. Reading rooms. Institutions.
Chautauqua circles, ete.

98. Education, Superior.

980. THe COLLEGE AND THE UNIVERSITY.
981. SYSTEMS.
Curriculum, admission requirements, examination.
982. BUILDINGS.
983. APPARATUS, ETC.
984. THE COLLEGE.
985. THE UNIVERSITY AND POSTGRADUATE COURSES.
University extension, etc.
986. PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS.
Art and design.
Music.
(34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

986. PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS—Continued.
Mining and metallurgy. Engineering.
Military and naval.

Medicine and surgery. Veterinary medicine. Pharmacy.
Law.
Theological.
Normal.
987. THE LYCEUM, ETC.
Lectures.
988. PUBLIC MUSEUMS AND EXPOSITIONS.
989. THE PuBLIc LIBRARY.

99. Human Achievement. The Greatest and the Best.

The arrangement of the division is not worked out, but in proper hands the pos-
sibilities of interest in this direction are almost limitless. Among the suggestions
are the following:

The great men and women of the world. Portraits, ete. (No one living to
be admitted. )
Great works of art:

Copies of the greatest paintings—not to exceed one hundred.

Copies of the greatest sculptures—not to exceed twenty-five.

Copies of the greatest crayons and etchings—not to exceed twenty-five.

Models and pictorial reproductions of the greatest buildings of the
world—not to exceed twenty-five.

The greatest books.

The greatest industrial and economical discoveries and inventions,
The invention of printing, gunpowder, the telescope, the railway,
vaccination, the circulation of the blood, photography, fish culture,
etc.

A special display ought to he made of great American discoveries—the
steamboat, the telegraph, the telephone, the lightning rod, the cotton
gin, the reaper, the sewing machine, anesthetics, ete.

Actual reproductions of Old World monuments to commemorate historic person-
ages and events might well be shown.

DEPARTMENT 10.—COLLECTIVE AND MONOGRAPHIC EXHIBITS.

100. Collective Exhibits.

101. FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS. COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS.

As is the universal practice in international exhibitions, foreign commis-
sioners will expect to install their material collectively, making excep-
tions, possibly, in the matter of machinery in motion, agricultural prod-
ucts and living animals, and the fine arts. For convenience of the juries
they will, of course, conform as nearly as may be to the official classifica-
tion, within the limits of the space assigned to each country.

If the plan proposed by Mr. W.E. Curtis is accepted, a special building will
be required for the combined collective exhibit of the Spanish-American
Republics.

102. THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES. COLLECTIVE EXHIBIT OF THE GOV-
ERNMENT DEPARTMENTS.
103. AMERICAN STATES AND CITIES.
State and city buildings, and their contents.
104. THE WoOMAN’S DEPARTMENT.
DRAFT OF A’ CLASSIFICATION FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. 735

105. COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS. ISOLATED BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FOR REA-

106.

107.

108.

109.

SONS OF CONVENIENCE.

Machinery in motion. (See detailed classification under Division 40.)

Electricity and magnetism, and their applications.

Pomological exhibitions. .

Horticultural displays in the open air.

Live-stock exhibitions, ete.

Agricultural machinery at work.

Waste products and their utilization.

Athletic contests and games. Angling tournaments, rifle practice, ete,

Military displays and competitive drills.

Fire companies and competitive contests.

Pyrotechnic competitions.

SPECIAL INDUSTRIES. COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS.

As inother exhibitions, organizations representing great industrial interests
will desire to erect and maintain buildings for special collective exhi-
bits—e. g., the brewing industry, the leather industries, the textile in-
dustry, ete.

AMERICAN ETHNOGRAPHY AND THAT OF OTHER COUNTRIES,

Special monographic exhibit of the tribes of American aborigines. Similar
collections from other lands.

Villages or families of various primitive peoples engaged in their native
occupations.

SPECIAL MONOGRAPHIC EXHIBITS SHOWING THE CIVILIZATION OF COUNTRIES
WHICH HAVE CONTRIBUTED LARGELY TO THE PEOPLING OF AMERICA.
OTHER COLLECTIVE EXHIBITS,
Sie CAO NaN:

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U, 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE FISCAL
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

737

sm 91, pr 2——47

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891,

I.—PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM.

ANNUAL REPORTS.

Annual Report | of the | Board of Regents | of the | Smithsonian Insti-
tution, | showing | the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition |

of the Institution | for the | year ending June 30, 1888. |
port of the U. S. National Museum, |
ernment Printing Office.

8vo., pp. Xxii+87

6.

1890.

110 plates, 514 text figures, and 3 maps.

PROCEEDINGS.

| Re-

| Washington: | Gov-

Smithsonian Institution. | United States National Museum. | —— |

Proceedings | of the | United States National Museum. | -— |
Vol. XII. | 1889. | —— | Washington; | Government Printing

Office. | 1890."

8vo., pp. vili-++686.

Plates I-xxii, figures 14.

During the year the following papers, constituting Volume XIII, were
issued separately, although the bound volume itself had not appeared
at the close of the fiscal year.

| No. of

Date of publication. | publi-

| cation.
1890. |
Ot Ky aie eee coeeeeecsaaccos 790 |
ORs tle serer Coneanseas: Seerena 791 |
Tinicilse aoe ee = Soy 792 |

iting ted ©) Seats | 798

Septempen!O he -eens sce ae 794

Aiitky SAS eeA con Cee paeneanecer | 795
fat hatte Ss Sees See ees mess | 796 |
AfiTUl fil ise 2 Ses Ao ae ERS ere ee 797 |
Any, NSAeSoh eden Saeeeemearmcs 798 |
September 9. s-2 7: soc ss e245: 799 |
September 9..-...-....- a 800 |
September 92. a... 42-2... sec-=-- | 801 |
September ases2-- seen 802 |

*The announcement of the publication of Vol. xtris also given in the Report for 1890.

1-2
3-4

5-12

13-14

15-35
37-45

47-45 |

49-126
127-130
131-142
148-144

145-149 ||

|

151-155 |

No. of
Date of publication. publi- | Pages.
cation. |
1890—Continued. |
September! Gases eee seccser 803 | 157-160
September 9. -------.-.------- 804} 161-164
September Qesceieiends-cesroe 805 |. 165-170
Septemlpen Oe ee ciereleieiel=ie-tel= rer 806 | 171-172
September 9°25 0. esc ncicut wee 807 | 173-175
September Oeseaener asec acitcee 808 177-182
SeplemDelOee ree see acecere: 809 183-185
SMD) = sca cconscac essed | 810 187-194
September, Geers rs eeeteeee = | 811 | 195-196
september Qeee sees sac/e a a2 == 812 197-203
Septem) erslGha ee serrata caer 813 205-225
Septem Veta Ones e rere setae 2 814 227-229
HepscemPerpl G2 oe eereeeneae 815 ' 231-234

This error

was caused by incorrect notification of the date of receipt of the edition at the National Museum,

739
740 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

No. of | No. of
Date of publication. publi- | Pages. Date of publication. publi- Pages.
cation. | | cation.
|
1890—Continued. 1891
Mctoherltae cee ssa tes ee 816 | 2352938 1 April cae sensi emer eee 829 | 313-336
Octobert4. oases eee Calge |) BRI EOy OWN tall leas Has oecetssocss == 830 | 337-345
Octoberiise so ce= eee eee S1 8h 243-2480 Caspr 8 eas pee a eee eee 831 347-352
(OWI ised Ae Babee este sue S19) e2492265 | | Atpril Bass. ee eee eae 832 | 853-354
Mctoberilttates.. cen eee cen S20 2662279) ie Atprille] Cae ee ee ee 833 | 355-360
MecemberiBles. sos. eee eee -| PPA OREO || aN ithe Gesecseon Seas sooscres ae 834 | 361-376
Novembenwloresne-ce sees. - 822 | TEV REY HUME Ky Bocgsacasoauncocuadses aac 835 377-380
November 15...-...-.2..2--:-. lea eigos | 289-200 |] May 20....2.2...220.-1-222.. 836 | 381-382
Nowem Deno se sss cae emer B24 291298 May Geen ner sameeren ane ee eee 837 | 383-396
Macomber All..e 2+: oc. 5. seas 2 | 895 | (299-302 || Alpril 8b. és. 5.0--0s22.-cue2 838 | 397-405
INGMEeMberel bese os. ose eee 826 303=3045||\ (Mian 82 2 oS-55 = scenes 839 | 407-447
INOWeMmberel beac se set eee aoe | 827 | 305-308 | Rul (AeA eee res ee ee ees Se 840 | 449-455
INovempbenyl one 3 S22 422-- Sess | 828 SO9LS Tell May 29): » eet ant ee eres 841 | 457-643

IIl.—PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER
INVESTIGATORS, WHOSE WRITINGS ARE BASED DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY ON THE COLLECTIONS OF THE MUSEUM.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF NAMES.

Adler, Cyrus, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., Assistant Curator, Sec-
tion of Oriental Antiquities, U.S. National Museum.

Allen, Harrison, 1933 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Anthony, A. W., 2042 Albatross Street, San Diego, Cal.

Baur, G., Clark University, Worcester, Mass.

Bean, Barton A., Assistant Curator, Department of Fishes, U.S. National Museum.

Bean, Tarleton H., U.S. Fish Commission; Honorary Curator, Department of Fishes,
U.S. National Museum.

Bendire, Charles E., U. S. Army; Honorary Curator, Department of Birds’ Eggs,
U. S. National Museum.

Brewster, William, Cambridge, Mass.

Cherrie, George K., Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, San José, Costa Rica.

Clark, A. Howard, Curator of Historical Collections, U.S. National Museum.

Clarke, F. W., U. S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Department of Minerals,
U.S. National Museum.

Collins, G. N., Syracuse, N. Y.

Collins, Joseph William, U.S. Fish Commission; Honorary Curator, Sections of Fish-
eries and Naval Architecture, U.S. National Museum.

Cook, O. F., Syracuse, N. Y.

Cory, Charles B.,8 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass.

Coulter, John Merle, Indiana State University, Bloomington, Ind.

Dall, William Healey, U. S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Departments of
Mollusks and Cenozoie Fossils, U.S. National Museum.

Dana, Edward S., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

Dewey, Frederic Perkins, Washington, D.C.

Dutcher, William, 51 Liberty Street, New York City.

Evermann, Barton Warren, Indiana State Normal School, Terre Haute, Ind.

Fisher, A. K., U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.

Flint, James M., U.S. Navy.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. TAl1

Fontaine, W. M., University of Virginia, Virginia.

Forbes, 8. A., Illinois State University, Champaign, Ill.

Gilbert, Charles H., Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal.

Gill, Theodore, Smithsonian Institution.

Gurney, John Henry, Norwich Hall, Norwich, England.

Hargitt, Edward, 1 Bedford Road, Bedford Park, London, England,

Hasbrouck, Edwin M., 1610 Fifteenth street, northwest, Washington, D.C.

Hay, O. P., Terre Haute, Ind.

Hitchcock, Romyn, Washington, D.C.

Holn, Theodor, U.S. National Museum.

Holmes, William H., Bureau of Ethnology; Honorary Curator, Department of Amer-
ican Aboriginal Pottery, U.S. National Museum.

Hough, Walter, Department of Ethnology, U.S. National Museum.

Howard, L.0O., Assistant Entomologist, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington,
DAC:

Jordan, David Starr, President of Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal.

Knowlton, F. H., Assistant Curator, Department of Fossil Plants, U. S. National
Museum. :

Koehler, S. R., Curator, Section of Graphic Arts, U.S. National Museum.

Lawrence, George N., New York, N. Y.

Lesquereux, Leo, Columbus, Ohio.

Lockhart, J.G.

Loomis, Leverett M., Chester, 8. C.

Lueas, F. A., Assistant Curator, Department of Comparative Anatomy, U.S. National
Museum.

Marlatt, C. L., U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.

Mason, Otis T., Curator, Department of Ethnology, U.S. National Museum.

Mearns, Edgar A., Assistant Surgeon, U.S. Army, Fort Snelling, Minn.

Merriam, C. Hart, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.

Merrill, George P., Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum.

Nelson, E. W., U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Palmer, William, Chief Taxidermist, U.S. National Museum.

Prosser, Charles S., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.

Proudfit, S. V., U. 8S. Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C.

Rathbun, Richard, U.S. Fish Commission; Honorary Curator, Department of Marine
Invertebrates, U. 8S. National Museum.

Ridgway, Robert, Curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum.

Riker, Clarence B., New York City, N. Y.

Riley, Charles V., Entomologist, U.S. Department of Agriculture; Honorary Curator,
Department of Insects, U. S. National Museum.

Rose, Joseph Nelson, U. 8. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Schneider, E. A., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.

Shufeldt, R. W., U.S. Army, Takoma Park, D. C.

Simpson, Charles Torrey, U. 8S. National Museum.

Smith, Hugh M., U.S. Fish Commission, Washington, D. ©.

Smith, John B., Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J.

Stearns, Robert E. C., Adjunct Curator, Department of Mollusks, U. S. National

Museum.
Stejneger, Leonhard, Curator, Department of Reptiles and Batrachians, U.S. National
Museum.

Tanner, Lieut. Commander Z. L., U.S. Navy, commanding U. S. Fish Commission
steamer Albatross.

Thompson, Ernest E., 20 St. Bride Street, Ludgate Cireus, London, England.

Townsend, Charles H., Naturalist, U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross.

True, Frederick W., Curator, Department of Mammals, U.S. National Museum,
(42 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Van Rensselaer, Mrs. J. King, 102 Lexington Avenue, New York City.

Vasey, George, Botanist, U.S. Department of Agriculture ; Honorary Curator, Depart-
ment of Botany, U.S National Museum.

Waleott, Charles D., U. S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Department of
Paleozoic Fossils, U.S. National Museum.

Ward, Lester I°., U.S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Department of Fossil
Plants, U.S. National Museum.

Watkins, J. Elfreth, Curator, Section of Steam Transportation and Engineering,
U.S. National Museum.

White, Charles A., U.S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Department of Mes-
ozoic Fossils, U.S. National Museum.

Wilder, Harris A.

Williams, Henry S., Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.

Wilson, Thomas, Curator, Department of Prehistoric Anthropology, U.S. National
Museum,

Winlock, William C., Honorary Curator of Physical Apparatus, U.S. National Mu-
seum.

LIST OF PAPERS.

Cyrus ADLER. Progress of Oriental Science in America during 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 675-702.

Cyrus ADLER. Report on the Section of Oriental Antiquities in the U.S. National
Museum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 93-104.

HARRISON ALLEN. Description of a New Species of Bat, Atalapha semota.

Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus., xut, No. 897, September 9, 1890, pp. 173-175.

HARRISON ALLEN. Description of a New Species of Bat of the Genus Carollia, and
remarks on Carollia brevicauda.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xu, No. 824, November 15, 1890, pp. 291-298.

AMERICAN ORNITHOLOGISTS’ UNION. Third Supplement to the American Ornithol-
ogists’ Union Check List of North American Birds.

The Auk, vil, January, 1891, pp. 83-90.
A. W. ANTHONY. A New Junco from California.
Zoe, \, Nov. 3, 1899, p. 238.
Junco hyemalis thurberi, p. 238, San Gabriel Mts.
G. Baur. The Gigantic Land Tortoises of the Galapagos Islands.
The American Naturalist, XXi1, pp. 1039-1057.
A general account of the subject with numerous references to collections in the National
Museum. The publication bears date of December, 1889, but was not issued until after July 1,
1890.
G. Baur. Two New Species of Tortoises from the South.
Science, XV1, Noy. 7, 1890, pp. 262, 263.
Malacoclemimys oculifera, sp. nov., type U.S. Nation! Musemmn, No, 15511; M. kohnii, sp. nov.

G. Baur. Das Variieren der Eidechsen-Gattung Tropidurus anf den Galapagos-Inseln

und Bemerkungen iiber den Ursprung der Inselgruppe.
Biologisches Centralblatt, X, Sept. 15, 1890, pp. 475-483.
Five new species described, based exclusively upon collections belonging to the National Mu-
seum, viz., Tropidurus indefatigabilis, delanonis, duncanensis, abingdonii. albemarlensis.

Barton A. BEAN. The American Fisheries Society.

Forest and Stream, XXxXvi, June 4, 1891, p. 397.
Report of the 20th annual meeting.

BarRTON A. BEAN. The Conger Eel.

Forest and Stream, XXxxv, November 27, 1890, p. 377.

TARLETON H. BEAN. Scientific results of explorations by the U. S. Fish Commis-
sion steamer Albatross. No. XI. New fishes collected off the coast of Alaska and
the adjacent region southward.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xitt, No. 795, July 1, 1890, pp. 37-45.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 743

TARLETON H. BEAN. [Ichthyological Notes in Morest and Stream. |
Mortality among Black Bass (editorial), Xxxv, August 28, 1890, p. 105.
Voracity of the Wall-eyed Pike, Xxxxv, August 28, 1890, p. 112.

teturn of Schoodie Salmon, XXxXv, August 28, 1890, p. 113.
Destructive Fishing (editorial), Xxxv, September 4, 1890, p. 125.
The Cape Charles Tiger, XXXv, September 4, 1890, p. 128.
The Mudfish or Lawyer (editorial), XXxv, September 11, 1890, p. 145.
The Calico Bass in Europe, Xxxv, September 11, 1890, p. 152.
Winninish of the Metabetchouan, Xxxv, September 18, 1890, p. 171.
Salmon for the Hudson (editorial), xxxv, November 27, 1890, p. 369.
The Golden Trout, Xxxv, November 27, 1890, p. 377.
A Supposed Hybrid Trout, xxxv, November 27, 1890, p. 377.
The American Fisheries Society, Xxxv, November 27, 1890, p. 378.
The Tench in Missouri, Xxxv, November 27, 1890, p. 378.
Rearing Sea Fishes, Xxxv, December 11, 1890, p. 416.
Ice Fishing in Arctic Alaska, Xxxv, December 11, 1890, p. 417.
The Status of Fish Culture (editorial), XXXv, January 1, 1891, p. 469.
Atlantic Salmon in Winter (editorial), XXxv, January 8, 1891, p. 489.
Connecticut fish-culture (review), XXXV, January 8, 1891, p. 497.
Maine fish-culture (review), XXXV, January 8, 1891, p. 498.
The Sunapee Trout (editorial), XXXvI, January 22, 1891, p. 1.
Michigan fish-culture (review), XXXVI, January 22, 1891, p. 9.
The blue-striped Trigger Fish, Xxxv1, January 29, 1891, p. 24.
New Hampshire Fish Commission work (review), XXXVI, January 29, 1891, p. 30.
Wyoming fish-culture (review), XXXv, January 15, 1891, p. 518.
The Basses and their allies, xxxv, July 24, 1890, pp. 2-5 (with numerous illustrations).
Fish for park waters (editorial), XXxv, July 31, 1890, p. 25.
The Bluefish in his abundance (editorial), Xxxxv, July 31, 1890, p. 25.
Transfer of Illinois fishes (editorial), Xxxv, August 7, 1890, p. 45.
Game fishes of Idaho (editorial), XxxV October 2, 1890, p. 205.
Bluefish in Long Island waters (editorial), Xxxv, October 2, 1890, p. 205.
Work of the Fish Commission, Xxxv, October 16, 1890, p. 252.
Susquehanna River pollution (editorial), XxXxv, October 23, 1890, p. 265.
A yearling landlocked salmon, xxxv, October 23, 1890, p. 274.
Notes on the Brook Trout, xxxv, October 30, 1890, p. 292.
New Hampshire fish-eulture, Xxxv, October 30, 1890, p. 293.
Salmonide planted in Yellowstone Park (editorial), Xxxv, November 13, 1890, p. 325,
Millions of Shad (editorial), xxxv, November 13, 1890, p. 325.
The Fresh-water Drum, xxxv, November 13, 1890, p. 333.
A new hybrid trout, xxxv, November 20, 1890, p. 353.
Georgia fish-culture (review), XXxv, November 20, 1890, p. 354.
Coéperative protection (editorial), XXxxv, December 4, 1890, p. 389.
Small Red Salmon, xxxv, December 4, 1890, p. 398.
Pennsylvania fish-culture (review), Xxxv, December 4, 1890, pp. 398, 399.
Tropical fish as a food supply, Xxxv, December 4, 1890, p.399.
California salmon propagation, Xxxv, December, 4, 1890, p. 399.
Is the Golden Trout a hybrid? (editorial), xxxv, December 18, 1890, p. 429.
The Golden Trout, Xxxxv, December 18, 1890, p. 435.
Maine fish and game (editorial), xxxv, December 25, 1890, p. 449.
Fish-culture in Alaska (editorial), Xxxvi, February 5, 1891, p. 41.
Massachusetts fish-culture, Xxxvr, February 19, 1891, p. 89.
Fish hatchery for Lake Ontario (editorial), XXxxv1, February 26, 1891, p. 101.
New York fish-culture, xxxv1, March 12, 1891, p. 153.
Stocking Lake Ontario (editorial), Xxxvi, March 19, 1891, p. 165.
Work of the Commissions, Xxxv1, March 19, 1891, p. 173. Condensed reports upon work of
State Fish Commissions.
The oyster problem (editorial), XxXxXvI, March 26, 1891, p. 185.
The Pike family, Xxxv1, April 2,1891, p.210; (continued) xxxvt, April 9, 1891, p. 233; (con-
eluded) XxxXvi, May 14, 1891, p. 333.
Nevada fish-culture (review), Xxxv1, April 2, 1891, pp. 211, 212.
Eastern fish in California (review), XXXviI, April 16, 1891, p. 251.
State oyster policy, Xxxvi, April 16, 1891, p. 253.
A marine reservation (editorial), Xxxv1, April 23, 1891, p. 265.
Shedding teeth in Salmon (review), XXxXv1, April 23, 1891, p. 271.
California fish-culture (review), XXXviI, April 23, 1891, p. 274.
Destruction of Seal life (editorial), xxxv1, April 30, 1891, p. 285.
744 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

TARLETON H. BEAN—Continued.
The fate of the Fur Seals (editorial), xxxv1, May 7, 1891, p. 305.
An albino Brook Trout, Xxxv1, May 7, 1891, p. 314.
Marine reservations, XXXvi, May 21, 1891, p. 347.
The Lemon Sole, Xxxv1, May 21, 1891, p. 351.
Indiana fish-culture (review), XXXvI, May 21, 1891, p. 353.
Angling at the World’s Fair (editorial), Xxxv1, June 11, 1891, p. 409.
Dead Alewives in Lake Ontario (editorial), XXxvI, June 18, 1891, p. 429.
Salt-water fish wanted (editorial). Xxxxvi1, June 25, 1891, p. 453.
Ohio Fish Commission (review), XXXVI, June 25, 1891, p. 460.
TARLETON H. BEAN. Report on the Department of Fishes in the U. S. National
Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 155-158.
CHARLES E, BENDIRE. Report on the Section of Birds’ Eggs in the U. S. National
Museu, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 151, 152.
WILLIAM Brewster. A new subspecies of the Solitary Sandpiper.
The Auk, vu, October, 1890, pp. 377-379.
Totanus solitarius cinnamoneus, Cinnamon Solitary Sandpiper, p. 377, Lower California.
WILLIAM BrewsTER. Descriptions of seven supposed new North American birds.
The Auk, vit, April, 1891, pp. 1387-149.
(1) Megascops asio aikeni, p.139, El Paso County, Colo.; (2) Megascops asio macfarlanci,
p. 140, Fort Walla Walla, Wash.; (8) Megascops asio saturatus, p. 141, Victoria, British
Columbia; (4) Contopus richardsonti peninsula, p. 144, Sierra de la Laguna, Lower California;
(5) Ammodramus henslowti oecidentalus, p. 145, Moody County, Dak.; (6) Pipilo maculatus
magnirostris, p. 146, Sierra de la Laguna, Lower California; (7) Vireo solitarius lucasanus,
p. 147, San Jose del Rancho, Lower California; (8) Sitta carolinensis lagune, p. 149, Sierra de la
Laguna, Lower California.
GEORGE K. CHERRIE. Description of a supposed new Myrmeciza.
The Auk, vit, April, 1891, pp. 191-193.
Myrmeciza tinmaculata occidentalis from Pozo Azul, Costa Rica.
A. Howarp Ciark. Report on the collection of historical relies, coins, medals,
ete., in the U. S. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Musewn), 1888 (1890), pp. 115, 116.
F. W. Crarke. An account of the vrogress of chemistry for the years 1887 and
1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 425-453.
F. W. CLarkk. On the question of concordance in atomie weight determinations.
Amer. Chem. Jour., Xi1t, No. 1, January, 1891, pp. 34-42.
F. W. CLrarke. Table of atomic weights.
Issued as a cirenlar by the Committee of Revision and Publication of the Pharmacopeia
of the United States of America, December 6, 1890.
F. W. Crarke. The unit of atomic weights.
Pharmaceutische Rundschau (New York), 1X, No. 5, May, 1891, pp. 108-110.
(Published in parallel columns with a German translation by F. Hoffmann.)
IF. W. Ciarke. (Editorially.) Abstracts of researches on atomic weights.
Journal of Analytical and Applied Chemistry.
(Several papers published in different numbers of the magazine.)
F. W. Cuarke. Report on the Department of Minerals in the U.S. National Mu-
seum, L&8&,
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 195-197.
I. W. Crarke and E. A. SCHNEIDER. Experiments upon the constitution of the
natural silicates.
Amer. Jour. Sei., third series, XL, No. 238, October, 1890, pp. 303-3812; xL, No. 239, Novem-
ber, 1890, pp. 405-415; xt, No. 240, December, 1890, pp. 452-457. Also in Zeitsch. fiir Kryst.
und Min., XVUt, p. 390.
I, W. Ciarke and others. A report of work done in the Division of Chemistry
and Physics, mainly during the fiscal year 1888-1889,
Bulletin 64 of the U. S. Geological Survey, 1890, pp. 1-60.
GN, CoLiins:

(See under O. EF, Cook.)
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 745

JOSEPH WILLIAM Couns. Introduction (to a review of the fisheries of the Great
Lakes in 1885).
Report of the U. 5. Commissioner of Fishand Fisheries, Xv, 1887 (1891), pp. 7-17.
JOSEPH WILLIAM CoLLINs. Vessels and boats employed in the fisheries of the Great
uakes.
Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Xv, 1887 (1891), pp. 19-29, pl. 1-x.

JosepH WILLIAM CoLuiIns. The fishing craft of the world.
Harpers’ Weekly (Supplement), August 16, 1890.
O. I. Cook and G. N. Coxiiins. Notes on North American Myriapodaof the family
CGeophilide, with descriptions of three new genera.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., x11, No. 837, May 6, 1891, pp. 383-396, pl. XXXIII-XXXv.
CHARLES B. Cory. On the West Indian species of the genus Certhiola, or Careba.
The Auk, vut. January, 1891, pp. 37-41.

J.M. Coutrrmr. Manual of the Phanerogams and Pteridophytes of western Texas.

Contributions from the U. S. National Herbarium, u, No. 1, June 27, 1891, pp. 1-152. (With
index.)

This contribution is Part 1 of a manual for western Texas, and includes the Polypetale. It
begins with an analytical key to the orders, followed by similar keys to the families. The
number of genera enumerated and described is 270, and of the species 761. Thelypodiwm Vaseyi,
n. sp., is figured.

J. M. Coutter and J. N. Rose. Actinella Texana, n. sp.

Botanical Gazette, XV1, 1891, p. 27.

A description of a peculiar species of Actinella from Texas.

J. M. Courrer and J. N. Rose. Coursetia Avillaris, n. sp.

Botanical Gazette, Xvi, 1891, p. 180.

This is a description of a new Coursetia from Texas, recently collected by Mr. G. C. Nealley.

J. M. Coutrer and J. N. Rose. Notes on North American Umbellifere.

Botanical Gazette, XV, 1890, pp. 259-261.

This paper consists chiefly of a report on Captain John Donnell Smith’s Guatemalan collec-
tion. One new species is described, Arracacia Donnell-Smithii.

WILLIAM HEALEY Datu. Mount St. Elias.

Science, XV1, No. 406, November 14, 1890, pp. 275.

Discussion of methods and results of mountain measurement, especially the Coast Survey
measurement of Mount St. Elias.

WILLIAM HEALEY DALL. Mount St. Elias (11.)

Sctence, Xv1, No. 408, November 28. 1890, p. 303.

Reply to letter of Prof. Heilprin, continuing the discussion.

WILLIAM HeaLtEy DALL. Prof. Hilgard.

The Nation, Lil. No. 1350, May 14, 1891, pp. 398, 399.

Biographical notice; subsequently reprinted in the New York Evening Post.

WILLIAM HEALEY DALL. Scientific results of explorations by the U. 8S. Fish Com-
mission steamer Albatross. No. Xx. On some new or interesting west Ameri-
ean shells obtained from the dredgings of the U. 8. Fish Commission steamer
Albatross in 1888, and from other sources.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xiv, No. 849, June, 1891, pp. 172-192, plates v-vii.

Description of Cancellaria Crawfordiana, Tellina Ide, Trophon cerrosensis, Terebratella
occidentalis var. obsoleta, Buccinum strigillatum, B. taphrium, Mohnia Frieli, Strombella Mid-
dendorfii, S. fragilis, S.melonis, Chrysosdomus ithius, periscelidus, phoeniceus, eucosmius, hy-
polispus, acosmius and halibrectus, Trophon seitulus and disparilis, Puncturella major, Solemya
Johnsoni, Cryptodon bisectus; Calyptogena, anew genus of Carditide, with the new and typi-
eal species C. pacifica; and Limopsis vaginatus. Besides describing new species, the Ameri-
can species of Hupleura are reviewed and illustrated, the adult Trophon triangulatus first de-
scribed and figured. The young of the same and Tellina denticulata Deshayes are for the
first time figured, as are also the types of Fusus Kobelti Dall, F. Harfordi Stearns, various
species of Hupleura and Clementia subdiaphana of Carpenter.

WILLIAM HEALEY DALL. Deep Sea Mollusks and the conditions under which they
exist. An address delivered at the ninth anniversary meeting of the Biological
Society of Washington, by William Healey Dall, President of the Society.

Proc. Biol. Soc. of Washin ‘ton. v, July, 1890, pp. 1-122, (8vo.; advance copies, with title and
cover.)
746 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

WILLIAM Hearty Datu. A critical review of Bering’s first expedition, 1725—30,
together with a translation of his original report upon it. With a map.
National Geographic Magazine, ii, No, 2, pp. 1-59, map, August, 1890. (Extra copies with
title on cover).
This 1s a lecture delivered before the National Geographic Society at Washington, Feb. 7,
1890.
WitiiaM Heatry Datu. Prof. Baird in Science.
Report of the Sinithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), 8vo., pp. 731-738.
Reprint from the proceedings of the memorial meeting of the scientific societies of Wash-
ington, January 11, 1888.
WILLIAM HeaLey Dati. Conchological notes from Oregon.
The Nautilus, 1v, No. 8, Dee., 1890, pp. 87-89.
Miscellaneous notes on recent and fossil mollusks and description of the Pliocene Mytilus
Condoni of Oregon.
WILLIAM HEALEY Datu. Description of a new species of Hyalina.
The Nautilus, v, May, 1891, pp. 10,11.
This is a reprint from Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X1, p. 214, 1888. ‘The species is Hyaline Sterkii
Dall.
WILLIAM HEALEY DaLLt. Notes on some recent brachiopods.
Proc, Acad. Nat. Sciences for 1891, pp. 172-175, pl. iv.
Refers to Terebratella transversa, T. occidentalis, Rudesia lenticularis, and Megerlia monstru-
osa, as well as some related species.
WILLIAM H&ALEY DAL. Elevation of America in the Tertiary period.
Geol, Mag., n. ser., Decade U1, vol. vill, June, 1891, pp. 287, 288.
WitittAM HkALEY DaLu. Description of a new species of land-shell from Cuba—
Vertigo Cubana.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xt, No. 790, July 1, 1890, pp. 1, 2.
WILLIAM HEALEY Dai. Report on the Department of Mollusks (including Ter-
tiary fossils) in the U. S. National Musenm, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 159-164.
WILLIAM HraLry DAL and H. A. PrnsBry. On some Japanese brachiopoda, with a
description of a species believed to be new.
Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci., May, 1891, pp. 165-171, pl. iv.
Describes Terebratula Stearnsii; the adult stage, heretofore unknown, of Terebratella Gouldti
Dall, described in the Magasella stage originally ; enumerates the identified stages of North Pa-
cific brachiopods; and notes the occurrence in Japan of several well-known species.
WILLIAM HEALEY Dart and H. A. PinsBry. Terebratulina (unguicula Cpr. var.)
Kiiensis, Dall and Pilsbry.
Nautilus, v, No. 2, June, 1891, pp. 18,19, pl. 1.
Describes large variety (found both in Japan and California) of Carpenter's Terebratula un-
guicula.
EpwWarD 8. Dana. Mineralogy for 1887 and 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 455-473.
F. P. Dewey. Report on the Department of Metallurgy and Economie Geology in
in the U. S. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 209-211.
WituiaAM DurcHEer. The Labrador Dueck.—A revised list of the extant specimens
in North America, with some historical notes.
The A k, vit, April, 1891, pp. 201-216.
BARTON WARREN EVERMANN.
(See under DAVID STARR JORDAN.)
A. K. FrsHer. Notes on the occurrence of a young crab-eater (Hlacate canada
from the Lower Hudson Valley, New York.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xin, No. 811, September 9, 1890, p. 195.
JAMES M. Fuinr. Report on the Section of Materia Medica in the U. 8. National

Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), p. 113.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

W. M. FONTAINE

Proc. 7S.

747

and F. H. KNOWLTON. Notes on Triassic plants from New Mexico.
Nat. Mus., xut, No. 821. December 31, 1890, pp. 281-285, plates xxii-xxvi.

Description of locality and determination of fossil wood by F. H. Knowlton, and description

of other plants by W. M. Fontaine.

Nine species are enumerated, of which three (Hquwisetum

Abiquiense, E. Knowltoni, and Zamites Powelli) are new to science.

S. A. FORBEs.

Preliminary Report upon the Invertebrate Animals inhabiting Lakes

Geneva and Mendota, Wisconsin, with an account of the fish epidemic in Lake
,

Mendota in 1
Bull. U.S.

CHARLES H. GILBERT.
mission steamer Albatross.
lected by the steamer Albatross on the
the year 1889.

Proc. U.S.

CHARLES H. GILBERT.

884.

Fish Comm., Vit, 1888 (1890), pp. 473-487, plates LXXII-LXXIV.

Scientific results of Explorations by the U. S. Fish Com-
No. x11. A preliminary report on the fishes col-
-acific coast of North America during
with description of twelve new genera and ninety-two new species.
Nat. Mus., xi, No. 797, July 1, 1890, pp. 49-126.

Description of a new species of Htheostoma (FE. micropterus®

from Chihuahua, Mexico.

124 nos LOE IS
CHARLES H. GILBERT.
mission steamer Albatross.

at the Galap

Nat. Mus., Xitt, No. 823, November 15, 1890, pp. 289, 290.

Scientific Results of Explorations by the U. 8. Fish Com-
No. x1x. A supplementary list of fishes collected
agos Islands and Panama, with descriptions of one new genus and

three new species.

Proc. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.

PT OCaU Ss

THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U. S.
THEODORE GILL.

Proc. U.S.-

THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.

THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.

THEODORE GILL.
Proce. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.S.
THEODORE GILL.
Proc. U.
THEODORE GILL.
Forest and
GEORGE BROWN

Columbian E
Printed pr

S.

Nat. Mus. x11, No. 840, May 29, 1891, pp. 449-455.

The osteological characteristics of the family Anguillida.
Nat. Mus., xu, No. 803, September 9, 1890, pp. 157-160.

The osteological characteristics of the family Synaphobranchide.
Nat. Mus., xut, No. 804, September 9, 1890, pp. 161-164.

The osteological characteristics of the family Murenide.
Nat. Mus., x1, No. 805, September 9, 1890, pp. 165-170.

Osteological characteristics of the family Murenesocide.,
Vat. Mus., xut, No. 815, September 16, 1890, pp. 231-234.

On the family Ranicipitide.
Nat. Mus., xu, No. 816, October 14, 1890, pp. 235-238, pl. xviii.

The osteological characteristics of the family Simenchelyide.
Nat. Mus., xu, No. 817, October 14, 1890, pp. 239-242.

The characteristics of the Dactylopteroidea.
Nat. Mus., x11, No. 818, October 14, 1890, pp. 243-248, pl. xix.

Osteological characteristics of the family Amphipnoide.
Nat. Mus., xi, No. 825, December 11, 1890, pp. 299-302.

Note on the Aspredinida.
Nat. Mus., xt, No. 831, April 18, 1891, pp. 347-352.

Note on the genus felichthys of Swainson.
Nat. Mus., xut, No. 832, April 8. 1891, pp. 358, 354.

The characteristics of the family of Scatophagoid fishes.
Nat. Mus., xiu, No. 833, April 18, 1891, pp. 355-360.

On the relations of Cyclopteroidea.
Nat. Mus., xut, No. 834, May 8, 1891, pp. 361-376, pl. xxviii-xxx.

The osteological characteristics of the family Hemitripteride.
Nat. Mus., xu, No. 835, May 8, 1891, pp. 377-380, pl. xxxi.

American catfish’s care of young.
Stream, XXXV. Nov. 27, 1890, p. 378.
GoobrE. First Draft of a System of Classification for the World’s
xposition. *

ivately for the World’s Columbian Commission, Chicago, 1890. Prepared at the

request of the Commission.

GEORGE BROWN

GoopE. Report upon the condition and progress of the U. 8. Na-

tional Museum during the year ending June 30, 1888.
Smithsonian Report (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. XXII + 876.

JOHN HENRY GURNEY.

Notes on Buteo (Onychotes) solitarius.

The Ibis, sixth series, vil, January, 1891, pp. 21-24.

A posthun

ious paper.

* Reprinted in this Report. See p. 649.
748 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Epwarp Harairr, Catalogue | of the | Picariw | in the | collection | of the | British
Museum. | — | Scansores, | containing the family | Picide. | By | Edward Har-
gitt. | London: [Seven lines omitted.] 1890.

Catalogue of the Birds in the British Museum, Vol. XVut.

EpwIn M. Hasprouck. The present status of the ILvory-billed Woodpecker ( Campe-
philus principalis).

The Auk, vit, April, 1891, pp. 174-186. (With a map showing former and present geograph-
ical range.) ,

An important and timely paper on an interesting subject, the data which the author was
able to compile showing that since Audubon’s time the area inhabited by the species has
greatly decreased in extent, no less than seven States and one Territory formerly oceupied, in
part, by it, having become entirely forsaken.

O. P. Hay. The skeletal anatomy of Amphiuma during its earlier stages.

Journal of Morphology, WV, pp. 11-34, pl. ii. Based in part upon material supplied by the
National Museum, for which due acknowledgment is made.

Romyn Hircucock. The action of light on silver chloride.

Amer. Chem. Jour., x1u, No. 4, April, 1891, pp. 273-277.

Demonstrating that light acting upon extreraely thin films of silver chloride sets free chlo-
rine to the extent of 8.57 per cent, or more, and that a quantity of metallic silver equivalent
to the weight of chlorine set free is rendered soluble in nitrie acid.

THEOpOR HoLtmM. Notes on the leaves of Liriodendron.

Proc, U.S. Nat. Mus., x1u, No. 794, September 9, 1890, pp. 15-35, pl. iv-ix.

This paper contains a description of the variation in the foliage of the only living species,
Liriodendron tulipifera. The different forms of leaves are figured and compared with the
ancient types, and it has been stated that most of these ancient forms, described as species, do
not differ in any higher degree from each other than does a series of leaves of the recent tree
when studied at different stages, from the germination to the mature stage.

THEODOR Hotm. Review of Edward Hackel’s ‘‘The True Grasses,” translated from
‘Die natiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien” (Engler und Prantl) by F. Lamson-Serib-
ner and Effie Southworth.

Botanical Gazette, Xv, August, 1890, pp. 212, 213.

TurEopoR Ho_m. Review of O. Norstedt’s ‘‘ Fresh-water Algae, collected by Dr. S.
Berggren in New Zealand and Australia.”

Botanical Gazette, XV, September, 1890, pp. 238, 239.

THEODOR Hotm. Review of C. D. White’s ‘‘On Cretaceous Plants from Mertha’s
Vineyard” (Amer. Jour. Sci., XX xX1x, 1890).

Botanical Gazette, xv, October, 1890, pp. 272, 273.

THEODOR Ho_m. Mounting plants.

Botanical Gazette, XV, December, 1890, pp. 341, 342.

This article calls attention to the poor manner in which the plants are often preserved in
the herbaria in this country. Instead of fixing the specimens with glue to the paper it is
recommended merely to use gummed strips of paper, so that the plants may easily be taken off
and handled for studies of various kinds.

THEODOR Hotm. Notes upon Urularia, Oakesia, Diclytra, and Krigia.

Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club, xvitt, January, 1891, pp. 1-11, pl. exi-exiii.

The structure of the rhizomes of these plants is deseribed, as well as the anatomical charac-
ters observed in Uvularia and Oakesia.

THEeopoR Hotm. Review of E. Haeckel’s ‘‘Ueber einige Eigenthiimlichkeiten der
Griiser trockener Klimate.”’

(Verhandl. d. k. k. Zool.-Bot. Gesellschaft, Wien, 1890.)

Botanical Gazette, Xvi, March, 1891, pp. 87, 88.

TuroporR HoLtM. Contributions to the knowledge of the germination of some North
American plants.

Memoirs of the Torrey Botanical Club, 11, April 15, 1891, pp. 57-108, pl. v-xix.

This paper deals with the germination and further development of the rhizomes of about
forty species, mostly from North America.

THEODOR HOLM. Review of EF. Borgesen’s ‘‘ Desmidiew” (Symbolie ad floram Brasil.
cognoscendam, particula 34).

Botanical Gazette, xvi, May, 1891, p. 158.

THEODOR HOLM. Review of a series of papers by C, Sauvageau on aquatic plants,

Botanical Gazette, Xvi, June, 1891, p. 184,

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 749

THEODOR HoLM. Review of Russell’s “Etude des folioles anormales du Vicia sepium”
(Revue Générale de Botanique, No. 23).
Botanical Gazette, Xvi, June, 1891, p. 190.

THEODOR Hotm. Astudy ofsome anatomical characters of North American Gramineae.
Botanical Gazette, Xvi, June, 1891, pp. 166-171, pl. xv.
The principal object of this paper is to show the importance of anatomical studies for dis-
crimination of species in a flowerless stage.

WivtuiamM H. HotmMers. Excavations in an ancient soapstone quarry in the District
of Columbia.

The American Anthropologist, 111, No. 4, 1890, pp. 3821-330.

The existence of ancient pits made in quarrying soapstone has been known for several
years. Excavation showed that considerable area had been worked over in securing masses
of stone for making pots, but that the depth penetrated did not exceed fonr or five feet.
Many of the stone picks and chisels used in mining and in shaping the vessels were recovered.
There are hundreds of the partially finished pots upon the site.

WiILuiAM H. Hotmrs. The Thruston tablet.

The American Anthropologist, iv, No. 2, 1891, pp. 161-165.

In this paper is given a description of a very interesting engraved stone from Sumner
County, Tenn. Numerous figures in savage costume are delineated in sharp, firm lines, which
evince decided talent for graphic presentation, but convey no intelligible idea or story.

Wituiam H. Hotmrs. Report on the Department of American Aboriginal Pottery
in the U. S. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), p. 105.
WALTER HouGuH. Aboriginal Fire-making.

The American Anthropologist, 11, No.4, October, 1890, pp. 359-372. Gives classification, de-
scription, and range of the methods of fire-making, with illustrations.

WaLtEeR HovuGu. The Last Steps in the Genealogy of Man. [Translation. ]

Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1889 (1890), pp. 669-694.

Translation of a lecture by Dr. Paul Topinard, delivered in March, 1888, in the Ecole
d' Anthropologie of Paris.

WALTER HouGH. Arrow Feathering and Pointing.

The American Anthropologist, tv, No.1, 1891, p. 60.

Portion of a symposium on Arrows and Arrow-Makers, by Otis T. Mason, W. H. Holmes,
Thomas Wilson, Walter Hough, Weston Flint, W. J. Hoffman and John G. Bourke.

LELAND O. Howarp. A new and remarkable Encyrtid: Is it parasitic?

Insect Life, 11, No. 4, November, 1890, pp. 145-148, fig. 1.

A description of Tandostigina, noy. gen., coursetie, n. sp., with an account of its habits as
found in ovaries of Coursetia (?) mexicana, a leguminous plant growing in the Alamos Moun-
tains, Mexico.

LELAND O. Howarp. The host relations of Parasitic Hymenoptera.

Insect Life, 11, No.6, March, 1891, pp. 277-279.

A plea for the importance of the study of the host relations of parasitic Hymenoptera, with
a review of the work of recording published rearings undertaken by the writer, and a promise
to determine all bred material sent in by comparison with the collections of the National Mu-
seum.

LELAND O. Howarp. The habits of Hurytoma.

Proc. Entom. Soc. Washington, 11, No. 1, April, 1891, pp. 66, 67.

A review of the supposed food habits of the species of this genus, with an account of actual
observations upon the larvaof EF. prunicola feeding upon the larva of Cynips q-prunus in the
gall of the latter.

LELAND O. Howarpb. The habits of Pachyneuron.

Proc. Entom. Soc. Washington, 1, No. 1, April, 1891, pp. 105-109, tig. 1.

A review of the habits of this genus of Chalecidide, with atabulated record of the host habits
as indicated by the material in the collection of the U. 8. National Museum.

LELAND O. Howarp. The parasites of the Hemerobiine.

Proce. Entom. Soc. Washington, 11, No. 1, April, 1891, pp. 125, 124.

A review of the known hymenopterous parasites of this group of insects in Europe, with an
enumeration of those found, and hitherto unrecorded, in America.

(See also under CHARLES V. RILEY.)

DaAvip Starr JORDAN. Noteson the fishes of the genera Agosia, Algansea, and
Zophendum.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xut, No. 822, November 15, 1890, pp. 287, 288.
750 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

David STARR JORDAN. Scientific results of explorations by the U.S. Fish Com-
mission steamer Albatross. No. xvi11.—List of fishes obtained in the harbor of
Bahia, Brazil, and in adjacent waters.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus. x11, No. 829, April 8, 1891, pp. 313-336.

DAVID STARR JORDAN. The Sunapee Trout.

Forestand Stream, XXXVI, January 22, 1891, p. 6.

Davip STarR JORDAN and BARTON WARREN EVERMANN. Description of a new
species of fish from Tippecanoe River, Indiana. (Htheostoma tippecanoe, sp. nov.)

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xu, No. 791, July 1, 1890, pp. 3, 4.
F. H. KNowxron. Description of fossil wood and lignites from Arkansas.
Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas, U1, 1889, pp. 249-267, pls. IX-XI.
The lignite is described as being very badly preserved, but as far as could be made out was
nearly allconiferous. The silicified wood represents five species (Cupressinoxylon arkansanwm,
C. Calli, Laurinoxylon Branneri, L. Lesquereuxiana, and L., n. sp.?), all of which were new
to science.
F. H. KNow1ron. Directions for collecting recent and fossil plants.
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Pt. B., pp. 1-46, figs. 1-10.
Gives simple directions for making collections of recent and fossil plants in the field, their
packing and shipment, and arrangement for study in the laboratory.

F. H. KyNow tron. A revision of the genus Araucarioxylon of Kraus, with compiled

descriptions and partial synonymy of the species.
Amer. Jour. Sci., third series, XL, September, 1890, p. 257.

F. H. KNOWLTON. Botany for 1887 and 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 475-496.

(See also under W. M. FONTAINE).

8. R. Koruier. Catalogue of the engraved and lithograph work of John Cheney
and Seth Wells Cheney.

Privately printed, Lee & Shepard, Boston, 1891. 8vo., pp, 1-161. (Portrait of John Cheney),

Contains, besides the list of engravings. ete., alist of the books in which the plates engraved
by the Cheneys were published.

S. R. KOEHLER. Exhibition of books, water colors, engravings, ete., by William
Blake, February 7 to March 15, 1891, Boston, 1891.

Catalogue of an exhibition held at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, with technical and
biographical notes, a chronological list of the works exhibited, and a hst of books, ete., con-
cerning Blake.

S. R. Korner. Friedrich Juengling und der moderne Holzstich.

Zeitschrift fiir bildende Kunst, (Leipsic) 11, Nos. 4, 5, January, February, 1891.

An exposition of the history of the production of relief-blocks for printing, technically con-
sidered, in which the engravings of the late Friedrich Juengling are more especia?ly used as
examples of modern methods.

S. R. Koesuer. Ueber die Technik des alten Holzschnittes.

Chronik fiir vervielfaltigende Kunst (Vienna) 111, Nos. 11, 12,1891. (Ilustrated.)

A study of the tools used by the old woodeutters, based upon representations of tools found
upon their works in connection with their monograms.

S. R. KOEHLER. Jacob Binck’s Portrit Christian’s 11.

Chronik fiir vervielfaltigende Kunst (Vienna), tv, No. 2, 1891.

Short note calling attention to the fact that this portrait, which is commonly described as
an etching, is a work of the graver.

S. R. KoEHLER. Das Monotyp.

Chronik fiir vervielfaltigende Kunst (Vienna) tv, No. 3, 1891. (Illustrated.)

A technical and historical account of the monotype, which is generally supposed to be a
modern invention, but was practised already by Benedetto Castiglione, 1616-1670.

S. R. KOEHLER. Statement relating to the collection illustrating the graphie arts in
the U. S. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 123-128.
GEORGE N. LAWRENCE. Description of a new subspecies of Cypselide of the genus
Chetura, with a note on the Diablotin.
The Auk, vit, January. 1891, pp. 59-62.
Oheetura dominicana colardeaui, p.59, Guadeloupe, W. I,
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 751

Lro LEsSQUEREUX. Remarks on some fossil remains considered as peculiar kinds of
marine plants.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xin, No. 792, July 18, 1890, pp. 5-12, pl. i.

J. G. Locxnarr. Notes on the habits of the moose in the far north of British Amer-
ica in 1865.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xii, No. 827, November 15, 1890, pp. 805-308.

LevrErretrr M. Loomis. A further review of the avian fauna of Chester County, S.C.

The Awk, viii, January. 1891, pp. 49-59.

Leveretr M. Loomis. A further review of the avian fauna of Chester County, 8. C.

The Auk, vut, April, 1891, pp. 167-173.

(Continued from p. 59.)

F. A. Lucas. Some bird skeletons from Guadalupe Island.

The Auk, vu, No. 2, April, 1891, pp. 218-222.

Notes osteological ditferences existing between species from Guadalupe Island and allied
species from the mainland, showing that in some eases the insular birds had degenerated in
power of flight and in others progressed.

F. A. Lucas. <A tortoise from Dunean Island.

Nature, xuiv. No. 5, June 4, 1891, p. 113.

Noting the capture of a tortoise on Dunean Island, of the Galapagos group. ‘The species
proved to be Testudo ephippium Gthr., and this is the first instance of the capture of this
species on Duncan Island. 7. ephippium is stated to be quite distinct from 7. abingdont.

F. A. Lucas. Notes on the Osteology of the Paride, Sitta and Chamaa.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., x1, No. 830, April 8, 1891, pp. 337-345, pl. xxvii, figs. 5.

Describes the osteological characters shown by various genera of Paride, Sittaand Chameda.
The group is said to be not so homogeneous as others among Passeres. Sitta is stated not to
be related to the Tits and Chameea to be intermediate between Parus and Troglodytes.

F. A. Lucas. The expedition to Funk Island, with observations upon the history
and anatomy of the Great Auk.

Reportof the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum) 1888 (1890), pp. 498-529, plates
Ixxi-Ixxiii.

Describes the expedition in search of Great Auk remainsand treats at some length the indi-
vidual skeletal variations of the Great Auk. Contains a.fairly full bibliography of works per-
taining to the species.

F. A. Lucas. Scientific results of explorations by the U. 8. Fish Commission
steamer Albatross. No, xui.—Catalogue of skeletons of birds collected at the
Abrolhos Islands, Brazil, the Straits of Magellan, and the Galapagos Islands, in
188788.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., x11, No. 798, July 1, 1890, pp. 127-130.

F, A. Lucas. Report on the Department of Comparative Anatomy in the U.S.
National Museum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 181, 182.

C. L. Marwatr. (See under CHARLES V. RILEY.)

Orts TurTON Mason. Arrows and arrow-makers.

The American Anthropologist, 1v, January, 1891, pp. 45-47.

Oris Turron Mason. The American Association for the Advancement of Science
(A review of Section H.)

The American Anthropologist, tv, October, 1891, pp. 3877-380.

Oris TurroN Mason. The natural history of folk-lore.

Journal of American Folk-Lore, tv, April-June, 1891, pp. 97-106.

Oris TurToN Mason. Report on the Department of Ethnology in the U.S. National
Museum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 88-92.

Oris Turron Mason. Anthropology for 1887 and 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 497-582.

EpGar A. MEARNS. Descriptions of a new species and three new subspecies of birds
from Arizona.

The Auk, vu, July, 1890, pp. 243.-251.

New birds described are (1) Junco ridgwayi, p. 243, Whipple Barracks; (2) Spinus tristis
pallidus, p. 244, Fort Verde; (3) Melanerpes formicivorus aculeatus. p. 249, Squaw Peak. In
addition to these, Coccothraustes vespertina montana (Ridgw.) is restored (p. 246) as a valid
form.
152 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

EpaGar A. MEARNS. Observations on the avifauna of portions of Arizona.
The Auk, vu, July, 1890, pp. 251-264.
(Continued from vil, p. 55.)
Concluded, beginning with the woodpeckers and following the sequence of the A. O. U.
Check List, 64 species being mentioned.
C. Hart Merriam. Results of a Biological Survey of the San Francisco Mountain
Region and Desert of the Little Colorado, Arizona.
North American Fauna, No. 3, September 11, 1890, pp. 1-136, pl. i-xili, maps 1-5.
C. Harr MERRIAM. Descriptions of twenty-six new species of North American
mammals.
North American Fauna, No. 4, October 8, 1890, pp. 1-56, pls. i-iii.
GrorcE P. MERRILL. Preliminary handbook of the department of geology in the
U.S. National Museum.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 1-90.
This work is intended to briefly outline the aims and present condition of the Department.
The name handbook is rather too pretentious for so brief a paper.
GrorGE P. MERRILL. Report of progress in petrography for 1887 and 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 327-354.
GreorGe P. Merrite. On grindstones and whetstones,
Stone, (Indianapolis, Indiana), m1, No. 3, July, 1890.
GEORGE P. MERRILL. Lithographic limestones.
Stone, (Indianapolis, Indiana), 11, No. 4, August, 1890.
GrorcGre P. Merrity. (1) Asbestos. (2) Stones used by the ancient Assyrians.
(3) Something about pumice.
Stone (Indianapolis, Indiana), 111, No. 6, October, 1890.
GrorGce P, Merritt. Charms and medicinal stones,
Stone (Indianapolis, Indiana), 11, No. 7, November, 1890.
GEORGE P. MERRILL, Critical notes on American marbles,
Stone (Indianapolis, Indiana), 111, No. 8, December, 1890.
GEORGE P. Merritt. (1) Concerning agates. (2) Nephrite or jade,
Stone (Indianapolis, Indiana), 111, No. 9, January, 1891.
GEORGE P. MERRILL. Some popular fallacies.
Stone (Indianapolis, Indiana), 111, No. 10, February, 1891.
GrorGce P. MERRILL. (1) Some facts about kaolin. (2) Natural sandblast.
Stone (Indianapolis, Indiana), 11, No. 11, March, 1891.
Grorer P. Merritt. The formation of mountains.
Stone (Indianapolis, Indiana), 111, No. 12, and iy, No. 1.
GEORGE P. Merritt. Report on the department of lithology and physical ge-
ology in the U. 8. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 199-208.
EK. W. NELson. Scott’s oriole (Icterus parisorum) in central New Mexico.
The Auk, vit, April, 1891, pp. 237, 238.
WittiAM Patmer. Notes on the birds observed during the cruise of the United
States Fish Commission schooner Grampus in the summer of 1887.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., x11, No. 819, October 14, 1890, pp. 249-265.
A valuable and teresting account of the habits of the species collected.
CHARLES S. ProsseR. The thickness of the Devonian and Silurian rocks of western
central New York.
American Geologist, v1, October, 1890, pp. 199-211.
The paper gives a revised estimate of the thickness of this series of rocks, based upon field
work and examination of specimens of well drillings.
CHARLES S. Prosser. The geological position of the Catskill group.
American Geologist, VU, June, 1891, pp. 351-366.
It discusses the correlation of the Catskill group from paleontologic evidence and gives a
brief account of the sequence of the Middle and Upper Devonian of the Eastern Catskills.
S. V. Prouprir. <A collection of stone implements from the District of Columbia.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., x11, No. 810, September 9, 1890, pp. 187-194, pl. X—xIv.
Ricuarpd RatruBun. The transplanting of lobsters to the Pacifie Coast of the United
States.
Bull. U.S. Fish Comm., Vit, 1888 (1890), pp. 453-472, plates LXX, LXXI.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 1753

RicHaARD RATHBUN. Report on the department of Marine Invertebrates in the
U.S. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 173-180.
Robert RripGway. Falco dominicensis Gmsel., versus Falco sparverioides Vig.
The Auk, vit, January, 1891, pp. 113, 114.
Showing that the two names are synonymous, and that the former, having priority, is the
one which should be used for the species.
ROBERT RipGway. A new name necessary for Selasphorus floresii.
The Auk, viu, January, 1891, p. 114.
Proposing as a substitute for the preoccupied specific name that of rubromitratus (Trochilus,
or Selasphorus, rubromitratus).
RoBeEkRT RipGway. Note on the alleged occurrence.of Trochilus heloisa (Less. and
DeLattr.) within North American limits.
The Awk, vul, January, 1891, p. 115.
Showing that the supposed 7. heloisa from El Paso, Texas, is in reality 7. (or Stellula) cal-
liope.
ROBERT RIDGWAY. Cistothorus marianw, Buteo lineatus alleni, and Syrnium nebulosum
allent in South Carolina.
The Auk, vi, April, 1891, p. 240.
RoBeERT RipGway. Further notes on the genus Viphocolaptes of Lesson,
Proc, U. 8S. Nat. Mus., xu, No 796, July 1, 1890, pp. 47, 48.
RoBert Ripaway. Observations on the Farallon Rail (Porzana jamaicensis cotur-
niculus Baird).
Proc. U. S.Nat. Mus., x01, No. 828, November 15, 1890, pp. 309-311.
Demonstrates its specitic distinctness from 7. jamaicensis and its near relationship to P.
spilonota (Gould) of the Galapagos Islands.
Roser? Ripaway. Allen on birds from Quito.
The Auk, Vu, October, 1890, pp. 380, 881. (Review.)
Rospert RipGway. Allen on birds collected in Bolivia.
The Auk, vu, October, 1890, pp. 381,382. (Review.)
ROBERT RipGway. Allen on the genus Cyclorhis.
The Auk, vu, October, 1890, pp. 382-384. (Review.)
Rospert RipGway. Allen’s descriptions of new South American birds.
The Auk, vu, October, 1890, pp. 384, 385. (Review.)
Ropert RipGway. Allen on individual variation in the genus Llainea.
The Auk, Vu, October, 1890, pp. 385, 386. (Review.)
Rospert RipGway. Allen on the Maximilian types of South American birds.
The Auk, Vul, October, 1890, pp. 386,387. (Review.)
Rosert RipGway. Report on the department of Birds in the U.S. National Museum,
1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 145-150.
Rosert RipGway. Spencer Fullerton Baird. (Biographical. )
Reportof the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 703-713.
CLARENCE B, Riker. A listof birds observed at Santarem, Brazil. With annota-
tions by Frank M. Chapman.
The Auk, vil, January, 1891, pp. 24-31. (Continued from vii, p. 271.)
Field and critical notes on 78 species. April, 1891, pp. 158-164. Includes 103 species, Nos.
149-251, inclusive. July, 1891, pp. 265-271. Includes 70 species.

CHARLES Y. RitEY. Animal ailments. Lice which affect horses and cattle.

American Agriculturist, L, March, 1891, pp. 176-178.

An illustrated account of the more important species of the Pedicuwlide and Mallophaga in-
festing horses and cattle, with brief references to their life-histories and characteristics. The
remedies hitherto used are more fully discussed as to their merits and disadvantages, and the
application of diluted kerosene emulsion recommended as the best and cheapest remedy.

CHARLES VY. Riney. The mercury cure for Phylloxera.

Scientific American, LXtv, May 9, 1891, p. 292.

Reply to inquiry of Mr. Joseph de Susini, giving information regarding the Phylloxera
remedy proposed ty J. A. Bauer, which consists in applying around the base of the plant a
mixture composed of quicksilver and pulverized clay.

SM 91, PT 2 48

T54 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CHARLES V. RiteEy. The Pediculi and Mallophaga affecting man and the lower ani-
mals, by Prof. Herbert Osborn.

U.S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Bulletin 7, Washington, April, 1891.

Contains letter of submittal by C.V. Riley (p.3), and an illustrated review of the parasite
mentioned by Herbert Osborn. The following are described as new: Hematopinus sciwrop-
teris (pp. 23, 24); H. antennatus (p. 25) ;H. hesperomydis (p. 26); H.suturalis (p.27); Hematop-
inoides, nov. gen. (p. 28); Hematopinoides squamosus (pp. 28, 29); all of the family Pediculide,
and Trichodectes geomydis (p. 54) of the family Phitopteride.

Guanes V, RiteyY. The Boll-worm of cotton. A report of progress in a supple-
mentary investigation of this insect. Made under the direction of the Entomol-
ogist, by F. W. Mally.

U.S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Bulletin 24, Washington, May, 1891.

Contains letter of submittal (p.3),and introduction (pp. 5,6), by C.V. Riley. The report
itself on the Boll-worm of cotton, by . W. Mally. has the following chapters: Destructive-
ness (pp. 14-25); Number of broods and hibernation (pp. 25-27) ; Natural enemies (pp. 27, 28);
Insect ravages easily mistaken for those of the Boll-worm (pp. 28-31); Remedies (pp. 31-45) ;
Insect diseases (pp. 48-50).

CHARLES V. Ritey. Reports of observations and experiments in the practical work
of the Division made under the direction of the Entomologist.

U.S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Bulletin 23, Washington, May, 1891.
Contains the following: Letter of submittal by C. V. Riley (p.5); Introduction ty C. VY.
Riley (pp. 7,8); Report on Nebraska insects by Lawrence Bruner (pp. 9-18); Report on various
methods of destroying scale insects, by D. W. Coquillett (pp. 19-36); Report of experiments
with the resin compounds on Phylloxerw, and general notes on California insects, by Albert
Koebele (pp. 37-44); Entomological notes for the season of 1890, by Mary KE. Murtfeldt
(pp. 45-56) ; Report on work of the season, by Herbert Osborn (pp. 57-62); Report on some of

the insects affecting cereal crops, by F. M. Webster (pp. 63-79).

CHARLES V. RILEY. Destructive locusts. A popular consideration of a few of the
more injurious locusts (or “‘ grasshoppers”) of the United States, together with
the best means of destroying them.

U. S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Bulletin 25, Washington, May,
1891.

Contains the following titles: Letter of submittal (p. 5); Introduction (pp. 7, 8); The
Rocky Mountain Locust (Caloptenus spretus Thomas) (pp. 9-26); The lesser migratory Lo-
cust (Caloptenus atlanis Riley) (pp. 26,27); The non-migratory red-legged Locust (Caloptenus
femur-rubrum Harr.) (pp. 27, 28) ; The California devastating Locust (Caloptenus devastator
Seudd.) (pp. 28-30); The differential Locust (Caloptenus diferentialis Thos.) (pp. 30,31); The
two-striped Locust (Caloptenus bivittatus Scudd.) (pp. 31,32); The pellucid Locust (Camniula
pellucida Scudd.) (pp. 32,33); The American Acridium (Schistocera americana Seudd.) (pp. 33,
34); Remedies and devices for the destruction of Locusts (pp. 34-60).

CHARLES V. RineEY. Condensed information concerning some of the more important
insecticides.

U.S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Circular 1, Second Series, May,
1891, pp. 1-7.

Short directions for preparing and applying the following insecticide substances: Kerosene
emulsion, resin washes, London purple, and white arsenic.

CHARLES V. Rrtey. The Hop Plant-louse and the remedies to be used against it.
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Circular 2, Second Series, June,
1891, pp. 1-7.
A brief summary of the life-history of Phorodon hwmuli; the measures available for its de-
struction; formulas for kerosene emulsions and fish-oil soap; the best spraying apparatus.

CHARLES V. Ritby. Report of the Entomologist.
Report of the Secretary of Agriculture, 1890, pp. 237-264, pl. i-vil.
Contains the following titles: Introduction giving a summary of the work and publications
of the Division of Entomology (pp. 237-239); The Boll-worm investigation (pp. 240, 241); The
Army Worm (pp. 242-244); The bronzy Cut-worm (Larva of Nephelodes violans) (pp. 244~-
246); Additional notes on the Horn-fly (Haematobia serrata) (pp. 246-249) ; Some new Iceryas
(pp. 250, 251); Experiments against the Black Scale (Lecaniwm olew Bernard) (pp. 251-253) ;
The green-striped Maple Worm (Anisota rubicunda Fabr.) (pp. 258-255); A new Peach Pest
(Ceratitis capitata Wied) (pp. 255-257); The Rose Chafer (Macrodactylus subspinosus Fabr.)
(pp. 257-261); The work of field agents (pp 261-264),
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 755

CHARLES V.Ritey. Insecticides and means of applying them to shade and forest
trees.
‘ifth Report of the U.S. Entomological Commission (Washington), 1890, pp. 31-47.

The first part gives a summary of the insecticides available for the protection of forest and
shade trees from the attacks of leaf-eating insects. The arsenical poisons, kerosene emulsions,
and hydrocyanie acid gas are especialiy treated of. The second part enumerates and describes
the apparatus for the application of insecticides in dry or liquid form, and more especially in
various nozzles or pumps for spraying, many of which are figured.

CHARLES V. RtIteEy. Insects injurious to the Hackberry.

Fifth Report of the U.S. Entomological Commission (Washington), 1890, pp. 601-622.

Description and natural history of the more important insect enemies of Celtis occidentalis
in North America, and enumeration of many other species found on this tree. The following
species are more fully treated: Apatura celtis, A. clyton, Grapta interrogationis, Libythea back-
manni, Acronycta rubricoma, Graphisurus triangulifer, Alaus lusciosus, Scolytus fagi, Ceci-
domyiidous Hackberry galls, and Hackberry Phyllide (genus Pachyprylla). A number (six) of
hitherto undescribed Cecidomyiidous galls: P. celtidis-vesiculum, P. celtidis-astericus, P. celti-
dis-umbilicus, P. celtidis-pubescens, P. celtidis-globulus, P. celtidis-cucurbita, and P. celtidis-
cucurbita var. A synoptic table of the Pachyprylla galls is given, as well asa table of the
groups of the imagos of this genus.

CuarRLeEs V.Ritey. Notes on the Larva of Platypsyllus.

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, i, No. 1, May, 1891, pp. 27, 28.

Additional characters of the ultimate larva of Platypsyllws not mentioned in a previous
paper (Entomologica Americana, February, 1890), viz., the arrangement of the ventral sete,
the rudimentary sete and the presence of stigmata. Reasons why this larva can not be re-
ferred to the Mallophaga, but the presence of ocelliis a very anomalous character.

CHARLES VY. RinEy. On the difficulty of dealing with Lachnosterna.

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, 1, No.1, May, 1891, pp. 58-60.

Account of the failure to protect by available means (spraying with a strong whale-oil and
tobacco soap solution, application of London purple, attracting the beetles by light), certain
freshly transplanted treesin the author's garden from the nocturnal attacks of Lachnosternas.
The nature of the injury by the beetles consists almost exclusively in gnawing off the petioles
and not in devouring the leaves. The principal practical conclusion drawn from this experi-
ence is that the injury can be averted if the ground beneath or near the trees be kept free from
the Lachnosterna larvie.

CuHarues VY. Ritey. A viviparous Cockroach.

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, 11, No. 1, May, 1891, pp. 129, 130.

Exhibition of and remarks on a specimen of Panchlora viridis which had given birth to the
young viviparously. Remarks on the characteristics of the young larvee and on the anoma-
lous nature of viviparity in the Blattide.

CHARLES V. RiveEy. Additional remarks on Platypsyllus castoris.

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, 1, No. 1, May, 1891, pp. 130, 131.

Failure to find the pupa and additional specimens of the ultimate larva of the beaver para-
site, and enumeration of other insects found in beaver dens.

CuHarves V. Riney. Remarks on an aquatic insect larva from Ceylon.

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, i, No.1, May, 1891, p. 131.

A shortly characterized but not determined larva found in the mountain streams of Ceylon,
and exhibited by Mr. C.J.Gahan before the London Entomological Society, October 1, 1890,
must be referred to the Dipterous family Blepharocerid@. Mention that the earlier stages af
two North American species of this family are known.

CHARLES V. Ritey. Remarks on the larva of Citheronia sepulchralis.

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, 11, No. 1, May, 1891, pp. 131, 132.

Identification, distribution, and food plants of Citheronia sepulchralis, called forth by an
article by Mrs. Julia P. Ballard, in Entomological News, October, 1890, entitled “ What can
it be?”

CHARLES V. Ritey. On the time of transformation in the genus of Laehnosterna.

Proceedings of the Entomological Society ef Washington, u, No. 1, May, 1891, pp. 132-134.

Prof. Forbes’ statement that all Lachnosterna larvie change to pupa and imago in summer
and fall must be modified, and while this mode of transformation normally takes place in
those species which appear early in the season, evidence is brought forth to prove that in the
late-appearing species transformation takes place in the spring of the same year in which the
imagoes appear.

CHARLES V. Ritty. The outlook for economic entomology.
Indiana Farmer, July 5 and 12, 1890.
A condensed account of the progress in American economic entomology during the past
T56 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CHarues V, Ritey—Continued.
twenty years. The subject is treated uuder the following headings: 1. The advance in the
knowledge of the life-histories of injurious insects; 2. The progress in experimentation with
insecticide substances; 3. The invention and improvement of apparatus for the application
of insecticides.

CuHarLes V. RivEy. The outlook for applied entomology.

Insect Life, 1, No. 5, January, 1891, pp. 181-210.

Annual address as president of the Association of Economic Entomologists held at the sec-
ond annual meeting of the Association at Champaign, Il.. November 11, 1890. The address
touches the following topics: Some results in economic work from the National Department at
Washington: the Hop Phorodon on the Pacific Coast: the Grape Phylloxera, the value of
the resisting American vines and the resin soap as a remedy: introduction of parasites and
predaceous species; method of using bisulphide of carbon against grain weevils: insecticide
machinery: Strawson’s air-power distributor: international interests: use of contagious
germs in the field: agriculture: silk culture: legislation: publications of the experiment
stations: codperation: the Department of Agriculture and the State stations: status of
the Association of Economic Entomologists: technical papers and credit in station publica-
tions: conclusion.

CHARLES VY. RitEY. List of Coleopterous larve sent by C. V. Riley to F. Meinert
of Copenhagen, for the University Museum, in exchange for European specimens
from the Schiédte Collection.

Insect Life, 11, Nos. 7 and 8, April, 1891, pp. 830-3832.

The list embraces 125 species of North American Coleoptera.

CHARLES Y. Ritey. On the destruction of the Gypsy Moth in Massachusetts.

Insect Life, 11, Nos. 9and 10, June, 1891, pp. 368-379.

Remarks made by C. V. Riley at a conference held in the rooms of the Committee on A gri-
culture, Boston, Mass., March 4, 1891. The remarks refer to the possibility and the means of
exterminating Ocneria dispar under State appropriations. Vhe principal participants in the
discussion were Profs. N.S. Shaler, C. V. Riley, C. H. Fernald, and Mr. 8. H. Scudder.

CHARLES Y. Rivry. | Fifth Report | of the | United States | Entomological Commis-
sion, | being a revised and enlarged edition of | Bulletin No. 7 | on | Insects in-
jurious to Forest and Shade Trees. | By | Alpheus 8. Packard, M. D., Ph. D. | —

| With wood-cuts and 30 plates. | Washington: | Government Printing Office,
| 1890. |

The following portions were written by Charles V. Riley: Letters of submittal (p. viii) ;
insecticides and means of applying them to shade and forest trees (pp. 31-47); insects in-
jurious to the Hackberry (chap. xu, pp. 601-622). The report contains also copies or abstracts
of Riley’s unpublished notes on forest insects.

CHarLes V. Rinby. Report on the Departinent of Insects in the U. 8. National
Museum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 165-171.

CHarLes VY. Riney and L.O. Howarp. A peach pest in Bermuda (Ceratitis eapitata
Wied). Order Diptera; Family Trypetide.

Insect Life, ut, No. 1, August, 1890, pp. 5-8, figs. 1, 2.

History of the fly and of its injuries to oranges in various parts of the globe.. Ixtent, nature
of the injury to peaches on the Bermudas, remedies and preventive measures.

Cuarites V. Rivey and L. O. Howarp. Some of the bred Hymenoptera in the

National Collection.

Insect Life, 11, No. 1, August, 1890, pp. 15-18.

A systematic enumeration of North American parasitic Hymenoptera, of the family Bra-
conidee (subfamily Microgasterine and Agathidine) and their hosts, with dates and localities.
Continued from Insect Life, 11, Nos. 11, 12, June, 1890, p. 353.

Cuarves V. Rinny and L. O. Howarp. Some of the bred parasitic Hymenoptera in

the National Collection.

Insect Life, 11, No. 2, September 1890, pp. 57-61,

Continuation of the paper in Insect Life, 11, No. 1, August, 1890, p. 18, and covering the
following subfamilies of Braconide: Luphorine, Mcteorine. Calyptine, Alysiine, Daenusine,
Macrocentrine, Diospiline, Opiine, Ichneutine, Toxoneurine and Aphidine.

CHARLES VY. Rinby and L. O. Howarp., Some new Leeryas.

Insect Life, 11, No. 3, November, 1890, pp. 92-106, figs. 6-19.

Descriptions and figures of the following new species: Icerya rose, from Key West, Florida;
TI. monserratensis from Montserrat, West Indies; 7. palmeri from Mexico. Crossotosoma
aegyptiacum Douglas is referred to Icerya, A catalogue and synoptic tables of the known spe-
cies of this genus are appended.
BIRLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 12891. 757

CuarLes V, Riney and L. O. Howarp. Some of the bred parasitie Hymenoptera in
the National Collection.

Insect Life, 11, No. 4, November, 1890, pp. 151-158.

Continuation of the paper in Inseet Life, 1, No. 2, September, 1890, p. 61, and embracing
the subfamilies Jechnewmonine, Cryptine and Ophioniue ot the family Tehnewnonide.

CHARLES V. RitEY and L. O. Howarp. Editorials, reviews, and notes.

Insect Life, 111, Nos. 1-11, August, 1890, to June, 1891. (See table of contents of each num-
ber of Insect Life.)

CnarLes V. Rrtey and L. O. HowarRp. Correspondence of the Division of Ento-
mology, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.

Insect Life, 11, Nos. 1-11, August, 1890, to June, 1891.

Selected letters from correspondents with the replies.

CHARLES V. RILEY and C, L. Mariatr. The Clover Mite (Bryobia pratensis Gar-
man. )

Insect Life, 11, No. 2, September, 1890, pp. 45-52, figs. 4, 5.

A full account of the distribution of this mite in North America; its mode of occurrence,
injury to plants, and annoyance caused by its appearance in dwellings; its habits and life-
history; and the remedies available for its destruction. The paper concludes with technical
descriptions of the various stages.

J.N. Rose. List of plants collected by Dr. Edward Palmer in 1890 in western Mex-
ico and Arizona.

Contributions from the U.S. National Herbarium, 1, No. 4, June 30, 1891, pp. 91-127. (With
index.)

In this paper 475 plants are enumerated with remarks as to soil, locality, and size, with addi-
tional notes in case of rare or little-known species, and with descriptions of new species.

The following table shows the places visited, with date of collection and number of plants:

Places visited. . Date of collection. | Number collected.
Alamos and Alamos Mountain .........-...--- March 26 to April 8...) 276-415 (inclusive).
Camp Huachuea, Arizona .--......--------.--- April 26 to May 21... | 416-478 (inclusive).
Wallowa sprim sme falc mies as <ayeln--)al- nine June 10 to 20.......... 479-574 (inclusive).
IRAN OEY ONE iar Coe hn Bnine = Sasa eno SecoSoEoonse oar nme: Qt sOse sees ee | 575-618 (inclusive).
Willow Springs. .-.-.-.-----.--------------++-- shally zo RG is pees | 614-626 (inclusive).
NIRS Hoos asec aga eau Seana Boasa aS AnSS od September 16 to 30... | 627-751 (ine.) and 812.

The following list comprises the new species:
Mimosa Palmeri.

Ayenia paniculata.

Ayenia truncata. Perezia montana.
Bidens Alamosana. | Perityle effusa.
Berhaavia Alamosana. | Piscidia mollis.
Berhaavia Sonore. | Pitheeolobium Mexicanum.
Brongniartia Palmeri. Rhus Palmeri.
Bunchosia Sonorensis. | Salvia Alamosana.
Clematis Palmeri. | Schizocarpum Palmeri.
Cordia Sonore. Sclerocarpus spatulatus.
Croton Alamosanum. Sebastiania Palmeri.
Diphysa racemosa. Sida Alamosana.
Echinopepon cirrhopedunculatus. Solanum Grayt.
Brigeron Alamosanwin. Stellaria montana.
Euphorbia tuberosa. Tabebuia Palmeri.
Hosackia Alamosana. | Tithonia fruticosa.
Hymenatherum anomalum. | Lithonia Palmeri.
Hymenopappus radiata. | Tradescantia Palmeri.
Tpomea alata. | Vernonia Palineri.

Ipomea Grayt. Viguiera montana.
Leptorheo tenuifolia. Willardia* Mexicana.
Lysiloma Watsoni. | Zexmenia fruticosa.
Metastelma latifolia.

*Willardia is a new genus of Leguminose.
T58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
>)

J. N. Rose—Continued.

The following species are tiguted :

Stellaria montana. Hymenatherum anomatum:
Diphysa racemosa. | Perezia montana.
Echinopépon etrrhopedunculatics. | Cordia Palmeri.

Tithonia frutivosa. | Tpomeea alata.

|

Bidens Alamosantwim. | Tabebwia Palneri.
(See also under J. M. COULTER and GEORGE V ASBY.)
K. A SCHNEIDER.
(See under F. W. CLARKE.)
R. W. SHurELD?r. Contributions to the study of Heloderma suspectum.
Proe. Zool. Soc. London, 1890, pp. 148-244, plates x vi-xviil.
Based in part upon material belonging to the National Museum.

CHARLES TORREY SIMPSON. Notes on Bulimus Dormani.

Nautilus, 1v, No. 7, November, 1890, pp. 79-81. Deseribes habitat and relations of this species.

CHARLES TORREY Stimpson. Notes on Mr. Hemphill’s catalogue.

Nautilus, tv, No. 10, February, 1891, pp. 110-112.

CHARLES TORREY SIMPSON. On the means of distribution of the Unionidze in the
southern United States.

Nautilus, Vv, No. 2, June, 1891, pp. 15-17.

Huan M. Smiru. On the disappearance of the Dick Cissel (Spiza americana) from
the District of Columbia.

Proc. U. S. Nati. Mus., xu, No. 806, September 9, 1890, pp. 171, 172.
Shows that ‘‘no specimen has been obtained for nearly thirty years.”’

Joun B. SmirH. Contributions toward a monograph of the Noctuida of Temperate
North America.—Revision of Homohadena, Grote.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xin, No. 838, April 18, 1891, pp. 397-405.

Joun B. Smiru. Contributions toward a Monograph of the Noctuidae of Temperate
North America.—Revision of the species of Hadena referable to Xylophasia and
Luperina.

Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., xttt, No. 839, May 8, 1891, pp. 407-447, plates xxxvi, xxxvii.

ROBERT EDWARDS CARTER STEARNS. Scientific results of explorations by the U. S.
Fish Commission steamer Albatross. No. Xvu.—Description of new west Amer-
ican land, fresh water, and marine shells, with notes and comments.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., x1m1, No. 813, September 16, 1890, pp. 205-225, plates xv-xvii.
ROBERT EDWARDS CARTER STEARNS. Notes on the sculpture of American Linneas.
Nautilus, tv, No. 11, March, 1891, pp. 121-124.

ROBERT EDWARDS CARTER STEARNS. Edible mollusks, ete. Here and there.
Nautilus, Vv, No. 1, May, 1891, pp. 2-4.
Comparison of the market mollusks of San Francisco and Rhode Island.

RopertT EpwarRpD CARTER STEARNS. Mollusks [of the Eclipse Expedition].

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1890 (June 1, 1891), pp. 105-108,
A list of the species collected mostly from the west coast of Africa, forming part of the pre-
liminary report on the collections of the expedition.

LEONHARD STEJNEGER. Crotalus pyrrhus in California.

West American Scientist, vil, April, 1891, pp. 165-167.
Gives a full account of the five specimens in the National Museum, the only ones erer col-
lected of this rare snake.

LEONHARD STEJNEGER. On a new genus and species of colubrine snakes from
North America,

Proc. U.S. Nat Mus., xi1t., No. 802, September 9, 1890, pp. 151-155.
Phyllorhynchus browni, n. g. and sp., from Tueson, Arizona, U. 8. National Museum, No.
15719.
LEONHARD STEJNEGER. On the snakes of the genus Charina.
Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., xut., No. 808, September 9, 1890, pp. 177-182.
Recognizes three species.
LEONHARD STEJNEGER. On the North American lizards of the genus Barissia of
Gray.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xut., No. 809, September 9, 1890, pp. 183-185.
Refers B. olivacea to B. imbricata, and describes as a new species B. levicollis, U. S. National
Museum, No. 9362.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 759

LEONHARD STEINEGER. Annotated list of reptiles and batrachians collected by Dr.
C. Hart Merriam and Vernon Bailey on the San Francisco Mountain Plateau and
Desert of the Little Colorado, Arizona, with descriptions of new species.

North American Fauna, No. 3, September 11, 1890, pp. 103-118, plates xii, xiii.

Describes as new species the following: Crotaphytus baileyi, U.S. National Museum, No.
15821; CO. silus, No. 11790 A; Uta palmeri, No. 16002; U. levis, No. 11474; Seeloporus elongatus,
No. 15858.

LEONHARD STEJNEGER. Report on the Department of Reptiles and Batrachians in
the U. S. National Museum, 18838.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 153, 154.

LEONHARD STEJNEGER. Seebohm’s ‘ Birds of the Japanese Empire.”

The Auk, viul., January, 1891, pp. 99-111.
A critical review of the above-mentioned work.

Z. L. TANNER and others. Explorations of the fishing grounds of Alaska, Washington
Territory, and Oregon during 1888, by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer 4lba-
tross, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. 8. Navy, commanding.

Bull. U. S. Fish Com., vit, 1888 (1890), pp. 1-95, plates i-xii.

Ernest E. THompson. The birds of Manitoba.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xitt, No. 841, May 29, 1891, pp. 457-643, plate xxxviii (with map of
Manitoba).
An account of the birds of Manitoba, based on observations by the author and others.

CHARLES H. TOWNSEND. Scientific results of explorations by the U. 8. Fish Commis-
sion steamer Albatross. No. xtv.—Birds from the coasts of western North
America and adjacent islands, collected in 1888-89, with descriptions of new
species,

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xu, No. 799, Sept. 9, 1890, pp. 131-142.

New species described are as follows: (1) Speotyto rostrata; (2) Zenaidura clarionensis;
(3) Troglodytes tanneri; (4) Puginus auricularis, from Clarion Island; (5) Oceanodroma socor-
roensis, from Socorro; (6) Amphispiza bellii cinerea, from Ballenas Bay, Lower Cah fornia;
(7) Otocoris alpestris pallida, from mouth of the Colorado River; (8) Melospiza fasciata
graminea, from Santa Barbara Island; (9) Helininthopila celata sordida, and (10) Otocoris
alpestris insularis, from San Clemente Island.

CHARLES H. TOWNSEND. Scientifie results of Explorations by the U.S. Fish Com-
mission steamer Albatross. No. xv. Reptiles from Clarion and Socorro Islands
and the Gulf of California, with description of a new species.

Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., x11, No. 800, September 9, 1890, pp. 143,144. Described as a new

species, Uta elarionensis, U.S. National Museum, Nos. 15904-15908.

Freperick W. Trur. Observations on the Life History of the Bottlenose Porpoise.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xiu, No. 812, September 9, 1890, pp. 197-203.

Frederick W. Tru®&. Description of two new species of mammals from Mount
Kilima-Njaro, East Africa.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xut, No. 814, September 16, 1890, pp. 227-229.

Freprerick W.Trur. Description of anew species of Mouse, Phenacomys longicaud-
us, from Oregon.

Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., x1, No. 826, November 15, 1890, pp. 303, 304.

Freprerick W. Truk. Report on the Department of Mammals in the U.S. National
Museum, 1888.

Report of the Sinithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 139-143.
J. KING VAN RENSSELAER. Playing cards from Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xi, No. 836, May 29, 1891, pp. 381, 382.

GEORGE VAsry. Report of the Botanist to the Secretary of Agriculture.

Report of the Secretary of Agriculture, 1890, pp. 375-393.

The report treats of the following subjects: Forage and other experiments; Herbarium;
Medical plants; Publications; Report of the Mississippi Experiment Station (by 5. M. Tracy) ;
Experiment Station at Garden City, Kansas; Grasses for arid districts; Noxious weeds (by
F. V. Coville), with 8 plates.

The following list comprises the plants figured:

Ambrosia trifida. | Plantago lanceolata.
Hieracium aurantiacum. Cenchrus tribuloides.
Linaria Canadensis. Pennisetum typhoideum

Cuscuta trifolii. Eragrostis Abyssinica.
760 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

GEORGE VASEY. New grasses.
Botanical Gazette, XVI, 1891, pp. 26. 27.
Two new species and one variety are described The new species are Sporobolus pilosus and

Bouteloua uniflora.

GEORGE VASEY. Notes on Melica and Poa.

Torrey Botanical Club, xvit, 1890. p. 178.
This is a defense of his course in retaining certain species in Poa which had recently been
referred to Meliea.

GEORGE Vasey, Grasses of the Southwest. Plates and descriptions of the erasses
of the desert region of western Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and southern Cali-
fornia.

Dept.of Agr. Bull., Div. Bot., No. 12, pt. 1, October 13, 1890, p. (50), with 50 plates.

This bulletin is to constitute the first half of the first volume of a work entitled ‘‘ Ilustrations
of North American Grasses.”’ Fifty rare grasses from the desert region of the southwest are de-
scribed and figured.

The tollowing list comprises the grasses figured:

Aegopogon geminijlorus. Chloris eucullata.
Andropogon cirrhatus. glauca.
hirtiflorus. verticillata.
saccharoides, | Blionurus barbiculis,
Wrightii. Epicampes macroura.
Aristida arizonica. rigens.
divaricata. | Eremoehloe Bigelowti.
Bouteloua arenosa. | Kingii.
aristidoides. | Evriochloa sericea.
Burkei. | Heteropegon contortus.
eriopoda. | Hilaria cenchroides.
Harvardii. | mutica.
hirsuta. Meliea diffusa.
Humboldtiana. Porteri.
oligostachya. | Mulhlenbergia distichophylla.
prostrata. gracilis.
vacemMosa. | Panicum bulbosumn.
ramMosa. | ciliatissimurm.
stricta. lachnanthum.
trifida. | Setaria caudata.

Buchloé dactyloides. Stenotaphrum Americanun.

Cathestecum erectun. Stipa flexwosa.

Cenchrus myosuroides. | Thurberia Arkansana.
tribuloides. Trachypogon polymorphus.
y we
Chloris alba. | Tragus vacemosus.
ciliata. |

GEORGE VASEY and J. N. Rosk. Scientific results of explorations by the U.S. Fish
Commission steamer Albatross. No. xvi. Plants colleeted in 1889 at Socorro
and Clarion Islands, Pacific Ocean.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xin, No. 891, September 9, 1890, pp. 143, 14.

Grorcr Vasty and J. N. Rose. A new Aster from California.

Botanical Gazette, XV1, 1891, p. 113.
Aster Oreuttia is here described and figure.

GEORGE Vasey and J. N. Rost. List of plants collected by Dr. Edward Palmer in
1890 in Lower California and western Mexico, at La Paz, San Pedro Martin
Island, Raza Island, Santa Rosalia and’Santa Agueda, and Guaymas.

Contributions from the U.S. National Herbarium, 1, No. 3, November, 1890, pp. 64-90 (with
index).

This paper is a report on 173 species collected at the above localities, including the collector's
notes with remarks on rare species.

The following are the names of the new species, described by Dr. J. N. Rose:

Acacja Willardiana. | Cordia Watsoni.

Atriplex insularis. | Coulterella capitata.
Berginia Palmeri. Buphorbia blepharostipula.
Bidens Xantiana. Fagonia Palmeri.
Cesalpinia sp. Gilia Sonore.

Calophanes Californica. Hermannia Palineri.

Calophanes peninsularia. Houstonia Brandegeanda.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 761

GEORGE VASEY and J. N. Rost—Continued.

Houstonia arenaria. | Perityle aurea.
Houstonia brevipes. Spheralcea albiflora.
Hofmeisteria laphamioides. Spheralcea Californica.
Justicia Palmert. | Spheevaleea violacea.

Krynitzkia peninsularis. Coultereila n. gen. is figured.
Lycium umbellatum.

CuarLEs D. WaLcorr. Description of new Forms of Upper Cambrian Fossils.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xu, No. 820, October 14, 1890, pp. 267-279, pls. xx, xxi.

There is included in this paper the description of a new species of Upper Cambrian fossils
and the new genus Spirodentalium. The ovcurrence of the latter and the genus Conularia
add to the downward range of two types that have hitherto been found only above the Cam-
brian.

CHARLES D. Waccorr. The Fauna of the Lower Cambrian or Olenellus Zone.

Tenth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey, 1888-'89 (1890), part 1, pp. 509-658. (Col-
ored map, text illustrations, 69 figures, plates xliii-xeyii).

This is an extended work upon the geological and paleontogical character of the Lower Cam-
brian terrane of North America.

The scope of the paper embraces (1) a list of titles of the more important books and papers
relating to the subject; (2) a historical review of the work on the roeks and fossils now in-
cluded in the Olenellus zone; and (3) the general results of the study of the fauna by the
geologist and paleozodlogist, or its physical and biological history and character as far as
known. The geologist considers it as found in certain rocks at a distinct geologic horizon,
and studies its geologic relations. The paleozo®logist treats of it in its relations to the ani-
mal world, past and present.

Under the section of the Lower Cambrian or Olenellus Zoue there is a table showing the
classification of the Paleozoic and the subjacent strata, and also one of the detailed classifica-
tion of the Cambrian group. Part vi deals with the North American continent during Cam-
brian time, and part vit with the continent of Europe during the deposition of the sediment
now forming the Olenellus zone. The geographic distribution of the Cambrian rocks is de-
seribed in part VIN, and in part 1X the relations of the Lower Cambrian fauna to the super-
jacent faunas are discussed. In the notes on the genera and species reference is made to each
genus and species known, and a description given if it has not been published in any of the
Geological Survey reports. Allof the species are fully illustrated on the fifty-one plates ac-
companying the memoir. A map illustrating the distribution of the Cambrian strata in North
America, and one showing the typical sections of the Cambrian strata in North America, ac-
company the text.

CHARLES D. Watcorr. Report on the Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleo-
zoic) in the U.S. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 183-185.
LesTER F. WARD. Revort on the Department of Recent Plants in the National Mu-

seum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 191-193.
Lester F. WARD. Ueber die Reste eines Brotfruchtbaums, Artocarpus Dicksoni, n.
sp., aus den Cenomanen Kreideablagerungen Grénlands; von A. G. Nathorst.

Amer. Jour. Sci., third series, XL, September, 1890, p. 257.
Notice of a paper with the above title in the Kéngl. Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Hand-
lingar, Bd. XXxtIv, pp. 1-10, pl. i.
Lester F. Warp. Tertiare Pflanzen der Insel Neusibirien; von J. Schmalhansen.
Amer. Jour, Sci., third series, XL, September, 1890, pp. 257, 258.
Notice of a paper with the above title in Mém. Acad. Imp. Sei. de St. Pétersbourg, T° série,
tome XXXVI, No. 5, 1890, p. 22, pl. 1i.
Lester F. Warb. La Flora dei Tufi del Monte Somma; by Luigi Meschinelli.
Amer. Jour. Sei., third series, XL, September, 1890, p. 258.
Notice of a paper with the above title in Rend. R. Accad. Sci. Fis. e Mat. of Naples, April,
1890. Separate, p. &.
Lester F. Ward. Remarks on some fossil remains considered as peculiar kinds of
marine plants, by Leo Lesquereux.
Amer. Jour. Sei., third series, XL, September, 1890, p. 258.
Notice of a paper witu the above title in Proc. 7. S. Nat. Mus., xi, No. 792, 1890, pp. 6-12,
plea:
762 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

LESTER F. WaRpD. Origin of the Plane Trees.

American Naturalist (Philadelphia), XXIv, September, 1890, pp. 797-810, pl. xxviil.

This paper isin the main a review of Prof. Johann Janko’s acticle entitled ‘‘ Abstammung
der Platanen,” which appeared in volume xt, No. 4, of Engler’s Botanische Jihrbiicher. The
chief criticism is directed against the geological arguments ot Prof. Janké, who, moreover,
was not acquainted with Mr. Ward's several papers on the origin of the genus Platanus.

Lester fF. Warp. Revue des travaux de paléontologie végétale parus en 1888 ou
dans le cours des années précédentes, par le Marquis Gaston de Saporta.

Amer. Jour. Set., third series,xL, November, 1890, p. 422.

Notice of a paper with the above title in the Revue générale de Botanique, tome 11. Paris,
1890.

Lester F. Warp. Notes on the Leaves of Liriodendron, by Theodor Holm.

Amer. Jour. Sci., third series, XL, November, 1890, pp. 422, 423.

Notice of a paper with the above title in Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, 1890, pp. 15-35, plates
iv-ix.

Lester I’. Warp. The unearned increment of machine-made wealth.

The True Commonwealth (Washington), 1, February, 1891, p. 165.

Remarks at the True Commonwealth Club, January 12, 1891, on Prof. H. C. Adams’ paper
‘Ts Civilization Just to the Workingman,”’ in which the expression used as a title was em-
ployed and discussed.

Lester F. Warp. Mind as a social force.

The Cleveland Citizen (Cleveland, Ohio), February 20, 27, 1891, p. 1.

Reprint of ‘‘Mind as a Social Factor” from Mind, (London), 1x, October, 1884, p. 563.

Lester F. Warp. Handbuch der Palaeontologie herausgegeben von Karl Zittel.
ir. Abth., Palaeophytologie; bearbeitet von Prof. W. P. Schimper und Dr. A.
Schenk. Miinster und Leipzig, 1879-1890.

Amer. Jour. Sei., XLI, April, 1891, p. 330.

3rief notice of the above work.

Lester F. WarRbD. Monographie der baltischen Bernsteinbiiume, von H. Conwentz.
Danzig, 1890.

Amer. Jour. Sci., third series, XL, April, 1891, pp. 330, 331.

Notice of the above work.

Lester F. Warp. Ueber die Iructitication von Benneltites Gibsonianus Carr., von
H. Grafen zu Solms-Laubach. Leipzig, 1890.

Amer. Jour. Set., third series, Xtt, April, 1891, p. 331.

Notice of the above memoir from the Botanische Zeitung, Vol. XLVIII.

Lesrer F. Warp. Die fossile Flora von Schénegg bei Wies in Steiermark, von
C. Ettingshausen. I. Theil, Wien, 1890.

Amer. Jour. Sei., third series, XLI, April, 1891, pp. 331, 332.

Notice of the above memoir from Denkschr. Wien. Akad., Bd. Lvm.

Lester F. Warp. Das australische Florenelement in Europa, von C. Ettingshausen,
Graz, 1890.

Amer. Jour. Sci., third series, XLI, April, 1891, p. 332.

Notice of the above memoir.

Lester F. WARpD. Untersuchungen iiber Ontogenie und Phylogenie der Pflanzen
auf paliontologische Grundlage, von C. Ettingshausen and Franz KraSan.
Wien, 1890.

Amer. Jour. Sei., third series, XLI, April, 1891, p. 332.

Notice of the above memoir in Denkschr. Wien. Akad., Bd. LVI.

Lestrr F. Warp. The transmission of culture.

Tie Forum, X1, May, 1891, pp. 312-319.

A criticism of the doctrine of Prof. August Weismann that acquired talents are not trans-
mitted through heredity.

Lester F. Warp. Neo-Darwinism and Neo-Lamarckism.

Proc. Biol. Soe. of Washington, 1891, pp. 11-71.

Annual address of the president of the society, delivered January 24, 1891. A historical
and critical review of the modern scientific thought relative to heredity, and especially to
the problem of the transmission of acquired characters. ‘The following are the several heads
involved in the discussion: Status of the problem; Lamarckism; Darwinism; Acquired char-
acters; Theories of heredity; Views of Mr. Galton; Teachings of Professor Weismann; A
Critique of Weismann; Neo-Darwinism; Neo-Lamarckism; The American ‘‘School’’; Appli-
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. §. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. 763

Lester F, Warp—Continued.
cation to the human race. In so far as views are expressed, they are in the main in line with
the general current of American thought and opposed tothe extreme doctrine of the non-
transmissibility of acquired characters.

Lester F. Warp. Report on the Department of Fossil Plants inthe U. 8. National
Museum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museutn), 1888 (1890), pp. 189, 190.

J. ELrreru Watkrxs. The place of the electrical industries in history,

The Electrical World, xvur, No. 9, p. 164.

(Read at the December anniversary meeting of the National Electrie Light Association, at
Providence, R. I., February 18, 1891.)

A discussion of the place of the electrical industries in history, being a comparison bet ween
the recent progress made in the practical application of electricity in the useful arts and man-
ufactures with that made during the last two centuries in the utilization of steam, which, a
few years ago, was considered the greatest of the generated forces.

J. ELrrReETH WATKINS. Henry’s electric motor constructed in 1831.

The Electrical World, May 9, 1891.

Describes one of the earliest clectrie motors, that designed and constructed by Joseph Henry
in 1831, and recites Henry’s deseription of the invention.

J. ELFRETH WATKINS. Report on the Section of Transportation and Engineering in
the U. S. National Museum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 107-111.

Cuarwes A. Wurrk, Onthe biological and geological significance of closely similar
fossil forms.

Proc. Amer. Ass. Adv. Sci., XXX1X, 1890, pp. 239-243.

Cuartes A, Wuitr. The Texan Permian and its Mesozoic types of fossils.

Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv... No. 77, March, 1891, pp. 1-51.

CHARLES A, Write. <A sketch of the scientific work of Prof. A. H. Worthen.

Geol. Surv. of Ill., vit, January, 1891, pp. 18-37.

CuarLes A, WHITE. Scientific results of explorations by the U.S. Fish Commission
steamer Albatross. No. X.—On certain Mesozoic fossils from the Islands of
St. Paul’s and St. Peter’s in the Straits of Magellan.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xt, No. 793, July 22, 1890, pp. 18, 14, pls. 1, 1m.

CHuarLes A. WHITE. Report on the Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Mesozoic)
in the U. S. National Museum, 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Musein), 1888 (1890), pp. 187, 188.

Harris A. WitpER. A contribution to the anatomy of Siren lacertina.

Zoologische Jahrbiicher, Ath. ft. Anat. und Ontogen. d. Thiere, 1v, 1891, pp. 653-696, plates
2 OO.) DG NIUE

The greater part of the material was obtained from the National Museum, for which due
eredit is given.

Henry 8. WiLLiAMs. North American Paleontology for 1887 and 1888.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 261-326.

THomMaAS WILSON. [Anthropological notes in the American Naturalist. ]

Anthropology of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at Indianapolis,
XxIv, No. 286, October, 1890, pp. 975-984.

Société d’ Anthropologie at Paris, xxv, No. 289, January, 1891, pp. 73-85; February 1891, No.
290, pp. 172-182.

International Congress of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archwology, xxv, No. 292, April,
1891, pp. 387-395.

The Munich Association, Xxv, No. 292, April, 1891, pp. 395, 396.

The map of prehistoric Bavaria, xxv, No. 292, April, 1891, p. 396.

The International Congress of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archeology of Paris, 1889, xxv,
No. 293, May, 1891, pp. 499-503; No. 294, June, 1891, pp. 587-592.

THOMAS WILSON. Proposed classification of the Section of Anthropology and Pre-
historie Archeology at the Chicago Exposition, prepared at the request of its
committee.

40 pp., 8vo.
764 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

THomas Witson. Glacial phenomena and its relations to the gravel deposits of the

Delaware River at Trenton, New Jersey.
International Congress of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archeology, Paris, 1889, 10 pp.. 8vo.
Tomas WILSON. Report on Hygiene and Demography.
Annual Report of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, 1890-1891, 28 pp., 8vo.
Tuomas Witson. Address before the Washington Training School for Nurses.
Washington, 11 pp., 8vo.
TnomMas Witson. The amulet collection of Prof. Belucci, of Perugia, Italy, ex-
hibited at the French Exposition, Paris, 1889, Read at the annual meeting of
the American Folk-Lore Society, New York City, November 29, 1890.
Journal of American Folk-Lore, tv, No. 13, April-June, 1891, pp. 144-146.
THOMAS WILSON. ‘The statistics of crime in the United States of North America,
Proceedings of the International Congress of Criminal Anthropology, Paris, pp. 224-229.
THOMAS WiILson. Report on the Department of Prehistoric Anthropology in the
U.S. National Museum, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 128-138.
WitiiamM C. Wintock. Astronomy for 1887, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888 (1890), pp. 125-216,
Si Ca tOIN Ve.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891.

765
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.*

ABBE, Prof. CLEVELAND (See under W. E. Frye; Mr. Seal; The Bishop Taylor Mis-
sion).

ABBoTT, W. H. (See under U. S. Fish Commission).

ApoTt, Dr. W.L, (Philadelphia, Pa.), A magnificent collection of spears, shields,
bows, swords, wooden dishes, and personal ornaments of the Wa Chaga and
Wasai negroes of the Kilima-Njaro region;t specimens of insects, repre-
senting all orders; 107 birds’ skins, representing about 60 species; specimens
of Snakes, Bucephalus and Coluber, both species of which are undeterminable,
and specimens of mammal skins (23656); 79 specimens -of mammal skins
and skulls,t representing 29 species; collection of alcoholic and dry insects,
consisting of 10 specimens of lepidoptera and 6 of neuroptera, 10 species
of orthoptera, 10 of hemiptera, and 50 of coleoptera, 60 specimens repre-
senting 30 species of arachnida, and 18 specimens representing & species of myri-
opoda from Mt. Kilima-Njaro, Seychelles Islands, and Madagascar; 2 specimens
of Coco de Mer (Lodoicea seychellarum Lahbil) and 2 pieces of wood of the same;
46 reptiles and batrachians, representing 20 species, from the same localities;
117 birds’ skins, representing 45 species, obtained from the same region; 100
African plants and a number of lichens and mosses; 5 eggs of Anous stolidus
from Isle Siche, Seychelles Islands, and a nest and egg of a small sun-bird, species
not determined, from Mt. Kilima-Njaro; 11 shells, representing 3 species, from
the Seychelles Islands; collection of ethnological objects (93 specimens in all),
including shields, quivers, arrows, models of huts, wooden vessels, wallets,
mortar, beehive, war capes, game board, and other articles and utensils; 4
gallinules (24008); photographs taken in East Africa, showing natives, scenery,
habitations, and objects representing native life (24334).

Apams, C, F, (Champaign, Ill.). Sixteen skeletons of birds and skin of mammal
(23432); bird-group composed of shrikes, with nest and young (23622); group of
gibbons (Hylobates sp.) from Borneo (23890). Purchase,

Apams, W.H. (Elmore, Ill.). Two flint scrapers from Peoria County. 23927.

ADAMS, W. W. (Mapleton, N. Y.). Fragment of human skull from an ancient grave
in Fleming, Cayuga County. 24206.

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE (Lansing, Mich.), through Prof. A. J. Cooke, Forty species
of North American coleoptera, 17 of which are new to the collection. Ex-
change. 24941.

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF. ‘Twenty-seven photo-lithographs illustrating forest
destruction and reforestation in France (23584); section of tulip-tree, with his-
torical chart of events contemporaneous with growth (23585); 2 maps showing
forest destruction (23587); 100 label maps showing distribution of species
(23589). Deposit.

*The accessions of the year are included under the numbers 23341-24527.

tThis collection is fully described in the catalogue published in Section 11 of this
volume.

{The mammal specimens of Acc, 23656 are incorporated with those of Accession

24008,
767
(68 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF—Continued,

Through Dr. C. Hart Merriam, chief of Division of Ornithology and Mamialogy.
Fossil turtles and mammals in fragmentary condition from Fort Bridger, Wyoming,
and pieces of the jaw and radius of bear from a cave in Grant County, New Mexico
(23344); 11 land-shells representing 4 species from Texas (23484); 5 horned
toads (Phrynosoma brevirostre douglassii) from Idaho (collected by Mr. V. Bailey)

23548); two turtles, representing two species (deposit) (23704); Pacific pine
Snake (Pituophis catenifer) from Marshall, Washington (deposit) (237384) ; Speci-
men, in flesh, of Bruennich’s Murre ( Uria bruennichii), from Throg’s Neck, Long
Island (collected by Mr. A. Ferriera) (238895); 5 species of land-shells (collected
by Mr. William Lloyd, of Monterey, Mexico) (24074); 51 reptiles and batrachians,
representing 11 species from Idaho (deposit) (24213).*

Through Prof. C. V. Riley, entomologist: Alcoholic insects, mostly coleoptera from
southern California (collected by Mr. D. W. Coquillet, of Los Angeles, California)
(23916); 382 species of North American lepidoptera and 62 species of European
lepidoptera (23934); 54 species of well-mounted coleoptera, some of which are
new to the collection (collected by Mr. Coquillet) (23942); 110 specimens of
North American coleoptera, representing 54 species new to the collection (col-
lected by H. F. Wickham, of Iowa City, lowa (23964) ; 225 species of coleoptera
from the United States, 20 species of coleoptera from Mexico, 29 species of hemip-
tera from the United States and Mexico, 75 species of hymenoptera from the
same localities; 4 species of diptera from the United States and 6 specimens of
Vanessa californica trom Idaho (collected by Prof L. Bruner, of Lincoln, Nebr.)
(23974); 25 species of North American coleoptera, many of which are new to the
collection (24009) ; 425 specimens, representing 60 species of lepidoptera, and 2,400
specimens, representing 375 species of coleoptera, collected in California ond
Washington by Mr. A. Koebele, and transferred to the Museum collection by
Prof. Riley (24017); 30 species of coleoptera collected in southern California and
transferred to the Museum collection by Prof. Riley (24018) ; 30 species collected
and transferred in the same manner (24056); series of 400 species of coleoptera
and 130 species of hemiptera (collected by Prof. Bruner in the United States and
Mexico) (24136); collection of tineidwe containing 900 specimens, representing
about 430 North American species, and 500 specimens, representing aboout 140
Juropean species (24277). (See under Massachusetts Society for Promotion of
Agriculture; Northern Pacific Railroad.)

AIKEN, WALTER (Franklin, N. H.). Two fresh specimens of Golden Trout (Salvelinus
aureolus). 23725.

ALASKA COMMERCIAL COMPANY (San Francisco, Cal.), through the Quartermaster-
General’s Department, U.S. A. Bidarka and outfit from Akoutan Island, 23768.
(See under Capt. Frank Curling.)

Aupricu, T. H. (Blocton, Ala.). Ten species of Red Bluff Eocene fossils, named by
the deseriber, Otto Meyer (23408) ; collection of Tertiary fossils from the southern
United States, illustrating the species described by Otto Meyer and for the most
part identified by him (23763).

ALFARO, Senor ANASTASIO. (See under Museo Nacional de Costa Rica. )

ALLEGHANY COLLEGIATE INSTITUTE (Alderson, W. Va.), through Mr. H. A. Evans.
Skull of a lion cub (Felis leo). 24030.

ALLEN, GEORGE A. (United States Indian Agent, Colorado River Agency, Parker,
Ariz.). Collection of pressed flowers and plants; 5 alcoholic specimens of
Hadrurus hirsatus and 6 specimens of Trombidium sp.3 4 lizards, representing 3
species, from the Colorado Indian Reservation ; 8 ethnological objects and 5 pieces
of pottery from the Mojave Indians (24160); 4 photographs of Mojave Indians
(24199).

* These are the result of the biological explorations carried on by Dr. Merriam and
his assistants in Idaho during the summer of 1890, A separate report has been
prepared and has been published in ‘“ North American Fauna” No. 5, pp. 109-113.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 769

ALLEN, Dr. J. A. (See under American Museum of Natural History.)

Aumy, THomas J. (Salt Lake City, Utah), through Dr. T. H. Bean. Specimen of
Grayling (Thymallus tricolor var. montanus). 24481.

AMERICAN HisroricaL ASSOCIATION, through A. Howard Clark, Assistant Secretary.
Manuscripts, drawings, letters, etc., comprising the ‘‘ Vail papers,” relating to
the invention and early application of the telegraph. 24466. Deposit.

AMERICAN MANGANESE COMPANY (Pittsburg, Pa.), through Mr. William Carnegie,
Superintendent. Specimens of manganese ore from Crimora, Va. 23770.

AMERICAN MUSEUM oF NATURAL History (New York city), through Dr. J. A.
Allen. Four skins of Chipmunk (Tamias bulleri and Tamias macrorhabdotes),
from Valparaiso, Mexico, and Blue Canon, California (23418); 2 fresh speci-
mens of Rhesus monkey (Macacus rhesus). (23987.) Exchange.

ANDREWS, Dr. E. A. (Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.). Five hundred
specimens, representing 57 species, of annelids from Beaufort, N. C., and Wil-
loughby’s Sand Spit, Va., forming the basis of Dr. Andrews’ paper* on the Annelida
Polycheta of Beaufort. 23930.

ANpRus, W. J. (Hackensack, N. J.). Three eggs of La Fleche fowl (23427); 2 La
Fleche fowls (24181); La Fleche pullets (24187, 24303).

APPLETON, NATHAN (Boston, Mass.). Six photographs of Indians. 24212.

ARCHER, JAMES R. (Mattapony, Va.). Specimen of tetradymite from the Whitehall
Gold Mine, Spottsylvania County. 23569.

ARMSTRONG, F. B. (Brownsville, Tex.). Two skins of Ferruginous Pygmy Owl
(Glaucidium phalenoides), and 4 skins of Texan Screech Owl (Megascops asio me-
eallii). 24432.

ARNHEIM, J. S. (San Francisco, Cal.). Specimens of Cancellaria crawfordiana and
albino land-shells. 24416.

ARNOLD, Hon. DELOS (Pasadena, Cal.). Collection of Pliocene and Postpliocene
fossils from San Pedro. 24112.

AveErRY, S. P. (New York city, N. Y.). Fifty-one etchings, lithographs, etc. 24342.

Avery, Dr, WILLIAM C. (Greensboro, Ala.). Two eggs of Carrion Crow (Catharista
atrata) (24207); egg of Chuck-will’s Widow (Antrostomus carolinensis) (24332) ;
nest and 4 eggs of Orchard Oriole (Icterus spurius) (24463). (See under Dr. J.
M. Pickett. )

Ayres, H. B. (Department of Agriculture). Seven specimens of ores of iron and
manganese from Minnesota and Dakota. 24327.

Ayers, H. D. (Northern Pacific Junction, Minnesota). Specimen of plumose mus:
covite. 24149.

Basson, Col. J. W. (U. 8. Patent Office). Patent granted to John W. Bronaugh
and Jesse Talbot for a refrigerator, March, 1813, signed by James Madison, Pres-
ident, and James Monroe, Secretary of State. 24429.

BacHe, RENE (Washington, D. C.). German beer mug. 23973.

Baaster, C. B. (Vineland, N. J.). Matrimony vine (Lycium vulgare) and spider
(Acrosoma spinea Hentz.) of the family Epeiride (23515); Ant lion from Florida
(24383).

BatLEy, H. W. (Newport News, Va.). Hight specimens of Cychrus elevatus and 2
specimens of Carabus serratus. 23772.

BaItLey, L. W. (See under University of New Brunswick. )

BalLey, 8. H. (Washington, D. C.). Grooved stone hammer from the bank of Park
River, N. Dak. 23786.

BatLEy, V. (See under Department of Agriculture, through Dr. C. Hart Merriam. )

Baker, Dr. FRANK. (See under Hon. J. O. Kerby, and M. J. Griffith.)

Baker, Marcus (U. 8S. Geological Survey). Twenty-eight specimens of Helix thy-
roides, from Washington, D. C. 23624. (See under E. W. Boker.)

*Published in Proceedings of the National Museum, Vol. XIV, pp. 277-302.
SM 91, PT 2 49

770 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891. -

BaLrour, HENRY (The Musewm, Oxford, England). Models of shell-lamps from the
southwest coast of Brittany, Orkney, and Shelter Islands, and French crusie
from Normandy (exchange) (23783); 2 iron lamps used by bakers for lighting
ovens, a spoon made of a pecten shell, and commonly used by the fishing people
on the south coast of Brittany (exchange) (24290); 4 sections of Asiatic com-
pound bows (gift) (24331). (See under Oxford Museum. )

Banks, NATHAN (Department of Agriculture). Ten species of coleoptera, including
a specimen of Zacotus matthewsii (collected by Mr. ‘Trevor Kincaid, of Olympia,
Wash. ) (23932); 20 species of arachnida, all new to the collection (24082).

BARBER, A. W. (Orlando, Fla.). Clay from the intestimes of an alligator; 6 frag-
ments of pottery from Fort San Luis, 3 miles from Tallehassee*, conglomerate,
and fossil shells. 24856.

Barr, L. (See under Singer Manufacturing Company.)

Barrows, Prof. W. B. (Department of Agriculture). Blotched King-snake (Ophi-
bolus rhombomaculatus), from Brookland, D. C. (23648); snake from same local-
ity (24214). (See under. )

BARTLEMAN, R. M. (Secretary of United States Legation, Caracas, Venezuela),
through Prof. O. T. Mason. A fine series of Argonauta argo and other marine
shells (23956); small pottery vase from the island of Gran Roque, stone imple-
ment or ornament from a cave in the Cordillera of Merida, Venezuela, small
polished hatchet and 2 stone chisels (23968) ; specimens of insects (24210); shells
from Cumana, salt from Salt Lakes at Cumana, alcoholic specimen of snake
from Caracas, 2 gourds and pieces of pottery (24216); Cicada used for medicinal
purposes, and other insects (24351).

BARTLETT, EDWARD (Museum, Maidstone, Kent, England). Fifty-one specimens,
representing 38 species, chiefly of Fringillide, from various localities. 23837,

BARTLETT, Dr. JOHN. (See under Capt. W. P. Nichols).

BasserTr GEORGE W. (Mattowoman, Md.). Rhinoceros beetle (Dynastes tityus).
23399.

BATCHELDER, C. F. (Cambridge, Mass.). Collection of reptiles, chiefly from Massa-
chusetts. 24057.

Bates, ELWYN (Whitman, Mass.), through Mr. L. O. Howard. Lepidoptera col-
lected in Nevada and Louisiana. 23492.

Bares, H. W. (See under Royal Geographical Society, London, England. )

Bates, 8. C. (See under J. Owens Berry.)

Barrie, H. B. (Director of the North Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station,
Raleigh, N. C.). Piece of meteorite from Henry County, Va., weighing 30}
grammes. 23639.

Baxter, Mrs. J. H. (Washington, D. C.). Thirty-seven specimens of ancient Pe-
ruvian pottery, collected by Mr. William Tryon and presented to Gen, Baxter
by Mr. Tryon.t 24195.

BayYLey, WiLutaAM (Washington, D. C.), through Thomas Marron. Specimen of
Leach’s Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa). 24440.

BrALES, E. V. (Denver, Colo.). Phyllopod crustacean, genus Apus trom Colorado.
23538.

BEAN, Barron A. (U.S. National Museum). Alcoholic specimens of fishes col-
lected by Mr. Bean, Mr. William P. Seal and party, in Chesapeake Bay, Septem-
ber 16-19, 1890, as follows: Tetrodon, Monacanthus, Alutera, Aphoristia, Achirus,
Paralichthys, Hypleurocheilus, Tautoga, Gerres, Orthopristis, Chetodipterus, Ser-
ranus, Pomatomus, Lagodon, Diplodus (2 species), Tylosurus, Hemirhamphus,
Menidia, Fundulus, Mugil, Scoliodon, Raia, Rhinoptera, ete., alcoholic specimens
of birds from Cape Charles, and Gull (Larus atricillus) (23573); Rana virescens,
from Cape Charles, Virginia, and specimen of Cuttle-fish from the same locality
(23596).

*San Luis is an old Spanish outpost, ‘‘ Doctrina,” and was the scene of a battle
in 1708.
tThis collection is exhibited and known as the ‘‘ Tryon Collection.”
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. CG

BEAN, Dr. T. H. (See under Thomas J. Almy, Frank W. Sparks.)

Breath, J. W. (Philadelphia, Pa.) Two specimens of pyrite cut from ring-stones
from the coal mines, Schuylkill County, Pa. (gift) (23442); 9 specimens of min-
erals, consisting of axinite, fowlerite, willemite, franklinite, garnet, niccolite,
monazite, calcite, and quartz; 135 cut stones, comprising 2 specimens of chryso-
beryl, 3 of tourmaline, 6 of chrysolite, 1 of almandite, and 1 of oligoclase
(24360); 15 intaglios of bloodstone, agate, carnelian, sardonyx, and labradorite
(24363). Purchase.

Beck, Routto H. (Berryessa, Cali.) Skin of a new species or subspecies of Sharp-
tailed Finch ( dmmodramus becki) from California. 24471.

Beck, W. H. (Washington, D.C.) Vanadinite from Rothschild mine, Beaver Head
County, Mont. 24492.

BECKER, Dr. GEORGE F. (U. S. Geological Survey). Two specimens of iridosmine
from California. 24170. (See under Interior Department; U. 8. Geological Sur-
vey).

BEEBE, EUGENE (Montgomery, Ala.). Iron pick and specimens of calcareous sand-
stone and sulphide of iron (pyrite) in which the pick was found embedded 18
feet deep. 23470.

BELDING, L. (Stockton, Cala.). Four skins of Belding’s Spermophile (Spermophilus
beldingi). 23533.

BELL, Dr. J. B. (Eagle Rock, Va.). White-pine trunk with inarched branch illus-
trating natural grafting. 24296.

BELL, WILLIAM (Philadelphia, Pa.). Photographie instantaneous shutter of 1859.
23422.

BEMENT, C.S8. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Manganite from Ilefeld, Hartz, Germany. 24438.

BENEDICT, J. E. (Smithsonian Institution). Skin of Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo bore-
alis) from Bull’s Island, Calibogue Sound, South Carolina (23961); 140 speci-

ens of birds’ skins, representing 50 species, from South Carolina* (23991); coiled
asket made by the negroes of North Carolina, interesting as a traditional sur-
vival of African handicraft (24238).

BENDIRE, Capt. CHARLES E. (See under Dennis Gale, Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Dr.
William L. Ralph, and O. B. Zimmerman).

BERDAN, Col. C. H. (Washington, D. C.). Berdan rifle and metallic cartridge
24188. Deposit.

Berry, J. OWENS (Ash Grove, Va.), through 8. C. Bates. Pileated Woodpecker
(Ceophleus pileatus) in flesh. 25883.

BETHUNE, Rev. J. S. (See under Prof. J. B. Smith).

BEVILL, Dr. CHEVES (Winfield, Ark.). Larva of Royal Walnut-moth (Citheronia re-
galis), collected by Mr. R. F. Payne (23403); carved stone pipe (catlinite), jasper
bead from a mound near Winfield, and specimen of caterpillar (23608) ; arrow-
heads, polished hatchets, grooved axes, pierced tablet, fragments of pottery,
piece of cretaceous limestone, fossil shell Exogyra costata, and fragment of Lepid-
odendron, probably Lecylostigma, from Scott County (24494).

BIBBINS, R. K. (Wilton Center, Il.). Shells. (23419, 23539.)

Bituines, L. G. (U.S. Navy). Collection of bird’s skins made by Mr. Billings during
the recent cruise of the Pensacola to Africa. The collection also includes some
specimens from St. Helena. 23341.

BINNEY, W. G. (Burlington, N. J.). Collection of slugs, types of descriptions by the
donor, forming a supplement to the Binney collection of land-shells. 23843.
Bisuor, W. L. (Kentville, Nova Scotia, Canada). Thirteen specimens of eggs of

Dendragapus canadensis, 23558. Purchase.
Buiack, J. L. (See under Magnetic Ironand Steel Ore Company, Blacksburg, 8. C.).

“An exceedingly acceptable collection, containing 5 specimens, representing a
species of Cistothorus marianw Scott, entirely new to the collection, as well as others
which were poorly represented, and many of importance for comparison and locality.
T72 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

BLaAckForD, Hon. E. G. (New York City). Tail of Sturgeon (Acipenser) from Sandy
Hook, New Jersey (23423) ; fresh specimens of Trigger-fish (Balistes vetula) (23496).
Albino Brook-trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) from Lackawaxen Creek, Wayne
County, Pa. (24230).

BLAKE, Lady Epiru (King’s House, Jamaica, West Indies), through Dr. A. S. Gats-
chet. Drawings of emblems of the Red Indian mythology, and a water-color
plate of Beothuck Indian ornaments. 23591.

Biount, Henry F. (Evansville, Ind.), through O. F. Jacobi. Small model plow.
23873.

BiountT, N. F. (See under Moses Eames).

Buunck, A. EK. (Johnstown, N. Y.). Black-breasted game fowls. (24159. 24215.)

Boas, Dr. FRANZ (Bay Center, Wash.). Ten ethnological objects from Cape Flat-
tery. 23490.

BoEHMER, GEORGE H. (Smithsonian Institution). Spider (Argiope riparia Hentz)
(23454) ; 885 official seals of foreign governments and institutions (23975).

Boker, E. W. (Washington, D. C.), through Mr. Marcus Baker, of the U. S. Geolog-
ical Survey. Common Marmoset (Hapale jacchus). 24312.

Boies, Lieut. T. Dix (U.S. Navy). Ethnological objects, 64 shells, sea-urchins,
corals, echini, and sponge, canoe and fittings from Samoa (23392); Samoan and
English Dictionary (1862); le Sina or white mat, Titi or leaf-girdle, Asoa or
necklace, Selu or comb, Fow or Ava strainer, piece of Ava root, Ete or baskets,
Uatogi or clubs, bundle of Salui or cigarette wrappers, bundle of limed hair,
tototise-shell ring inlaid with silver, shell used with bonito line as a decoy bait
(24120); Tapa-cloth from Marshall Island, basket and gold mat from Samoa,
and fire-bowl from Japan (24121).

BoLLMAN, C. H. (See under U. 8. Fish Commission. )

Bouton, Dr. H. C. (University Club, New York City, N. Y.). Three photographs of
Hawaiian surf-boards and surf-board riding. 23813.

BONAPARTE, Prince ROLAND (Paris, France). Fifty photographs of Somalis and
14 of Hotentots of Africa, forming a part of the great anthropological collection,
portions of which he has sent in former years. 24177.

Bonp, L. J. (Washington, D. C.). Two specimens of gold in quartz from Old Mary-
land Mine, Montgomery County, Md. 23937.

BOSWELL, HENRY (Washington, D. C.). Red carrier pigeon (23549); Black-barb
pigeon (24301).

Boranic GARDEN (Trinidad, West Indies), through J. H. Hart, superintendent.
Specimen of a newly discovered deposit of foraminiferous earth, ‘ Phillipine
deposit,” from Naparima district, Trinidad. 23402.

Bourkg#, Capt. JoHN G. (U.S. Army). Stone headed war-club of the Dakota Indians,
obtained from ‘‘ Fog Whirlwind,” one of the warriors of ‘Sitting Bull” band,
made while those Indians were fugitives in Canada (deposit) (24113) ; ethnological
specimens from Arizona and New Mexico, and stone implements, comprising
axes, hammers, rubbing-stones, etc., from the same locality (24142); collection
from cliff ruins and pueblos in Arizona and New Mexico, embracing textile fabries,
birds’ bones, obsidian flakes, basket work, flint and obsidian arrow points,
grooved and polished axes, rubbing-stones, paint-mullers, and other articles and
utensils (24169); Mesquite beans used as food at Fort Ringgold (24448); sling
used by the Indians of the State of Hidalgo, Mexico (deposit) (24483).

Bowman, Col. J. B. (Little Rock, Ark.) Manuscripts, deeds, books, and miscella-
neous relics pertaining to the pioneer history of the Shenandoah Valley and Ken-
tucky. 23947. Deposit.

Boyp, Hon.S. H. (United States consul, Bangkok, Siam). Playing-cards used in
Siam for gambling, and a set of dice, 24478,
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. ae

‘Boyp, Witi1AM J. (Brooklyn, N. Y.), through Prof.O.T.Mason. Model of the ves-
sel Half Moon, 24243.

Boyteg, C. B. (U.S. National Museu). Silver-mounted flute made by Laurent, of
Paris, and presented to President James Madison in 1813. 23906.

Brapy, J.C. (Wheeling, W. Va.,) through Mr. William Hallock, of the U.S. Geologi-
cal Survey. Carbon deposited from natural gas. 24411.

Brapy, J. H. (Education office, Cape Town, South Africa). Collection of insects,
representing 167 species. 23982. Exchange.

Bravpy, E. L. (Mitchell, Ga.). Indian pipe. 23824. Purchase.

BRAVERMAN, M. (Visalia, Cal.). Vertebra of Rattlesnake (Crotalus lucifer) from Tu-
lare County. 24223.

BRECKINRIDGE, Hon. WILLIAM C.P. (See under Mrs. Edward Troye).

BREWSTER, WILLIAM (Cambridge, Mass.) Spruce trunk from Maine, contaming
excavations of Pileated Woodpecker (23742); 3 specimens of Lower Califor-
nian Wood Pewee (Contopus richardsonii peninsula Brewst.); a recently described
subspecies, new to the collection (24119).

Brimtey, H. H. & C.S. (Raleigh, N.C). Twenty-four batrachians, representing 11
species, among which is a fine series of what is believed to be Holbrooke’s
“Salamander haldemanni,” a form apparently lost sight of since its original de-
scription (gift) (23943); 24 living Salamanders (purchase) (24247); skins of Gray
Squirrel (Sciwrus carolinensis,) Flying Squirrel (Sciuropterus volucella), Cotton
Rat (Sigmodon hispidus), Field Mouse ( Hesperomys leucopus ), Golden Mouse ( Hes-
peromys aureolus), and (Hesperomys palustris) (purchase.) (24271.)

BRINTON, Mrs. Emma S. (Washington, D.C.) Pottery lamp of green glaze from
Tunis, North Africa, 24064. Exchange.

BrIsTOoL, Prof. CHARLES L. (Vermillion, 8. Dak.). Catlinite pipe and stem. 23544.

BritisH MusEuM (London, England), through Mr. Augustus P. Ready. Fifteen
hundred and sixty-two reproductions of ancient gold and silver coins (purchase),
(23349). Twelve specimensof minerals from England and Scotland, consisting of
fluorite, galena, pearlspar, celestite, calcite, barite, witherite, and brewsterite
(exchange). (23532). Through Dr. A. Giienther. Collection of marine inverte-
brates and mollusks obtained from Australia, West. Indies, Japan, South Amer-
ica, Hawaiian Islands, Portugal, Scotland, and islands of the Pacific and In-
dian Oceans during the voyage of H. M. 8. Challenger (exchange). (23665).
Through Mr. Charles H. Read. Twenty-three ethnological specimens from Ka-
firland, South Africa (exchange). (23892).

Bnrirts, Dr. J. H. (Clinton, Mo.). One hundred and fifty specimens of Carboniferous
fossil plants representing about 35 species from the vicinity of Clinton (240438);
fossil plants (24294).

BRONSON, H.C. (Brandon, Vt.). Eight samples of mineral paints from Crown Point
Mineral Paint Company. 23407.

BROWN, ARTHUR (U.S. National Museum). Hognose-snake (Heterodon platyrhinus)
from the District of Columbia. 23705.

BROWN, CHARLES F.. (Hot Springs, Ark.). Wavellite from Mount Ida, Montgomery
County, Ala., and acrystal of yellow topaz from Brazil (23593); novaculite and
albite with quartz (25652); distorted quartz crystal and mica on quartz from
Saline County, Ark. (24319).

Brown, HerBeErT (‘Tueson, Ariz.). Egg of Colinus ridgwayi, new to the collection,
and 11 eggs (one set) of Callipepla squamata (23914); skin of Boucard’s Sparrow
(Peucwa ruficeps boucardi) trom Arizona (23970); 24 eges of Callipepla gambeli
(24071); skin of Snake, Mhinocheilus lecontei (24192); alcoholic specimen of
Worm-snake (Stenostoma humile) (24346); 9 eggs (one set) of Callipepla gambeli,
found in a nest of Palmer’s Thrasher, four and a half feet from the ground, in
a Cholla cactus, with a nest and 4 eggs of Pipilo fuscus mesoleucus (24403) ; 3 rare
Worm snakes (Stenostoma humile) (24412).
774 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Brown, R. W. (Washington, D. C.). Weathered shale found in Monmouth County,
N. J. (23972); Land snail (Helix aspersa) found in a bunch of bananas, probably
from Jamaica (24197).

BROWN, SEVELLON A. (See under Department of State.)

Brown, W. A. (See under W. E. Frye).

Brown, W. Q. (Riddle’s, Douglas County, Oregon). Nickel ore concentrates. 24066.

BRUNER, Prof. L. (See under Department of Agriculture, and under Prof. C. V.
Riley.)

Bryan, O. N. (Marshall Hall, Md.). One hundred and sixty-four stone relies from
Charles County, consisting of hammer-stones, grooved axes, polished hatchet,
paleolithic implements, rude notched implements, arrow and spear-points, pierced
tablet, stone slab with mortar-shaped cavities, fragment of a potstone vessel and
fragment of pottery. 23379.

BUCHANAN, WILLIAM. (See under New York Central and Hudson River Railroad
Company. )

Buck, CHARLES M. (See under University of Pennsylvania. )

BULL, Master E. (Brookland, D. C.), through Dr. Leonhard Stejneger. Living speci-
men of rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus). 23574.

BULLMAN, CHARLES (Plainfield, N. J.). Piece of barkcloth called damaqua, made by
the Indians of Choco, United States of Colombia, phosphates of alumina and iron
found on the island of Grand Connetable, 18 miles southeast of Cayenne, French
Guiana, little seed paint-pot used by the Choco Indians to hold red paint made
from anatto seeds, piece of lignite from gold and platinum alluvia, Condoto
River, Choco, and gold and platinum from Condoto River, Province of San Juan,
United States of Colombia. 23612.

Biret BRoTHERS (Rochester, N. Y.). A lately completed relief map of Palestine.
(deposit.) 24475.

Burket, H. F. (Findlay, Ohio). Plaster cast of flint arrow-point found in Hancock
County, formerly occupied by the Wyandotte Indians. 24514.

Burns, FRANK (U.S. Geological Survey). Collection of fresh-water mollusks from
the Potomac River (23354); bunch of oysters found on an old coffee-mill, and
a bunch attached to the neck of a whisky bottle (23912); specimen of cotton
bagging, manufactured from ‘‘Leaf Fiber” obtained from the needles or leaves
of Pinus palustris Miller, or the long-leaved pine, at or near Wilmington, N.
C. (23955); specimen of carpeting or matting also manufactured in the same
manner (24020). (See under D. T. McMillan. )

Burns, W. R. (Concord, Ky.). Arrow-head and fossil, Silurian (Cincinnati forma-
tion), Calymene senaria (23886); 18 stone implements consisting of arrow and
spear-points, tablet (natural formation slightly modified), a sinker, and a small
pendant or ornament from Lewis County (24032).

Burier, A. W. (Brookville, Ind). Alcoholic specimens of Physa heterostropha Say,
from a lake near Lake Valley, New Mexico. 24266.

Burr, W. 8. (Youngstown, Ohio). Fossil fruits (Trigonocarpus Dawseti L. & H.)
23514. Exchange.

Bury, JOHN. (See under Bureau of Ethnology, U. 8.)

Cairns, J. S. (Weaverville, N. C.). Nest of Buteo latissimus. 23425.

CALDER, Rev. WILLIAM CaREy (Crozer Theological Seminary, Chester, Pa.). One-
anna piece, 2-anna piece (2 specimens), 8-anna piece and a Rupee, representing 5
silver coins of Burmah. 24809.

CALIFORNIA STATE MINING BUREAU (San Francisco, Cal.). Two specimens of tie-
mannite in quartz, specimens of native antimony, auriferous feldspar, aurifer-
ous calcite and jasper, variscite, and 2 samples of ores from California, Nevada,
Mexico, and Honduras. 24323. Exchange.

CALVERLEY, WILLIAM (Barnegat, N. J.). Trumpet-fish (Fistularia tabaccaria).
23673.

—
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. T7D

CAMERON SILICA COMPANY (South Beddington, Me.), through C. E. Mitchell, su-
perintendent. Specimens of silica as it comes from the deposit, and after it has
been prepared. 24015.

CAMPFIELD, C. H. (Magdalena, New Mex.). Chrome iron ore. 23979.

CANDLER, Hon. J. W. (See under George H. Draper.)

CARNEGIE, WILLIAM. (See under American Manganese Company.)

CARPENTER, C.C. (See under J. L. Cheyney.)

CARPENTER, Cap. W. L. (U. S. Army, Madison Barracks, Sackett’s Harbor, N. Y.).
Alcoholic specimen of large Sucker (Catostomus cypho) from Verde River, Arizona,
and 3 alcoholic specimens of snakes (23723); 4 eggs and nest of Spizella socialis
arizone, 4 eggs and nest of Chondestes grammacus strigatus, 3 eggs and nest of
Vireo huttoni stephensi (?), 2 nests of Psaltriparus minimus, and 4 eggs and nest of
Icterus bullocki (24389); 3 eggs (one set) of Harporhynchus crissalis, 3 eggs (one
set) of Habia melanocephala, 2 eggs of Mimus polyglottus, 2 eggs and nest of
Icterus cucullatus nelsoni, 6 eggs and 2 nests of Chondestes grammacus strigatus,
(24424); nestand egg of Black-chinned Hummingbird ( 7rochilus alexandri), nest
and 3 eggs of Western Wood Pewee (Contopus richardsoni), nest and 6 eggs of
Lead-colored Bush-tit (Psaltriparus plumbeus), nest and 4 eges of Woodhouse’s
Jay (Aphelocoma Woodhousei), and 4 eggs of Spurred Towhee (Pipilo maculatus
megalonyx) (24476); 2 sets of eggs, 4 specimens and nest of Zenaidura macroura,
nest and 2 eggs of Contopus richardsoni, nest and ege of Spizella socialis arizone,
and nest and egg of Trochilus alecandri (24499).

CARROLL, WILLIAM C. (Virginia Beach, Va.), through Mr. Frederick W. True, U. S.
National Museum. Specimen of Siren lacertina froma fresh water pond near Dam
Neck Mills, Life Saving Station, Princess Anne County, Va. 24061.

CARTER, Miss Martian H. (Blowing Rock, N. C.). Flint core from Grandmother
Mountain, North Carolina. 23567.

CaRTER, WILLIAM J. (Washington, D. C.), through Prof. O. T. Mason. Sheet of the
log-book of the Egyptian steamer Dessomig. 24063,

CHAMPNEY, J. WELLS (New York city, N. Y.). Two parts (series 3 and 4) of ““New
England Scenery from Nature,” Boston, 1852. 24292.

CHANDLER, Prof. C. F. (Columbia College, New York city, N. Y.). Nine specimens
of photo-mechanical process work. 23928,

CHASE, GEORGE 8S. (Washington, D. C.). Forty-five specimens of minerals, consist-
ing of selenite, jasper-agate, moss-agate, moss-opal, galena, celestite, fibrous
gypsum, aragonite crystals, native silver, cerargyrite, sphalerite on chert,
wavellite, azurite, and pyromorphite from Kansas and other localities. 23796.
Purchase.

CHATELAIN, H®it (Vineland, N. J.). Sechuana Bible (Pentateuch) used by Dr.
David Livingstone in his journey from Cape of Good Hope to Loanda, Africa, in
1852, with autograph of Dr. Livingstone on the first page (gift) (23393); African
collection of rocks, shells, fossil-plants, bats, (including Phyllorhina commersoni),
and birds (Buphaga africana and Totanus), Lizard (Varanus niloticus), alcoholic
specimens of insects from St. Thome and Angola, alcoholic specimens of crab and
star-fishes from St. Thomas, birds’ nests, fungus, Polyporus Linhartii, and reptiles
gift) (25400); skull of Hippotamus (H. amphibius) from Angola, Agrica, 2 speci-
mens of coffee, one of cocoa beans and one of Manioca, collection of ethnographi-
cal objects from the native tribes of Angola, and 43 copper coins of Portugese
Africa and Azores Islands (gift) (23435); medicine-horns, apparatus for money-
belt making, spoon, medicine image, musical instruments, tobacco, pair of slip-
pers, love handkerchief from Angola, Africa (purchase) (24070); skin of croco-
dile from West Africa (purchase) (24162); specimen of hair from the head of a
McBamba negro (gift) (24190); ‘wooden spoon, wooden ‘‘idol” (Wzambi) and
loin cloth from the Mbaka tribe of Angola (gift) (24258).

CHEESEMAN, JAMES. (See under Deerfoot Farm Company. )
776 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

CHENEY, Mrs. Epnaw D. (Jamaica Plain, Mass.). Wood engraving, ‘portrait of
Seth Wells Cheney,” by G. Kruell (23699); proof of ‘Portrait of John Cheney”
engraved by 8. A. A. Schoff (24216).

CHENEY, 8S. F. (See under Dr. C. Hart Merriam.)

CHERRIE, GeorGE K. (Museo Nacional, Costa Rica). Egg of Vireo flavoviridis from
San José, new to the collection (24067); skeleton of Owl (Megascops nudipes)
(24150); 73 birds’ skins representing 22 species, all of which are valuable (24154).
(See under Museo Nacional, San José, Costa Rica.)

CHEYNEY, Judge J. L. (Fort Dodge, Iowa), through Hon. C. V. Carpenter and Hon.
J.P. Dolliver. Silver watch carried by Thomas Cheney, of Pennsylvania,
during the Revolutionary War. 23841.

Cureisty, THOMAS & Co. (London, England). Sample of the fruit of Kola, and two
beans, one from the west coast of Africa. 23537.

23537.

CHURCHILL, WILLIAM (Washington, D. C.). Four examples showing method of

tying square-knot netting. 23676.
CINCINNATI MusEUM ASSOCIATION (Cincinnati, Ohio), through J. H. Gest, assist-

ant director. Ethnological specimens selected from the Congo collection of

Carl Steckelman, in the Cincinnati Museum Association. 24469. Exchange.

CLARK, A. HowarRpD. (See under American Historical Association).

CLARK, EDWARD (Washington, D.C. ). Original full-size plaster model of the statue
of Liberty, by Thomas Crawford, used in making the moldin which the bronze
statue was cast, now surmounting the Capitol dome. 23834,

CLARKE, J.M. (See under Prof. O. A. Derby).

CLARKE, Miss Mary E. (Chambersburg, Pa.). Hand-made terracotta bottle-vase,

decorated with applied vine leaves and grapes in relief. 23680.

CLARKE, Miss Una H. (Washington, D. C.). Commission of J. B. Smithas notary pub-
lie, signed by Governor Marcus Morton, of Massachusetts, in 1825, and a com-
mission to him signed by Governor baw Lincoln in 1828. 23946.

CLARKE, W. EAGLE (Edinburgh Museum of Science and Art, Edinburgh, Scotland).
Eleven birds representing 9 species from England, Azore Islands, Siberia, and
Japan. 23671. Exchange.

CLEVELAND, R.M. (Marietta, S. C.). Specimen of polycrase. 24387

CiiInr, GreorGE W. (Tampa, Fla). Phosphate rock. 24095.

COCHOWER, GEORGE F. (See under White River Quarry Company. )

Cosy, Gen. L. W. (Beatrice, Nebr.). Portion of the skull and horncore. of Bison
latifrons; a fossil from Withlacoochee River, Florida. 24052.

Couuer?r, Dr. ROBERT (Director of the Zodlogical Museum, Christiania, Norway).
Skeleton of Porpoise (Lagenorhynchus albirostris). 24236. Exchange.

CoLuins, G. F. and Cook, O. F. (Syracuse, N. Y.). Types of North American
Geophilide mounted on eight microscopic slides. 23854.

Comstock, F. M. (Le Roy, N. Y.), through Forest and Stream Publishing Com-
pany. Brook-trout (Salvelinus fontinalis), from Caledonia Creek, New York.
24477

CONDON, Prof. T. (Eugene City, Oregon). Five fresh-water mollusks representing
two species of fossils from the tertiary of Oregon. 23695.

ConveErRsE, I. C. (Sandwich, Il.). Cast of stone ax from La Salle County, III.
24054. Exchange.

Cook, ©. F. (See CoLiins, G. F.)

Coox®, Prof. A. J. (See under Agricultural College, Lansing, Mich., and Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )

Cooke, Dr. CLINTON T. (Salem, Oregon). Two eggs of Puget Sound Screech Owl
( Megascops asio saturatus), new to the collection. 24184.

Copr, Prof. E. D. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Two obsidian points from the ‘* Equus
beds ” near Silver Lake, Oregon. 24358,

ar
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. i

“I

Cc OQUnEE br, D. W. (See under Department of Agriculture. )

Cory, C. B. (Boston, Mass.). Forty birds’ skins representing 25 species, chiefly
from the West Indies. 23846.

CoTroM, CHARLES W. (Dunbar, Pa.). Piece of charcoal taken from the “ Hill
Farm Mine,” 1,500 feet from the mouth of the pit. 24125.

Cougs, Dr. ELiiorr (Washington, D.C.). Specimen of Tinamou ( Hudromias elegans).
24140.

CouLson, Capt. W. C. (U. 8. Revenue Marine Service). (See under Treasury De-
partment, U.S. Revenue Marine. )

Cox, ARTHUR M. (Chicago, Il.). Twenty-seven birds’ skins representing 21 spe-
cies. 24080.

Cox, Mrs. C. C. (Washington, D. C.). Two eggs of Australian Emeu. 23728.

Cox, Pnitie (Newcastle, New Brunswick, Canada). Four species of fishes, con-
sisting of Catostomus teres, Semotilus bullaris, Uranidea boleoides, and Notropis
megalops. 25708.

Cox, Mrs. 8.8. (New York City, N. Y.), through Mr. W. V. Cox. Large framed pho-
tographs of the late Hon. 8. 8. Cox. 23383.

CRAMER, G. (St. Louis, Mo.). Daguerreotype of Daguerre. 23473

CRESSON, Dr. HILBORN T. (Philadelphia, Pa.). One thousand one hundred and
twenty-eight archeological objects collected by Messrs. William Reilly and F.
G. Smith, at the mouth of the “Ancient Aboriginal Fish-weirs ” inside the mouth of
Naaman’s Creek, near Claymont, Del., and 5 specimens from the cavern of Le
Moustier, France (deposit) (23766) ; five hundred and thirty-six archeological ob-
jects from Delaware, Pennsylvania, and East Tennessee (gift) (24318).

Crockett, D. F. (Bridgeport, Conn.). Two pieces of Zanzibar gum. 23771.

Crossy, C.H. (Bridgeport, Conn.). Partridge Cochin fowl. 23765.

Crossy. F. W. (Washington, D. C.), through the Quartermaster’s Department, U.
8S. Army. Geological material from Mexico, New Mexico, and Texas (gift)
(24310); rocks from California (purchase) (24372); geological material from
California Sa (24524).

Crossy, Prof. W. O. (Boston, Mass.). Two samples of nickel ore from Sudbury,
Ontario, Canada (23746); 3 specimens of nickeliferous pyrohatite from Dracut,
Mass. (24088). Exchange.

Cross, WHITMAN. (See under Interior Department, U.S. Geological Survey.)

Croucn, R. B. (Chicago, Ill.) Sample of rock salt from Kingman, Kans. 23951.

Curry, Josian (Fort Monroe, Va.). Spanish silver dollar of 1806, 5-centime
nickel piece of Switzerland of 1850, 10 pfennig of Germany of 1876, English
shilling of 1874, 25 cents of Canada of 1872, 10 reis Spanish coin, 14 copper coins
and tokens of the United States and England. 23919.

CULIN, Stewart (Museum of Archeology and Paleontology, University of Penn-
sylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.). Set (5 pieces) of apparatus for playing fan-tan,
set of dice, knuckle-bones of sheep (primitive dice used in gambling), spirit-
cups, marbles, and bundle of slow matches from China (exchange) (24314); 2
packs of Austrian and Belgian playing-cards, bought in Beirut, Syria, and 2
packs from Philadelphia, 1857, early type, and New York and Philadelphia, first
“double headers” (gift) (24402).

CURLING, Capt. FRANK, through Capt. 8. A. Day, U.S. Army, Port Mason, San Fran-
cisco, Cal., and Alaska Commercial Company. Dugout found by Capt. Curling,
of American ship Joseph S. Spinney, about 210 miles off the Pelew or Baloa Islands,
in the western Pacific Ocean (23888).

Curtis, WILLIAM E. (Department of State). Album of portraits of the officers and
members of the International American Conference, held at Washington in 1889-
1890 (23364) ; photograph of Carib relics from St. Vincent 24379.

Dati, Mrs. C. H. (Washington, D. C.). Auriferous black sand from the coast of
Mendocino County, Cal. (23633).
778 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Day, WILLIAM H. (U.S. Geological Survey). Fresh-water shells from California

and Oregon (23689); specimen of Acridium americanum from the Distriet of Co-
lumbia (23748); 2 specimens of Chernes sp., taken from the house-fly (23819) ;
specimens of Aspergillum vaginiferum Lam., Strombus fasciatus, Bulimus Marieli-
nus, and Bulla sp., from the Indo-Pacific Ocean and Florida (23978); turban from
Bombay (24401).

Dana, GEORGE H. (Washington, D. C.). Land-locked Salmon (Salmo salar sebago),
20 inches long, from St. John Lake, Quebec, Canada 23452.

DaniEL, Dr. Z. T. (Cheyenne River Agency, South Dakota). Forty stone imple-
ments, teeth, and pottery found in remains of Indian houses, represented by
circular mounds from 10 to 50 feet in diameter with depressed centers.* Col-
lected at the suggestion of Indian Commissioner T. J. Morgan (23444); pair
of tweezers from the Sioux Indians, and an arrow-head from the Arickarees, South
Dakota (23489); tobacco pouch made by Sioux Indians from the skin of foetal
deer, and the marrow bones of an antelope, showing the Indian method of ex-
tracting marrow (23675); bones of Sioux Indians and buffalo horns found on
the site of an ancient barial-place on the Missouri River near the Cheyenne River
Agency (24013; pipe of natural wood made by the Sioux Indians (24167); piece
of red pipestone, engraved on each side and edge (24244); 6 scrapers, 3
arrow-heads, and 4 broken pieces or chips from the ruins of houses formerly oe-
cupied by the Ree Indians, and 3 flint scrapers found on the ground of the
agency (24449); flint scraper found near Fort Bennett, South Dakota (24495) ;
portion of a gun found by an Indian on the Custer battlefield in 1880 (24526).

DANTAGNAN, J. D. (New Orleans, La.). Crab (Platyonichus ocellatus Latreille), com-
monly known as the ‘ Lady Crab” or “Sand Crab,” caught inthe Gulf of Mex-
ico. 24513.

Davis, JOHN P. (New York City, N. Y.). Two signed proofs on Japan paper from
wood-engravings made by the donor, 25994.

Dawson, J. WiLiiaM (MeGill University, Montreal, Canada). Eight photographs
of carboniferous batrachians. 24362.

Day, Dr. Davin T. (U. 8. Geological Survey). Silicon made by electrolysis from
quartz, by the Herault Aluminum Company of Boonton, N. J. (24100); corundum
from Shimersville, Pa., and diaspore from Chester, Mass. (24392).

Day, Capt.S. A., U. 8. Army (see under Capt. Frank Curling).

DEERFOOT FARM COMPANY (Southboro, Mass.), through James Cheesman). Old
original centrifugal separator, erected on the Deerfoot Farm in 1879, 23774.
DELANEY, JAMES M. (Rochester, N. Y.). Specimen of Hystricia abrupta Wied.

(23429); specimens of Pupa badia from near Erie Canal, N. Y. (23581).

Denison, D. A. (Washington, D. C.). Thoroughbred Italian grayhound, 24373.

DERBROW, GEORGE W. (Indio, Cal.), through Mr. C. R. Oreutt. Two alcoholie speci-
mens of Rattlesnake (Crotalus cerastes) from near Salton, Cal. 24321.

Drrsy, Prof. O. A. (Brazil, South America), through Prof. J. M. Clarke, University
of the State of New York. Thirty-seven specimens, representing 5 genera, 14
species, and 1 variety from the Devonian group of Brazil, consisting of Proctus
pullinus Clarke, Crypheus paituna H. & E., Homalonotus acanthurus Clarke, Ho-
malonotus ciara Hartt & Rathbun, Homalonotus derbyi Clarke, Phacops brazili-
ensis Clarke, Phacops menurus, Phacops macropyge Clarke, Dalmanites tumilobus
Clarke, Dalmanites gemellus, Dalmanites australis Clarke, Dalmanites scirpeus
Clarke, Dalmanites maceurua Clarke, Dalmanites maccurua var. Dalmanites galea
Clarke. 23682.

Drevor, F. W., & Co. (New York City, N. Y.). Eleven bladders containing oil colors,
as formerly put up for artists’ use. 24269.

DE WERTHEIM, A. T., & SON (San Luis Potosi, Mexico). Collection of topaz erys-
tals. 24276.

* These houses were inhabited by the Rees (Arickarees of the Pawnee family),

LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 7719

Dry, FreDERICK M. (Franklin, N. H.). Two fresh specimens of Golden-trout (Sal-
velinus aureolus)., 23725.

Dickerson, MAX E. (Shelby, Ohio). Photograph of Sitting Bull’s war-cloak. 23721,

Dietz, O. (New York City, N. Y.). ITifteen species of coleoptera, of which 7 are new
to the collection. 23963.

Dicer, Prof. J. 8. (U. 8. Geological Survey). Two specimens of conglomerate, one
from near the Point of Rocks and the other from near Leesburg, Va. (24143);
2 specimens of conglomerate from near Point of Rocks, Md. (24164).

D’INVILLIERS, Epwarp VY. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Phosphates from the island of Na-
vassa, West Indies. 25901.

DopGr, Byron E. (Richfield, Mich.). Stone axe with handle, red stone pipe, and
an arrow-head from Genesse County, New York. 24272.

DonGer, 0. G. (U. S. Navy). (See under Interior Department. U. 8S. Geological
Survey.)

DopGe, Col. W. C. (Washington, D. C.). Collection of breech-loading firearms and
other projectile weapons, numbering 70 specimens (24171); patent granted to
Alexander Melville Clark by the English Government in 1877, and an assign-
ment of the patent to Watson Kerr in 1877 (24430). . Loan.

Dopson, Rev. WittrAmM P. (See under The Bishop Taylor Mission. )

DotiivER, Hon. J. P. (House of Representatives). Fragment of meteorite from
Winnebago County, lowa. 23449. (See under J. L. Cheyney.)

DouGaL, WILLIAM M. (Georgetown, D. C.). Drawing of a powdering box for lay-
ing a dry aquatint ground. (23691). Purchase.

DowuinG, THOMAS, jr. (Washington, D. C.). Four swords and a fireman’s brass
trumpet (23809); cast of large quartzite implement found near Cabin John’s
Bridge (23989); two engravings of the Tartar Wars, China (24134).

Draper, GeorGE H. (Paris, France), through D. S. Lamson, of Weston, Mass., and
Hon. J. W. Candler. Account book of Royal Treasurer under Louis XV, for the
year 1768, signed by Louis XVI, March 28, 1780. 23428.

DressiER, Rev. 8S. G. (Oriental, Pa.). Chrysalis of Milk-weed butterfly (Danais
plexippus) found in a potato field, suspended from the leaf stem of a potato vine.
23555.

Durour, Dr. F. (Washington, D.C.). Broad-winged Hawk ( Buteo latissimus) in the
flesh, from Paint Branch, Maryland (23565); Barred-owl (Syrnium nebulosum) in
the flesh, from Riverdale, Md. (23577).

Durour, Dr. T. F. R. (Washington, D.C.). Skin of Ani (Crotophaga ani) from Na-
vassa Island, West Indies. 23808.

DuaGnks, Prof. A. (Guanajuato, Mexico). Specimens of Rhodinocichla schistacea from
southern Mexico (23478); skin of the rare Picolaptes leucogaster from Micoachan,
Mexico (24288); skin of Ferruginous Pigmy-owl (Glaucidium phalenoides) from
Vera Cruz (24423).

DuRAND, John (Paris, France). Two Chaldean figures cast from the original in the
Louvre. 23788. (See under Charles Gindriez).

Dury, CHARLES (Avondale, Ohio). Fifty-seven specimens mostly of coleoptera rep-
resenting 27 species. 24473. Exchange.

Eakins, L. G. (See under Interior Department. U.S. Geological Survey.)

EAMES, Mosrs (Watertown, N. Y.), through Mr. N. F. Blount, of Washington, D.
C. Plow made by Col. William Lord in 1820. This plow was awarded a pre-
miwn at the Jefferson County Fair, held the same year, for the best machine
manufactured. 23969. Deposit.

Epwarps, Henry (New York City, N. Y.). Alcoholic specimen of Lesser Dormouse-
phalanger (Dromicia concinna) trom western Australia, 3 alcoholic specimens,
representing 3 species of reptiles from Australia, South America, and Florida;
alcoholic insects from Florida; spiders, scorpions, myriopoda, and larve from
Argentine Republic, and spiders from Australia, dry specimens of sponges,
erabs, and starfishes from New Zealand, 23891.

«
780 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Epwarps, H. W. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Egg ofved and blue Macaw parrot (Ara macao),
24350.

EINSTEIN, Col. 8S. (Poundmaster, Washington, D. C.). Greyhound, for skeleton, 23482.

ELLIOTT—PALMER (Messrs. Henry W. Elliott and William Palmer, Washington, D.C.).
Three hundred and nine specimens of birds’ skins, representing 45 species, chiefly
from Unalaska and the Pribyloff Islands, Alaska, 16 skins of Foster’s Shrew (Sorex
fosteri), 5 skins of common mouse, Mus musculus, 7 skins of Arctic Fox (Vulpes
lagopus), 6 skins of Spermophile (Spermophilus empetra), 6 skins of Fur Seal Cal-
lorhinus wrsinus, and 3 skins of head of same, from Alaska; Lepidopsetta, Pol-
lachius, Chirolophus juv., Trichodon, Cottus, Gasterosteus, Laparis, Hexagrammus,
and Squalus acanthias trom St. Paul Island, Alaska, crustaceans, sponges, echino-
derms, worms, ascidians, and actinians from St. Paul Island and Unalaska; birds’
skeletons, voleanic breccia, iron sand concretion around grass roots, gold ore,
marine and fossil shells, birds’ nests and eggs, plants, insects, and sinews of ani-
mals used for thread (23646), skin and skull of Steller’s Sea-lion (Humetopias
stelleri), from Alaska. (23851).

ELLIs, JOHN F., & Co. (Washington, D.C.). Dulcimer. 23894. Purchase.

Ey, THEO N. (general superintendent, motive power, Pennsylvania Railroad, Al-
toona, Pa). Car wheel of the same class of wheels in use under the first locomotive
and cars run on the New Jersey Railroad, and similar to those used under the
cars when they were drawn by horses, prior to the use of the locomotive. 23835.

Emery, Epwarp C. (San Diego, Cal.). Specimen of Tegrodera erosa Lse. 24405.

Emery, JOHN N. (Northville, Mich.). Indiantomahawk. Deposit. 24467. Returned.

Emery, W. E. (Kansas City, Mo.). Polisbed section of Ammonite. 24179.

ENGEL, L. (New York City, N. Y.). Candle-holder used by miners in Leadville, Colo.,
and book used by the Mormons in Utah (gift) (24128) ; buffalo robe, 2 blankets,
pair of buckskin pants, bucksin jacket, pair of schacks, and a bag (purchase).
(24232).

ENGLE, Horace M. (Roanoke, Va.). Five specimens of tscheftkinite from Bedford
County, Va. 24842.

ENGELHARDT, F. E. (Syracuse, N. Y.). Oak branch with leaves covered with galls
of Holcaspes centricola O. 8. 25446.

ENGLISH, GEORGE L., & Co. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Seventeen specimens of minerals
from various localities, consisting of fluorite, jadite, bloodstone, calcite, ame-
thyst, apovhyllite, hyalite, topaz, pickeringite, allanite, eudialyte, and garnet
(23694); pyromorphyte, pyrargyrite, pink grossularite, hyalite, calcite, apo-
phyllite, opal-agate, opal, fluorite, laurionite, allenmontite, cassiterite, green
tourmaline, barite, hematite, cuprite, bournonite (24375). Purchase.

ErvInG, R. M. (Intervale, N. H.). Distorted white pine found on the southwestern
slope of Bartlett Mountain. 23845.

Essex IystiruTr (Salem, Mass.), through Dr. Henry Wheatland, president. Pho-
tograph of an original box of lucifer matches. 23981.

Estrs & Lauriar (Boston, Mass.). Blind impression from an etched plate, with
two duplicates. 23715.

PTHNOLOGY, BUREAU OF, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution (through
Maj. J. W. Powell, Director). One thousand two hundred and nineteen ethno-
logical and archeological objects collected by Messrs. William H. Holmes, H.
L. Reynolds, F. D. Snyder, Charles Miller, Thomas Harper, and John Bury. 24012.

Evans, H. A. (See under Alleghany Collegiate Institute. )

EVERMANN, Prof. B. W. (Greencastle, Ind). Collection of fishes from the Bay of
Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, made in 1887 by Profs. B. W. Evermann and O. B.
Jenkins, including types of Rhinoptera steindachneri, Menidia clara and Upeneus
rathbuni.* 23988.

Ewart, Hon. H. G. (House of Representatives). Specimen of auerlite from Hen-
derson County, N. C. 23561.

*Published in proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, Vol. x1, 1888, pp. 137-158.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 781

FAHRION, G. W. (Cohunbus, Ohio). Ten rude stone implements from near Colum-
bus, 4 pieces of bone, piece of mica, and piece of flint from a mound near Upper
Sandusky, Ohio. 23831. Deposit.

Fatconer, J. M. (Brooklyn, N. Y.). Collection showing various ways of putting
up colors for the use of artists, and a Chinese artist’s brush (24252); 5 kinds of
tools and materials of various kinds used by artists (24452).

FARRER, W. J. (See under H. Henry Heathcote.)

FARRINGTON, O. C. (Fair Haven, Conn.). Cordierite gneiss from Guilford, Conn.
23859. Exchange.

FAUNTLEROY, W. H. (Bakersfield, Cal.). Gypsum, cement-rock, and clay. 24455.

Frernow, Dr. B. E. (U. 8. Department of Agriculture). View of avenue of Japan-
ese cedar (Cryptomeria Japonica) (24335); model of tree-planting machine in-
vented by Mr. Thomas L. Stratton. (25336.) Deposit.

FERREIRA, A. (See under Department of Agriculture, through Dr. C. Hart Merriam.)

Ferry, Mrs. C. M. (Oneida, N. Y.). Plants from South Africa, 24307. Exchange.

FERSINGER, JOHN (Washington, D. C.). Yellow fantail pigeon for skeleton. 23563.

FESLER, BERT. (See under U.S. Fish Commission.)

Fick, G. A. (Baltimore, Md.). Spangle-winged Swallow-pigeon. 24422.

Fincu, J. MILton (Dayton, Ohio). Segments of crinoid column, 23917.

First JAPANESE AND TRADING COMPANY (New York City). Collection of wood
and ivory carvings, bronzes, costumes, and other articles. 23887. Purchase.
Fisu, CHARLES F. (Fall River, Mass.). Photographs of the old stone mill at New-

port, R. I., and one of the windmill in Portsmouth. 23421.

FisH CommissIon, U. 8.

Through Col. Marshall McDonald, Commissioner: Small collection of brachyuran
crustaceans obtained by the schooner Grampus during the winter of 1888~89,
off the coast of Florida (23487) ; alcoholic collection of type series of fresh-water
fishes collected during the summer of 1889 in Missouri, Arkansas, Colorado,
Utah, Georgia, and Alabama, by Prof. 8. E. Meek, Dr. D. S. Jordan, C. H. Boll-
man, B. Fesler, and others (23493) ; 28 specimens of fishes etre by the steamer
Albatross on the Pacific Coast of North America during 1889, being the types of
16 of the new species recently described by Prof. Charles H. Gilbert in the Pro-
ceedings of the National Museum (23787); fresh specimen of Rainbow Trout ar-
tificially colored at Bucksport, Me., and 2 fresh specimens of the Black-fin White-
fish collected in Miltona Lake, Minnesota, by Mr. James R. B. Van Cleane,
Trout (Salmo trideus) and Whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) (23811); collection
of 60 species of fishes from the vicinity of Charles City, Va., obtained by Mr.
William P. Seal, during September and October, 1890 (23900); 1,128 specimens
of brachyurans and anomouran crustaceans, representing 38 species, collected
by the steamer Albatross, on the Pacific Coast of North America (23904) ; 327
specimens, representing 15 species of duplicate echini, obtained from the collee-
tions of the steamer Albatross in the North Pacific Ocean in 1888 and 1889 (24036) ;
collection of fishes representing 90 specimens, made by the steamer Albatross
from the Galapagos Islands and Panama, during the spring of 1888 (24037) *; 163
specimens of mollusks, collected by the Fish Commission schooner Grampus, off
the west coast of Florida during the spring of 1889 (24038); a large collection of
fishes made by the steamer Albatross on the cruise from Norfolk to San Francisco
in 1877—88, mainly from Brazil, but a few from Patagonia and the Straits of
Magellan (24039)t; fishes and reptiles from Alabama, obtained by Messrs. P. H.
Kirsch, and party in May, 1889 (24047); collection of fishes made in Georgia in

“For lists of specimens with descriptions of new species, see ‘* Proceedings, U. S
National Museum,” Vol. x11, pp. 149-183, and Vol. x11, pp. 449-455.

For list of species obtained and new forms described, see ‘‘ Proceedings U. 8. Na-
tional Museum,” Vol. x11, pp. 313-336,
182 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Fish Commission, U. 8.—Continued.

1889, by Messrs. C. H. Bollman and Bert Fesler (24048); small collection of fishes
consisting of Halichwres radiatus, Lutjanus analis, Maltheradiata, Eulamia limbata,
and Lepomis pallidus, made by Dr. J. A. Henshall in 1889 (24049); collection of
fishes from the Gulf of Mexico, made by the schooner Grampus in 1889 (24098) ;
447 crabs belonging to the genus Panopeus collected during recent years by the
Fish Commission (24280); 2,179 specimens of brachyurans, representing 23 spe-
cies obtained partly from the dredgings of the steamer Albatross in the Pacific
Ocean and partly from the Atlantic coast (24517).

Through Mr. W. H. Abbott: Specimens of a small variety of barnacle found at-
tached to rushes growing on the shore of Clear Water Harbor, Florida (24141),

FisHeR, ADAM (Moorefield, W. Va.). Oriskany sandstone containing fossils. 23908.

FisHER, WiILuiAM H. (Baltimore, Md.).  Long-billed Marsh Wren (Cistothorus
palustris) in the flesh, from Black River, Maryland. 24454.

FirznuGu, D. H. (Bay City, Mich.). Trout-perch (Percopsis guttatus) from the
mouth of the Saginaw River. 23935,

FLECHTER, VicToR 8. (New York City). Viola d’amour from Germany, Ifurdy-
Gurdy and Kit from London (purchase) (23899); 2 photographs (back and front
view) of Paganini violin, made by Guarnerius, now on exhibition at Genoa,
Italy (gift) (23938).

FLETCHER, Dr. R., Army Medical Museum. (See under Lieut. R. H. Fletcher, U.S.
Army.) .

FLETCHER, Lieut. RopERT H. (U.S. Army). Gaming-sticks used by the Hupa In-
dians of California (23829), through Dr. Robert Fletcher, Army Medical Museum,
dance-stick, 2 arrows, photograph of ‘‘White Deer Dance” of the Hupa Indians
(24368).

FLETCHER, 8S. M. (Lima, Ohio), through Hon. 8. 8. Yoder. Oil-sand rock from the
Union Oil Company, well No. 9, on the Barse Track, McKean County, Pa., ob-
tained from a depth of 1,730 feet. 24109.

FLowEr, Hon. ROSWELL P., M. C. (House of Representatives). Old iron axe, English
penny of 1734, brass button, brass arrow-point, 27 stone arrow-points, and stone
tablet found near the ruins of Fort George, New York. 23547.

FOLGER, Commander WILLIAM L. (U.S. Navy). (See under Navy Department,
Bureau of Ordnance. )

Footr, A. E. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Thirty-one minerals from various localities, con-
sisting of calcite, apophyllite, native sulphur, smithsonite, serpierite, hydrozine-
ite, thulite, pyrite, hematite, senarmontite, and 3 cup opals (24370); 28 minerals
consisting of hematite, valentinite, nadorite, apatite, cerussite, scorodite, adam-
ite, scheelite, glauberite, hedenbergite, apophyllite, and calcite. (24434). Pur-
chase.

FOREST AND STREAM PUBLISHING COMPANY (New York City). Two alcoholic
specimens of Lepomis cyanellus from Argentine, Mich., and Caranx sp. from an
unknown locality. 23495. (See under F. M. Comstock. )

ForRESTER, R. (Scofield, Utah). Fossil shell, Goniobasis macilenta White, from the
Laramie Group, Iron County, Utah. 24295.

Forwoop, Dr. W. H., U. 8S. Army (Soldiers’ Home, Washington, D. C.). Sphene
crystals, from Bridgewater, Delaware County, Pa., crystal of selenite from Ells-
worth, Ohio, and 4 specimens of quartz from Crystal Mountain, near Hot Springs,
Ark. 23865.

Foster, F. D. (Norwalk, Ohio). Forty-two photographs of Zulus, copied from pic-
tures brought by Mr. and Mrs. Richards from Zululand. 25602.

Foster, Mrs. R. A. (New York City, N. Y.). Sword presented to Albert H. Foster
in 1862, by Company D, Twenty-fifth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteers, of
which he was a member. 24418.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 183

FOWKE, GERARD (Sidney, Ohio). Quartz gorget and an arrow-shaft rubber, from
Monongahela City, Pa.; large, rude, chipped implements and 2 small flints of pe-
culiar forms, from Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio; perforator, from Ripley,
Ohio, and a hematite cone from Augusta, Ky. 238599. Purchase.

FowLeER, JOHN J. (Washington, N. C.). Miocene fossils from Wilmington, N. C,
(collected by Mr. Fowler). 24076.

FRANCIS, JOSEPH (Minneapolis, Minn.). Silver medal of Franklin Institute, Penn-
sylvania, presented to Mr. Francis in 1854;” gold medal, from Ferdinand II,
King of Sicily; silver medal, a decoration of the Société Générale des Nauf-
rages, France; insignia of the Order of St. Stanislaus, presented by the Em-
peror of Russia. 23360.

FRAZER, GEORGE B. (West Medford, Mass.). One hundred and fifty-eight stone im-
plements from Blackman’s farm, Blackmans Point, at the mouth of Cut River,
Marshtield, Mass. 23756. Exchange.

Frey, 8. L. (Palatine Bridge, N. Y.). Collection of archeological objects, consisting
of a hammer-stone, 3 pieces of flint rudely chipped, 69 fragments of pottery and
fragments of animal bones, shells, and other specimens. 23437. Exchange.

FRIEDENWALD, Dr. H. (Baltimore, Md.). Piece of cloth stamped in Hebrew intended
for a bag to contain the Phylactery (23413); 17 photographs of Jewish syna-
gogues. (23474.) Purchase.

FRITILLARIA CLUB OF YAKIMA VALLEY (North Yakima, Wash.), through Mrs. S. E.
Steinweg, president. Collection of botanical specimens. 23871.

Frost, L. L. (Susanville, Cal.). Stone mortar, found 6 feet below the surface near
Honey Lake, obsidian point with shoulders on one side, from the bank of the
Susan River, 2 obsidian arrow-points from near Susanville, perforated stone tab-
let found 6 feet below the surface with remains of human skeleton, 2 round peb-
bles, and a flint perforator from Snake Creek, Nevada. 23441.

Fry, C. W. (Luckett’s Virginia). Barn Owl (Strix pratincola) in the flesh. 23885.

FRYE, W. E. (Royal Observatory, Cape Town, South Africa), through Prof. Cleve-
land Abbe and W. A. Brown. Small series of antelope horns (23467); specimen
of asbestus from Orange River, Mount Hopetown; Iceland spar from Van-Rhyn-
Dorf, west coast; pierced stone—Bushman’s club-head or sling-stone—found near
Cape Saint Francis lighthouse, South Africa; skull of Tiger (Felis pardus) from
Cape Leopard, Hamansdorp, and a small gourd used as a whistle. (23670.)

Fuiron, HuGH (South Kensington, London, 8. W., England). Eight fresh-water
and marine shells representing 7 species (purchase) (23491); 15 specimens of
shells. Exchange. (24444.)

GALE, DENIS (Gold Hill, Colo.), through Capt. Charles E. Bendire. Four birds’
skins representing 3 species from Colorado (23909); 4 eggs (1 set) of Accipiter
cooperi, 5 eggs of Colymbus nigricollis californicus, 5 eggs of Fulica americana, 4
eggs of Recurvirostra americana, 4 eggs of Phalarepus tricolor, 4 eggs and nest of
Empidonax pusillus, 4 eggs and nest of Empidonax hammondi, 3 eggs and nest of
Geothlypis trichas occidentalis, 4 eggs and nest of Certhia familiaris montana, 3
eges and nest of Spizella socialis arizone (23913).

GARBUTYT, GEORGE (New York City, N. Y.). Two specimens of asbestus from the
“Queen of the Hills” mine, Bradford, Logan County, Idaho. 23919.

GARDNER, J. (Savannah, Ga.). White albino Rice-bird. 23516.

GARNER, R. L. (See under Johannes Marjenhoff).

GARWOOD, SPENCER (Milford Center, Ohio). Shrew (Sorex sp.) 24282.

GATSCHET, Dr. A. S. (See under Lady Edith Blake.)

GEAR, Hon. Jonn H. (Burlington, Iowa). Crinoid from the Lower Carboniferous,
Keokuk Group, near Keokuk, Iowa. 23342.

GKARE, R. I. (U.S. National Museum). Larva of Calosoma, probably scrutator, of
the family Carabidae. 23606.

GENTH, Dr. F. A. (Philadelphia, Pa.) Specimen of monazite sand from Caravellas,
Brazil. 24468.
784 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF SWEDEN (Stockholm, Sweden). One hundred and nine
Specimens carrying 22 genera and 44 species of Cambrian fossils. 24324. Ex-
change.

GERRARD, E. Jr., (London, England). Two skeletons of Sand-grouse (Pterocles are-
naria) and one of Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo). 23958. Purchase.

Gest, J. H. (See under Cincinnati Museum Association. )

GHISELIN, Miss HATTi¥ V. (Louisville, Ky.). Broken pottery from New Mexico. 23621.

Gippons, Dr. W. P. (Alameda, Cal.). Several specimens of Pholas Pacifica. 23464.

GIEBNER, R. E. (Sandy Lake, Pa.). Specimen of Putf-ball (Lycoperdon giganteum)..
23818.

GINDRIEZ, Cu. (Director of the Museum, Chalon-sur-Sadne, France), through John
Durand. Impression from a heliograph “ Portrait of Cardinal d’Amboise,” from
an engraving by Briot, made by Joseph Nicephore Niepce in 1824. 23426. Ex-
change.

GLASER, PETER (Reading, Pa.). Specimens of ocher from Neversink Mountain. 23451.

GoppINnG, MCBEAN & Co (Lincoln, Cal.). Samples of pottery clays. 24439.

GopFREY, R. W. (Washington, D. C.) Eight hair-balls taken from the stomachs of
cattle. 23967.

GODFREY, T. 8. (Knoxville, Tenn.). Fossiliferous marble. 24522.

GONDER, W. T. (Yuma, Ariz.). Beetles representing 2 species, Cy
and Trogosita virescens. 24010.

GoopbeE, Dr. G. Brown (Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution). Works of
Seneca, Voltaire, and the ‘‘Orlando Furioso” of Ariosto (deposit) (23531); two
Shoshone and Omaha Indian arrows from Colorado and Nebraska (gift) (23552) ;
copy of ‘American Fishes” (23678, 23718).

Goopk, Mrs. G. BRowN (Lanier Heights, Washington, D. C.). Black Langshan
fowl (23374); Silver spangled Herabune fowl (23749.

GoopwIin, Dr. F. H. (Tueson, Ariz.), through Mr. P. L. Jouy. Carved stone plaque
dug from an old Indian grave on a bluff-bank of the San Pedro River, Cochise
County, Ariz. 24231.

GORDON-CUMMING, ALASTAIR P. (Washington, D. C.). Feather head-dress worn by
the Cinghalese, Island of Ceylon. 24122.

GORHAM, Rev. H. 8S. (Dartford, Kent, England). ‘Thirty specimens representing 19
species of named coleoptera from Asia and Africa. 23965.

GORING, CHARLES B. (Cincinnati, Ohio). Two specimens of Linaria vulgaris var.
peloria from Hamilton County. 23636.

GRANIER, EMILE (Atlantic City, Wyo.). Nine lithographs from ‘‘The Aboriginal
Portfolio,” by J. C. Lewis, of Philadelphia, 1835. (23944); suit of Sioux cloth-
ing from the Upper Missouri River, bow and quiver, leggins, moccasins, and
shirt. (24505).

GRANITE RAILWAY COMPANY (Boston, Mass.), through Mr. H. E. Sheldon, agent.
Granite stringer from the old track of the Granite Railway at Quincy, Mass.
23684.

GREEGOR, I. (Jacksonville, Fla.). Nails from the ruins of the old Spanish Cathedral
in St. Augustine (23821); girdled pine showing course of sap, from near Jack-
sonville (23897); shells from Great Harbor, Bahama Islands (24093); specimens
of Sigaretus maculatus and Sigaretus perspectivus from the Bahamas (24446).

GREEN, F. C. (Chihuahua, Mexico). Nine specimens of birds’ skins, including Ver-
milion Flycatcher (Pyrocephalus mexicanus), Cassin’s Kingbird (Tyrannus vocifer-
ans) and Longtailed Chat (Icteria virens longicauda). 23623. Exchange.

GREEN, Prof. H. A. (Chester, 8. C.). Ores from South Carolina. 24117. (Ex-
change. )

GREENWOOD, G. G. B., (Minerva, Ohio). Sandstone concretion found in the Canal
Dover gravel pit, Tuscarawas County, Ohio, by Mr. W. R. Tarbet. 23497.

yllene antennatwm
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 785

GRIDER, Rurus A. (Canajoharie, N. Y.). Water-color sketches of one hundred and
thirty specimens of powder horns. 24045. Loan.

GRIFFIN, Miss M. E. (Smithsonian Institution). Bullfineh (Pyrrhula pyrrhula).
23471.

Grirritu, M. G. (Washington, D. C.), through Dr. Frank Baker. Egg and embryo
Snake, Coluber guttatus. 23486.

GRINNAN, A. G. (See under Miss Bessie C. Grinnan. )

GRINNAN, Miss Brsstn C. (Madison Mills, Va.), throngh A. G. Grinnan. Plants.
24131.

GUENTHER, Dr. A. (See under British Museum, London, England).

GUILDHALL LIBRARY COMMITTER Or THE City OF LONDON (London, England),
through Mr, Charles Welch, librarian. Six bronze medals issued by the Corpora-
tion of the city of London, and commemorating the Visit of Queen Victoria to
Guildhall, 1837, Passing of the Reform Bill, 1832, Opening of the London Bridge
(large), Opening of the London Bridge (small), Thanksgiving for the Recovery
of the Prince of Wales at St. Paul’s, and the Opening of the City of London
School. 24176.

HaGeEn, Dr. I. (Trondhjem, Norway). Collection of Norwegian mosses and two
pamphlets. 23778. Exchange.

HALE, Dr. E. M. (Enterprise, Fla.). Five specimens of viviparous Minnows (Mollie-
nesia latipinna) from a saline spring. 24089.

Hates, Henry (Ridgewood, N. J.). Pair of rose-combed white Dorking fowls.
(24033) ; silver-gray Dorking fowl in flesh. (24229.)

HALLOocK, CHARLES (New York City, N. Y.). Two specimens of Limaxc maximus
Linr. 23465.

HALLOCK, WILLIAM. (See under J. C. Brady.)

HANFORD, F., Lieut. Commander U. 8. Navy. (See under Dr. Hugh M. Smith.)

Hany, E. F. (Bozeman, Mont.), through Mr. F. H. Knowlton, U. 8. Geological
Survey. Specimen of Platysamia columbia Sm. 24442.

Harpy, MANLy (Brewer, Me.). Nest of Carpodacus purpureus. 23424.

HARGROVE, J. O. (U.S. National Museum). Specimen of Dynastes tityus. 23377.

Hartson, Roruo (Sappington, Me.). Wood-carving done by termites found in the
canon of the Jefferson River at the camp of Green and Keefe, railroad con-
tractors, of Helena, Mont. 23769.

HaRPrER, THOMAS. (See under Bureau of Ethnology, United States. )

Harris, J. G. (Moncton, New Brunswick). Two specimens of kerosene shale from
Rockland, New Brunswick. 24268. Exchange.

Harrison, C. A. (Bridgeport, Conn.). Two pieces of Zanzibar gun. 23771.

Harrison, WILLIAM H. (Woodbridge, Va.). Green Heron (Butorides virescens) in
the flesh. 25368.

Hart, J. H. (See under Botanic Garden, Trinidad, West Indies. )

Harr, WruiiaM H., & Co. (New York city, N. Y.). Skin of a Baboon (Cynocephalus
porcarius) and skin of a South American monkey (Lagorthrix cana). 24209.

Hart, WILLIAM R. (Camanche, Iowa). Three specimens of manganese—oxide den-
drite—one specimen found near Camanche, and two from near Silver Cliff, Colo.
23733.

Hartiery, J. Scorr (New York city, N. Y.). Photograph of Edwin Booth as ** Bru-
tus,” photographs of Judge Noah Davis and John Gilbert (gift) (25524) ; life-
sized busts of Judge Noah Davis, Edwin Booth, Lawrence Barrett, and John
Gilbert (exchange) (23570).

HARTWELL, Mrs. F. M. (Washington, D.C.). Foot stove belonging to David Randall,
used in the “Old Red Meeting House” in Dutchess County, N. Y., in 1788. 24399.

MaAsKELL, Col. E. H. (Boston, Mass.). Official souvenir programme of the Twenty-
fourth National Eneampment of the Grand Army of the Republic, Boston,
Mass., August, 1890. 23526.

SM 91, Pr 2——00

786 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Harcurer, J. B. (New Haven, Conn.). Six specimens of fossil plants from the
Laramie Group. 28855.

HAWKES, Gen. BENJAMIN F. (Washington, D.C.). Eskimo snuff-bag, made from he
foot of an Albatross. 23530.

HAWKINS, BUNTING (Bordentown, N.J.). Satinette pigeons, in flesh. (23590, 23750. )

Hawkins, W. B. (Washington, D.C.). Luna moth. 23412.

HAWLEY, F.S. (Broadalbin, N. Y.). Dulcimer. 23822.

Hay, RosertT (Junction City, Kans.). Specimen of halite from Kingman Salt Mine,
Kingman, Kans. 25701.

HAYDEN, Mrs. C. W. (Washington, D.C.). Wood engraving and 7 steel engravings.
23651.

HAYDEN, Miss FLORENTINE H. (See under Miss Anna L. Ward.)

HaybDEN, W.P. (Raymond, Me.). Eight specimens of vesuvianite and grossularite,
and one specimen of grossularite. 24081.

Haynes, Prof. H. W. (Boston, Mass.). Five quartz implements from New Hamp-
shire, one from Massachusetts, and 14 paleolithie flint implements from Egypt.
23863. Deposit.

Heany, W.H.(U.S. National Museum). Real, silver coin of Spain, date 1741, with
the arms of Philip of Anjou. 23616.

Hearst, Mrs. GEORGE (Washington, D. C.). Harmonica, containing 24 musical
glasses. 25411. Deposit.

Hearucorr, W. Henry (Preston, Lancashire, England), through Mr. W. J. Farrer, of
Orange, Va. Fifty-four species of land and fresh-water shells from Great Brit-
ain. 24355.

Heaton, A. G. (Washington, D.C.). Large picture, ‘‘The Promoters of the New
Library Building.” 23658. Loan.

HEIBERGER, T.J. (See under Frank D. Lewis.)

HEIDEMAN, O. (Department of Agriculture). Six specimens of Neob rus petitii Uhl.
(23439); 41 specimens of Hemiptera, representing 19 species, some of which are
new to the collection (23840).

Heim, ALBERT. (See under Interior Department, U.S. Geological Survey.)

HEMPHILL, HENRY (San Diego, Cal.). Tertiary fossils from near Lake Whatcom,
Wash., and 6 specimens of marine shells (23690); 3 specimens of Ostrea veatchii
Gabb (23777).

HENNESEY, THOMAS F. (Cincinnati, Ohio). Ancient Greek and Roman coins. 24407,
Deposit.

Henry, Miss Mary (Washington, D. C.). Electro-magnetic engine for producing
reciprocating motion by magnetic attraction and repulsion, invented and con-
structed by Prof. Joseph Henry in 1831 ;—one of the first applications of electricity
for producing power. 24132. Deposit.

HENSHALL, Dr. J. A. (See under U. 8S. Fish Commission.)

HENSHAW, H. W.. (Bureau of Ethnology, U.S.). Specimen of Ophibolus rhombomacu-
latus from Falls Chureh, Va. 23748.

Henson, Harry V. (Hakodate, Japan). A collection of birds’ skins, consisting of
497 specimens (representing 181 species) from the Island of Yesso, Japan. Among
this collection is a pair of the Great Japanese Eagle Owl ( Pseudoptyx blackistoni).
24527. Purchase.

Herr, A. 8. (Smithsonian Institution). Skin of Swamp-sparrow (Melospiza geor-
giana), from the District of Columbia. 23767.

HERR, STEPMAN (Smithsonian Institution). Reedbird (Dolichonus oryzivorus), in
flesh, from Virginia. 23502.

HERRAN, Hon. THOMAS (Hamburg, Germany). ‘Two pieces of ancient Indian pot-
tery, found in a grave in the province of Antioquia, United States of Colombia
(gift) (23438); 9 golden objects of ancient Colombian Indian workmanship,
weighing 133 grammes, from the same locality (deposit) (23661).
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 187

Hewitt, G. C. (Rock Springs, Wy.). Specimen of elalerite and an unknown hydro-
carbon from Wasatch Range, Utah (23797); ozokerite from Soldier Summit,
Emery County, Utah (24108).

HIDDEN, WILLIAM E. (Newark, N. J.). Two specimens of monazite sand from
North Carolina. 23805.

Hitt, Roperr T. (Austin, Tex.). Fossils representing the Lower Carboniferous
fauna, consisting of Productus semirecticulatus, Productus sp., Spirifera striata,
Spirifera rocky-montana, Terebratula, Aviculopecten sp., Bellerophon sp (?), from
historical localities in Burnet County, Tex. The specimens from Shinbone
Ridge represent the genera Menestella and Productus. 23700.

HILLEBRAND, Dr. W. F. (U. 8. Geological Survey). Yttrogummite from Arendal,
Norway. 23457. (See under Interior Department, U.S. Geological Survey.)

Hinps, J. E. (See under The Hinds Ketcham Company. )

Hircucock, Prof. C. H. (Hanover, N. H.). Coat, trousers, waistcoat, and moccasins
of Chief Joseph of the Nez Percé Indians. 23990. Deposit.

HircHcock, RomyYN (U.S. National Museum). Japanese playing cards. 23462.

Hircucock, Miss Rosena (Chicago, Ill.). Copy of the Allegany Republican, De-
cember 23, 1825, Anti-Masonic Almanac for the year 1832, and an almanac for
the vear 1841. 23455.

Hoavtey, Dr. F.H. (See under Dr. C. Hart Merriam. )

Hosss, Prof. WILLIAM H. (Madison, Wis.). Rocks from various European localities
(exchange) (23613); rocks from Wisconsin (gift) (23707). (See under University
of Wisconsin. )

Honag, Col. E.B. (Plymouth, N.H.). Hybrid trout, cross between Saibling and
Brook Trout. 25672

Hopes, E. R. (Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C.). Set of United States
stamped envelopes (2-cent issue of 1883). 25595.

HorrMan, Dr. W.J. (Bureau of Ethnology, U. S.). Model of Menomoni medicine
man’s grave with, symbols; crayon sketch of grave of Oshkosh_and great lodges
of the Menomoni. 23794.

Houm, THEopor (U.S. National Museum). Specimen ef groroilite from the Kara
Sea, 80 fathoms, (collected by the Danish North Pole Expedition of 1882 and
1883). 24289.

Hotmes, W.H. (See under Bureau of Ethnology, U.S.) ;

Hotton, F. (Brookland, D.C.). Snake, Ophibolus rhombomaculatus. 23541.

Hoover, WILLIAM (Superintendent of the Graphite mines, Ticonderoga, N. Y.).
Graphite from the mines at Ticonderoga, 24062.

Hopkins, C. L. (Umatilla, Fla.). Glass-snake (Ophisaurus ventralis). 24175.

Hopkins, Master SAMUEL H. (Highland, Md.). Avery beautiful specimen of Ameri-
“an Sparrow Hawk (falco sparverius). 24189.

HorNaADAY, WILLIAM T. (Buffalo, N. Y.). Cowboy’s saddle, used by Mr. Hornaday
on his second butialo hunt in Montana in the fall and winter of 1888. 24129.
HORNBLOWER, WILLIAM B., through J. Montgomery Wright, marshal, Supreme
Court, United States. Programs relating to the centennial celebration of the

Federal judiciary, Febrtary 4, 1890, 23368.

HouGu, Water (U. $8. National Museum). Lampwick trimmer about eighteen
years old (23346); 14 plates, engravings of locomotive engines, published by
John Weale, London, 1856 (25583); specimen of Bostrychus cornutus (imago,
larva, and work), from Angola, Africa (23638); 7 specimens of fossil plants in
clay, from Morgantown, W. Va., collected by Mr. Hough (25740).

Howarp, L. O. (See under Elwyn Bates.)

Howk, GeorGeE H. (Evans, Colo.). Specimen of iron ore. 23499.

HUBBARD, GARDINER G. (West Washington, D. C.). Two books, catalogue of the
works of Barye and a catalogue of the Secretan collection. 25692,
188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

HUNTINGTON, J. H. (Silver City, N. Mex.). Building-stone from Albuquerque
(23381): marble from Hanover Gulch, 15 miles east of Silver City (28600); 2
specimens of riccolite from Gila River, Grant County (23996); ornamental stone
from Gila River (24107); rocks and ores (24234); building-stone and gold ore
from South Dakota (24491).

Hurtek, JULIUS (St. Louis, Mo.). Six snakes, 3 of which represent the species
Tropidoclonium lineatum (23706); 4 Turtles (Cistudo ornata Agassiz, Malaclemmys
lesucuri, Chrysemys bellii, and Pseudemys elegans) (23717); Turtle (Trachemys
troosti Holbrook) from Hamburg Bay, Mississippi River (23755); snake and frog
(24461).

Hurcuryson, Arruur C. (Washington, D. C.). Parrot (Amazona sp. ), in the flesh.
23847.

Hynpbs, ALEXANDER (Danbridge, Tenn.). Small Confederate medal, made of sil-
ver(?), and an Indian marble(?) taken from the burial mound of a child. 24099.

IppinGs, J. P. (U.S. Geological Survey). Voleanic bomb from the Island of Lipari,
Mediterranean Sea (23803); basalt, with inclusion of vitrified sandstone, from
Monte Gimmelaro (?) “tna eruption of 1886 (24000).

InGRAM, Epwarp TT. (Marshallton, Pa.). Sixty-one argillite implements from
Chester County. 22026. Exchange.

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT,

OFFICE OF SECRETARY: Slocum, Hon. J. C. (surveyor-general, Tallahassee, Fla.),
through Hon. John W. Noble, Secretary. Collection of old surveying instru-
ments, consisting of a transit with telescopic tube, brass frame, wooden ty pod,
and detached legs; solar compass, tripod and leveling-head for the same, sextant
and case, and standard chain, from the surveyor-general’s office at Tallahassee.
23802.

U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, through Maj. J. W. Powell, Director. Two specimens
of crinoids from the Trenton Limestone, Ottawa, Canada, Periglyptocrinus billingsi
W. & Spr. and Archwocrinus microbasolis W. & Spr. (23361); crystal of hauerite
from Mineo, Catania, Sicily (23702); specimen of rectorite from Arkansas, and a
specimen each of molybdenite, scheelite and cuprodescloizite from Colorado
(23795); 47 specimens of cretaceous fossils from Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, and
Colorado (23898); 2 geological models (23911); 111 photographs, illustrating
typical exposures of strata, contacts, folds, joints, ete. (24264); 12 specimens of
minerals from New Mexico, consisting of agatized wood, silicified wood, garnet
pebbles, and smoky quartz (collected by Mr. O. G. Dodge, U.S. Navy) (24364).

Collected by Dr. G. G. Becker: Four specimens of apophyllite and one of analcite
from New Almaden, Cal., specimen of cinnabar in barite from Almaden, Spain,
crystallized cinnabar from the Reddington Mine, Knoxville district, California,
and a collection of specimens of quicksilver, made by Dr. Becker (24003).

Collected by Mr. Whitman Cross: Ten specimens of cerussite from Polonia Mine,
Rosita, Colo. (23903).

Collected by Mr. Eakins: Two specimens of gadolinite from Devil’s Head Moun-
tain, Douglas County, Colo. (23448.) Deposit.

Collected by Dr. W. F. Hillebrand: Thirteen specimens of minerals from various
localities in Colorado, 3 specimens of minerals from Glastonbury, Conn.
(deposit) (23447); 45 specimens of brochantite and malachite from United
Verde Mine, Jerome, Yavapai County, Ariz. (gift) (23630); 40 specimens of kya-
nite in quartz, 80 of dumortierite in quartz, and 74 of dumortierite and kyanite
in quartz from Clip, Yuma County, Ariz. (gift) (23631).

Collected by Dr. W. P. Jenney: Three specimens of white pulverulent sulphide
of zine from Galena, Cherokee County, Kans. (gift) (23812); 3 specimens of
barite pseudomorph after crinoid stems and shells from Sedalia, Mo., (24484).

Collected by Mr. F. H. Knowlton: Agatized wood from Chalcedony Park, Arizona,
and a sample of smoky quartz from near Santa Fé., N. Mex, (23739).
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 789

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT—Continued.

Colleeted by Mr. E. A. Schneider: Ten specimens of minerals from Delaware
County, Pa., 4 specimens of garnet, 4 of garnet in muscovite, and 2 of chalee-
dony (23677) ;

Collected by Mr. H. W. Turner: Garnet, epidote, and enargite from Alpine
County, Cal. (23918).

Through Mr. C. D. Walcott: Slab of mud-marked limestone from Rathbone Brook,
Herkimer County, N. Y. (24804); 2 slabs of slate showing bedding, cleavage,
and faulting from Rensselaer County, N. Y. (24479); Gyroceros (?) sp. (2). Lower
Carboniferous, Indiana, and 4 specimens of Devonian fish remains from Scot-
land (collected by Mr. Walcott) (24211).

Collected by Prof. L. F. Ward: Seventeen specimens of chalcedony from Fossil
Point, Wyoming (23999).

Collected by Dr. George H. Williams: Chrome tourmaline from Montgomery
County, Md. (23800).

IrBy, RicHARD. (See under Randolph-Macon College).

IRELAND, JOUN E. (Amityville, N. Y.). Mouse trap, found in a house supposed to
be one hundred and fifty years old. 24186.

Irscu, F. (New York City, N. Y.). Two specimens of Pita, showing the De la
Roche process before and after treatment, samples of flax, jute, American hem»,
and bow-string hemp. 23494.

IRWIN, CoryDON 8. (Plain City, Ohio). Cecropia moth with cocoon. 23519.

Ivres, Frep E. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Pamphlet entitled ‘‘ Photography in the Colors
of Nature.” 24016.

Jack, W. H. (Natchitoches, La.) Specimens of silver sulphides. 23879. Exchange.

Jackson, E. E.(Columbia, 8.C.). Archeological objects, consisting of shallow stone
hammers, rubbing-stone, grooved axes, polished hatchet, leaf-shaped implement
(knife or spear-point), arrow and spear-points, stone pendant ornamented with
lines and dots,fragments of pottery, and fragments of pot stone vessels. 24077.

JACKSON, ROBERTT. (Boston, Mass.). Collection of oysters, representing the early
stages of their growth and illustrative of the donor’s paper in Memoirs of the
Society of Natural History on the Phylogeny of Pelecypods. 23731.

JACKSON, THOMAS H. (West Chester, Pa.). Forty-fourspecimens, representing 3 sets,
of eggs of Callipepla squamata castanogastris (Purchase). (23557); 5 eggs (one
set) of Melanerpes aurifrons from Texas (gift). (23579).

Jacosi, O. F. (See under Henry F. Blount).

JAPANESE TRADING CoMPANY (New York City, N. Y.). Japanese house (24525).
Purchase.

JENKINS, Prof. O. P. (DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind.). Alcoholic specimens
of fishes collected in the Bay of Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, in July, 1887, by Profs.
Jenkins and B. W. Evermann. 23988.

JENNEY, Dr. WALTER P. (U.S. Geological Survey). Native lead with minium and
anglesite from Mineral Hill District, near Hailey, Alturus County, Idaho (gift)
(23629); native white sulphide of zine from Moll Mine, Galena, Kans. (gift)
(23804); 154 specimens of minerals, consisting of eudialyte, manganopectolite,
rutile, aegerite, monticellite, leucite and vesuvianite (purchase) (24299). (See
under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey).

JEWELL, THOMAS. (See under Thomas J. Willis.)

JOHNS, H. W., MANUFACTURING COMPANY (New York City, N. Y.). Asbestus from
Africa. 23713.

JOHNSON, R. M. (Timberville, Va.). Silver-lead ore. 24380.

JOHNSTON-LAVIS, H. J. (Naples, Italy). Eleven specimens of minerals from Greece,
Italy, and Tyrol, consisting of smithsonite, azurite, augite, auricalcite, calcite,
sulphur, bitumen, gehlenite, marialite, and small series of voleanie rocks from
Vesuvius. 23409. Exchange.
790 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

JONES, JAMES 'T. (See under National Zodlogical Park).

Jones, Dr. L. C. (Sandwich, Mass). Albino Barn-swallow (Chelidon erythrogastra),
23594.

JORDAN, Dr. D.S. (See under U. S. Fish Commission).

Jouy, P. L. (U. S. National Museum). Three stone implements (surface finds)
from Fusan, Corea (gift) (28703); 13 specimens of mother-of-pearl and four
of jade from China (deposit) (23711); collection of Corean religious ob-
jects, books, pictures, art-work, and weapons, including a Japanese sword, 2
Canton cutlasses, and 43 photographs, (deposit) (23753) 2 shampooer’s whistles,
2 clam-darts, and package of Corean tobacco (gift) (28754). (See under Dr. F. H.
Goodwin, and U. 8. National Museum).

JuNI, BENEDICT (U. 8. National Museum). Calcite from New Ulm, Brown County,
Minn. (23849); 12 specimens of plants (23945) of the Dakota Group.

KATZENBERGER & BROTHER (Greenville, Ohio).

Photograph of a collection of Indian relies. 23384.
KEFP, Prof. Jostan (Mills College, Cal.). Specimens of Zonites conspectus Bland,
from Alameda County. 23838.

KELLER, CLYDE L. (Salem, Oregon). Three eggs (one set) of Megascops asio satur-
atus 24390.

KENDALL, W. C. (U. 8S. Fish Commission). Thirty birds’ skins representing 26
species from near Port Royal, S.C. 24218.

KENNEDY, Hon. D. J. (See under Dr. D. J. Macgowan).

KEPPEL, F., & Co. (New York City, N. Y.). Silver-point drawing, “Head of Girl,”
by A. Legres. 23373. Purchase.

Kersy, Hon. J. O. (United States Consul, Para, Brazil), through Dr. Frank
Baker. Two birds’ skins from Brazil and a few feathers of the Eigretei, a rich
and rare bird of the Heron species, found on the Island of Marajo, Amazon River;
11 specimens of the South American Golden Tortoise-beetle (Desmonota variolosa
Web.) and 3 pieces of bark of the tree which the Amazon Indians use for paper.
24193.

KEVINSKI, J. B. (Lancaster, Pa.). Clavichord, brought to this country in 1741 by
Henrietta Deckert, 24183.

KIMBERLEY DIAMOND Mines (South Africa), through Prof. E. J. Loomis. Rocks from
the Kimberley Diamond Mines. 23603.

KIMMEL, WILLIAM A.(Washington D.C.). Zine ore from Indian Territory. 24224.

KincarbD, T. (Olympia, Wash.). Twenty-seven species of coleoptera. 24509. (See
under Nathan Banks.)

KiNG, Dr. G. (See under Royal Botanic Garden, Caleutta, India.)

KINGSLEY, J. 8S. (University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebr.). Manuscript on the deca-
pods. 24420.

KINNEY, T. W. (Portsmouth, Ohio). Broken flint arrow-point retouched to serve as
ascraper. 24205. Deposit.

KirsBy, G. W. (Brunswick, Ga.). Seven shells. 23858.

Kirpy & Smit (Passaic, N. J.). Langshan fowl. 24302.

Kirscu, P. H. (See under U.S. Fish Commission.)

Knapp BroTuers (Fabius, N. Y.). White Wyandotte fowl (23848); Wyandotte hen
(24203).

KNOWLTON, F. H. (U.S. Geological Survey). Two samples of lignite from Potomac
formation near Richmond, Va. (23357); spotted Turtle, (Chelopus guttatus) from
Laurel, Md, (24395). (See under E. F. Hanley and Interior Department; U.S.
Geological Survey.)

KNUDSEN, AUGUSTUS F. (Cambridge, Mass.). Two alcoholic specimens of mice, Mus
musculus from Kauai, Hawaiian Islands. 24194.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 791

KNUTSEN, 'T’. (Deadwood, 8. Dak.). Silurian limestone from the Deadwood and Dela-
ware Smelting Company’s Quarry (24133); silver ore from Silver Bullion Mine,
Whitewood Mining District, Lawrence County (24182); 2 specimens of gold and
silver ore from Maegie Mine, Ruby Basin, Lawrence County, and magnesium
limestone (24400).

Kocn, J. B. (Bozeman, Mont.). Seventy rude implements, fragments of potstone
vessel, knifes, arrow-points, flakes, and other archeological objects. 23697.

KomBELE, A. (See under Department of Agriculture.)

KoraLeR, WALTER J. (Broken Hill, New South Wales), through Department of
State. Collection of rare and valuable minerals from the Broken Hill Mines.
24503.

Koun, Gustave (New Orleans, La). Salamander (Plethodon @neus) from Lee County,
Va, (23960); 8 specimens representing 4 species of snakes and salamanders,
including Tropidonotus clarkii and Manculus quadridigitatus (24028); 2 aleoholie
snakes representing 2 species (24090). Exchange.

KUERSCHNER, Prof. HUGO (Washington, D. C.). Belted Kine-fisher (Ceryle aleyon).
23401.

KUNZ, GEORGE F. (Hoboken, N. J.). Fragments of meteorite from Carroll County,
Ky., Kiowa County, Kans., and Winnebago County, Iowa. 23395.

Lacy, Roserr T. (Camben, N. J.). Specimens of kaolin. 24524.

Laker, B. B. (Bryson City, N. C.). Limonite after pyrite, 2 specimens of rutile, and
3 of zoisite, from Swain County, N. C. 23626.

LAMBERT BROTHERS (Kearney, Nebr.). White-faced Glossy Ibis (Plegadis quarauna)
24385. Purchase.

Lamporn, Dr. Ropert H. (New York City, N. Y.). Autographs, manuscripts, glass
pitcher, wine glasses, silver cake-basket, knife and fork, and other relics of Gen.
Washington (23995); authropometric apparatus, chronograph, ete.* (24144).

LAMSON, D. 8. (See under George H. Draper.)

LaNnpER, W. TerTsH (Williamston, 8. C.). Coal plants from Tracy City, Tenn.,
Lower Coal-Measures. 24094. “

LANGDALE, JOHN W. (Washington, D.C.). Ten specimens of Oriskany sandstone
carrying fossils, from the District of Columbia (23907); menaccanite in quartz,
garnet in granite, and actinolite from the District of Columbia (24148); rocks
from the same locality (24222). E

LaNnGury, Mr. S. P. (Secretary, Smithsonian Institution). Watches and 4 dials
(23500); pack of Spanish ‘‘ Monte” cards collected by the donor in Spain, and 2
reed pipes of Moorish character (24281). (See under 8S. G. Ward.)

LASPEVRES, Prof. H. (Bonn, Germany). Two specimens of polydymite from Schutz-
bach, Westphalia. 24168.

Lr, J. G. C., (Brevet Lieut. Col. U. 8S. Army, Vancouver Barracks, Washington.)
Skull of mammal found on the North Fork of Rogue River in Oregon, near Med-
ford. 24029.

LEE, W. G. (Washington, D. C.). Black-tail Turbit Pigeon. 25550.

LeEIpy (estate of Dr. Joseph), (Philadelphia, Pa.). Gem collection of the late Dr.
Leidy. 24398. Purchase.

Lemon, J. H. (New Albany, Ind.). Nest of Humming-birds from Jamacha Valley,
California, and 4: birds’ eggs from the same locality, 6 snail shells from Indiana,
specimens of marine alge and ferns from California, and Silurian and Devonian
brachiopods. 24255. Exchange.

LEMMON, THEO. G. (San Carlos, Ariz.). Fragments of pottery and himnan bones
from a mound near San Carlos. 24305.

*These instruments belong to the series of apparatus devised by Francis Saltar.
192, REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Lewis, Frank D. (Special Agent, Indian Department), through Mr. T. J. Heiber-
ger. Two ghost shirts from the late ‘Wounded Knee” Indian fight. 24204.
Lewis, Harry W. (Jefferson, Md.). Copper coin (one sen) and copper token (deux

sous) of Lower Canada, 1837. 23832.

LEWISOHN BroTHERS (New York City, N. Y.), through Messrs. Phelps, Dodge & Co.
Sample of African tin from the interior of Africa, 24202.

Linpsay & Earby (Carbondale, Pa.). Cylinder of the locomotive ‘Stourbridge
Lion.” 28694. Deposit.

LINsLEY, F. (Farmdale, Ohio). Three species of corals, consisting of Monticulipora
filiosa (2 specimens), Streptelasma cornoculum (2 specimens), and Protarea vetusta
(specimen); 3 species of brachiopods, consisting of Rhynchonella capax (3 speci-
mens), Orthis biforata ispecimen), Orthis retrorsa, all from rocks of the Cincinnati
Group (Hudson) Lower Silurian Age; iron pyrites. 23683.

Lioyp, WILLIAM. (See under Department of Agriculture, and Dr. C. Hart Merriam. )

Lockwoop, WILLIAM E, (Philadelphia, Pa.). Photograph of working model of loco-
motive in the possession of the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia. 23779.

Loomis, H. (Yokohama, Japan). Larvie of Ocneria dispar, parasitized by Apanteles
sp. 23417.

Loomis, Prof. E. J. (See under Kimberley Diamond Mines. )

LopEr, 8S. Warp (Assistant Geologist, U. 8S. Geological Survey, Middletown, Conn.).
Specimen of folded gneiss (24340); triassic trap-rock from Baileyville, Conn.
(24406).

LORING, Gen. CHARLES G. (See under Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. )

Léscu, A. (St. Petersburg, Russia), through Dr. E. A. Schneider, U. 8. Geological-
Survey. Two specimens of xanthophyllite and a specimen of ripidolite from
Nikolaje-Maximilianowsk Mine, near Slatoust, Siberia. 24261.

LOVETT, EpwarpD (Croydon, England). Cup of glazed pottery, 2 fragments of vases,
handle and portion of neck of stone flagon, 2 pieces of tile—one plain and the
other ornamented, part of a brass spur and a brass keyhole escutcheon, found
in making excavations in Old London; small bronze figure—forgery—made and
sold about fifty years ago by men engaged in excavating, 8 pieces of Algerian
pottery, lamp from Algeria, 2 Hindoo fans, water pipe, idol of white stone, 4
carved spoons from Ceylon, shell snuff box from France, snuff gourd, English
tinder pistol, snuffers tray and snuffers, and a bundle of sulphur ‘‘spunks” from
France (purchase) (23416); matechlock gun and Eskimo whalebone nooses (ex-
change) (23784); Moorish lamp from North Africa and 4 Hoschish pipes from the
same locality, dagger from Tunis, brass Lota from Burmah, India, model of Swiss
fire-drill, knife from an excavation made at Temple Bar, London, 11 pieces of pot-
tery from Old London, bronze fish-hook from Swiss Lake dwellings, anda wooden
dish, tapa mallet and cloth from the Fijilslands, 10 pieces of pottery and a glass
cover for vase, found while making excavations in Old London (exchange)
(23950); set of Scotch war bagpipes made of ivory and silver, native dress from
New Guinea, 5 specimens of plaited grass-work from the Congo River, 4 shell
armlets from the Solomon Islands, 2 very old flint-lock pistols, Egyptian “ writing”
case made of brass, 4 pieces of pottery from Old London, and 2 time-measuring
“King Alfred” candles (purchase) (24343).

Lucas, H. D. (Black Creek, N. C.). Specimen of Micropterus salmoides with erusta-
cean parasites ( Ternwocera). 23477.

Lucas, Dr. H. S. (Cullasaja, N. C.). Specimen of black spinel from Corundum Hill,
N. C. 24248.

Lucas, R. T. (Alexandria, Va.). Male albino opossum. 23789.

LUEDEKING, C. (Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.). Barite containing ammo-
nia from near Sedalia, Mo. 24391.

Lutue, F. H. (McGregor, Iowa). Seven specimens of corals, representing 5 species
from the Hamilton Group (Devonian) of Iowa. 23388.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 793

LUtkKEN, Prof. Dr. (See under Royal Zodlogical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark. )

Lutrreiy, THomas J. (Washington, D.C.). Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) from
the Potomac River. 25791.

Lyon, Marcus W., Jr. (Rock Island, Hl.). Four eggs of Agelaius phoniceus. 23483.

Lyons, EVAN (Georgetown, D. C.). Albino Phaebe (Sayornis phabe). 23781.

McCormick, L. M. (See under Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio.)

McCown, Mrs. H. J. (Oyster Bay, Long Island). Pair of Jersey-blue fowls. 23966.

McDonatp, Rey. ALEXANDER (Prosperity, Pa.). Small oblong-shaped tablet of
stalagmite polished marble, cut from the ‘Rock of Gibraltar.” 24297.

McDONALD, Col. MARSHALL. (See under U. 8. Fish Commission. )

MACFARLANE, R. (Cumberland District, Saskatchewan, Canada). Sixty-two speci-
mens, representing 40 species of birds’ skins from Moose Lake and Cumberland
House, 100 specimens of birds’ eggs and 12 nests, skin and skeleton of Mustela
americana, skin of Arvicola riparius, a number of specimens of Arvicola riparius,
Hesperomys leucopus, Shrew (probably Sorex personatus), and hides of Polar hare
(Lepus timidus). 2365.

McGinnis, WILLIAM H. (Youngstown, Ohio). One hundred and fifty selenite erys-
tals of various sizes, and 7 specimens of the same in the matrix, fossil nuts.
24329. Exchange.

McGuirk, J. S. Pyrite from the Isle of Elba. 23902.

McInTosH, LACHLAN H. (Washington, D. C.). Square pianoforte, made by Long-
man & Broadrip, London, England. 23866. Purchase.

McMILLAN, D. T. (Magnolia, N. C.), through Mr. Frank Burns, U. S. Geological
Survey. Fragments of a pottery vessel found in a marl bed near Magnolia. 24582.

MACE, JOSEPH (Smithsonian Institution). Yellowbreasted Chat (Jcteria virens) in
flesh. 24353.

MACOMBER, JAMES (Wrightsville, N.C.). Specimen of Chrysemys reticularia, one of
the rarer species of Chelonians. 24262.

MacGowan, Dr. D. J. (Chinese Customs, Wenchow, China), through Hon. J. D. Ken-
nedy, Consul-General, Shanghai, China. Alcoholic sturgeon, pair of stockings
and 2 wooden folding pillows. 23456.

MAGNETIC IRON AND STEEL ORE Company (Blacksburg, 8. C.), through J. L. Black,
managing director. Iron ore from the mines of the company. 24002.

MARGENHOFF, JOHANNES, through Mr. R. L. Garner, of Roanoke, Va. Cannon-ball
found outside of Fort Sumter; pistol from Morris Island, Charleston Harbor, lost
during the battle at Battery Wagenner. 24084.

MaRRON, THOMAS (U.S. National Museum). Skin of Short-tailed Tern (Hydrocheli-
don nigra surinamensis) from the Potomac River. 238536. (See under William
Bayley.)

MARSHALL, GEORGE (Laurel, Md.). Hooded Merganser (Lyphodytes cucullatus).
23367.

MartTIn, D.G. (Eagle Rock, Idaho). Infusorial earth. 24409.

MaRTIN, Mrs. M. (Dr. Princess Viroqua) (Utica, N. Y.). Twenty-three photographs of
the family and relatives (Mohawks) of the Princess Viroqua. 24145.

Mason, E. E. (Accotink, Va.). Adjustable pot-hook from the Custis Mansion, Wood-
lawn, Fairfax County, Va. 28861.

Mason, Epwarpd P. (Boston, Mass.). Italian stringed instrument “ Salterio” (Dul-
cimer) made about 1770, with ornamental outer case, and several sheets of man-
uscript music by Pasquale Anfossi, a celebrated and successful dramatic com-
poser, 1733-95. 23744.

MAson, Prof.O0.T. (See under R. M. Bartleman, William J. Boyd, William J. Carter,
H. Montgomery, and Ira H. Stout.)

MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR PROMOTION OF AGRICULTURE (Boston, Mass.), through
Department of Agriculture. Two hundred and forty colored plates illustrating
forest flora of the United States. 23588.
794 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

MatTHews, Dr. W., U. 8. Army (Fort Wingate, N. M.). Wooden tongs used by
the Navajo women for picking cactus fruit (23625); dyed wool of the Navajo
sheep and dyestufts used by the Navajo Indians of New Mexico and Arizona.
(24191. )

Maxson, C. C.(Westerley, R. I.). Three fresh specimens of Winninish (Salmo salar)
of the land-locked form, from the Metabetchouan River, Quebec, Canada. 23510.

Mayer, J. (Twin Lakes, Minn.). Poreupine skin. 23459.

Maynarp, Mrs. NELLIE LONG (Troy, N. Y.), through Mr. George W. Maynard.
Breech-loading guns and guns fitted with the Maynard system of priming, inven-
tions of Dr. George Maynard; square parts of Maynard rifle; wooden models of
parts of guns; chargers; breech block; hammer and priming case; loading de-
vice; primed car ideas cartridges ana priming strips. 24528.

MEarRNs, Dr. Epaar A., U. 8S. Army (Fort Snelling, Minn.). Western Evening
mosbeck (Coccotheransles vespertinus montanus), first plumage; new to the
collection. 23790.

MEDER, FERDINAND (New York City, N. Y.). Six engravings (23668); set 7 of
progressive proofs of a chromoxylograph, ‘‘Countess Voss,” by F. W. Gubitz
(24004); 8 blocks, including 1 block for lettering only, for a chromoxylograph
“Portrait of Countess von Voss” engraved by TF. W. Gubitz (24221),
(Purchase. 23)

MEEK, Prof. 8. E. (See under U. 8S. Fish Commission. )

MELLVILLE, Dr. W. H. (U.S. Geological Survey). Bismuthinite with chalcopyrite in
quartz from Mariposa mine, Rosario District, Sinaloa, Mexico (24320); 2 speci-
mens of napalite from Napa County, California; 2 of cinnabar from Morelos,
Mexico; 5 of metastibnite, from Steamboat Springs, Nevada, and specimens of
elaterite and livingstonite. 24493.

MENDENHALL, Dr. T. C. (See under Treasury Department, Coast and Geodetic Sur-
vey.)

MENGE J. F. (Meyers, Fla.). Three eggs (1 set) of Megascops asio floridanus; 6 eggs
(1 set) of Speotyto cunicularis floridana; 4 eggs (1 set) of Botawrus exilis, and 4
egos (1 set) of Ardea tricolor ruficollis. 24496.

MEREDITH, Hon. WILLIAM M. (See under Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Treas-
ury Department. )

MeErRrRIAM, Dr. C. Harr (Department of Agriculture). Three eggs (1 set) of Spizella
brewert (gift) (23378); specimens of Lxrogyra arietina from Painted Cave, Rio
Grande bank, Tex.; 9 species of land and fresh-water shells from the same lo-
cality (collected by Mr. William Lloyd) (gift) (28554); 3 species of fresh-
water gastropods from Salmon River, and a species of land-shells from Needle
Peak, Idaho (gift) (23614) ; numerous fresh-water mollusks representing 4 species
from Salmon River and Shoshone Falls, Idaho (gift) (23695); 2 specimens of
fossil wood from Elm Creek, near New Eagle Pass, Tex. (gift) (23760); woman’s
snit, man’s suit, boots, pantaloons, and sleeping-bag from the Eskimos of West
Greenland, bead-work of the Piegan Indians of Montana, and pouches of the Mon-
tagnais Indians of Canada (collected by Dr. F. H. Hoadley) (deposit) (28828) ; 9
specimens of carboniferous limestone fossils, Zaphrentis sp., from Needle Peak,
Idaho (gift) (23920); through Captain Charles E. Bendire, female parent, nest,
and 3 eggs of Dendroica carula, and egg of Molothrus ater (collected by W. E, C.
Todd, near Beaver, Pa. (gift) (23954); skin of Indian Flamingo (Phownicopterus
andersoni), new to the collection (gift) (24126); Worm (dAphrodita aculeata), 4
specimens representing 2 species of ascidians, 2 specimens of shrimps, and dry
shells, collected in and near the island of Grand Manan, New Brunswick, by Mr.
S. F. Cheney (gift) (24165); Horned Toad (Phrynosoma coronatum) from Twin
Oaks, San Diego County, Cal. (gift) (24388). (See under Department of Agri-
culture.)

Merriam, Hon. CLinton L. (Locust Grove, N. Y.). Two pairs of Elk-antlers, inter-
locked, from Montana. 23827. Deposit.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 195

Merrivyi, Guorce P. (U.S. National Museum). Columbite from Portiand, Conn.,
and willemite from Franklin Furnace, N. J. 24242,

MERRILL, GEORGE R. (Grand Rapids, Mich.). Collection of Parker’s and Weaver’s
Almanacs 1730-1750, inclusive, and an Indian skull. 23582. Exchange.

MeRRILL, Dr. J. C., U.S. Army (Fort Reno, Ind. T.). Nest of Vireo bellii (23463) ;
small collection of rodents, consisting of Grasshopper mice (Onychomys sp.),
Meadow-mice (dArvicola dusterus), Cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus), and 3 bats,
Vesperlilio sp. (23729).

MbeRRILL, LOREN B. (Paris, Me.). One hundred and tifty specimens of apatite with
quartz from Hebron, Me. (purchase) (23597); vein rock with garnets from
Beckfield, Oxford County, Me. (exchange) (28773); granitic rock with garnets
from the same locality (exchange) (23985).

Merrice, L. H. (Orono, Me.). Mica diorite from Clifton, (23601); 3 photographs
of beds of clay at Lewiston, Me., and photograph of a house of glacial drift
builders at Auburn. (24185).

MerrILL, Mrs. N. H. (Washington, D.C.). Mocking bird (Minus polyglottus) in the
flesh, from Kansas. 23868.

Merritt, W. ALLISON (Washington, D. C.). T-woskins of Least Tern (Sterna antil-
larum) from Northumberland County, Md. 23529.

Mercatrer, M. (Silver City, N. Mex.). Fork-tailed Lizard (Cnemidophorus gularis).
24519.

Mitrs, Rosperr A. (Chuluota, Fla.). Shell adze from Persimmon Mound, on the
Brevard side of St. John River. 23468.

MILLER, CHARLES. (See under Bureau of Ethnology.)

MILLER, CHARLES, Jr. (Grand Rapids, Mich.). ‘lwo fifty-dollar notes of Confederate
scrip, three-dollar bank note of Michigan, and an old copper coin. 24287.
Exchange.

MILLER, W. (Grand Rapids, Mich.). Part of a geode, found by Mr. Miller in Grand
River, Michigan. 23350.

MITrcHELL, C. E. (See under Cameron Silica Company, South Beddington, Me.)

MocKABEE, LLoyp. (See under C. W. Warneke. )

Monawk, GOWANGO (Newark, N. J.). Two photographs of donor, ‘‘ The Indian Mail
Carrier.” 23503.

Monson MAINE SLATE COMPANY (Monson, Me.). Sawn and split slate. 24260.

MoNntTANDON, Prof. A. L. (Bucharest, Roumania). Fifteen named species of Old
World hemiptera. 24097. Exchange.

MontTGcoMERy, H. (Cortland, N. Y.), through Prof. O. T. Mason. Collection of
mound relies from Dakota.* 28458. Deposit.

MonTGOMERY, HALE (Clinton, Mo.). Barn Owl (Strix pratincola). 24157.

Mooney, JAMES (Bureau of Ethnology). Pair of Cherokee ball-sticks. 23764.

Moore, Lieut. W.1., U. 8S. Navy. (See under Prof. I. C. White.)

MOoOoOREHEAD, WARREN K. (Xenia, Ohio). The Simonton collection of aboriginal relies
from Warren County, Ohio. 23543. Deposit.

MorGan, Gen. T. J. (See under Dr. Z. T. Daniel.)

Moser, Lieut. J. F., U.S. Navy (Baltimore, Md.). Alcoholic specimens of fishes from
Florida Reefs, consisting of Chilomycterus, Ostracion, Pristis, Centropomus, Murena,
Balistes, Platyglossus, Hemirhombus, Urolophus, Centropristis, Monacanthus, and
Echeneis; alcoholic specimen of Corn-snake (Coluber guttatus), shells, and marine
invertebrates. 23352.

MUELLER, Baron FEeRD. yon (Royal Botanical Gardens, Melbourne. Victoria, Aus-
tralia), through Mr. Dayid White. Fossil fruits from Victoria, consisting of Spon-
dylostrobus Smythii, Pleioclinis Sheperdi and Conotheca turgida. 23867.

*This collection has not yet been opened, and a full report on the collection will
be published later.

796 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Mouuuins, Dr. WitiiAm H. (Rosiclare, Ill.). Galena (lead ore) from the Rosiclare
Mines. 24257,

Murpock, W. P. (Spring Hill, Md.). Snowy Owl (Nyetea nyctea) in flesh, from
Charles County, Md. 23878. Purchase.

Murpnuy, A. C. (Shambow, Mont.). Stone from the so-called tin mine on the Sweet-
water River. 24086.

Musvo DE PRODUCTOS ARGENTINOS (Buenos Ayres), through Mr. John F. Thompson.
One hundred and sixteen species of wood, from Argentine Republic. 24382.
Musro NACIONAL DE Costa Rica (San José, Costa Rica), through Mr. George K. Cher-
rie. Sixty-five birds’ skins representing 35 species from Costa Rica, including the
types of 2 new species and 1 new genus, 2 species new to the collection, and
plumages previously unrepresented (exchange) (24155); through Senor Anas-
tasio Alfaro, director, skin of Rufous-spotted Whippoorwill (Antrostomus rufoma-

culatus), a new species from the Voleano Izarii, Costa Rica. (24376.)

Museum or FINE Arts (Boston, Mass.), through Gen. Charles G. Loring. Spear
from New Guinea. 235719.

Museum oF Natura History (Paris, France), through Leon Vaillant. Aleoholie
specimens of deep-sea fishes and dried skin of shark, colleeted by the Travilleur
and Talisman expeditions and by the commission to Cape Horn, in the Atlantie
Ocean, and Mediterranean Sea. 23345.

Naruorst, Prof. A. G. (See under Royal Swedish academy of Science, Stockholm,
Sweden. )

NATIONAL Museum, U.S. Collected by Mr. P. L. Jouy, alcoholic specimens of Salve-
linus fontinalis, Catostomus nigricans, Campostoma anomalum, Chrosomus, Netro-
pis (species), Diplesium blennoides, Acantharchus, from Richland Creek, North
Carolina; 4 aleoholie specimens of snakes and 6 salamanders from Roan Moun-
tain and other localities in western North Carolina; 12 alcoholic specimens of
Crayfish (Cambarus sp.), 2 Woodchucks (Arctomys monax) 4 specimens of Tamias
striatus, Shrewmouse (Blarina brevicauda), Sciurus hudsonius, Weasel (Putorius
vison), and 2 specimens of Sorex, from Waynesboro and Roan Mountain, North
Carolina; Hesperomys and Tamias striatus from Cranberry and Roan Mountain; 15
skins and alcoholic specimen of Carolina Snowbird (Junco carolinensis), 3 speci-
mens of Winter Wren (Troglodytes hiemalis), Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus
satrapa), and 10 specimens of birds from Waynesville; 3 specimens of magnetic
iron ore from Cranberry Tron Mines, and 3 pieces of mica from a mine near
Waynesville; collection of plants and insects, scraper, knives, arrow or spear-
points, rude implement, leaf-shaped implement, polished hatchet, drilled object
of potstone, arrow-point, and collection of land-snails (23445); 54 specimens of
birds’ skins, representing 33 species, from Tneson, Ariz. (23872); Snake, Pituophis
bellona and a Frog, Rona brachycepha (23877); a small collection of Rodents and
a Coyote skin from Tucson (23931) ; 30 specimens representing 17 species of birds’
skins, 7 Lizards (series of Uta stansburiana), and small collection of mammals,
from the vicinity of Tucson (23976); mammals from Tucson (24046); 19 birds’
skins, representing 11 species, from Tucson (24085); specimens of worm-para-
sites of fish-eating birds from Guaymas, Mexico, transferred to Fish Commis-
sion (24137); 26 lizards and snakes, representing 10 species, from Guayias,
Sonora, Mexico (24178); 6 mammal skins, one Chipmunk, one Spermophile, and 4
Hares, from Arizona (24208); 2 Turtles (Kinosternon) from Arizona (24246) ; 89 al-
coholie specimens of reptiles from Arizona (24270); alcoholic reptiles, chiefly
lizards (24345); mammal and birds’ skins and Turtle shell (24365); 7 aleoholic
reptiles from Tucson (24396) : 10 Turtles (Ainosternon) from Nogales, Ariz. (24472) ;
2 skins of Spermophile and 2 skins of Mice from Nogales (24480). Collected
by Mr. George P. Merrill: rocks from Auburn, Me., and 4 samples of muscovite,
showing secondary growth, from the same locality (23527).
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 797

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK (Washington, D. C.), Horned Grebe (Colymbus auritus)
in the flesh, from Mount Vernon, Va., presented by Mr. James T. Jones, of Wash-
ington D. C., (24225); through Mr. W. C. Weedon, Barn Owl (Strix pratincola)
hatched in one of the towers of the Smithsonian Institution (24451).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, U.S. BUREAU OF ORDNANCE, Commander William L. Folger,
Chief of Bureau, Nickeliferous pyrrhotite from Sudbury, Ontario, Canada
(23825).

NeErr, PETER (Cleveland, Ohio). Collection of objects illustrating the early history
of photography. 24366.

Netson, E. W. (Smithsonian Institution). Skin of Scott’s Oriole (Jelerus pari-
sorum, juv.) from near Santa Fé, N. Mex. 23488.

NEUMANN, Dr. JULIUS (Custom House, Kiungchow, China). Collection of 20 Chinese
musical instruments, 4 rain cloaks, and model of a water-wheel pump. (23679,
24256.) Purchase. :

NEWCOMBE, Dr. CHARLES IF. (Secretary of the Natural History Society of British
Columbia, Victoria, British Columbia). Small collection of dried crustaceans
from British Columbia, and alcoholic specimens of Gebia pugettensis with Lepton
attached. 24419. Exchange.

NEWMAN, Bishop JOHN P. (Washington, D. C.). Mosaie dish inlaid with varie-
gated stones from Agra, India. 23785.

NEW YORK CENTRAL AND HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY (Grand Central Sta-
tion, New York City, N. Y.), through Mr. William Buchanan, superintendent.
One of the wheels of the locomotive ‘‘De Witt Clinton.” 24219.

NEW YORK ENGRAVING AND PRINTING COMPANY (New York City, N. Y.). Speci-
mens illustrating the zine etching (line), wash-out (line), and half-tone photo-
mechanical processes. 24091. Purchase.

NEw YORK STATE Museum (Albany, N. Y.), through Prof. J. C. Smock. Two cut
stones of brown tourmaline from Newcomb, Essex County. 23605. Exchange.

NICHOLS, Capt. W. P. (Boston, Mass.), through Dr. John Bartlett, of Chicago. Model
of a Burmese canoe. 23348.

Nims, C. D. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Fluorite from Macob, St. Lawrence County, N. Y.
23959. Purchase.

Nissiny, J. R. (Ada, Ohio). Twenty-four arrow and spear-points, 5 flint flakes, pol-
ished hatchet, mica, red paint, and a copper awl, numbering 33 specimens, from
a mound in Putnam County, Ohio. 24255. Purchase.

Noau, Judge J. J. (Washington, D. C.). Stalactite from Luray Cave, Virginia
(gift). (28430.) Through Mr. John M. Noah, 2 broken porcelain plates brought
from Tunis in 1818. Deposit. 23666.

Noau, J. M. (U.S. National Museum). Essay on the ‘‘ Lost Tribes of Israel,” Vols.
I, and 1. 23546. (See under Judge J. J. Noah.)

NoBLE, Hon. J. W. (See under Interior Department. )

Noi, Paut (Rouen, France). Fourteen species of European Caribid@. 24278. Ex-
change.

NORTHERN Paciric RAILROAD (St. Paul, Minn.), through Department of Agricul-
ture. Two half sections of Sitka spruce from a tree 2.311 millimeters in diam-
eter. 23586.

NortHROP, JOHN I (New York City, N. Y.). Sevenspecimens of starfishes and ophi-
urans from the Bahama Islands, consisting of Linckia guildingit Gr., Linckia
guildingii (2), Echinaster lentus (2), Ophiurans appressa Say, Ophiocoma echinata,
Ophiocoma pumila, and Ophiothrix sp. 23782.

Norton, Dr. C. A. (Washington, D. C.). Warming-pan formerly belonging to the
Franklin family, photograph of fire-place in the Franklin homestead, Nantucket,
Mass., and photograph of the Whittier fire-place, Haverhill, Mass (23641); fire-
tongs from Denmark, brought over by the Muller family in 1792, used to trans-
port coals of fire from one house to another in olden times (23798).
198 _ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Norton, Frepb. A. (Washington, D. C.). Wooden club from Easter Island. 23793.
Deposit.

Nyt, WILvarD, jr. (New Bedford, Mass.). Twenty-seven stone implements from an
old corn field about 5 miles east of Seaconnett River, Rhode Island, and 19 stone
implements found 1 mile east of the mouth of Wood’s Holl. 23869.

OBERLIN COLLEGE (Oberlin, Ohio), through L. M. MeCormick. Alcoholic speci-
mens of reptiles from Africa and various localities. 23632.

Outpt, R. B., (Riverton Mich.). Clover leaves. 24404.

O'NEILL, WILLIAM O. (Prescott, Ariz.). Six specimens of onyx from a quarry near
Prescott, collected by Mr. O’Neill and transmitted to the National Museum
through the courtesy of the Quartermaster’s Department, U. 8. Army. 24504.

OrcurT, C. R. (San Diego, Cal.). Alcoholic specimens of reptiles, mammals, Pro-
mops, Thomomys, Arvicola, Ochetodon, and Black-headed Gull (23575) ; specimen of
epidote from Lower California (23698); 2 specimens of Hesperomys sp., represent-
ing a species allied to Hesperomys anthonyi, but not identical with it, specimens of
Perognathus penicillatus, Dipodomys sp., Molossus californicus, Vespertilio nitidus,
alcoholic specimens of Chordeiles acutipennis texennis, alcoholic specimens of fishes,
comprising Apocope carringtoni, Cyprinodon californiense, Gillichthys y-cauda juv.,
Cremnobates integripinnis, insects, alcoholic specimens of marine invertebrates,
consisting of worms, sponges, tunicates, crustaceans and echinoderms, 2 speci-
mens of Lchinarachnius excentricus Val., specimen of Strongylocentrotus purpuratus
A. Ag., mollusks, consisting of two slugs, the larger one Ariolimax californicus,
and a smaller one probably driolimax niger (23724); 7 species of coleoptera from
San Diego Mountains, 2 alcoholic specimens of Mugil mexicana from Lower Cali-
fornia, crabs, shrimps, isopods, and sponges from San Diego, reptiles and mam-
mals (24014); lizards and mammals (24021) ; collection of alcoholic insects, mostly
coleoptera, including 80 specimens of Asida hirsuta from the Colorado desert, San
Diego, Cal., (24055.) (See under George W. Derbrow.)

OrzE, W. J. (Mossy Creek, Tenn.). Living specimen of rare Longicorn Beetle (Dryo-
bius sexfasciatus Say). 24502.

OrTON, Prof. E>Dwarp (Columbus, Ohio). Three specimens of Sporangites Huronensis,
2 specimens of Dadoxylon Newberreyi, and 2 of Dadoxylon sp., from the-Devonian
and Carboniferous formation of Ohio. 23983.

OSBORN, Prof. HERBERT (Ames, Iowa). Four rare species of North American coleop-
tera, consisting of Saprinus rotundatus, Leptura americana, Stephanocleonus plum-
beus, and a new species, Barini. 23347.

OSBORNE, J. W. (Washington, D. C.). Collection of specimens illustrating techni-
cally the process of photolithography invented by the donor (23738) ; 2 photo-
graphs of Australians and 17 lithographs, by the Osborne process, representing
social life in China (23775); a copy of Eder’s ‘‘ Ueber die Reactionen der Chrom-
siiure, etc.,” Vienna, 1878 (24034); documents relating to photomechanical proc-
esses, and 4 specimens of photomechanical process work (24361).

OxroRD MusktuMm (Oxford, England), through Mr. Henry Balfour. Bamboo blow-
pipe from India. 24291. Exchange.

PaLackr Hore. (Cincinnati, Ohio). Portion of flesh from ‘‘ Chief,” the elephant shot
at the Cincinnati ‘‘ Zoo” December 10, 1890, and served for dinner December 17,
at the Palace Hotel, Cincinnati. 23882.

Patm, CHARLES (New York City, N. Y.). Ninety specimens, representing 41 species,
of North American coleoptera. 23853. Exchange.

PALMER, JOSEPH (U. 8S. National Museum). Specimens of Perna maxillatus Lam.
and Perna rorta Say, from the Potomac River (23511); skeleton of domestic pig
(24173).

PALMER, WILLIAM (U.S. National Museum). Red Squirrel (Sciurus hudsonius) from
Ballston, Va. 24369. (See under Elliott-Palmer Expedition).

PaLMER, W. L, (Crookston, Minn.). Skull of moose, 24384.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 199

ParKE, Davis & Co. (Detroit, Mich.). Thirty-six specimens of indigenous drugs
(23957) ; miscellaneous drugs (24040).

PATTERSON, H. J. (College Park, Md.). Marl from the farm of Mr. Thomas R.
Brooks, Seat Pleasant, Prince George County, Md. 24255.

Patron, C. H. (Washington, D. C.). Egg-case of whelk. 24031.

Payn, Evias J. (Tres Piedras, N. Mex.). Sample of red and gray granite. 24456.

PAYNE, R. F. (See under Dr. Cheves Bevill).

PEALE, Dr. A. C. (U.S. Geological Survey). ‘ Diamond Polish” (volcanie dust)
from the Diamond Emery Company, Phillipsburg, Kans. 23924.

Peck, C. H. (Newtown, Conn.). Two brass buttons about one hundred years old,
and castings of 16 buttons of the style used during Revolutionary times. 23762.

Peck, W. B. (Sharpsburg, Ky.). One 16mo volume, entitled “The American School-
master’s Assistant,” etc., Lexington, 1811, 23643.

Peirce, Dr. A. C. (Drownville, R. I.). Two skins of Kangaroo-rat (Dipodops com-
pactus True.). 24286. Purchase.

PENFIELD, Prof. 8. L. (Yale College, Conn.). Fourteen specimens of minerals from
Nova Scotia, and 1 specimen from Pennsylvania. 23799.

PENNOCK, C. J. (Kennett Square, Pa.). Four eggs (1 set) of Chetura pelagica and
2 nests of the same variety. 23523.

PENNYPACKER, C. H. (West Chester, Pa.). Seven specimens of minerals. 24441.
Purel ase.

PERKINS, FREDE RICK S. (Madison, Wis.). Large collection of prehistoric copper
and galena objects.* 23617. Purchase.

PERRY, TRourP D. (Savannah, Ga.). Nest and 3 eggs (1 set) of White-eyed Vireo,
nest and 2 eggs (1 set) of Summer Tanager, nest and 4 eggs (1 set) of Painted
Bunting, and nest and 4 eggs (1 set) of Yellow-breasted Chat. 23365.

Peters, Rey. JOHN P. (West Philadelphia, Pa.). Kufa, plow, spade, 2 guns, handle
of pestle, 2 paddles for Kufa from Bagdad, strike-a-light, necklace of silver,
bracelets, silk bag, nose-ring, paint for eyelashes, pistols, holsters, coffeepots,
clubs, garments, mill, sword, and other objects obtained by Mr. Peters for the
National Museum from the Arabs of Mesopotamia. (23986, 24087. )

PHELPS, DopGE & Co. (See under Lewisohn Brothers. )

PHILuirs, HALLETT W. (Washington, D.C.). Book: ‘Shut your mouth,” by George
Catlin. 23811.

PHINNEY, ELIAS (Cooperstown, N. Y.). Alcoholic specimen of Otsega Lake White-
fish (Coregonus clupeiformis var.). 23971.

PHOTOGRAVURE COMPANY (New York City, N. Y.). Collection of proofs. 25810.
Purehase.

PickETT, Dr. J. M. (Greensboro, Ala.), through Dr. William C. Avery. Two eggs (1
set) of Catharista atrata, 24506.

Prepra, MiIGguEL (Lagos, Mexico), Four specimens of opal from Queretaro, Mexico,
23874.

PILLARS, JAMES (Lima, Ohio). Twenty card-photographs representing archeologi-
cal specimens, the originals of which were found chiefly in Allen County, Ohio.
24103. Exchange.

Pinssry, H. A. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Specimens of Bulimulus ragsdalet Pils., and
Monodonta crusoanus Pils. 23664.

PuLeas, C. E. (Clinton, Ark.). Specimens of dried flowers, consisting of Amelanchie-
canadensis, Delphinum azureum, Asclepias tuberosa, Rhododendron viscosum, Trifor

. lium reflecum, Chrysanthemun leucanthemum, and Asclepias variegata. 23356.

PoESCcHE, Victor (Washington, D. C.). Archangel Pigeon. 24300.

Ponp, Lieut. CHARLES (Navy Department). Specimens of Grasshoppers, Dictyo-
phorus sp. from near Palin, and Firetly, Photuris sp., from San José, Guatemala.
23687.

*This collection was purchased for the National Museum from Mr. Perkins by a
special appropriation of Congress.
800 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

PorTER, FRED. W. (Chicago, Ill.). Collection of old State bank notes (21 nates.
from $1 to $20, 1817 to 1860). 24152. |

Posty, Miss Kats (U. 8. National Museum). Yellow-billed Cuckoo (Coccyzus ameri-
canus). 24512.

Porter, Rey. J. T. (Chaplain, U.S. Army, Fort Clark, Tex.). Skin of Massena Quail
(Cyrtomyx montezuma). 23910.

Porrer, Oscar (Scott, N. Y.).  Orthoceras from the Upper Devonian formation.
23609.

PowELL, Maj. J. W. (See under Bureau of Ethnology, and Interior Department; U.
S. Geological Survey. )

Powers & WEIGHTMAN (Philadelphia, Pa.). Miscellaneous medicinal preparations.
23389.

PRENTISS, E. C. (Washington, D. C.). Specimen of quartz from Little Falls, Herki-
mer County, N. Y. (Returned.) 24220.

Pritt, Dr. A. G. (Sweet Home, Oregon). Two skins, male and female, of Ring-
necked Pheasant (Phasianus torquatus) from Oregon (24253); 11 eggs (1 set) of
Ring-necked Pheasant (Phasianus torquatus), a species introduced into the
United States, and a new and interesting addition to the collection (24433) ; nest
and 4 eggs of Dendroica nigrescens, nest and 4 eggs of Turdus ustulatus, and nest
and 3 eggs of Cinclus mexicanus (24498).

PuRCELL, N. J. (Hillsboro, Va.). Copperhead-snake (gift) (28509); collection of
ethnographical objects from the Hupa and other Indians at Round Valley, Cal.
(purchase). (23553. )

Putnam, Prof. F. W. (Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass.). Ancient iron fire-place
lamp, found in the remains of a fruit-drying house, built on a mound in Adams
County, Ohio. 25645.

RAGAN, JOSEPH (Washington, D. C.). Two fresh specimens of Seriola stearnsi juy.,
from Cape Charles, Va. 23476.

RAGSDALE, G. H. (Gainesville, Tex.). Two eggs of Western Night Hawk from Den-
ton County. 23434.

| Rawpnu, Dr. W. L. (Utica, N. Y.). Fifty-one specimens, representing 8 species, of rare
and valuable birds’ eggs, mostly from Florida, 3 of the species new to the col-
lection. These specimens consist of 2 eggs (1 set) of Swallow-tailed Kite (la-
noides forficatus) egg of Red-tailed Hawk ( Buteo borealis), 12 eggs (6sets) of Florida
Red-shouldered Hawk (Buteo lineatus alleni), 9 eggs (5 sets) of Florida Barred
Owl (Syrniwm nebulosum alleni) (new to collection), 2 eggs (1set) of Florida Screech
Owl ( Megascops asio floridanus), 10 eggs (2 sets) of Florida Crow (Corvus americanus
floridanus), 3 eggs (1 set) of Southern Hairy Woodpecker (Dryobates villosus audu-
boni) (new tothe collection), and 12 eggs (3 sets) of Wilson’s Phalarope (Phalaropus
tricolor) (24166, 24333); skin of Southern Hairy Woodpecker (Dryobates villosus
auduboni), from San Mateo (24341); through Capt. Charles E. Bendire, remains of
an old Indian necklace from mound-builders’ tomb, with stone implement from the
same locality, and a handsome spear-point (24349); nest and 3 eggs of Sporophila
morelleti sharpi, 8 eggs of Parus atricristatus (new to the collection), 2 eggs of
Chordeiles texensis, 4eges of Tryannus melancholicus couchii (new to the collection),
2 eggs of Columba flavirostris (24516).

Rambo, M. ELMER (Lower Providence, Pa.). Six eggs and 2 birds’ nests, branch of
the Encaliptus tree from Australia, and 2 species of pressed sea moss from the
Pacific Ocean. 24436.

RANDALL, C. E. (Catawissa, Pa.). Portions of vertebra of Rattlesnake. 23472:

RANDOLPH-MACON COLLEGE (Ashland, Va.), through Richard Irby, Secretary and
Treasurer. Medal commemorating the incorporation of the college, February
3, 1830. 24124.

READ, CHARLES H. (See under British Museum, London, England. ) ‘

Reavy, A. P. (See under British Museum, London, England.) aur

——
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. SOl

ReEep, Capt. A. V., U. 8. Navy (Navy Department).  Dragon-flly (Cordulegaster)
from Brazil (?) and Turtle, Testudo tabulata. 23355.

Repwoop, F. T. (Baltimore, Md.). Pair of Japanese swords and an ancient Peruvian
wooden image (28611); Hara-kiri dirk from Japan (23716). (Exchange. )

RbtyNoups, H. L. (See under Bureau of Ethnology.)

Rukes, WILLIAM J. (Smithsonian Institution). Daguerreotypes of William T. John-
son, governor of Pennsylvania, 1851, and Maj. Gen, Hugh Brady, U. 8. Army,
1768-1851, and an ambrotype of Dr. John D. Easter, chemist of the Smithsonian
Institution in 1855 (24001); thoroughbred Jersey calf (24025).

Ricu, A. F., & Co. (Boston, Mass.). Specimen ot Four-bearded Rockling (Onos cim-
brius), from Placentia Bay, Newfoundland. 23952.

RICHMOND, CHARLES (Washington, D. C.). Box Turtle (Cisludo carolina). 23348

RicumMonpd, Cnartes W. (Department of Agriculture). Forty-three birds’ skins,
representing 24 species, from Chapada, Province Matto-Grosso, Brazil (exchange)
(23382); two specimens of Pteroglossus castanotis and Colaptes campestris (ex-
change) (23517); series of shells and sterna of birds (24024); Slate-colored Junco
(Junco hyemalis), from Washington, D. C. (24386); Tree Frog (Hyia versicolor)
from Glen Echo, remarkable for its unusual color (24460).

Rice, Prof. Witi1AmM Nortu (Middletown, Conn.). Specimen of cobalt and nickel
ore (smaltite). 24023. Exchange.

Pict, Hon. WitiiamM T. (United States Consul, Leghorn, italy). Six historical
medals, consisting of bronze medal, 1779, Rhode Island fight; silver medal, 1780,
armed neutrality of Russia, Denmark, Sweden, and Holland during the war of
independence of America, with the arms of the four States ‘‘Ichova wreeker der
verbonden;” silver medal in duplicate of the above, silver medal, 1784, presented
by the society ‘‘ Voorveyheid en Vver” to the State of Frisland, Holland, (Frise-
land arms) on the oceasion of John Adams’s reception as ambassador of the
United States; silver medal, The Independence of the United States recognized
by Holland, ‘Libera Soror,” April 19, 1782; and a silver medal, Treaty of Com-
merce between the United States and Holland, October 7, 1782.

RicHARDS, Mr. and Mrs. (See under F. D. Foster.) (23862.) Purchase.

RipGway, AUDUBON. Bat, Nyelicejus crepuscularis, from Sugar Creek Prairie, Rich-
land County, Ill. (23420); Snake, Ophibolus rhombomaculatus, (24241.)

RipGway, Roper (National Museum). One hundred birds’ skins, representing 55
species, chiefly from Richland County, Ill. (23369). Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo
borealis) in flesh, from Maryland (23875); Salamander (Plethodon cinnereus), from
Brookland, D. C. (24027); 44 specimens, representing 29 species of birds’ skins,
chiefly from Laurel, Md. ( 24156) ; Box Turtle (Cistudo carolina), from Brookland,
D. €. (24374).

Ritey, Prof. C. V. (Department of Agriculture). Seventy-one species of North Ameri-
can Coleoptera, some new to the collection, collected by Prof. L. Bruner (24250) ;
1,100 specimens, representing about 240 species, of North American Microlepidotera
(24279), Jand-shells from Blanco County, Tex. (24847); series of Lepidoptera,
consisting of 17 specimens, representing 17 species, and 200 specimens, represent-
ing 20 species, of Coleoptera, most of which are rare and valuable to the collee-
tion, obtained by Mr. D. W. Colquillet in San Diego County, Cal. (24459).
(See under Deparisient of Agriculture. )

Rixvorp, GEORGE P. (San Francisco, Cal.). Two polished slabs of Inyo County
marble, 24378.

RoBinson, JAMES H. (Lewiston, Idaho). Sandstone composed almost wholly of
finely comminuted pumice. 24426.

Rock, Prof. Mites (Washington, D. C.). Two specimens of Silky Ant-eater (Cyelo-
turus didactylus) from Guatemala (24511, 24571).

{OCKENSTYRE, C. E. (Albany, N. Y.). Silver Sebright Bantam fowl], Golden Se-
bright Bantam fowl, Buff Cochin Bantam fowl, and Bearded Polish fowl
(24317, 24508).

sm 91, pr 2——Od1
802 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

RockuiLtt, W. W. (Washington, D, C.). Pair of Corean childrens’ shoes, and Co-
rean quiver with arrows (gift) (28359) ; collection of Chinese cloisonées, enamels,
lacquers, and bronzes, Chinese and Japanese swords and daggers, belt-knives
with chopsticks, Moorish daggers and short swords, Catalonian knife, Corean
belt-knife and baton (deposit) (23372), Chinese Buddhist book, Thibetan gos-
pels (gift) (23498); pair of Algerian spurs, and Chinese tobacco-pouch (gift)
(23592); map of Pekin illustrating popular Chinese cartography (24520).

Ro“BLING, Col. W. A. (Trenton, N. J.). Willemite from Franklin, N. J. 24437.

Rorssuer, A. R. (Laredo, Tex.). Two specimens of selenite from the Rio Grande
Valley (23391); hematite axe and arrow-point found while digging an artesian
well near Laredo, Tex. (23414).

RoGan, JAMES W. (Amis, Tenn.). Piece of reddish brown hematite plowed up ina
field, probably an Indian paint-stone; asquare block of Scolithus or annelid bor-
ines, from near Bradshaw’s Springs, Clinch Mountain, and 3 specimens of sili-
ceous sandstone colored by iron oxide. 23696.

Rogers, Col. GkorGe T. (Lynnhaven, Va.). Military coat of a colonel in the Vir-
ginia Infantry, Confederate States Army. 23650.

Rogers, THOMAS (Manchester, England). Specimens of Planorbis dilatus from a
canal at Manchester. 24019.

RoMEYN, Capt. Henry, U. 8. Army, (Fort Ringgold, Tex.). Five fossil oysters
and a piece of petrified wood found in the bed of the Rio Dolores. 25110. (See
under Lieut. W. W. Wotherspoon. )

Ropes, J. (Ishpeming, Mich.), through 8.8. Ropes. Gold and silver ores from Mar-
quette County, Mich. 24521.

Ropers, 8.8. (See under J. Ropes.)

RoruEeRMEL, Dr. A, W.S. (Ida Grove, Iowa). Iron ore (limonite) from near Mazarn,
Ark, 24011.

Rown, BE. 8S. (Washington, D. C.). Strawberry Finch (Sporeginthus amandava).
24153.

Roya Boranic GARDEN (Caleutta, India), through Dr. G. King, superintendent.
Collection of dried plants from India, 285857. Gift.

Royaut BoTANICAL GARDENS (Kew, England). Textile fabrics and other articles,
13 miscellaneous drugs, and a mat from New Guinea (23358); through Dr. W. T.
Thiselton-Dyer, director, collection of Indian fabrics (23807) ; seeds, transferred
to United States Botanic Garden, 24435. Exchange.

RoyYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SociEry (London, England), through Mr. H. W. Bates,
Assistant Secretary. Bronze medal commemorating Stanley’s expedition for the
relief of Emin Pasha, 24065.

Royat Museum or NaruraL History (Berlin, Germany). Collection of echino-
derms from Europe, South America, Asia, and East Indies. 24474. Exchange.

Roya SAXON MINING ACADEMY (Frieberg, Saxony). Fifty-five specimens of bar-
ite, pyrite, calcite, dolomite, native silver, chalcopyrite, galena, bornite, argent-
ite, fluorite, marcasite, siderite, uraninite, tennantite, sphalerite, native arsenic,
parargyvite, xanthoconite, aunabergite, proustite, and berthierite. 23830, Ex-
change.

RoyaL SWEDISH ACADEMY OF SCIENCE (Stockholm, Sweden), through Prof. A. G.
Nathorst. Collection of Arctic mosses. 23720. Exchange.

Roya ZOOLOGICAL MusEUM (Copenhagen, Denmark), through Prof. Dr, Chr. Liitken,
president. Twenty-seven specimens representing 11 species of marine shells, 4
species of fishes consisting of Liparis fabricti, Lycodes liitkeni, Icelus hamatus,
Aspidophoroides olvikii, collection of crustaceans numbering &5 specimens, in-
cluding echinoderms, bryozoans, hydroids, worms, sponges, anthozoa, and ascid-
ians colleeted by the steamer Dymphna during an exploring expedition in 1882-83,
inthe Arctic regions, Kara Sea, and on the southern coast of Nova Zembla, 24114.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 803

Rusy, CHARLES (Fort Randall, S. Dak.). Four specimens representing 5 species
of birds’ skins consisting of Porzana carolina, Coceyzus erythropthalmus, and Seto-
phaga ruticilla (23410); fossil bones of reptiles and fishes (23512. )

Ruppy, THomMas (Palé, Cowen, Wales). Two hundred and thirty-two specimens,
including 44 genera and 80 species of Cambrian fossils. 24325.

Russ, A. B. (Washington, D. C.). Five specimens of native gold in quartz from
Montgomery County, Md. 23939.

Russe 1, Prof. 1. C. (U.S. Geological Survey). Three specimens of coal from Alaska
and Vancouver Island, leather pouch from Yakutat containing a stone dish used as
a charm by medicine man; 2 stone mortars ornamented with rude carvings, used
for grinding tobacco, and also as a lamp; a stone adze and a rude painted stone
implement of unknown use from Yakutat (23735); iron ore from Michigan and
specimens of coal from Alabama (25936); 2 faulted pebbles from Pinnacle Pass,
Mount St. Elias, Alaska. (24328.)

Rust, HABER’ (Jeffersonville, Ind.). Collection of human bones and specimens of
material surrounding them, consisting of 63 specimens taken from an Indian
burial-place near Clarksville, Clarke County, Ind. 24822.

SAGE, JOHN H. (Portland, Conn.). Fossil plant, Dendrophycus triassicus Newby.
23759.

Saint, G. A. (Pittsburg, Pa.). Nineteen arrow-points. 24414.

SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY COAL MINING COMPANY (Hanford, Cal.). Sample of coal.
24448,

SavaGE, M. F. (New York City, N. Y.). Two fat lamps, Kyal lamp, and water-heater
for shaving purposes, from Massachusetts, and night-lamp from Providence, R. I.
23640. Exchange.

ScuENckK, C.D. (Washington, D. C.). Three pit game-fowls (23376) ; blue red-mufted
pit game-fowl (23915).

ScuwryvrER & Likgss (King of Prussia, Pa.). Two polished slabs of blue marble.
24083.

Scumip, Epwarp 8. (Washington, D. C.). Mynah (Gracula, species) in the flesh
(23576); Parrakeet (Bolborhynchus, species) from South America (23362); 3 birds
in the flesh (23366); Grass Parrakeet (Melopsittacus undulatus) in the flesh (23501) ;
Jaearini Finch (Volatinia jacarina) in the flesh (23504); African Parrot (Psittacus
erithracus), and Mountain Dove (Geopelia striata) from Mauritius, Indian Ocean
(23686) ; Troupial (Jcterus icterus) inthe flesh (23792) ; Parrakeet (Conurus, species)
in the flesh (23816); domestic pigeon of the Nun variety (24005); Cockatoo Parra-
keet (Nymphicus novehollandie) in the flesh (24022); Albino Java Sparrow (Padda
oryzivora) in the flesh (24118); Finch (Munia, species) in the flesh (24239) ; hybrid
Canary and Goldfinch (Serinus canariensis x Carduelis carduelis) in the flesh (24398).

SCHENCK, J. (Mount Carmel, Ill.). Specimen of Hawk. 28896.

SCHNEIDER, Dr. E. A. (U.S. Geological Survey). Specimen of leuchtenbergite from
Schischimsk Mine, near Slatoust, Southern Ural, Russia. 23627. (See under
U.S. Geological Survey and A. Lésch.)

SCHREIBER, J. D. (Allentown, Pa.). Earthy forms of the mineral graphite or plum-
bago, and rock carrying the same mineral in scales. 24425,

Scuwarkz, E. A. (Department of Agriculture). Two species of biftacus, new to the
collection, from Fort Pendleton, Md. 23475.

Scotiick, J. W. (U. S. National Museum). Six chickens, 2 Black Minoreas and
Sumatra Game fowl. (23875, 23397, 23571.)

Scorr, W, E. D. (New York city, N. Y.). Two eggs (1 set) of Haliatus leucocephalus,
and 2 eggs of Ardea occidentalis from Florida (23578); 105 birds’ skins represent-
ing 27 species from Punta Rassa and Tarpan Springs, Fla., and 4 specimens
representing 2 species of birds’ skins from Dry Tortugas (23642).
804 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

ScuppEkR, S. H. (Cambridge, Mass.). Type specimens of fossil insect masses, Cory-
dalites fecundus, from Colorado, collected by the U. 8. Geological and Geograph-
ical Survey of the Territories. 24274.

SEAL, Mr. (Cape Town, South Africa), through Prof. Cleveland Abbe. Specimen of
crocidolite from Griqua Town, Griqualand, South Africa. 25922.

SEAL, WILLIAM P, (See under B. A. Bean, U. 8. Fish Commission, and Dr. Hugh
M. Smith.)

Seay, WILLIAM W. (Rome, Ga.). Specimen of tetradymite with native gold in
quartz from near Rockmart, Paulding County, Ga. 24367.

Secor, Davip PELL (Curator and Librarian of the Bridgeport Scientific Society,
Bridgeport, Conn.). Twelve arrow-points of white quartz from various localities
along the southwestern coast of Connecticut, from Bridgeport to Stamford.
23757.

8ecrest, T. D. (Okolona, Ark,). Fossil bones of mammals. 24275. Deposit.

Srmnry, Col. F. A. U.S. Patent Office). Twenty-seven photographs of ethnological
objects from Spain (purchase) (23709); set of bronze weights and a brass clock
from Madrid (gift). 24078.

SEELY, Mrs. IF. A. (Washington, D. C.). Silver coffee-urn presented to Capt. Moses
Rogers, steamship Savannah, at Stockholm in 1819 by Sir Thomas Graham, and a
gold medallion with Russian miniature on ivory of Capt. Rogers, 24431,

SHarp, C. A. (Lockport, N. Y.). Golden Wyandotte fowl, in the flesh. 24228,

Suarp, C. A., & Co. (Lockport, N. Y.). Indian game-fowls and chickens (24075,
24158, 24172, 24257).

Suarp, Capt. THomas, U. 8. Army (Fort Russell, Wyo.). Two epiphyses from the
cervical vertebrie of a horse or mule, with intervertebral cartilege attached.
23521.

SuELpoN, H. E. (See under Granite Railway Company, Boston, Mass. )

SHELTON, J. C. (Roseland, Va.). Two samples of massive rutile from Jennie’s
Creek, near Roseland, Nelson County, Va. 24485.

SHEPARD, Miss C. ANTOINETTE (New Britain, Conn.), Eggs of River-snail, Ampul-
laria depressa, from Silver Springs, Fla, 24151.

SHEPARD, Dr. C. U. (Charleston, S. C.). Phosphate rock from the mines of the
Dunellon Phosphate Company, near Dunellon, Marion County, Fla., and 5 sam-
ples of phosphorite. 23929.

Sneparp, Miss Ipa M. (Long Beach, Cal.). Specimen of Tylodina californica
(23387) ; fossil shells from a well 25 feet deep near Long Beach (23663); through
Mr. C. T. Simpson, 2 specimens of Scalaria bellastriata Spr. (23997).

Sueparp, James (New Britain, Conn.). Silicified fossils from Tampa Bay, Fla., and
5 species of recent shells. 23747.

SHEPARD, W. G., & Co. (New Haven, Conn.). Sample of ash wood bent by the steam-
ing process. 24338.

Suerman, A. R. (Berkeley Springs, W. Va.). Hand-seourer for hides. 28405,

SHERMAN, Mrs. Joun A. (Watertown, N. Y.). Collection of sea-mosses and ferns
made by Mrs Sherman on the Pacific Coast at Santa Barbara, 24044.

SuHimek, Prof. B. (lowa City, lowa), Specimens of Pupa alticola Ing., from the loess
of Towa. 23870,

SHINDLER, A. ZENO (U. 8S. National Museum), Strike-a-light briquet from Paris,
France, patented January 26, 1837. 23977.

SHINN, Dr. V. (Washington, D. C.). Gordon setter, in the flesh, 238383.

SHOENFELT, J. B, (Waterloo, N. Y.). Onyx marble from Franklin County, Mo,
24267.

SHUFELDT, Capt. Mason N. (U.S. Navy). Sixteen photographs representing ethno-
logical objects (23460); 18 photographs representing persons and scenes in India,
Gibraltar, Arabia, and various islands of the Pacific Ocean (24344),
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 805

SHUFELDT, Percy W. (Takoma Park, D. C.). Seven birds’ skins representing seven
species from various localities (23868); skin of Catbird, showing method of
preparation (24348); 21 salamanders and frogs (24490).

SHUFELDT, Dr. R. W., U. S. Army (Takoma Park, D.C.). Specimen of Desmognathus
Susea (23540); Evening Grosbeak (Hesperiphona vespertina) in flesh, from Fort
Wingate, New Mexico (23542); 3 alcoholic specimens of Lagomys princeps from
the Sierra Nevada Mountains (23556); skin of Mink, Putorius vison, from Sligo
Creek (23852); 7 alcoholic specimens representing 5 species of reptiles and ba-
trachians, and 2 alcoholic specimens of Tarantula (Lurypelma sp.) and Evening
Grosbeak from Fort Wingate, New Mexico (24111); 2 photographs of Navajo wo-
man weaving a belt (24839); Dragon-tly (Tramea carolina) from Maryland (24377) ;
2 snakes and a tree-froe (24488).

SHUFELDT, R. W., jr. (Takoma Park, D. C.). Raven (Corvus corax sinuatus) from Fort
Wingate, N. Mex. (25884); 10 salamanders (24489); small collection of fishes
representing the following species: Semotilus atromaculatus, Rhinichthys at-
ronasus; Chrosomus erythrogaster; Hybopsis biguttatus; Notropis analostana; No-
tropsismegdlops; Exoglossum macillingua; Noturus insignis; Anguilla rostrata juy. ;
Petromyzon marinus (24518).

SickiEs, F. E. (Kansas City, Mo.) Duplieate of original model of Sickles’ lifting,
tripping, and regulating machine, also Patent Office certificate and copy of
drawing attached to the first patent in the world fora trip cut-off, May 20, 1842.
(24427); framed tracing of steam-steering machine, patented July 17, 1860, with
photograph and framed label, framed newspaper clippings from the Scientitic
American, September 25, 1876, and National Gazette, November 5, 1891, describ-
ing the steam-steering machine invented by Mr. Sickles (24428). Deposit.

Sikora, FRANZ (Andrangoloka, Madagascar). Alcholie specimens of mammals.
23993. Purchase.

Sipey, J. F. (Buttalo Gap, S. Dak.). Sixteen specimens of calcite and 2 specimens
of calcareous tufa. 28710. Purchase.

SIMONDS, STEPHEN (Washington, D. C.). Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus satrapa).
23780.

Srmmpson, A. M. (Straubville, N. Dak.). Specimen of gypsum found in blue elay, at
depth of from 12 to 40 feet. 24486.

Srpson, C. T. (See under Miss Ida M. Shepard.)

SINGER MANUFACTURING ComPaNy (Hartford, Conn.), through L. Barr. Ten sew-
ine machines. 24316.

Sisson, J. F. H. (Kinsale, Va.). Abnormal claw of Blue crab (Callinectes hastatus)
from the Potomac River. 24161.

Siocum, Capt. Josuua. The Liberdade, built by Capt. Slocum on an island off the
coast of Brazil. 23653.

SLtocum, Hon. J. C. (U. 8. Surveyor-General, Tallahassee, Fla.) (See under Interior
Department. )

SMEDLEY, SAMUEL H. (Sanger Juuction, Cal.). Glossularite from near Sanger June-
tion, Cal. 24313.

SMILLIE, JAMES D. (New York City, N. Y.). Three proots from aquatint plates, made
by the donor (gift). (23787): aquatint plate ‘‘Old Houses at Boulogne,” with
six proofs (purchase) (23761).

Situ, KE. Kirspy, Jr. (Vera Cruz, Mexico). Lantern-fly (Fulgora lanternaria) found
half way across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, in a dense thicket. 23453.

SmitnH, Maj. GeorGE S. (Marion, Va.). Zine ore from Virginia. 23801.

SmiTH, HARLAN I. (East Saginaw, Mich.). Old spear-point, 3 arrow-points of flint,
and 3 fragments of pottery from Michigan. 23926.

Smiru, Horace G., Jr. (Denver, Colo.). Small collection of reptiles, 6 specimens,
5 species, from Colorado, 23962. Exchange.
806 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Smiru, Dr. HuGu M. (U. 8. Fish Commission). Collection of dried and pressed
plants from St. George’s Island (23390, 23508); dried plants representing 20
species obtained by Dr. Smith from various littoral points in New Jersey and
Virginia (23461); stone taken from the stomach of Coot (Fulica americana) from
Roan Island, North Carolina (23520); brass ‘ fig-leaf” from Maylasia, obtained
by Lieut. Commander F. Hanford, U. 8. Navy (23522); 2 skins of Golden-headed
Manakin (Pipra aurocapilla) and Blue-crowned Manakin (Pipra coronata) from
Jeuador, South America (23559): skin of Western Horned Owl (Bubo Virginianus
subarcticus), from New Mexico (23566); specimens of Pecten Magellanus from the
coast of Maine (23923); photograph of side-wheel steam-packet, photograph
showing the raising of a wreck in Norfolk Harbor, and one representing the
wreck of a four-masted schooner (purchase) (28953); nest and egg of Vireo flavi-
frons, 2 nests and 5 eggs of Vireo olivaceus, 3 nests and 4 eggs of Dendroica astiva,
nest and egg of Dendroica discolor, nest of Contopus virens, egg of Falco sparverius
and Aegialitis vocifera, from the District of Columbia (24072); Bat., Vesperugo fus-
cus (24284); 2 water-snakes, Tropidonotus sipedon, fronr the Potomac River
(24397); 13 small Turtles from the Potomae River, collected by Mr, William P.
Seal (24413).

SmirH, Prof. Joun B. (New Brunswick, N. J.). Eight species of miscellaneous
insects (23580); series of North American noctuidee consisting of 15 specimens
representing 12 species (23933); specimen of Carabus truncaticollis Fisch, from
Alaska (23940); 20 microscopic slides illustrating a paper by Prof. Smith, on
mouth parts of diptera, and also a copy of the paper (24135); 19 species of
Canadian moths named by F. Walker, of the British Museum, about 1865, from
the collection of Rey. J. 8. Bethune (24251).

SmituH, Dr. Luoyp H. (Easton, Md.). Living Owl. 24497.

SmirH, Capt. O. M., U.S. Army (War Department). Springfield rifle bullet partially
pierced by a nail at target range at Fort Keogh, Mont., in June, 1890. 23948.

Smirn, WiiiiaM G. (Loveland, Colo.). Two specimens of Swainson’s Hace (Buteo
Swainsoni) and deformed head of Red-winged Blackbird (dgelaius pheniceus)
(gift) (23535) ; skin of Plumbeous Vireo (Vireo solitarius plumbeus) from Colorado
(gift) (24041); skin of Flammulated Screech-owl (Megascops jflammeolus) from
Colorado (purchase) (24042); 4 eggs of Megascops flammeolus, 2 nests and 8 eggs of
Vireo solitarius plumbeus, 4 eggs of Phalaropus tricolor, and 5 eggs of Calamospiza
melanocorys (purchase) (24050).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, through Hon. William F. Wharton, Assistant Secretary
of State. Medal awarded by the late Paris International Exhibition to the
Smithsonian Institution, and transmitted by the Department of State (gift)
(24105); bronze medal from the University of Montpelier, France (deposit)
(24293).

Smock, J.C. (See under New York State Museum.)

Snow, Cuarurs H. (Silver City, N. Mex.). Smithsonite from Dubuque, Iowa. 23404.

Snyper, F. D. (See under Bureau of Ethnology.)

Snyper, Dr. J. F. (Virginia, [1.). Cast of stone from cliff dwellings on the Rio
Verde River, Arizona. 23431.

Sparks, Frank W. (St. Louis, Mo.), through Dr. T. H. Bean. Mounted Fulvous
Tree-duck (Dendrocygna fulva) from New Madrid, Mo. 24462.

SPENCER, Miss FLORENCE I. (Oak Lawn, Fla.). Horse-hair Snake (Gordius genus).
23479.

Spencer, Dr. J. W. (Atlanta, Ga.). Specimens of Miocene fossils from Thomas
County, Fla. 23443.

SPILLMAN, W. J. (Vincennes, Ind.). Forty-five species of plants. 25619.

Spray, S.J. (Salida, Colo.). Skin of Pinion Jay (Cyanocephalus cyanocephalus) from
Colorado. 23528.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 807

STABLER, HAROLD B. (Sandy Spring, Md.). Cooper's Hawk (24006); Red-shouldered
Hawk (Buteo lineatus) and Screech Owl ( Megascops asio) in the flesh (23981, 24053).

STABLER, JAMES P. (Sandy Spring, Md.). Two hawks (Buteo borealis and Buteo lin-
eatus) in the flesh (23876;) Red-shouldered Hawk (Buteo lineatus) (23881.); 2 Spar-
row Hawks (Tinnuneulus sparverius), and Sharp-shinned Hawk (Aceipiter fuscus)
(24240).

SraraG, Mrs. R. M. (Boston, Mass.). Two proofs of a ‘* Portrait of Edward Everett,”
engraved by John Cheney, from a miniature by R. M. Staigg. 24035.

STANARD, Dr. O. B. (Sandwich, Il.). Cast of tooth of mammal, found in Kendall
County, Ill. 24079.

STanpina, A. J. (Carlisle, Pa.). Cheyenne war bonnet, Sioux smoking outfit, and
3 Assinnaboine squaw belts. 23370. Purchase.

Sranron, T. W. (U. 8. Geological Survey). Eighteen arrow-points, found in a tield
on Cowikee Creek, 8 miles northwest of Eufala, Ala. 24200.

STANTON, W. J. (New York City, N. Y.). Parlor Tumbler pigeon and Black Jacobin
pigeon. 28826.

STATE, DEPARTMENT OF.

Through Hon. William F. Wharton, Assistant Secretary: Two medals awarded to
the Government of the United States for its exhibits at the late Paris Interna-
tional Exhibition (24104); 2 diplomas awarded to the Government of the United
States at the late Paris International Exhibition (24127).

Through Mr. Sevellon A. Brown, chief clerk: Pwo bricks with cuneiform and other
inscriptions (24201); samples of Chinese ramie, in various stages of manufacture,
and a printed report of the consul-general of the United States at Shanghai, de-
scribing the specimens (24487).

Collected by the United States consul at Catania, Italy: Seven specimens of celes-
tite with sulphur (23505). (See under Walter J. Koehler.)

STEARNS, FREDERICK (Detroit, Mich.). Collection of Japanese shells, 24417, Ex-
change. )

STEARNS, Prof. W. A. (Cambridge, Mass.). Alcoholic specimens of fishes from Ari-
chat, Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, marine invertebrates, comprising crustaceans,
worms, echinoderms, and others from the same localities; mollusks, Beetles,
Ocypus ater, Criocephalus asperatus, and a Myriopod (Lithobius) reptiles and algie,
from the same locality. 23662.

STrINER, R. (Waynesboro, Ga.). Collection of 154 specimens of chipped flint imple-
ments of paleolithic type found in the vicinity of Waynesboro. 24147.

STEINWEG, Mrs.S. E. (See under Fritillaria Club of Yakima Valley.)

STEJNEGER, Dr. LEONHARD (U. 8. National Museum). Twelve birds representing 9
species from Arizona, collected by Dr. Stejneger. 28506. (See under Master E.
Bull).

STERLING, Dr. E. (Cleveland, Ohio). Stuffed skin of mole (Scalops aquaticus). 28450.

Srrvens, G. A. K. (Barton, Fla.). Scute from carapace of fossil Glyptodon (Clamydo-
therium humboldti). 24051.

STEVENSON, Prof. J.J.(New York City, N.Y.). Crude petroleum from Berksville,
Ky. 24163. Exchange.

Stincucomp, A. A. (St. Margaret, Md.). Living searlet snake (Cemophora cocinea).
24283.

Srout, Ira H. (St. Louis, Mo.), through Prof. O. T. Mason. Photograph of air ship.
23607.

Srraus, Hon. O. 8. (New York City, N. Y.). Cast of the Jerusalem Stele, a Greek
inscription from the Temple of Jerusalem, taken from the original in the
Imperial Museum, Constantinople, Turkey. 23499.

STRONG, F. M. (Wheeling, W. Va.). Luna Silk-moth. 24421.

Srroup, Mrs. Mary (Washington, D.C.). Mezzotint ‘Portrait of Prof. Johnson” by
Sartain (deposit); oil portrait of the late Walter R. Johnson (deposit); 1 early
davuerreotypes, ade with a camera which was imported from France by Prot.
808 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Srroup, Mrs. MaRy—Continued.
Johnson soon after the art was discovered (deposit); collection of Russian
minerals given in 1845 by the Russian Government to Walter R. Johnson, of
Washington, and minerals; consisting of garnet, iolite, emerald, beryl, corundum,
monazite, xanthophyllite, crocoite, vauquelinite, cassiterite, malachite, molyb-
dite, pargasite, fahlunite, phenakite, leachtenbergite, sodalite, zircon, samarskite,
tscheitkinite, glinkite, ouvarovite, and volborthite (gift). 23598.

Stuspss, Dr. Charles M. (Wakefield, Pa.). Nineteen stone “picks”* and 5 fragments
of potstone vessels found near Wakefield, Lancaster County, Pa, 23752.

Srurrz, B. (Bonn, Prussia). Fifty-five specimens of rocks from Europe (23654) ;
ores (24196). Exchange.

SULZBERGER, Dr. D. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Meruzza, wrapper for Pentateuch, and 2
citrons. 23635.

SULZBERGER, M. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Jewish wedding-ring, circumcision-knife, and
gold amulet. 23660. Purchase.

SULZBERGER, Mrs. 8. (Chicago, Ill.). Two engravings illustrating events in Hebrew
history. 23610.

SURBER, THADDEUS (White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.). Twelve eggs (3 sets) of Sparrow
Hawk (alco sparverius ), 7 eggs (2 sets) of American crow (Corvus americanus ),
4 eggs (1 set) of Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata), 4 eggs (i set) of Mockingbird
(Minus polyglottus), and 12 eggs (3 sets) of Tricolored Blackbird (Agelaius tri-
color) from West Virginia. 24308.

Swrenry, T. W. (U.S. National Museum). Two iron fire-place lamps (Umschals)
and a combination fat-lamp and candlestick from York County, Pa. 23525.

SYRACUSE PLow Company (Syracuse, N. Y.). Model of steel plow. 24060.

TANNER, WILLIAM G. (Sandy Hill, N. Y.). Two specimens of garnet bowlder, speci-
mens of graphite and hornblende in calcite, hornblende containing seales of
graphite, graphite, and 6 miscellaneous specimens. 24058.

TaPPaNn, Col. 8. F. (Washington, D. C.). Shirt made of chain armor, captured by
H. M. Stanley from brigands at Chihissuar, Asia Minor, in 1868. 23839.

Tarr, EDWIN P. (McCartys’, N. Mex.). Aleoholic specimens of insects. 23637.

TauBER, Miss Eviza M. (Gladdeus, Pa.). Specimen of Fomer graveolens Schw. 24380.

Tayior, A. R. (Columbia, $8. C.). Nests of Vireo noveboracensis, Dendroica discolor,
Dendroica vigorsii, and Compsothlypis americana, 24078.

TayLor, F. W. (El Paso, Tex.). Alabandite from Kingston, N. Mex. 24500.

Test, I’. C. (U.S. National Museum). Two specimens of Black-snake (Bascanion
constrictor) from Laurel, Md. (24245); snake from Fort Foote, Md. (24515).

THe Bishop TAYLOR Mission (Loanda, Angola, Africa), through Rey. William P.
Dodson, superintendent, and Prof. Cleveland Abbe. Kimbunda hatchet, called
“Dikellemba,” made by a native smith of the Lunda country, and used in
hacking down small trees, killing cattle, etc. ; Kimbunda basket, called “‘ Kinda,”
made by a native woman of Angola. 25667.

THe EastMan Company (Rochester, N. Y.). Enlarged photograph of steamer
Samuel J. Pentz, on Eastman’s permanent bromide paper. 24507.

Tue Hinps KercHamM Company (Brooklyn, N. Y.), through Mr. J. E. Hinds, presi-
dent. Collection of incandescent lamps, switches, and other apparatus used in
1881, in one of the earliest electric—light plants in America. 24315. Deposit.

Tue JouN D. Horr AsBpusrus COMPANY (San Diego, Cal.). Asbestus from near San
Diego, 24507.

THE PHOTOGRAPHERS’ ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA. Dauguerre memorial monument.
23817.

THE Pyrite ComMPANY LIMITED (New York City, N. Y.). Specimens of pyrite from

Pilley’s Island, Newfoundland. 24408.

*’The picks were used in the manufacture of potstone vessels by the Shawnee In-
dians, who at one time occupied the country where the specimens were found.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 809

THISELTON-DyrER, Dr. W. T. (See under Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, England.)
THOMAS, FRED. L.( Ashton, Md.). Two Hawks, Accipiter fuscus, for akcletone. 24415.
THOMPSON, JOHN F. (See under Museo de Productos Argentinos. )

THORN, A. B. (Washington, D. C.). Bantam chicken and fowl. (23398, 23572.

THRELKELD, E.R. (Los Angeles, Cal.). Specimen of graphite. 24059.

TrickNnor, F. A. (Rockford, [l.). Fragments of human skull supposed to have been

taken from a mound near Rockford, and a copper spear-head from the same lo-
cality. 24273. Deposit.

TIFFANY & Co. (New York City, N. Y.). Mosaic slab of agatized wood from Chalee-
dony Park, Arizona, and miscellaneous specimens of minerals, 24859. Purchase.

Topp, AURELIUS (Eugene, Oregon). Skin and skull of Tree-mouse, type of Phena-
comys longicaudus True, froin Marshfield, Coos Co., Oregon. 23480.

Topp, E. R. (U. 8S. National Museum). Two eees of Woodeock (Philohela minor)
from Lower Cedar Point, Md, 24198.

Topp, James (Pittsburg, Pa.). Silver watch with fob-chain, seal, and pendant, said
to have been taken from a British soldier at the battle of Lexington, 1775, by
Lieut. James Todd, of Boston, belonging to the Continental Army. 28580.

Topp, W. EB. C. (See under Dr. C. Hart Merriam. )

Toxuno, T. (Chief of Insetsu Kioku, Tokio, Japan). Six sheets of color prints from
paintings by Japanese artists, and 5 illustrated Japanese books. 23893.

TRAILL, W. E. (Fort St. James, Stuart’s Lake, British Columbia). Skin and 15 speci-
mens, representing 3 sets, of eggs of Franklin’s Grouse (Dendragapus franklinii), 4
eggs (1 set) of Greater Yellowlegs (Totanus melanoleucus) trom Fort George; skin
and9 eg@es (1 set) of Canadian Ruffed Grouse ( Bonasa umbellus togata); 3 skins of
Hoary Marmot (Arectomys pruinosus Gmelin= Arctomys caligatus Eschscholtz) from
the mountains near Babine, British Columbia, and alcoholic specimens of Sal-
mon from New Caledonia. 28758.

Travers, R. P. (Chicago, Ill.). Nickel and copper ore from Sudbury District, Can-
ada, and nickel ore from the Chicago Nickel Company, Inez Mine, Travers,
Algona District, Ontario, Canada. 24153.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, U.S.

Bureau of Printing and Engraving, through Hon. William M. Meredith, chief of
Bureau. Two hundred and sixty-two unmounted India impressions of portraits,
vignettes, and lathe work. 23618.

Coast and Geodetic Survey, through Dr, T. C, Mendenhall, superintendent. Sixty-
nine specimens consisting of fragments of human bones, clay vessels, and frag-
ments of pottery, found about a foot and a half below the surface at Hatche’s
Point, now Pen Land, New River, Onslow County, N. C. (23255).

U.S. Revenue Marine, through Capt. W. C. Coulson, U.S. R. Cutter Rush. Skin of
Walrus (Odobenus obesus), an adult male from Walrus Island, Bering Sea. 23850.

HAMILTON, JOHN B., Supervising Surgeon-General, U.S. Marine Hospital Bureau.
Piece of lignite found between Florence and Rome, used for fuel in many parts
of Italy. 23726.

Preston, E. D. Crab, Grapsus maculatus, from Nonsuch Island, Bermuda Islands.
(23436).

TREGO, CHarLes T. (Chicago, Ill.). Specimen of feldspar from the mines at Rosi-
clare, Ill. 24180.

Trove, Mrs. Epwarpb, through Hon. W.C.P. Breckinridge. Equestrian portrait of
Gen. Wintield Scott, by the late Edward Troye. 23905. Deposit.

TrRun, FrepERICcCK W. (See under William C. Carroll.)

TURNER, H. W. (See under Interior Departinent, U. 8. Geological Survey.)

Turner, L. M. (Guthrie, Okla. Ter.). Box-tortoise (Cistudo ornata), from King-
fisher, Okla., (23386); specimens of Physa gyrina Say.  (23466.)

TURPE, K (Brackettsville, Tex.). Two skins of Lepidosteus tristoechus and Hapl-
idonotus grunniens, and 3 skins of Texas Wildcat from near Padrapinta Creek,
Kinney County, Vex. (28551); obsidian (voleanie elass) pebbles from Texas,
(23644. )
810 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

UppEn, J. A. (Rock Island, Ill.). Specimens of voleanie dust from Kansas and Col-
orado. 24217. Exchange.

Ukr, HENRY (Washington, D.C.). Thirty-seven specimens representing 19 species
of rare North American coleoptera, nicely mounted, and nearly all new to the
collection. 23620.

ULkn, T1rus (Hill City, 8S. Dak.). Vertebra of fossil mammal, Brontotherium from
Tron Camp, Black Hills, South Dakota (28545); specimen of phosgenite from
sroken Hill, Australia, and fibrous meerschaum from Little Cottonwood, Utah
(23628) ; six specimens of minerals from Harney Peak Mining District, South Da-
kota, consisting of staurolite, cassiterite, beryl, muscovite, and spodumene,
and seven samples of tin ore from the same locality (23722); tin anvil smelted
from ore from Cowboy mine, and sample of tin ore. (23732.)

UNIVERSITY OF NEW BRUNSWICK (Fredericton, New Brunswick), through L. W. Bailey.
Stone gouge, polished hatchet, and hatchet-shaped pebble, 10 specimens of Can-
adian fossils, six fossil plants, 23 specimens of Canadian minerals, consisting of
wollastonite, pyroxene, ouvarovite, calcite, magnetite, graphite, sphene, vesuvian-
ite, amphibole, scapolite, apatite, biotite, garnet, pyrrhotite, tourmaline, stelbite,
spophyllite, and thompsonite; and Canadian rocks. 25712.

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, through Charles M. Buck. Two Antelope skins and
skin of Brown Pelican (Pelecanus fuscus) from the Philadelphia Zoélogical Gar-
den. 23880.

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (Madison, Wis.), through Prof.William H. Hobbs. Sixty.
two specimens of minerals from Illinois and Wisconsin, consisting of galena,
smithsonite pseudomorph after calcite, smithsonite pseudomorph after galena,
limonite pseudomorph after pyrite, marcasite, calcite, sphalerite, and chaleopy-
rite (23385); calcite from Mineral Point, Wis., and 5 specimens of calcite from
Galena, Ill. (28634). Exchange.

Urnam, E. P. (U.S. National Museum). Chanot Violin. 25406. Deposit.

VAIL, Mrs. AMANDA (New Britain, Conn.), through J. EK. Watkins, U.S. National
Museum. Two letters from Alfred Vail & Son, February, 1838, describing the
operations of the magnetic telegraph machine in the room of the Committee on
Commerce at the United States Capitol, 2 sheets of lithographs of early electrie
telegraph machine, and 6 sheets of drawings of details of early electric telegraph
machines, drawn by Alfred Vail, 1837-1847. 23562. Deposit.

VAIL, STEPHEN (New York City, N. Y.). Paper ribbon containing dot and dash
record of the first Presidential election reported by electric telegraph, Novem-
ber 5, 1844. 23568. Deposit.

VAILLANT, LEON. (See under Museum of Natural History, Paris, France.)

VAN CLEANE, JAMES R.B. (See under Fish Commission, United States.)

VAN INGEN, GILBERT (U.S. Geological Survey). Fossil plant, Lepidodendron Brittsir.
23513.

VarRiey, T. P. (Woodwardville, Md.). Two hammer-stones, 5 chipped hatchets,
grooved axe, grooved quartzite pebble (sinker), fragment of a polished stone im-
plement, 3 fragments of pierced tablets, large chipped implement, 7 worked
flakes of flint, jasper, and slate, 3 flint scrapers, 22 rude points and leaf-shaped
implements of quartz, quartzite and argillite, 18 spear-points of quartzite, in-
durated slate, ete., 130 arrow-points of flint, slate, quartzite, and quartz, 12
fragments of pottery, 6 natural formations resembling worked stone and a fossil
shark’s tooth, numbering 211 specimens from Anne Arundel County, Md. 23925,

VAUGHN, T. WAYLAND (Mount Lebanon, La.). Specimens of land-shells. 24445.

VESTERLUND, OTTo (Edepors, Harads, Sweden). Specimens of Florida plants.
24453.

Von THERING, Dr. H. (Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, South America). Nine species of
recent shells and 16 species of fossils (24102); collection of fresh-water shells
from Southern Brazil. (24139. )
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 811

Wapsworth, Dr. M. E. (Houghton, Mich.). One hundred and eighty-five speci-
mens of rocks and ores from Michigan; Florida phosphates; 3 specimens of
nickel ore from Dracut, Mass; 2 nickel-copper ores and 2 specimens of picrolite
from Canada. 24101. Exchange.

Watcott, CHARLES D. (See under Interior Department, U.S. Geological Survey.)

Watcort, Mrs. H. B. (Washington, D. C.). One hundred and eighty-six specimens
of fossils, including slabs with numerous shells, ete., from the Oriskany sand-
stone of New York. 23647. Exchange.

WALKER, F. (See under Prof. John B. Smith). F

WALLACE, SHIPPEN (Philadelphia, Pa.). Samples of roasted bogus coftee. 24138.

Watters, J. H. (Washington, D. C.). Male specimen of Red-tailed Hawk ( Buteo
borealis). 23806.

WaR DEPARTMENT.

Quartermaster-General, U. 8S. Army. (See under Alaska Commercial Company,
San Francisco, Cal., I’. W. Crosby, and William O. O’Neill).

Warp, Miss ANNA L. (Waterbury, Conn.). Seal-skin pouches used by the Eski-
mos of Labrador (24381); coiled meal tray, obtained in Labrador by Miss Ward
and Miss Florentine H. Hayden (24511).

WARD, ELBOoRN T. (Trinidad, Colo.). Iron hanging lamp, of French make, found in
an old adobe building. 25657. Deposit.

WarD, Prof. H. A. (Rochester, N. Y.). Two glass sponges, Huplectella speciosa and
Hyalonema sieboldi (purchase) (23856); crustaceans (exchange) (23998). ;

Warp, Prof. Lester F. (U.S. Geological Survey). Two fine specimens of Zamia in-
tegrifolia from Florida (24096); natural grafting illustrated by two black oaks
inarched (24337). (See under Interior Department, U.S. Geological Survey.)

Warp, 8. G. (Washington, D. C.), through Mr. S. P. Langley, Secretary Smith-
sonian Institution. Etching by Jacques Callot, ‘ Supplicium sceleri frenum.”
24227.

Wanpb’s NATURAL SCIENCE ESTABLISHMENT (Rochester, N. Y.). Kelaart’s Monkey
(Semnopithecus kelaartii), from Ceylon, India (exchange) (23714); Wombat (Phas-
colomys latifrons) (exchange) (23820); alcoholic specimen of Nyctinomus norfol-
censis (gift) (23921); 10 specimens of corals and sponges (purchase) (24007).

WarbD & HOWELL (Rochester, N. Y.). Fragment of meteorite from Llano del Inea,
Chile. 23394.

Wart, N. (Garfield, D. C.). Piece of wood found 24 feet below the surface in dig-
ging a well on Good Hope Hill, District of Columbia. 25396.

WARNEKE, C W. (Washington, D. C.), through Lloyd Mockabee. South American
Monkey (Chrysethrix sciurea). 24285.

WASHINGTON, LAWRENCE (Marshall, Va.). Overseer’s weekly report-book of Mount
Vernon estate from September 16, 1797, to January 26, 1799, with indorsements in
handwriting of George Washington; overseer’s daily report-book of Mount Ver-
non estate from January 7 to September 10, 1797, with list of negroes on Mount
Vernon estate in 1786, and ledger account of overseer, 1786 to 1793 (23615); orig-
inal will of Lieut. Col. John Washington, great-grandfather of Gen. George Wash-
ington, dated September 21, 1675; deed of release of 2,500 acres of land on Lit-
tle Hunting Creek, Virginia, by Rodger and Mildred Gregory to Augustine
Washington, father of Gen. Washington, May 17, 1726; bargain and sale of 1,906
acres of land on Little Hunting Creek, Thompson to Rose, May 8, 1689, and copy
of boundaries of same; agreement with Mr. John West for sale of land, with
indorsement from Washington to Pendleton, and opinion of Pendleton; certified
eopy of the will of Augustine Washington, dated April 11, 1743; deed of release,
John Manly to Daniel French, 68 acres of land in Fairfax County, August 29,
1746; copy in handwriting of George Washington, of bond to Mr. William Trip-
lett, concerning purchase of 142 acres of land; certified copy of will of Law-
rence Washington (half-brother of George), June 20, 1752; written copy of ‘‘'The
812 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

WASHINGTON, LAWRENCE—Continued.,

Daily Sacrifice” (Sunday morning to Thursday morning) apparently in hand-
writing of George Washington when a youth; certificate of membership of
Hon. Bushrod Washington in Bunker Hill Monmneut Association; certificate of
membership of Bushrod Washington (Associate Justice of the United States
Supreme Court) in American Philosophical Society, July 19, 1805, signed by
Thomas Jetterson as president of the society; certificate of College of New Jer-
sey conferring degree of doctor of Jaws upon Bushrod Washington, October,
1803; ledger account-book of manager of Mount Vernon estate, 1794-1796, with
indorsement in handwriting of George Washington, (28674.) Deposit.

WASHINGTON, Col. T. A. (Washington, D.C.). Brick from Wakefield, Va., the birth-
place of George Washington. 23815.

WATKINS, J. E. (U.S. National Museum). Cuttings from “Art Journal” and ‘‘Jour-
nal of Franklin Institute,” containing articles on the history and the technique of
art (25776); collection of engravings, prints, and photographs of locomotives,
ears, track-standard, bridges, and original rail-sections (24450). (See under
Mrs. Amanda Vail.)

Way, N.S. (Yorklyn, Del.). Rude notched implement. 23751.

Wee, Judge JOHN G, (Osprey, Fla.). Two pieces of sandstone rock containing
fossil human bones found on the shore of Sarasota Bay, near Osprey (23727) ;
human skull turned to Jimonite, from near Osprey (24115).

Wess, WaAaLrer T. (Geneva, N. Y.). Fifteen eggs (4 sets) of Red-shonldered Hawk
(Buteo lineatus), and 3 eges (1 set) of Red-tailed Hawk ( Buteo borealis). 24263.

WEBSTER, GEORGE W, (Lake Helen, Fla.). Eight species, representing several sam-
ples of land and fresh-water shells of North America, 23980.

Werpb, W. H. (U.S. Geological Survey). Two specimens of coal from Cinnabar coal-
field, Montana, 24326.

Weepon, W. C. (See under National Zodlogical Park).

WELCH, CHARLES. (See under Guildhall Library Committee of the City of London.)

WeESTERDAHL, G. J. (San Carlos, Ariz.). Living specimen of Gila (Heloderma sus-
pectum). 24354.

Warton, Hon. WittiamM IF, (See under Smithsonian Institution, and State De-
partment. )

WHEATLAND, Dr. HENRY. (See under Kssex Institute, Salem, Mass.)

WHEELER, CHARLES L. (Cape May, N. J.). Set of marine and land shells. 24465.

WHerrLpon, W. W. (Concord, Mass.). Copy of souvenir under the corner stone of
the new statehouse extension, Boston, December 21, 1889, and a piece of the
‘Old North Bridge” at Coneord. 23483.

Wuitk, Dr. C. A. (U. S. Geological Survey). Collection of mixed shells, mostly
fresh-water, from Towa and other localities, specimens of gorgonian, gypsum,
and stalactite. 24458.

Wuirr, C. H. (Bradford, Mass.). Specimen of Hrax wstuans Wied., from Dover,
N. H. 231%.

Wuithk, Davip. (See under Baron Ferd von Mueller. )

Wiitr, E. D. (U.S. National Museum). Clays, from Gay Head, Marthas’ Vineyard,
Mass. 23659.

Wuitr, Prof. I. C. (West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.). Carved
wooden oil vessel, from the Solomon Islands, inlaid with shell and bone, repre-
senting a monkey bearing on his back the body of a bird, collected by Lieut.
W.1I. Moore, U. S. Navy. 23745. Exchange.

Wuirr, J. J. (Palm Beach, Fla.) Specimen of Spirula fragilis= Peroni, with part of
animal and shell. 25864.

With River QuaRRY COMPANY (Bedford, Ind.), through George F. Cochower,
agent of the builders’ exchange, Six-inch cube of odlitic limestone, 24852.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 813

WHITEHALL GOLD MINING AND MILLING ComPANY (Washington, D. C.). Speci-
men of native gold and tetradymite from Whitehall gold mine, Spottsylvania
County, Va. 24249.

WickaM, H. F. (See under Department of Agriculture. )

Witcox, A. C. (Washington, D. C.). Fourteen copper coins, consisting of English
pennies of George II, 1731 and 1736; George IlI, 1774, 1775, 1779, and 1806;
George IV, date illegible; Irish half-penny, George III, 1782; penny, Queen Vic-
toria, 1860; Canadian cent, 1859; Nova Scotia half-penny, 1832; Bank of Mon-
treal half-penny token, 1842; U.S. Bank token (hog type), 1843; and un cen-
tovo of Mexico, 1878 (23554); letter dated December 15, 1816, from G. Mason,
Commissary-General of Prisons, to Moses Young, of Washington; certificate of
identification to Isaac Linken as an American citizen, September 7, 1803; inden-
ture of Chr. T. Wilhelm as apprentice to Andrew Tucker of schooner Lydia, of
Marblehead, dated at Bordeaux, March 24, 1807 (23604).

WILCOX, Maj. Jonn H., U.S. Army (Fort Keogh, Mont.). Indian bow from Yel-
lowstone Park, Wyoming. 23560.

Wiip, G. L. & Broruers (Washington, D. C.). Carroll Concert Grand Piano, six
and three-quarter octaves, Viennese action, made by H. Kisting & Son, Berlin,
Germany. 24259. Purchase.

Wivey, C. A. (Miles City, Mont.). Fifty specimens of coleoptera and 75 specimens
of lepidoptera. 24174.

WILLCOX, Josep (Philadelphia, Pa.). Fossil human bone, socket of femur closed
in limonite found in 1886 by Col. Willcox and Prof. Heilprin at Sarasota Bay,
Fla. (24857); tertiary fossils (24447).

WiniiaAMs, Dr. GkorGE H. (See under Interior Department, U.S. Geological Survey.)

WiLiiAMs, TALcoTT (Philadelphia, Pa.). Ethnological collection and various other
material.* 23736.

WituraAmMs, Mrs. Tatcorr (Philadelphia, Pa.). Collection of embroideries, rugs,
hangings, and other articles from the Mr. R. Lewis sale. 24501.  (Purehased by
Mrs. Williams for the National Museum. )

WILLIAMSON, Mrs. M. Burron (University, Cal). Specimen of Periploma discus
Stearns, from Long Beach (23485) ; 2 species of marine shells from Catalina Island,
California (23681); 3 specimens of Haliotis cracherodii from St. Vineent, Los
Angeles County, Cal., (25844).

Winter, J. Lours (U.S. National Museum). Pistol, for many years in the posses-
sion of the late Samuel E. Douglass, of Washington, D.C. 24106.

Wiis, THomMaAs J. (Melitota, Md.), through Thomas Jewell. Two grooved stone
axes and 5 arrow-heads from Kent County. 23440,

Witson, M. (Center Market, Washington, D. C.). Two specimens of Barracuda
(Sphyranda gquaquancho), 25371.

Witson, THOMAS (U.S. National Museum). Bronze sword, 205 inches long, from
Italy. 23823. Deposit.

Wimsatt, W. A, (Washington, D,C.). Seven specimens of lignite from Forestburg,
Va, 23655.

WINKLEY, Rev. H. W. (Saco, Me.). Specimens of Lunatia triseriata Say (juv) and
fossil, Lyonsia arenasa Moller (fossil) from Maine, 23688.

Winn, Lient. J. S. (Fort Huachuca, Ariz.). Skin of Coati (Nasua narica), from
Huachuea Mountains. 24510.

WINTON, GEORGE B. (San Luis Potosi, Mexico). Three specimens of Cactus-wren
(Campylorhynchus brunneicapillys) in flesh, and 2 Lark Buntings (Calamospiza
melanocorys) (23860); 6 specimens of birds, representing 5 species (23992); 4
specimens of birds, representing 4 species (24130).

WIrTKUGEL, ERIcH (San Pedro Sula, Honduras). One hundred and ninety-four

birds’ skins, representing 86 species, also 12mammals. 24394. Purchase.

“A detailed statement of this collection will be given in a later report,
814 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Wo trr, Prof. J. E. (Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.). Theralite from the
localities on Upper Shield River basin, Crazy Mountains, Montana, 238730.  Ex-
change.

WoLtz, GreorGE (U.S. National Museum). Fig-leaf apron, and a pair of white linen
moccasins used in Mormon Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah (23481); copper silvered
candle-extinguisher more than ninety years old. (24226).

WoORTHEN, CHARLES K. (Warsaw, IIl.). Collection of skins of small mammals
(23741); 2 skins of Raccoon (Procyon lotor) (24068) ; 33 skins and skulls of small
mammals (24069); 5 skins of Spermophiles from California (24092); 14 skins of
small mammals from the United States (24265); 62 specimens, representing 20
species of reptiles, from Cameron County, Tex. (24410). Purchase,

WOTHERSPOON, Lieut. W. W. (U.S. Army), through Capt. Henry Romeyn, U.S.
Army. Two living snakes caught by Mr. Wotherspoon. 24482.

Wricut, J. MONTGOMERY. (See under William B, Hornblower. )

WUNDERLICN, H., & Co. (New York City, N. Y.). White-line cut of the sixteenth
century. 23669. Purchase.

YEATES, W.S. (See under Hon. H. G. Ewart.)

YoprER, Hon. 8. 8. (See under 8, M. Fletcher. )

ZIMMERMAN, O. B. (Milwaukee, Wis.), through Capt. Charles E, Bendire, U.S.
Army. Skins of Vesper Sparrow (Poacetes gramineus) and Prairie Horned Lark
(Otocoris alpestris praticola). 24298,
INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST,

Index A.—By Locality.

AFRICA,
Accession Accession
number. number.

POO UA I GWe aes sone oe noe -aeoboGedO0Sse4aa4) | elouo. Walleimes-- <2-.e=5:.2cc2o soeee 23638

TSUNA, Wet Gis Wintss NDAs Gen eeeeebee se 23341 | Johns, H. W., Manufacturing Company,
TBST Ne cll, 18 bs ee ae oe ea a eee 23982 | IN Owe Or Ket Cit yer oe ete.) oe 23713
Brinton \irs- so MMA ee «sacs eee = la 24064 | Kimberley Diamond Mines. -.............. 23603
British Museum, London, England --.-.-- 23892 | Lewisohn Brothers ---.---......-.......- 24202
Whatelaing Heli sc osonacgs os eecee 233938, 23400, | Lovett, Hdward....-..---.----.. 23416, 23950, 24343
23435, 24070, 24162, 24190, 24258 | Noah, Judge Jacob Jd .-..............-... 23666
@bhyisty,) Mhomas, é& Cons. .-- 52-52. - 25-5 23537 | Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio.-.......-. 23632
Cincinnati Museum Association, Cincin- Purcell Noid 22222-25222 a enter ence 23993
AIL t ies OTL O sack ha pba hk OYA Gir vO kabul pa VWion Wieser. eee Steer ee ee 23592
Cnockotie Wi ee eee ts Tl. | sschmid.. Bidward!S=2.2- so. )ssssessse2se 23686
TOpallly \yiahihoninas eae eees see aot neater 23978 | Seal, Mr .....-.-.-.-....2 22-2222: 20.-00- 23922
Henny evi a Oni 8 22. Bee ee ot 3 DAR Oeil SUROLAy BMANG sess oc!lope aia s ee eee Se ce ole 23993

ave: SVAN ay ete, Ws Tee 23467, 23670 | The Bishop Taylor Mission, Angola, Af-
OURAN Oye eis = ceneisis cieiciaaisiec eco ae 23965 | INK aE Bo seas aScacsOceRUS Sone S6550555¢ 23667
Elem gout eA Sea ae sox ees TA 93771 | Williams, Mrs. Talcott ..7..-..--..---.- - 24501

Teenie, TARA AEM. Gooqeeeeenedaasosbode 25863
AMERICA.
NORTH AMERICA.
BRITISH AMERICA.

Agricultural College, Lansing, Mich POHL | VES ONS Clipart erste ota sl set eee 23510
Agriculture, Department of. .-..-...- Beootio5904) |e Merriam ers. cHartessseee se 2 eee 23828, 24165
23974, 24009, 24136, 24277 | Newcombe, Dr. Charles.................. 24419
/ANIKUES GGT Cy 8 U2 ete et ee ee Roe aaa AaB) lepine Olnciesjeen ey ee ee 23853
RanilettmMa ward s.222esoc see se Sees eS DOSoile) Reni e] Cap erO ta Sor Liren coe ae eee 23799
IS OAM eee ernie Salers or ae om ele were 23000 4) MOTEL. Lr OU cen state oe e aoe ae eee 24152
Bourke, Capt. John G., U. S. Army..-.. PALAIS) a) torah Eel D) riviera eal Oe caso eee pees eo ae 24433
Goxcmlehilinwnsss Secs a= cho oho ee esse ZITOSM ER IGHWA MIs Goi Cote ieee auntie yee 23952
Grospygeeror Wi iOerscrecs tee eee Dod Ou rule ye Trot! GEV cites ae eee ee 24279
Ouithy Ostet 222 oe eo ees ke See 2OOT OM PRVUSSEM PERO teilin Opens ee ey ieee <a ee 23735
1D ET (CREOLE ES Let ase eae a re 23452 | CUCCOr ES hla seas ee anes see hn ee 24274
DAWSON iam... sae e ee ee cers 243025 Shitteld te ereya Wi 22-22 s8-- 6 ane eee oes 23868
tctizan sere tee ne Ae PRUUB) I Ssyiv Teel 23 Ro) rd ed eee a eee 23933
Ermelishs George Ia,, & Cos ac 2/5. <saceee DAS OM OLAS erote Wiz At eee ye ee 23662

Htbnolopy. Bureau Of 22.552 - 2 - <2 2 0s 24012 | The Photographers’ Association of Amer
Fish Commission, U. S-...28787, 23904, 24036, 24517 [ieee Gree Seine sicts ee arain Sot ster ee ee 23817
Folger, Commander William L., U. 8. mcrae Week ccacine css oeceree ae ee 23758
INDIA ase cosoccdoee Saaeocean nee pSeeae 23825 | The Pyrite Company, New York City.... 24408
TOGIR IES o/s] Ue eat eae ee RE eg heen WES TOMER VELS Re P=. ./\ ce es ee nee 24123
Coe eMVUTUS RA esse. = ook ee ae eee 2404.5 Pe Wl ce eel Grin ys. =< ep ee 23620
Hlarnis mele Gc cee ee aces Jo wasee ocean 24268 University of New Brunswick..........- 23712
Interior Department; U. S. Geological WiadsirOrbhe irs iee hee eae eee ee 24101
SOULE tes Sele Sean gs ai toe- cae 23361, 24003 | Ward, Miss Anna L....-..2-......... 24381, 24511
MFO MS PAPE V MW, ttn Sac era 2aooue MIGDSteL:. Gal) Sees ee ee Lees 23980
IW IED DE Wa Eri ct § tees 5 pe ee 23685 | Worthen a kose2 = eee ae ere ee = 24069, 24265

815
816 REPORT OF NATIONAL

MUSEUM, 1891.

MEXICO,
Accession | Accession
number. number.
Agriculture, Department of - - . .23974, 24074, 24136 | Fish Commission, U. S........-.--...---- 24098
American Museum of Natural History, Green, WAG! 5. te eee eee 23623
New, Mork Cityaesscs- aces a aueiee seer ae 23418" | Jenkins, Prot. Oe s.-se. n= == se eee 23988
Bourke, Capt. John G., U. S. Army-.----- PEAS! DOU Pe lse\foeen ears aaa alae ee eee 24137
ISTO WESTIE a VV ALM DENT teres ene See eee PALO Mel vale sD 1S VV Eee nate ee 24320, 24493
California State Mining Bureau...--..-.. 24323" 4) (Orcuth.@ harless Riese ee eee eee 23698, 24014
Crosby eee sees seco eee Demis sa 243105 weiedra, Malo wel= eae Pesan ae eee 23874
Dantacnan, Joseph) D)=.---=.-----2-2---=--- 24513 | Pringle, C.G ......-....-...-2----22.-200- 24614
Men Wiertiheim eA 6e1 Sones see ees PEAT | Sit 1p IRON eee coneeduesaeeceeoec 23455
Does perot Ate aan ee eat 23478, 24388, 24423 | Schmid, Edward S.......-..--....-..--- 23792
Hthnology, Bureau of-----..------------- 24012 | Winton, George B-...........- 23860, 23992, 24130
Biennial ienots lisse Whee => ceases cl 23988 |
UNITED STATES.
ALABAMA: ARIZONA—Continued.
JAVA) ob DA 8 RO Ren nas Sees 23408 So GK Den Mow scdocosoceds codes os = 23431
Avery, Dr. William C...... 24207, 24832, 24463 Sbejne ger Dr, Maasai eee eee 23506
TieaihO) WGSNS ...se0scs-Ssocensoaenes 23470. | Miffam y265) CO: aesnce pee eee eee 24359
Ethnology, Bureaw of------2--2.----=- 24012 Westend ai) \ Grae) eeemm ase e eee 24354
Fish Commission, U.S, 23898, 23493, 24039, 24047 Wann eie utils, Ui See An iy eases 24510
BiCketie Drie yoo eese eee aca 24506 | ARKANSA-:
RisselleerofliG seasons ee .. 23936 Bevall Drei Chevisis=ssessee 25403, 23608, 24494
SEAT TOM sea tone som conicee are eee 24200 Bowman). Cols din Base os ee eee 93947
Wotherspoon, Lieut. W. W., U. 5. Brown, |C. Ws. eae = ae sano ev OND OD2 ed oIS
ATMY? <<. =<. A Sere oro eae ae saan 22 Bilnolosy, Bureaw Of2.----e sees 24012
ALASKA. His ConmissionssOi) Sicee eee 23493
Alaska Commercial Company, San Forwood, Dr. W. H., U.S. Army - 23865
ran ciscOn@alli= een eee pease 23768 Iuterior Department; U.S. Gonloain or
Coulson, Capt. William C., (U.S. Rev- SHRUAYEN Ee soebedecanossacongsseccsae2 23795
enue-Marine Service, Treasury De- dicuiivenag | Dies Wind acdosdoserscesastosc 24299
PAGEMENt eee aoe eae 23850 | Plods: Cd ce a 23356
JN Uharrn WekCMAy NYh Sceen ate Recea ee 23646, 23851 Rovhororel ub) rsasA Wit See eee 4011
Northern Pacific Railroad, St. Paul, secrestedl. Dee ees eee eee 24275
EMIQ eet ree acrosome eee 23596 | CALIFORNIA:
Rainer: Walliams eee an 22 236465 Agriculture, Department of 23916, 23942, 24056
RISSell ME rote Oss a see ee .23735, 24328 American Museum of Natural His-
Smith erofodmbiewoceeenk o soccr seme: 23940 Lory, New Work City 22-2. -es=see4 23418
Treasury Department (Capt. William Arnheim, Ji. S$ ---------.- ferret eeeee 24416
©. Coulson, U.S. Revenue-Marine Arnold) dion] Delos==22=5-—-se-==ee= 24412
SenviGe)mneceswaeet oe ee eee eee 23850 Béck “RollovH.52: 3.23222 eee 24471
ARIZONA: secker rG Coce hese sees 24170
HV CmM(G: COLL pate tee eee ee 24160, 24199 | selding, Lisc.scc5 =e eee 235383
Bourke, Capt. Jobn G., U.-5. Braverman seas ee ee ee 94293
PAT ote ala ae eee cet oe 24142, 24169 California State Mining Bureau. ----- 24323
Toi IRIAN EM ing oan dessa Ss 23914, 23970, 24071, Crosby, EaW2=-2--6-2 2sc2 s45-=-eee 24372, 24524
24192, 24346, 24408, 24412 Dall: Mirs*.\C Hiss =. Aan. oor eeee 23633
Carpenter, Capt. W, L., U.S, Army.. 23723, Dall\ Walltam A=. .55. 2 eee 23689
24389, 24424, 24476, 24499 Derbrow,|\Georce Wit==sa--e eee 24321
Ethnology, Bureau of...-......------ 24012 Hmery;, Edward! (C2225 stn eerie 24405
(Gonder: Wot se eee sneer 24010 Ethnology, Bureau of ----.-.-----.-<- 24012
Good wanton eames eee. cata 24231 Farmntleroys Wi. elses aoe eee 24455
Interior Department. U.s. SEO Fletcher, Lieut. Robert, U.S. Army 23829,
CAIMSMLME Nee cise 23630, 23631, 23739, 24364 24368
Jouy, 2. L ; Fre Se eee eee ee 23877 Mrost, duu. sass OLS ee See eee 23441
Lemmon; Phea. Geka eee Aner: 24305 GibDons; Dr: WsP-.2--0ss ee 23464
Matthews, Dr. Washington, U. 3. Godding, McBean & Co..--- oe eee 24439
AN Pio cuoece tes pascccssesecarrénce 24191 Hempbill; Hienty2-=--2------=-=-—= 23690, 23777
National Museum, U.S.-.------- 23872, 23931, Interior Department; U. 5. Geologi-
23976, 24046, 24085, 24178, 24208, 24246, 24270, | CaliSurieys- eer eee a. ee eae 23918
24345, 24365, 24396, 24472, 24480 Keep) Prot. VOsiahion secs =e cesar 23838
ONG WilliamiO!s2ceeert aa. eee 24504 | MGEMON i MeHin so 5 seseats owe ce oe eee 24233
Orcutt, (CharlesuRse..-2--sj-eeeee =e 23724 Merriam, Dr. C. Hart--..-.-:.-:------- 24388

INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 817

Accession | Accession
number. | number.
CALIFORNIA—Continued. District oF COLUMBIA—Continued.

Oreutt, Charles R..--. 23575, 23724, 24021, 24055 | IBTOWD Aw ACE GNU ene prise close = erect ee 23705
Purcell Nid) 5.45 scessse. saeco eee 23553 | Burns sbiranik. ssaact ec siae eae 23354, 23912
innlleyyg Teoh CaN, cece saan abnadoonce: 24459 | Balas tember ee eee oe re cere 23574

ROX LOL Gen Gr CORLC) ase meine eee 24378 | Bureau of Engraving and Printing;
San Joaquin Valley Coal Mining Com- | U.S. Treasury Department....-.-..-. 23618
pany, Hanford) Cal seems mec nee 24448 Carter, \Walliamee-ec soo ese eee eee 24063
Shepard, Miss Ida M..... -- -23387, 236638, 23997 | Churchill-ewalliamies see enesoes eters 23676
Sherman! Mrs: John) Av 22225525. - 22-55 24044 Clank Bdwarde cee. so5- see ees 23834
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W.,U.S. Army..-.... 23556 ClarkewMissiUmal Mesias sss sceeree eee 23946
Siwedley. Same: Seen eee eon 24313 Couese Drs EMiothessece see ee eae 24140
The John D. Hoft Asbestus Company, Curtis Willtamibesss cesses nce eee 23364
SanpDieron Calin tease neem cece 24507 IORI E Wiatllieviny aloe ne eee og anne 23748, 23819
Mbhrelieldsi R24. sue eeu. soe 24059 | Die mae oMgl) Are wae ere. Soyo) ee Se 24373
Williamson, Mrs. M. Burton. 23485, 23681, 23844 | Modes Cols Weise. wees cece Sele SAT
NVFOLUN eI Cf G ae omtiaie eine Seta 24068, 24092 Doar oalem Wanless nee eee 23691
COLORADO: | Dowling, Thomas, jr-.----------- 23809, 23989
SOIREE IB Wiacee Se deedioda tase oeocedos 23538 | HnsternsOolss se cosas nee eee 93482
MBA OEMS soins coleeHeosoS ssbdotouios 24128 Blissey éce Corey sae 23894
Rishi Gommission, U.S 2.----2).25..-- 23493 Bthnolomy, Buneaw ofses- sss sssss2e= 94012
Gale wvenistss.. 2. sae Meee yore 23564, 23909, 23913 Rernowsebreb. eb eee Sates a tae 24335, 24336
Goode, Dr: G. Brown.----.-—-2-------: 23552 ETSI ele OMe seer ae eee 23563
Parse Witla RY see clas se lsce sete ale 23733 Kish Commission, UW: S2--c->----eee ee 24280
UG W.6y 1G COLO OWE ster cite micretcre irae 23469 | BitliGo neve oihies ae ase ee eee eee 24444
Interior Department; U.S. Geological Gearevh lees ease Lehi ae oe 23606
Survey -..-.-..23447, 23448, 23795, 23898, 23903 (Cxnibhrene IM Wiseceedeceedescessesces: 23967
Set n, 18 hoyeKee) (Chaya itaceneao sasbehaAoe 23962 | Goode, Dr. G. Brown...-. -.-23531, 23678, 23718
Smith, William G..--. 25535, 24041, 24042, 24050 Goode, Mrs. G. Brown. .--- 222+ 228014, 23749
SHOR g Bhd le ao ososenomessceeenssaeaases 23528 | (Gin, WOR I Idee scorcncbegs sees 23471
Wddenwd) ANs------- = Coauc oe ataoeaeeae 24217 (Garhi e tee asa ae eer see 23486
CONNECTICUT: Iblentanoney dle (O)s= se saacdaczeonsece acer 23377
(Chrosviny Chal 25 Sceeasticruebdescsesces 23765 Hawkes, Gen. Benjamin F.-..-....-. 23530
lesen, OKC ssssccoesee. slecenceas 23859 Hawkins) \Walllie@Beapse== secs ese = = 23412
Push Commission, Weis: --c ss. -s-1--- 24280 | invoke) Whe) Ob Wioecesesceasssenccs 23661
IBC es 1s Bae pose egsodoacseeseacicc 23855 Hearst, Mrs. George----------------- 23411
Interior Department; U.S. Geological | Mimi, Ne (Crs asec -sosetoessoesesas 23658
SHEN Age son SARS Rese moar cceusscar 23447 Heidemany O esses scene eee eee 23439, 23840
1LjayeGre, ISS WETS = soeeSoosooases 24340, 24406 | Eelemnray, mvs Sip las ye eee 24132
National Museum) U.S" =. 22--------- 24242 | HermreAtasacese Boe Hab abe aaeaclas 23767
iRtele (Ghd 8 Inox shoes Roeseoe siasecdeuuae 23762 | OO ses eee eee eee eeee 23541
Rice, Prof. William North -...-...--. 24023 | Hodge soho seas teste eres 23595
SHAG), cine 1s ba eececeaceear sce aoaNeer 23759 | Hornblower, William B....---------- 23363
siecorm, Wrntil Oil ose ssesscaedossccae 23757 | aoe, WWVaWase ses socoscocss scoa8 23346
Se Mail MeO abso Gabe ooosessaneses 24338 | Hubbard, Gardiner G@...-.-:....----. 23692
Singer Manufacturing Company, | Erbe hisoneeAust hurl @eeceet rt aae et 23847

Martford. Coni ..2:.2..-+-+-.oeeeee 24316 | Interior Department; U.S. Geological
Vial Vins PAU Gale 2) ereretelele ieee = 23562 | SUG we vase oe eee aie) 23911, 24264
DELAWARE: Kuerschner, Prof. Hugo. --..-------- 23401
Gresson, Or, Hilborn 2222s. ea 23766, 24318 Langdale, John W.-..--.---- 23907, 24148. 24222
\Wehy) ONgiSlopecesseococdorosmoccnCconeuad: 23751 | Wangley, Mr. §. (P< --<--- 2-2. - sn 23500
District OF COLUMBIA: ILE Nin (Or doe cascn paSeRBesndaseccos > 23550
Aevriculture, Department of... --.28704, 23584, entire veh omashss snes eee 23791
23585, 23587, 23589, 24056 | Tcouge Hyatt 2 <-- hake: ooo sarees 23781
Andrus, William J ---.--...-..-----.- 23427 | Mace Joseph: -a.-------2-2es2- a= 24353
Mew SOM Cole aml Se safes a eee 24429 Marrons“bhOmase=- css ys) ne eae 233536
Pele, d a imetkouenesees sso sosseneceS 23973 | Merriam, Dr. C. Hart...----.-.---.--- 24126
Baker, Marcus..------------ ec iiseeee 23624 | National Zodlogical Park ------------ 24451
Teri ON UNE Wipeen ee Ese ecoossen ec 24082 | INOahs Jie Mi 25k o oeternie eee see eaas 23546
BALCOW.S Wiel la eee eee 23648, 24214 | Osborne, J. W.-.----- 23738, 23775, 24034, 24361
Bayley, Wralliam'’ =: oc-.2 cme seeaee oe 24440 Palmer, Joseph ------.--------------- 24173
Berdan Ooo We... serene ee-o-reeetloS Patton, C. H....--------------------- 24031
Boehmer, George H ..-.....--.--- 23454-23975 Phillips, W. Hallett...--------------- 23814
Boker shy Was se- schas clea eee oe 294312 PoeschexialCtonsss sees ae eae 24300
Boswell pH entyere essere eens 23549, 24301 Posey, Miss Kate.-----.------------- 24512
Boyle Crs eet cic J SRA eA ere 23906 Rhees, William J-...---.----- vee 24001, 24025

su 91, Pr J——d2
818 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Accession | : Accession
bumber | number.
Districry of COLUMBIA—Continued. _ FLormbA—Continued,
Richmond: | C Weesa == 23517, 24024, 24386, 24460 | White; Ji Ss868s 52 geass eee ae 23864
Rilowwayn Au ditb oneer ree see ee eee 24241 | Wallcoxslosephiee-sseeeee eee aaaee 24357, 24447
tide way, Robert. ..:.-.--..- 24027. 24241, 24374 | GEORGIA:
OMG eeiseseeee wanes amet cee ene 24153 | Brady, Wialitecsses2..- se eee eee 23824
SolienkGa Dees eta shee See 23376, 23915 | Ethnology, Bureau of.-.-...-.......-- 24012
Schmid, Edward S. . .23362, 23366, 23501, 23504, Fish Commission, U.S... --.. 28493. 24039. 24048
23576, 23816, 24005, 24022, 24118, 24239, 24393 Gardner! 2c). ~<22 524 eee 25516
Scollick, J.W....- $56 Fase SF BR bY ZB BM PEbyAl Kirby Go Wie: osc cott eee 23858
Shinn =D rs Vere ee eee” Be. “RBESBEH || Perry,, Pronp D522 shoe eee eee 23365
Shufeldt, Capt. Mason N.. U.S. Navy 23460 | Seay, nw illiam! Wiese). eee ee 24367
shufeldt, “Perey, W--2- 2-5 = 24348, 24490, 24518 Steiner: Re a. hs5e5cc0 eee eee 24147
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army-...-...23540 | IpAHo:
23852, 24339, 24488 | Agriculture, Department of .23548, 23974, 24213
SLUGS LAG PR: Wire| Ie cece see ees 24489 | Garbutt; Georges-a 5-42 eee eee 23919
SHANTI ISG) De oe soe sul 23780 | JenNey OT Wil eee ose es eee 23629
Sui, ID yes Tegel IN lene a ee 23953, 24072, Martin: D.\G.- 5 3a2 ee ee 24409
24284, 24397, 24413 | Mermam. Dry OG bartesss ose 23614, 23695, 23920
SHG, OTe MERAH NTE ene CONG eas eee ae 24201 Robinson; Jiames-H.-2 2-5. see eeeee 24426
SGIFOUEC LS WEY STS crv IVE Gute Va Mes ee ores oe 23598 | Worthen, Ck socgastsis esse Ree 24069
MENG TT WAS IB erectile ne eee 23398, 23572 | LLLUINOIS:
irower Mins sb ciate: ter ee cae 23905 Adams GoB\ 2 ac2 ste cha eee 23482, 23622
Wi ham a se eats te ere ei 23406 AAG aM SSW) Elo aoe ee 25927
Vanidingen’ Gilberti--2----2e2- o-2-- 23513 Bibbins, WR. UK. )oce se eee ge eee Ce Loe
N\A Tos Ree) Ppl Eee meget 23806 Converse. ©. 22-222-6 = eee 24054
Wisi Ome ire Ee mt i oes Sec, ee 23396 Gos, Acthur Mss 5222 55-25- eee 2408)
NWiei SiGe ca. ees ete ee ce eae 24227 | Iithnology, Bureau of..--.-.-........ 24012
Nemes: SO rc Wen eo tonne en ema a 21285 | Hitchcock, Miss Rosena ......-...-.- 23455
INVGUG KILN Saye et Midas oer epee Soe 23776, 24450 | utes wis} a2 ae ee eee 23755
NWailcoxs PARI Gas enaas sae er ee BD ode 23008) Eyony Mancusi Wiese sees 25483
AVA Gren ewOUI Sis ease se ee OITOGIT Mullins, Dr. William H.............. 21237
NV SOn EMS Saas ese nant ee ee: 23371 Perkins sHiredericle Ss sa: see eee 25617
NVOltz; George Sc w5.5 25 os ett esse 24226 Ridgway Audubon .......-.--.:.-2.- 2342)
FLORIDA: Ridgway, Robert s225-— 2222-5 sees 23369
Bansten gO sBisec ter coe eae 24383 | Schénck-J.-J50+ ces eee 23896
Barber VAsiWihac sn: secs woe eee 24356, 2452% Staniards Dir) Ole Bie eae 24079
(Cline GCOng en Wr osaee sae eee se eee 24095 Sulzbercer:, Mirs)\Ss26 20 -- eee eee 23610
ColbyarGen ab SW. -sanciss2 oes seeee ee 24052 Ticknor), FAC. -* S622: 035 eeeeeeeee 24273
Dalle SWialliame@lds =< = 5-5. 525. eee ee 23978 Trego; Charles =.= Bes ean ee .5 2408)
Bdwards-slenry .-2262-- See dee nee 23891 University of Wisconsin ......... 23385, 23634
Ethnology, Bureau of....-=2--:--..-- 24012 Worthen, Ck eee a hs to - 23741
Bish Commission, (Wess assess 23487, INDIAN TERRITORY:
24038, 24049, 24141 Kaimimel; Walliam "Aes. -.-e ee eee 24224
(GNESCOM ly 2-15 ee ae a eee oe 23821, 23897 Merrill, Dr. J. C., U.S. Army ..- 23463, 23729
la eles Din6) ON dondaio is coomaer Seades 24089 INDIANA:
ERO SUT Si Cl ls See eia ee eets e 24175 Blount) Hennye see eee 23873
Interior Department (Hon. J. C. Ethnology, Bureau of ...-..-....-..-.: 24012
SLOCUM) exten cieeerse ines oreo age ee 22802 | Interior Department; U.S. Geological
Mien ew intht Se en cnise che cemeseinsemees 24496 SUPrVe@Y =e. -o58 = ascresielotm clcieteie heya 24211
MIS tvobertuaccs ccc: sap eee cee. nce 93468 | Lemon Ji ~.-22.k eee 24238
Moser, Lieut. J. F., U.S. Navy-..-..- 93352 Linsley, ie ast .-6- ease eee 23683
Ralph Ors Walter ee 24166, Rust, Halbert. —. see = eee 24322
249333, 24341, 24549 Spillman; Wide cae -- emcee eee 23619
SCOUbN Nile messes nage 23378, 23642 White River Quarry Company, Bed-
Shepard.) Miss | Cpe ee note ns 24151 ford, Tn Gis ne ee 24352
Shepard Drei 7 Wwseee see 23929 | IOwA:
Shepard) James << -- - sss see eae = 23747 Cherrie; George Ke -=--- eee eee 24150
Slocum, Hon. J.C. (Interier Depart- Cheyney, Jud ger Ji. ae eeeeee eee 25841
MOVE) Pie Peale ean Sees eee ae 23802 Dolliver: Hon}Jie see eee 23499
Spencer, Miss Plorence I ---:....-<.- 23479 Ethnolovy, Bureau of -----.-..-----.=2 24012
SPeRCer rds Wires eee eee see 23443 Gear, JHontd ohnehir- es.) = eee eee 23342
WLOVCNS HG Ale Russa eee eae 2451] Harta willliamelver ces --eicer Neva oceans 23783
Western Otto sce aaa 24453 STZ MGCORS G8 Beer copie «+ ome neler 23399
Wadsworth) Or. eM ds ee. cscen sce 24101 | | Oot he} OAs eae ee Beemer mm suc t 23388

Webb, Judge John G,.......--200 60727, 24118 | Osborn, Prof, Herbert.........+..++++. 20047
INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 819

Accession Accession
number. | ~ number.
Towa—Continued. | MARYLAND—Continued.
Shimele Protabacaassc- see sereacs cece 23870 | Smith Ore lovdl Hess sase eases see aee 24497
SHO Wan OManlestblscrs en serecn sens citer = 23404 | Stabler Harold Bicsses-ceees 23984, 24006, 24053
Wihite Dri Ordre: Seis teciieaeiccut oder 24458 | Stabler, James P............ 23876, 23881, 24240
KANSAS: | Simnehcom bs AleAu ss see eee 24283
(@haseyG conve ses its) sens seseuseces 237960 eetae Lest: Broderick) @s- sae e- ea eeeeeee 24245, 24515
(Ohio) itl thd Aaa ee ee 23951 | ebhomassh red luscass sate see ee eee 24415
Hay, Robert. --..-.- SSE eee nae 23701 | Rodd BARi ss ceca eoee eee ee 24198
Interior Department; U. S. Geological Warley ."i eb se sen ance Saeco ee 23925
SELVG Yon coy. tee: Oe to ee ire pees 23812 Walliss Thomas dies. ses. ne eee eee 23440
ENN Yr Wirebiax ainlalccea este eee eh 23804 | MASSACHUSETTS:
LGTY s, (ECOWEEN A 2a scos2 scone eSonle 23399 Appleton, Nathanccs.cas- sees eee 24212
Merrill Mrs aN He ec eee) cee es 23836 | Batchelder: Oabaess 50) ahaa 24057
JEG HIG) Din a0 Saeonis omcee aS 5 aBnereS eo 23924 Cheyney, Mrs. Ednah D........... 23699, 24116
(IGKIGIN 05 Jee cis SuonpccomuseasovodoEacsc 24217 ros Dy eROl Wi iOrs staan ata See 24088
KENTUCKY: Day DreDawidils >. 22 Soe 24392
iSkin WWio Latha aes ae cneceKasoonnse 23886, 24082 Deerfoot Farm Company, Southboro,
Howke; Gerard 222.2 022.2. csas--ctiae 23599 | ITTEVEG se ot aimee relate Monae til Joan Rose:
UG CORD IDE BE cthS oacecan scccedop a 23399 Essex Institute, Salem, Mass..-....-- 23981
Pecks iW, Bit .2.. 3st ate oes at tomate 23643 Hstes-andavtriate=-- sees. seers 23715
Stevenson, Prof. J.J ..... saogodelSasec 24163 Hiraser|GeOree bs so-so. ee eee 23756
LOUISIANA: Granite Railway Company, Boston... 23684
Bates: VE Lw.yM mao aetna 23492 | Haskell, Col. EB. Hi ....:....- wats ASSO 23526
Hthnology, Bureauiotesa tenses ooo 24012 | Haynes» Prot Hs Wesscs2e eee ee 23863
CIT G) Tanah ASU 6 eee ee eecnn eao ites Wier lp ain 5 ee are 23879 Jackson vRobertulls-o.4)..25 eee 23731
Kohn iGustavies sacs ecceee seca 24028, 24090 Jones: Drale Ciclo See eee 23594
Vaughn; © Wayland. <.--cs-2 sns<- -- 24445 Massachusetts Society for Promotion
MAINE: of Agriculture, Boston............. 23588
Brewster, VW Lilia se. ieee sissies 23742 Norton Dra OA eee eee 23641
Cameron Silica Company, South Bed- NVesWallard jiesnsee-rereten aes ae 23869
dine Om Mie=mee 62s ace ce een ace oc 24015 Savacer Mab ose ee = eat eee eee 23640
RUSHECGMMMIGSLON AWS seen ee ececl> 23811 Staioo Mire shi = see pee eee aac eeee 24035
loka hy IW Evil Wemoporedenee ae Sonenneace 23724 | Wadsworth, Dr: M. EB . 22222222... ence 24101
Hayden, W.P..........-.....---.+---. 24081 | Wheildon,W. W ..-.-:-..- see cce ee 23483
Merrill WorentBis soe - eer 23597, 23773, 23985 | Whiten sme ancsas os setae sees 23659
Nemes Tice) <td fee Sadaae ts 23601, 24185 | MICHIGAN:
Monson Maine Slate Company, Mon- Dodoer Byrom, Deccas oases eee 24272
BOT Grier Sere ee ee Ayo heeh SeR hey merry; OhnINes-e2ns- eee eee eee 24467
Napional Muses. Weseese=seeeee eee. - E | Ethnology, Bureau of...............- 24012
SUNT MOH 18 US Ne oe ee Se 23923 Bitzhueh sD See eee 23935
\Wanlbileye@ Vi. s AESWa ar ae) oete eee ee = 23688 Forest and Stream Publishing Com-
MARYLAND: | pany, New, Worle citi.) -oss- eee eee 23495
PATTOTA WSS UT NacAt 2 ae eet ee 23930 MerrilliGeorge Ric. ssccce sen eee eer 23582
assets, GeOrsenWrse sna ase ae ee eee 23399 | Millers Charles? jraeso.. een seneer eee 24287
Bond Wise emtee e275 eee eee ee 23937 | IMAI Or BWarter note acces eee eee 23350
LAN WO EIN ch seme me sore ee caSeoe cosnsod 23379 | OldtGReB Ale ee Ie er ee eee 24404
Diller rotwJ.S:------- i aceeteee 24143, 24164 | iRarker Wayisrda Comes eeeeeaeeas 23957, 24040
DUTOUP HD TOE a f2- iinet eee ee 23565, 23577 Ropes, J ...--- SEARS Seon Oecd occ 24521
Hthnology, Bureau of 2... -s:-s-ee26-- 24012 | RUSRe lle rote Oj -= eee. eee ae 23936
BickiGa.A el eace 2 ses Vee eee 24422 | Smith sHarlaneiec] 22 see ces so eeeeeeae 23926
shen, William bes - vse eee ene 24454 Wadsworth: Dr. Meoby -osaccse sce 24101
Friedenwald, Dr. H -.-----.._..... 23413, 23474 | MINNESOTA:
Hoplsins; Samuel Hi =... eee eee 24189 | PAS VIRGS SEB reo 3s Jains aes SUSE 24327
Interior Department; U. S, Geological SY TOS Hes 5 ea 2 Ss nase Sacco eeionee 24149
LEV. CY¥ocecrinac-6 22s See 23800 Fish Commission, U.S ............... 23811
Knowlton sh wis Ss .25 se ee eee 24395 MUTED aes fe cists Sercicts, oo ee ee 23849
Manshall Georges: s-.2- an. e4- 45 aes 23367 | Mactanlane: chi ccreans..etas eee 23685
NEC OLOCKS SWisP teem semen ee ene 23878 | Mearns, Dr. Edgar A., U.S. Army--... 23790
HR AuHORSOM eH dic. -oeitoace reson eerie 24235 | Mav errdisa soca eee eee 23459
Rd WwaNe Rss 5:05 5 Monee ee 23875, 24176 | Balm en Wilis= sce, cincittec s aee menos 24384
FEISS se Net yt oh «oiaivini-te oeciGi Sone 23939 | MISSISSIPPI:
NCHWALZ BL VAY ca. <. tee See eee 23475 | Ethnology, Bureau of ................ 24012
Shufeldt, Dr, R. W., U,S. Army ...... 24377 | Interior Department; U.S. Geological
MAGN Ty US HM raiete cicicieivecteis 23890, 23508 | NULVGVismviunvvete neve cane ves re cee meaeCS
820 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Accession Accession
number. number.
MiIssourt: New JERsEY—Continued. .
BEVObS POT EL eraecee ete ere 24043, 24294 Smithy Ore hee ee eee 23461
Cramer: Gy .e~k cove eve BS eee sees Sees 23473 Smithwerotedibesser sees nee 23580, 24135, 24251
Bmery, We aeek ccac sees seen eee 24179 Wiheeler; Charles ii ose... oe ee ere 24465
Bish Commission; Unis--2--2s0 eee eee 23493 | NEw Mexico:
Granter bmilieee-e > meee eee eae 24505 Agriculture, Department of.......... 23344
lelihiaicyeyd Mlle) 24 ose Soke eS aoe 23706, 23717, 24461 Bourke, Capt. John G., U. S. Army
Interior Department; U.S. Geological 24142, 24169
SUEVON cio totes Soctecneen ie Siete ae eto 24484 Butler Al Wis Ste 22s hoe te see ae 24266
uedekin' gO 222s cccceetee ss Eee 24391 Campfieldi Cail. 22-2522 se cee eee 23979
Montromery, Halescse- =< es s2eee = 24157 Crosby. tWe 2 de 222. = ine eee 24310
Shoentelt:Jmisaes sas sone cetecetecesen 24267 Ethnology, Bureau of......--...-.... 24012
Sicklesi#hidhiese-n- seen cone ee 24427, 24428 Ghiselin, Miss4He Wi2552--e eee eee 23621
Sparks, Eran KeaWe stor-- ae ol - e reters aol 24462 Huntington, J. H.....23381, 23600, 23996,24107,
Stoube dina Ess Saeki ces ecisiscert cece 23607 24234
MonrANA: Interior Department; U.S. Geological
Amy NOM AS Siers!z52e%te cise ees ae sels 24481 SUIVGY25o sco dascceean cane eee 23739, 24364
Beck eWi bess cesar ean sees eee 24492 MatthewisDr: Wtee-c-2 ees eee 23625, 24191
Heinys Ea Rinse se ee et eeae ssa 24442 Metcalfe, M ...... SSS o EHS oSERE ade bor 24519
Hemlsonh0 (hones seas eee 23769 Nelson, BisW -2.i.5259:52 sees eee 23488
Kochi bers see se Sean lee pie 23697 Pay, Elias: d os) 2 oe ee eee ee 24456
Menniam Olintonslae sem eee 23827 Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army. .23542, 24111
Merriam rs Cov Elan ieee see 23828 Shufeldt, R. W.,Jr-...-- yc eee 23884
trop fry WAC er ne eens oo Lae 24086 Smith; Dr.Hugh Mi-9)0) 2 aes 23566
Smith, Capt.0.M., U.S. Army--.---- 23948 MayvlompHaWeeeee== 2 ussite eee 24500
Wall Oya @scAve Me nae 5 See eae eee yon 24174 Parr; Edwin: Po. 32.22. 25: oe eee eee 23637
Weeden cases ces ee ee 24326 | NEW YORK:
WViOliP RP TO fist 5 oes Semaine reser ee 23730 Adams, Wis Wie <n. -- 2 =cee eee ee 24206
NEBRASKA: Agriculture, Department of........-- 23895
@oodeDr. G@“ Brown... 2. seen ne eee 93559 American Museum of Natural His-
Keaneslovarisessen cates. sacee steers 24420 tory, New York city -........... 23418, 23987
LambertsBrothersesss2-2 2242252 see eee 24385 JAMIN ISh1O.s Spe ansesscabajsooIos 525+ 24342
Rilevaerohe Cavs sate ete ners skeet 24250 Blacktord; Hon. BG eee acre re = ean 23496
NEVADA: IBlunek AY HE oes ee ce eee 24159, 24215
BALES; MBMWYT =.= ce eine eciaciaeaoae seek 23492 Boyd, Walliam(Jics2 23-2 eee eee eee 24243
California State Mining Bureau....-. 24323 Champney, J. Wells. --..-..-. certeeee 24292
d TUT oa pall Bry aeae ee Se Rae See eres hte eee 23441 ChandilensRrotiCs hee - eee 23928
Melville; r.cWHl 222.6 ste se ae 24493 Collins, G. F .-....-----.--+---+---+-- 23854
New HAMPSHIRE: Comstock, Hou 2522-550 335 se See 24477
PAGICOMS NV ItCL ne ce nee oe eee 23725 (COO Ore eet 28754
Dey, I TeMerice in les rece oe ae eee 23725 Cox, MTS 2839 © setecieis see ee ee eee 23383
Hivine Ra Mies foe ie i ere 23845 Dawas; John ies =.= eee eee 23994
Fish, @harles\. 2252.2 oe D849] DeLaney, James M.-....--.-2.5..: 23429, 23581
Haymessbnot iH. Ween seeeeeee eee By Devoe sks Wis, 6) Co: 24. 2 eee 24269
Hodee) Cols aBie a scceene: sees aeeiae 36 WGA OQ eeiass S552 ednsudssese- 5255900 23963
Ebitchcocks rote ClHeeeent eee ee Dede, Byron\ Es. 22 s4s2ss2 eee 24272
Wahi be OSE Sees ea ener 9 Hames, MOSS... coe. ccleaner ete 23969
NEW JERSEY: Hingel We wis se ee =e eal et eee 24232
American Historical Association .... 24466 Engelhardt, hie.) 2 eee eee 23446
Andrus, William J -. -23427, 24181, 24187, 24303 Ethnology, Bureau of. ---------2--2.. 24012
Barster iC Baccnsss ce sose aaa once 23515 Hal conery dln Mie ae ete ee 24452
RIMM Ys Woe Gr ste Sacre = is semen tee tie ee 23843 HishiCommission, Woes sees eee 24280
Blacktord) -HontebniG ee seeeseeeeee ore = 23423 First Japanese and Trading Company,
TeIROM HHS Nite Ghebiocuonoot ssaodEse see 23972 New ‘Workicity Goa. = sees ee eee 23887
Calverley, Walliame 322 asecae-c eee 23673 Mlechter; Victor Sas... ss) eeeeeeee 23938
WDE OS Eat Y ao oo ee seasoned 24100 Plower, Hon: Roswell Pe 223-22 =-seeeee 23547
Bly heoe Mile eee eee eee ee 23835 Forest and Stream Publishing Com-
Fla es piensa ite eile 24033, 24229 pany, New York: city ---==--------- 23495
Hawkins, Bunting.....-....-.....23590, 23750 Roster, Mins Rivas sae ses eee eer 24418
Karbyand! Smith! 2-2. ssaaeeees sess 24302 Ie Aishy Uses coos coe cc ogaesaora: oe 23437
Maceyahobertialsca.- see eee tet 24254 Grider sRuiusPAve =: eee anton see es 24045
Merrill Georee Bc. meee sic ae ee 24249 Hallook) Charless#s2=--.-=-e-sebee eee 23465
Mohawk, Gowango...-...,..----.--- 23503 Hart, William@h, c& Co® 2-2 -ee ee 24209

Roebling, Col, W, A...-:-:::- erie) 443i) Hartley, J, Scott -.--...5:..-.----- 23524, 23570
INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 821

Accession Accession
number. number.
New York—Continued. NortH CAROLINA—Continued.
Hartwell, Mrs. F. M...---.--....----- 24399 Lucas, Dr. H.S 24948
Hawley, B.S ...---------------------- 23822 MeMillan, D. T 24582
Hooper, William -...-.-..------------- 24062 Mooneys Jiamesess se cee eee eee 23764
Hornaday, William T...-...-.------- 24129 MacombersJiameseo- selene eee eee 24969
Interior Department; U.S. Geologi- National Museum, W..S....-.-.-:..-.- 23445
MCMMSULVOVaa tesa eis e 24304, 24470, 24479 SM Gh Dre he Mesos eee ee ae 23520
ireland) Jo bm! By. === sseesnee= nee = ee 24186 Treasury Department; U.S. Coast and
Tro Ds J ak jek oe ae cs Re Day, Sea 23494 Geodetic Survey. 922: ees-e seen cane 23255
Japanese Trading Company, New NortH DAKOTA:

Winall Giiiyancasas soeseceracassase=se 24529 TSW Fea Sia B bane se at a ar eee 23786
Raya 1s CaO ae Bare osbosconasesc 23373 Simpsons AG Mies oe ete ees cleo 24486
Kea Re TOuners)- 2-42-22 eam = 23848, 24203 | Onto:

Mamiborny Drsk eb sa= eee cee ceciaes 24144 aries ee er Heise tts Bhaeak, 24514
Me Couny Mrs: Hedin. 5-255 ssccsess 23966 DUM VEE See ee ie ak see ee Le 23514
Martin, Mrs. Margaret. ..--...-.--.-- 24145 Dickersonsd Maxie sos =e Serene eee 23721
Maynard, Mrs. Nellie Long......----- 24523 Wuimyat Carles tere, eyes sears ee eset 24473
NIGH Gy AG] MAS Bess eRe aoe 23668, 24004, 24221 Hthmolosywhureaw of: -5--.---s2-ces- 24012
Manis C23 esos <i seea cine l= 23959 Rahrion Gs aWec. ste cee eee ees 23831
New York Central and Hudson River Rinchrme vil tomers sean cee eee 23917

Railroad Company -.--------------- 24219 Forwood, Dr. W. H., U.S. Army. ----- 23865
New York Engraving and Printing INGSUGIE NG) Veeeeige seeboarcasaspecieco nc 23602

Company, New York city .-.---.--. 24091 MO wien Gerard:.-.c07 accesses ee eee 23599
New York State Museum, Albany.... 23605 Garwood; spencers -=- 24-4 see eee 24282
Perkins, Hrederick: Ss-=-- ----4---=-—- 23617 (Goris) Oharles! Basses. 4-e=- steers 23636
Pb ey ID aes sae aceoresodeocas= 23971 Greenwood)iG: GiB =e saaaeineee = 23497
Photo-Gravure Company -.----------- 23810 Inwane Conydony Ss. -e- 2. eee eee 23519
PotterOscareasss-esce-s ssa et == cee 23609 Katzenberger, G. A., & Brother. ....-.- 93384
Prentiss, be Ouecse a= a2 os see ce eins les 24220 Kain 6 yay ai ase. = 22a ona Se erst eee 24205
[eNO Ov MUGEN IOS eee ne oneeeee 24516 Mic Grimms Wali anes ee eee tae 24329
Rockenstyre, ©. H------------2-- =~ 24318, 24508 Moorehead, Warren K..-....-.....-.. 23543
slugs), Cod edensboss teerebpecsdocadecc 24228 IN(Ghibs) ata) ee cewaeeedeconsansean ASH" 24366
Sharp, C. A..and Company....-..-- 24075, 24158, INissle yapdidkvs see enccn see ons 24255

24172, 24257 Orton} Prof Bdward!=222 ..- -2-cee ese 23983
SMITE) aN eS MD) am tere aie 23737, 23761 Palace Hotel, Cincinnati. -.---------- 23882
SimniOyis Wed) cesceierissechctsescocssor 23826 Perkins shred erickio=25--s-seee-eesee 23617
Syracuse Plow Company...-...-..---- 24060 Pillans ydjameseee seem emo emer 24103
Rammer. Williams Gre ci-2 2 Ae = = bere 24058 PutnamVeb rote Wises a2 ec eeeee 23645
The Eastman Company, Rochester, SHGMbbnee DIR I SSocsesc8s ~osocoonsso5e 23450

INIGA Ge AR Ase See ee eee Se ane 23507 | OKLAHOMA TERRITORY :

The Hinds Ketcham Company, Brook- Jibei 1 Wi sem oce soe ceasodasdess 23386, 23466

Winles sos eet ae. Sa osies at OREGON:

Mittany, 5 COmpanivies-~ a. 222- se BROWN Wit sae mene seman eee ee 24066
Manle@stephensseaa-- 1-2 2-55 5262-400ces Condon@b rote es: sce. eee ese 23693
WaCOLieVErSsarelnat: <==, <ccieclnoatceelact CopererofhSDeee- ee oe aoe 24358
Witter Ote Hp AU-vs-)-25-542 52 Sams 23856, 23998 Dalle pilliamvllss ..c-seeesesoncen cee 23689
Ward’s Natural Science Establish- Keller i@lydeplibasst. meee. ses oeeas ee 24390

MoMteROCHESTEL no -5= 454245. ee eee 24007 Lee, Lieut. Col. J. G. C.,U.S. Army. 24029
WiebbewWialter I! ccs oa sse5 oe ee 24263 rer: 9A Geren avec ancce a6 ser 24253, 24498
Wunderlich, H. & Co........-.. sadness 23669 MondeeMureliusmessnesee sees a es 23480

NORTH CAROLINA: PENNSYLVANIA:
PAMCTE WS, UGS WAL (-3,- e ens ale os ae saci 23930 Beat Wis gases ctease ae 23442, 24360, 24363
tens WrANKs fa2cc5 so -2n ek ees 24020, 23955 Belle Wealltam 2 Arasec costes see seein 23422
MeneaIGhsd AMES A. oo eee 24938 Blacktord) Hon Gi. 2-5-2 aa 24230
Brimley, H. H. and C.S......23943, 24247, 24271 Clarkes Miss iMlaryy Bias os. ase 23680
(OPTI TSG FST Se en ee ae 93495 CottomyCharles Wi -- --- 42 ee een 24125
Carter, Miss Marian H.............. 23567 Gresson-2Dr. Hl bormneees=-e se eee 24318
EIU EON Ho) Grane ona = =e = =e 23561 ey Dim baal bee koe eo secon ncesr so 24392
Mthnology, Bureau of.....--....---.- 24012 Dressler sReveis Gceeeie pee ee aera 23555
Howler, tO d)4----5 s =. ssrenamore 24076 Bdiward ssh awh ce ceie see creccaecee 24350
HG GEN Walliam 3 Bye 2 =.= ere 23805 English, Georgei:, & ©o:25.----=- 23694, 24375
LOEW ECS] 63] be eee ee ee ag PEO 23626 Ethnology, Bureau of -.........-..-.. 24012

RTT CAN MEL te LS ovate cette sole ciric bite, Dereon 23447 WV EtOHETNS Mets ete ciceta eee cientacie ae 24109
8

2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

Accession
number.
PENNSYLVANIA—Continued.

Woote; Avice: Nose cles eisestes wasustcee 24434
Forwood, Dr. W. H., U.S. Army...-..- 23865
Howie, Gena de eee mes = 23599
KMrancis) Joseph... 252-22: 2-se ssn 23360
Giebiiersly, Wetter eset ce eee 23818
Glaser: Peteres- ss. secete cence see 23451
Ineram; Edward! T.=.<.-222- 222222 -- 24026
Interior Department; U.S. Geological

NUE VOVis ts seat (An weos akebs abSconades 23677
Ives ib redebi ee eee) cee oe ae 24016
WACKSON MUunhOmMlas Here: semen enimice sees 23557
Leidy, estate of Dr. Joseph -..--.---- 24398
ieimdsaycan deBary 22sec ae en ster 23649
Lockwood, William B....-.......-... 23779
Merriam, Dr: C. Hart...-...-.--.-.23378, 23954
PentielderotiS.du)-- acre asses scene 23795
IBennocky Cidie sts sons 2 cee eee eee 23523
Renny packer, |G. Eee secs aneeeesecei 24441
PUTS yy Hees oe cre samy ts - se aie Se nie 23664
Powers & Weightman............... 23389
RAN aC shiek esace oe seen ee eee 23472
WALT UA Cr seAGaeh eee eee carat ae eee 24414
ScGhrelber de Worse ctens cea Wea ee tesa 24425
Schweyer qo luless eases Pes 24083
SMG TINGAUD [oS So agaeadsecnsadeomee 23370
Stubbs Drv@harleseMi-o 2a. 2 2 ese 23752
Skiliydaerderere Dib ID 3 SAG ape osin a cuoe=oc 23635
Sulzberger, Maven eases eee ee eet 23550
WEONE VR Lal wate ie ee’ -ciameemas neat 23525
Leemiber Masseh liza see see eee a 24330
Roda AMESic= se ese at oe here e he eae 23380
University of Pennsylvania-.....-. 23880
Wiallace;Shippenie:..-5-20s se ee 24138
Ward’s Natural Science Establish-

MEN yWOCHKESLEL EN. wWeeeee cece eee 23921
Willcox, Jioseph-. 2: --:--semc-2 csteeee 24357

RHODE ISLAND:
ishCharles My oc... sscenassosen eee 23421
Nive-eWillardire ecee - <- se eee near 23869
RECOM T VAN Oe ae ster ee eee 24286
DVO MS IH Se ce aie a tatossio.s ays Stem stninieciate 23640

SoutTH CAROLINA:
Benedict, James BH .........220.-5- 23961, 25991
Cleveland eR AM c2 22sec eee 24387
Ethnology, Bureau of .....-.......... 24012
HishiCommissiony Wises sees ee eee 24280
(ECON VE TOL sc! ae scar a Scene 24117
ackson hw Bie eeccts wecikecnscleeee 24077
end all Wis Clears cece en cee seo ae ae 24218
Magnetic Tron and Steel Ore Com-

Panes lLAGKS DUN See e eee eee are 24002
Marjenhotf, Johannes. ..........-.... 24084
Paylons-AV Res = 2.5252 seueteonateee cei 24073

SouTH DAKOTA:
JMvidcishal 6 (op) oSeeee ame Oaao maa aodees Joc 24327
Bristol; Prof. Charles lL. -...-.-.---*- 23544

Daniel, Dr. Z. 'T .....23444, 23489, 23675, 24013,
24167, 24244, 24449, 24495, 24526

Ethnology, Bureau of...-........--..
JeguUPemy rts oye fo 15 ORE So en hoe cssaGe
Jp Benedictie..-.- shee acer eee

Enng7ens cme aes sisceea eee 24133, 24182,

UO WAS eR TANIA ee one ee Cerne
Montgomery, (ei ceo<ele es eee eeee

24012
24491
23945
24400
24204
23458

Accession
number.
SourH Dakora—Continued.
Ruby; \Charlese-2-- 4----2 5-1 -ee 23410, 23512
Sid ey |. MWyssente cise ee Jee ee 23710
Wilke, “Watts crrecte~t = ste terete 23545, 23722, 23732
TENNESSEE :
Cresson; Dr; Balborm i =--eee eee ae 24318
Crosby; FW o-2- oes cee eee eter 24310
Ethnology, Bureau of ....-..--..----- 24012
Godfrey, TS 2 2S-s-te eon sere 24522
Hiynds; Alexander = 22s= 27-2 ss-eeeesee 24099
hander. Wi. Lertsht:>-+--=-- see eeeeee 24094
Ores Wie dicmse sso e cae eee eee 24502
RO PAN! id AMOS) Wire acess selene renee 23696
TEXAS:
Agriculture, Department of --.... 23484, 23704
Armstrong HS Bie... sees 24432
Bourke, Capt. John G., U.S. Army. 24443
Crosby jb. Wi 2-2-2252. sseeeeeseaesee 24310
Ethnology, Bureau of ..-....-.-..-.-. 24012
Hill Roberti sec shes eee eee 23700
Interior Department; U.S. Geological
DULEV.GVietsi= einer alse oot aii ee nee 23898
Jackson, Chomas He. 3.225252. eeeeee 23579
Merriam sD ra@. Harts=sce ese 23554, 23760
Potter; Revs din Lease nee niseceieeees js eeZooLO
Vagsdale, (GJM coe so ea eee 23434
Riley Prot. Vercsses se eee 24347
Roessler: Ay Re assec.seeeceee Beserchilarst yi
Romeyn, Capt. Henry, U.S. Army.... 24110
MurpeAtstao- a. Ses oo kas ee eee eBOOl ao Ose.
Worthen; Charlesvke 2-7 soon eeeeeeee 24410
UTAH:
Hin Gel, Lewis). 215). aee eset 24128
Ethnology, Bureau of ...--..-...----- 24012
Kish) Commission Wnpecea-eee eee 23493
HOrresten: Ri. <: os = eaewc ee eae eee 24295
Hewett; Gi@z- 5..<<2sos sess See 23797, 24108
Wilkes Witus te -eseeres be deco ee eRe 23628
WOlEZEGCORE Cie cle. cesta etel ate 23481
VERMONT :
Bronson,H@ eats eee en eee 23407

VIRGINIA:

American Manganese Company, Pitts-

burs, Ba Se s-52 senses eee cea eee 23770
Andrews: Dro B: Ac. nesacccse eee 23930
Archer, James R...-..- Scone scout zn eeobnd
Bailey: Hi. WiS.c.2 ..-2ansce- eee 23772

Battles Hab soa. .os fee ca eee eee 23639
Bean; iB Ay 22 ee oases ae ee 235738, 23596
Bell, Dr.J'. Bie. cccn. se cose eee eee 24296
Berry, J\O wens: <5 -2-)-ee eee eee 23883

Brady, disO5n.0. fone see eee 24411
Carroll, Walliam’ © <<: 5-224... ----se eee 24061
Diller Prot.WeiS 220.-< ees eee 24143
Engle; Horace Me. 2 2352. - = eee 23842
Ethnology, Bureau of .....-...-.----- 24012
Fish Commission, U.S..-.....---- 23493, 23900
Eery, CO. W.. neds et eee eee 23885
Grinnan, Miss) Bessie se -- eee 24131
Harrison; WalliamHe= -=2.—--o- eee 23368
Henshaw; Hew: cnc<se8 sense essen 23743
Herr Stephamitenmeeestsee ioe eee 23502
Johnson, RaW. .-.2 sh eee - eae eet 24389
Knowlton (lH) ces can tetas a eee 23357
Kiohn Gustav scene, scene om eoeae 23960
INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 823

Accession | Accession
: number. | number.

VirGiInrtA—Continued. | WAsHINGTON—-Continued.
eam born ei vkv tether als sce isiate lee si=- 23995 | Kn Caidee ete n one ae= see aren erect 24509
[eucas Reel sere en ee eee 23789 | WEST VIRGINIA:

Mason, E. E.....- sesogsanbost So8sess 23861 | Alleghany Collegiate Institute, A1-
Marmite Weel LIS OMe cle ccs sees eee 23529 MOLSON Senco Sas Sse Sects eros oee 24030
National Zodlogical Park. .-....-..--- 24225 | ina hetn Cheresa aca oode hos sere seoae 24411
NOB MAG e Wiad) 22a a- = see ee ee 23430 | Ethnology, Bureau of .--.----.---...- 24012
BalimertdOSepld =e. .uk Peet eee sees. se 23511 | isher 2A damicsace2 oso 2eca- oo aa seer 23908
Palmer Villian) s2-\-cwes eee a= ae = ae 24369 Heuchvawalitenasse a sssee sare eae 23740
[Etre Oe Gd he Aa ee eer es ee on cea eae 23509 | Perkins) Prederick) S:.2-7- ---sss--5 45 23617
Ragan Joseph 222 2.25220 seen woe a 23476 | Slate rere br cae et Se oe ene oe Bees Sek 23405
Rogers. Col Georgenk sce ses sa 23650 SRAOPAEG TS WS ORS Ss osc ameceocnoce 24421
SSITELU OMe a Crest crs wets es eee coblels 24485 | STA ers JETRO GRITS SAB adsoconscs 24308
SHEB@ Dis Ele aes Bade sc] aseteSescuEe 24161 , WISCONSIN:
DSMLon, Maj George NS... =... 2 23801 Ethnology, Bureau of ......------ .. 24012
Seti AD ies 18 OEY See ane s ee 23461 | Hobbs s Walliamebisecs <o-22 21h eee 23707
NVjas bin! plone Col :As 522 eee ae 23815 imine, IDK MWe dl ceoneclssacen a7 Ree eet!
Whitehall Gold Mining and Milling Perkins Hrederi¢ki Sos. = 4+ 2s5---< se 23617
Company, Washington, D.C ..-..-. 24219 | University of Wisconsin -. ----- --23885, 23634
Wailea, JU pep acapsopesecenonmeasesooe 23371 ZALMIMIET MAT OMB cesses. ase ee eS
Within ehiin Wis Neb nocoeonereenbooeTane 23655 WYOMING:

W ASHINGTON : Agriculture, Department of........-. 23344
Agriculture, Department of ---.--29734, 24017 Hihmolopy= Bureat Of. acess on eases 24012
Bama Nah alonces cacao see rete aer 23932 | Graniorsbmilesks-- sees. eee 23944
NGS S oe) PRT UN Zsa rie aaa 23490 | Interior Department; U.S. Geological
Waal: Drs Clintonml 200-05. 95224. 24184 | Sunvey csc. foe eokeee ae saucer ee 23999
Fritillaria Club of Yakima Valley.--. 23871 | Sharp, Capt. T., U.S. Army..--=-..-- 23521
Hemphill bienry.-.---==-2-------->-- 23690 Wilcox, Maj. John H., U.S. Army... 23560

WEST INDIES.
THINGY IE hy IBUDI AY See oases seoedoodce 23091) | DD Invilliers;:d ward V-=- 2 .=22-cse.-2 = 23901
British Museum, London, Eneland suesses PR || JD abo ed Dyed Ml Ra Ms aoe peo ossencasnecce 23808
Botanic Garden, Trinidad. .--.------.-.-- 23t02) (ROOLOMs ASAIN so seis = coe. see lees 24093, 24446

TayReNgis 1S MWY Gecoess ésore cea sesenebecorac Bala NOLbDrOp OO NMelme aes see naes eee 23782

CUTS CRIEE A ce Seance cea pees Eo Sniars 23846 | Preston, E. D., U. S. Coast aa Geodetic

(ORTA IER WWiad eee seas e Se eoeeaeneanaanre 24379 Survey ; Ae Department ..-.-..- 23436

CENTRAL AMERICA.
Cherrie, George K .........-...-24067, 24150, 24154 | Pond, Lieut. Charles F., U.S. Navy....... 23687
California State Mining Bureau. San Fran- | Ugeyelic, Tengo i WUBI 55 soc ceo Ke See aaa ae 24311, 24371
ORNS. Aanecgp saneobe Senso oonage sl ecsreae Zeer Wittikugel, Frich)--- 2.22205... st een cae 24394

Museo Nacional San José, Costa Rica.24155, 24376
SOUTH AMERICA.

Bartleman. R. M ... .23956, 23968, 24210, 24216, 24351 Museo de Productos Argentinos, Buenos

DESEO SHESTORIVEITS fc) ) Wl lee tetera ee owe Se) sis ste ie ee 24195 ISHIGE Sr apecccBBbo RbOConS Se SeBhn One DOE 24382
3ritsh Museum. London, England.....-. 23665 | Redwood, F.T .........-.....--.--..-.--- 23611
Stn, Ce a eee Ae 23593 | Reed, Capt. Allen V., U.S. Navy.....---- 23355
Prone OWATIES\: cis m oe ato eae een eae PXGUE | Leite oyeaoy nl OL WY Ss epoeeooe oabee eeoace 23382, 23517
IDETACY, TEND) AOU: Weeeet Se aes eemre Cesar 23682 Royal Museum of Natural History, Ber-

TSE AUIS 18 COTA Re oe tens epee aban ticcicice 23891 | Ibis (Cx ge Th eee onnseobpeeer weocecac oS. 24474
HIE GOMITMAISS1OMG) Wiss a. == 2-1 24037, 24089 | Slocum, Capt. Joshua .....--....---.----- 23653
CSTR Yes 128. ide Goma BBO RBeR eR eae Eat oe SELES) || Spas TDR TSOTSI Ce Boke eee cones aca 23559
Berea NOMA =<). 22 os ees) - Sc PAREN PRO | Wot Uiteyobiee 0p) 8 Ee eee epee sr oss 24102, 24139
erbia blonds) ©) 2. =.= cies antes se = 2b eels PANGS Ba andyand ILO Welles oe eal lsialaiieees 23304

Museun of Natural History, Paris. France 23345

ASIA.
Bal fOUr MMCUIBY Ge Sven \an- 222 2553 tees ee 24331 | Calder, Rev. William C......-.-..---.---- 24309
Bolles; Lieut Ll. Dix, U.S. Navy... .2....- DAs Olarice. WiiAClO=- 5 .- <5 seete eee eee 23671
BOM WELON Ms Mes ete se a). te eee a a= DAA S MEO aulime LEW AD bins orem ore ater eae 24314, 24402

British Maseum, London, Engiand.---. SENG | TOME \Woilbe yin 18tee eo 6 papdbase cee speqeee 24401
824 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.
Accession | Accession
number. number.
Mowing whomagy ites eee eee eta 241347 \| Peters: hev. cOhneee-cese see eee ears 23986, 24087
Gordon-Cumming, Alastair P......--.--- 241220) Red wooG hl ee en. ant =e eee 2p eee ceOll23nle
Gorham Reh: as eeerceeesere ore eee 23965 | Rockhill, W. W..-.. 23359, 23372, 23498, 28592, 24520
IHTeNSen wl aEEyiNN, =. ecee eaten eee 24527 | Royai Botanic Garden, Calcutta, India.... 23857
JEAN Ieuan AA aan ce nan seas seaaseors 23462 | Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England.... 23807
SGT TN pal tan Opes ee Sener ee 23703, 23711, 237538, 23754 Royal Museum of Natural History, Berlin,
IU Ena \Wiseeeioo ate ge oacanseesocnSe 23832 Germany. =. 226-22 = 22 cee- eee eee eee 24474
HOOMUIS PRON Hee = sacar ie cee 23417 | Shufeldt, Capt. Mason A., U.S. Navy....- 24344
TOoVGul. sawardee.-- ss. -- eee 23416, 23950, 243843 | State, Department of.......-........-..-- 24487
Mac rowan Ore dl neers neeecsasene 20406) Stearns, Hrederi¢k = 2. -- ss. asses 24417
Neumann, DrJmlius)----------------- 2301924200) | tappanColussih acces: s2= e+ eee eee 23839
Newman, Bishop wiohnue =----- -----.4- = 237800 |) “Ro kunO else seco se ee ocean Soc ee eee 23893
Nichols, Capt. W. P.. seessssssesesqcn ABBE || Mien ime BL, AN 322 ssocossessssecssSe2: 23714
Oxford Museum, Oxford, Haglan eae oe 24291 Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn 23415
HUROPE.
Agriculture, Department of.......---. 22034 24271 ql) uaspeyres:e rOt- bls. -e)--eae eee eee eee 24168
Balfour Ment yoe ==.) c= joe once eerie ae BT 83s 242904 SILOS Ch ANS e seek oes are ae eee ee 24261
eye JON he ee oe eset see ees 23837 | Lovett, Edward... ...-.-.-.--. 28416, 23784, 23950, 24343
IBenienb Cu Ss aeons ss=e a  oee comes 24438 | McDonald, Rev. Alexander....-....-..... 24297
30naparte, Prince Roland ---»....---..-.- ZANT. |) MicGuineydeS)seaceseee eens eee ee 23902
3ritish Museum, London, England. . 23349, 23532, Mcintosh achlanibles--=—- 4) aseee= nee 23866
93665)2|) WlasonsHidiwiand eee arse aera aa ere ee 23744
@habel ain HHGiy= os. sae Ae ae yee ace ae 28430; 5 wlerniam Orso Harted cree acc =e ee 23828
Clarice GW iep aol Gas see cise eel eal ee 23601 | Montandon; Prof. Aq in. 22-22 se ase 24097
CGollettvDrmRoberticce... ose seo eee ceca 24236 | Museum of Natural History, Paris,
Cresson neal bonnes ses a ee 23766 PAN Coe ack scia nase Cee eee 23345
Guiiv VOsiahiee o-oo ae sees eel eset 239495 | Noel aula 2o5 teen aes aa eee ee eee 24278
Irae COs Nic Osa sncoponocnspaecsnccseoe 24430) “Norton DRC SAG eae ses See eee 23798
ID Way aere (Cree) ISL oe eons Aone ac aerwance 23428" | sRicey Hon. Walliam) 1. 2o2 2222s. sane 23862
DIAN MOM ae oe seers soe = on eye ees se 23788 RocnIULAWEAW: Saeeccie sis cm ar cicin eee ee 23372
leecher MVACtOnIS = 2/5: 2-1... SaeaeeeeDe 23099) | ROcers NOM as oe aete- eres ee ee 24019
DOMME Mare aii ees eis cia crete aisha ra oe ears ate ats 24690 | Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England... 24135
TANCIS wOOSEPDiowsi >= 1-2) - eae Si 23360 | Royal Geographical Society, London, En-
iO PUGS Ishii No esopeseacaueokasoeecosse 93491, 24444 PPG oe Sc omesce acetone socsbaccataescs 24065
Geological Survey of Sweden, Stockholm 24324 toyal Museum of Natural History, Ber-
(Gary, Troon adevcsnasonosonaseeee TaAtbis) || dhs (Ga menhis 225 soos sssasanesohodssso3- 24474
Gandnie7 i} @harlesics son -cascce ce cece 23426 | Royal Saxon Mining Academy, Frieberg,
Gree POrwls ai ahi: a2 sis -yaeias ee a 23821 |! Seon ys 2 45 ied 25 esac eee ee eee 23836
GriderwmRinfins Aces se ee. 2 = sare se eee 24045 | Royal Swedish Academy of Science,
Guildhall library committee of the city of Stockholint-2 2 242525252 -bas-E eee 23720
HONCODE a sees: os ess es weal SS 24176 | Royals Zodlogical Museum, Copenhagen,
ale CT wD relearn ae ee eietae thal Sane 23778 Denmark: 2 S352 4 ee cee cee eee 24114
Hamilton, John B., supervising surgeon- } LEH WENO coo ceases asoascc ce ce 24325
general, U.S. Marine Hospital Service-. 28726 | Schmid, Edward § .-.............--.----- 23686
Jaleenniye Wiese (sera ances ao saSudedsdonsoe 23016) | Schneider, 0 rhe Ae eee are 23627
GA TH COLE RWi LOND sei - eee ie ate at mG BY Metsteellyis Ol 1s He sosasesadeaseduodsc conse 23709, 24078
END ES SEY; UN OMAS Ee os sale ere were see PALO: || Seely j Mats HAC. oe cre eae ete eee 2443)
Hille Beart: DT RW egies set ose ease 20407 | ShindlervAe:Zeno.--o- ee aes ee 2397
ELOD DS Wallin hlese eee eee eee 23613 | Shufeldt, Capt. Mason A., U.S. Navy ---. 24344
Holme ii eod or saescesa ase aete ee ae ae 24289 | Smithsonian Institution ........----- 24105, 24205
EGU Sh Will Gere soe me serie ake ae etree 23583 | State, Department of....-.......23505, 24104, 2427
Tidal, TP soe oe he oper acert 23803, 24000 | Strauss, Hon. O.S ...-..--.-------------- 23:99
Interior Department; U. S. Geological We Sfcourd SoM Mineo erry lee ere ae ee ee 2:598
Survieyerescaec- = cee eoae cee BY (pA: RL ee Dali ash iroetvaed She ge nGoces oq se sccse sseee sco - 23654, 24196
JOHNSTONE acts wheliaeene ee see ae eae 23409) Ward. Isl borne: 2. seeee eee eee 2;657
Réerains kisi ete eraser cca eer me rere 2483" Wales Galan ancl) brother) =-sess4eeeeese ae 2259
WE Yad eae OSS Sis Aaemeememencnceeweeece 24281 Wilson; Shomasi sgase. seeeins te eee 13823
INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 825
OCHANICA.
AUSTRALASIA.

AUSTRALIA.
Accession Accession
number. number.
British Museum, London, England ..---. 23665 Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England .. 2383858
(Cire Wir CHG sscecr ee cece eee 23728 | Shufeldt, Capt. Mason A., U.S. Navy... 24344
BidwwardS Henry, 2.522252 = -)ss6 seems aie PRETO | SrA I Ores Gi be a ee Se eae 23522
Koehler: Wralterd) =2 4-2 s-kces ese sene = PIB aad Dee Eis Oe ae eee eee Ones Ue aa ace 23758
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass .-.. 23719 | Ulke, Titus --....--.-..-...-.-..--..--..- 23628
Rambo. MivWliner: - 232222. 4j0<-5- -=s 25 24436 | Von Muéller, Baron Ferd ...............- 23867

MALAYSIA.
PACA TINS Cee are emer e Sac es ery eines oe te = ayes iy ee MME BI ent ahaa Siece avis mleteye (Niel elm fo /minyebaneleo are 2389

POLYNESIA,
Bolles, Lieut. L. Dix. U.S. Navy -23892, 24120, 24121 | Lovett, Kdiward....................2.... 23950
TEXAT ICON jd OS LE Cores oh enn eer sae eee rt 23813 | Norton, Hed eAM es stcee eee cits eee 23793
British Museum, London, England 23665 | Thomson, W.J., paymaster, U.S. Navy -- 23098
ean aSens PAT OTIS TS UR) eee ai lal tele Pale! a) ANY Leiniey TEIN ee San Soe bodadoce spouse 23745

ISLANDS IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix, U.S. Navy ...------- 242i ie Wovett WG wandiee mest 6 = emi «ices 24343
Cutline Cap teh am eee eel 238880) ambo> Meibilmete= soe 2s oye atetatel alate 24436
Fish Commission, U.S..-..----- 24037, 24517 |
Index B.—By Departments in the

National Museum.

DEPARTMENT I.

ARTS AND INDUSTRIES.

Accession
number.
Agriculture, Department of ........----- 23584
23585, 23587, 23589
Alaska Commercial Company, San Fran-

Cipcos Cale: . 232.8 as 5c ese eesce et 23768
American Historical Association ......-. 24466
Andrus, William J ...-.-.-- 23427, 24181, 24187, 24303
BARTER Visas ae siaa eee Stead ata ne 24342
BAVSOUPC Oli tems = atta see ae safle 24429
PB arblemeanen iver les re ctseiarara)a soe ayaa ies aerate 24351
ns hd Does [aa by eee OCS eee eeon oie 24269
TRET VV UE Tes SR eeSSe eS ace Bee eee ae 23422
TST CRSA eB) a se-ic Seine ea Sees aicinisic sees 24159, 24215
Boehmer) Geonve) He os ese ose = 23975
Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix, U.S. Navy.-:..--- 23392

SOSWELUBMON TY. 52S 20a en seme ee 23549, 24301
Bowanans Cole esB sec ares eee se ace <i 23947
nak Ail UAT Gd leo ek eo neoc ce ssteapaossoee 24245
LUG, (Oe Leth oe obese heeecre cach asnuaconse 23906
Binns Tanke ose ean oe ee eee cee oO OO eeOLU,
@altert ReveewAlliam G25 s.2 ose eee ae 24309
Carter Walliamidisc.-c40 a nseccenee eens 24063
CGhampneyaw.. Wells’. 5-52-- te cciee ates ae W124 292,
Chandlereerot.. Cos: 225.2225. =. sees. 2 oe 23928
ChatelammwHea pes: .. 2.4 sees Sees 23393, 23425
Cheney, Mrsstidnah D =. _-.--=2---.-- 23699, 24116
(OLE anGa ye Die (oy Ie 3 Oe ee aeicoeecoaodcce 23841
Clima diward secs n= 6scic'soa2 Sate emreee 23834
Clarke; Mass Mary Ei --.---.--..- 22. ---.. 23680
Clarke yMasssUma Hi 22.2202 222 ese 23946
Colton Gharles*W.. 522 [275.255 52245cee 24125
OID: NERS ENS RNS De Seer appt EAE 23383
@ranmer: Ges. 2 sscc5- 222 Eb coos eee eee 23473
MrmekGhtiel: Hs-s2c + che ce he Soe eee eee 23771
(Chimitiny, Os ISU. se ceedseets sececcised=scscsc 23765
(OTM GIGS Ee meeeerceeceossdes gaocpcesSbe 23949
Curtis swWolliana 7-8 - 2%. soles 23364
DSS a ONT Pree eee eee ae err eee eer aee 23994
Deerfoot Farm Company, Southboro,

NW EDSIES Se PSG 0 Sanigdicne do se aesenue oeadec 23774
MBGOOwCES Wig GS COmsaneten cee senete eee 24269
WDE Gey, (CHCA GUC? Gaesee ee stocabesésosaccoc 24430
Mot oalavveul laa OM 222 E eae ee eee 23691
WWrapenuneOne OE. socio. == seat eee ee 23428
DUAN Se) eer net. eae oe eee s 23788
Tis OWE Oa COM eee ioe oe 23894
NI OCtMRQRT YW) 2.2.22 site coe Sse ee 23646
TOE, Wi ba enc haeensegocc a ssoceededs 23835

|

Accession
number.

lrarib lem 12s IN Ce eee paoooD ppp eeo sosomaascor 23845
IVs re, ILE Bite ooc mens adedoeE Soseomcs 23715
Lyn Go dips censor shade coocccaooue 24252, 24452
HSIN OWE Estee ce eae ee Seine 24335, 24836
First Japanese and Trading Company... — 23887
BISichergViGClOl Sener Sea ae 23899, 23938
Ise WG Ai INS ee Se coeenemcosuSOcenobe 24418
IETaNCisyd OSE ues nee eme eee cael 23360
KriedenwaldeDrhies se] eee e eee ae ee 23413
RiGks G. Agee se oa eras Beane ae oC aae 24422
mMish= Charles R025 scssccsseso emer csars 23421
Gale; Denis. 220 2s cea on ona eee 23465
Gindriezs@harles <22eem---2 anes ee 23426
Goode, Dr: G. Brown ..---------- 23531, 23678, 23718
Goode, Mrs. G. Brown -...-..-------.--- 23749, 23374
Granite Railway Company, Boston, Mass) 23684
Grecorssala Nees eae e eee eee 23621, 238897
Guildhall Library Committee of the City

Ofsisondon.-bm Clante=. oe a eeeeeae at 24176
Hales Woeniry ees. =e eee anaes 24033, 24229
Hamilton, John B., Supervising Surgeon-

General, U.S. Marine-Hospital Bureau. 238726
iantleya Jb scutes aer- = s--= eee 23524, 23570
Harrison: ©2Ac, 2. 25, -Ss\e tees eee 23771
Haskell Coli WAH 22 2-22 escent ae 23526

> ), 28750
Hiayley. Je .Slsn- ope 2 apace 23822
andl erase Mires Ose) Wie ae ese Saree rate rare ae 23651
1s ket hihi \Wisls ees esas soeeeosaEsooe nse aoe 23616
iears tvirss G@eOn oC samara ae 23411
lslGymnyny av AO Soosceneenasoseoseeconobotc oe 23658
Hennessey, Thomas F ...-..---------...- 24407
leiebag USSR Wy 6eoeneponaee eso neos =o 24132
Batehcoeks Mass ROSemae ee ==. leet 23455
Od oe, BR cer een ae eo. abe see eeeee 23595
Jeary Wy wlbent oY Coe cepeceeecosena sc 24129
Hornblower, William B-..--------...--<-- 23363
Mou hws Wraltet seer sec “eo eee es eee eer 23583
Enpbpard, Gardiner |G -s-.--—--— eee 23692
Hynds, Alexander ...-.------.----------- 24099
Interior Department (Hon. J. ©. Slo-

CI) eee eee a eee eres eaciatenartaes 23802
MRO Es ae ae se ois stad Ske Ga ee 23494
IQWES ARSON eae San eee ceoeeR sae abocosese: 24016
Lei nj iele Dden te (Ch) eneesctean= tee seeaase-e 23373
Ii@inisiots| Wd lod 8) Seana Beane oe ot ect oe 24183
ius puslkenys de Sipsescoccscos eens 2 =e2 24420
828 REPORT OF

NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT I—Continued.

ARTS AND INDUSTRIES—Continued.

Accession | Accession
number. number.
LG hy CERO tee osano scebossssesonosec ane 24302 Loyal Geographical Society, London, Eng-
PNA SOTHO LSee aati 23848, 24203 Jan dlc eene cee ne nce see eae ere 24065
Lp inal LenGinishdt eee coonasHeEaseeso se ZAR Deer ISOM OliG 185 1D Res se oor oneasoeenckousoc 23376, 23915
ILGGA\We Cintas assent esr ana= aon Rec eb aa 23550 | Scollick, J. W......-.-- sao qoueee 23375, 23397, 23571
Me wiS Harry Wi gisele cca. saaeeeacten 2388205) SEE Lyne Mirsky: (Ave ee ety ae aa ee 94431
Mind sayqcee Marlys. 32-5 sosee-- eee ee 23649 Sharps O.2AG doses poset ne See eee 24228
Hock wood) William a2 2s2cec--c-22---- 2379 )|) Sharpe C.cAs hi Onsen eee 24075, 24158, 24172, 24257
ILM Cit tad OC PN eae ak Sacer e 23416) 24342 Sickles. ah --rer ema P eee eee eee 24427, 24428
Mic Counwirsaibe dieser esse eee eee 23966 | Singer Manufacturing Company, Hart-
Melntosi uachlangHinc eee e6 55-28 23866 ford (Conn aee as oeeeee eit ae Ce Ree 24316
Marjenhoff, Johannes ......---..-.-.-.--- 24084 | Slocum, Capt. Joshua..--.......-....--.. 23653
ia some iw dyes setae alae sai nee creole eee 23744 | Slocum, Hon.J. C. (Interior Daparhnenty 23802
Massachusetts Society for the Promotion Sinillie ames Dees a eee eee PeeRee 23761, 23737
Oli AG MOU ey sabdonacnopAeeeadeacsaee Paristeh || TSUMRIN, IOye IATA WES poe easeoaesesec ance 23953
IMGUETIBID S- Be ye secs Siseisctocle see a '=6 23668, 24004, 24221 | Smith, Capt. 0. M., U.S. Army-...-..-... 23947
Merrill Georoe Wtes.- veces ce meee ei 23582 | Smithsonian Institution ........-..-. 24105, 24293
MilleriCharlessatiesce-asuce: oe-eeeeeacee PAPA We Jounin, BN bs}, 1s WC one ASS Sonancseasabonass 24035
Museo de Productos Argentinos, Buenos Staton, Wd) cst. <b). secs ee een 23826
AG MOS =: rye ee eye =I Roe fc sheer eee 24382 | State. Department of. -.--- 24104, “24197, 24201, 24487
Neumann, Dr lits:---s22-.-ss-2-=- 2679242560 |e Stout irate seca seer ee ae eee 23607
New York Central and Hudson River Rail- StrauswHonOuSa. 22 .cse eee eens 23499
road Company, New York City --...--- 242195) 2 Stroud teMirs: Maryel <2. sees = ee sees 23598
New York Engraving and Printing Com- SUIZDEEDer. DTD ees: Soe eee eee 23635
DALY NG Wonks CGY memes «eer ein 240918) | Sulzbencer eMiaye tes sees. = see eee 23660
INGtesPeterecsct.* senate ~ Sasa. cart tec eee 24366 He Sulzbercer, MirsiSaeseecse ee eeeeereee eee 23610
Nichols; CaptsWrik=-- = ices. -- += 2.22 = 23348 | The Eastman Company, Rochester, N.Y. 23507
NOAM MUO lee mes aces he ee eee 23666 | The Hinds Ketcham Company, Brooklyn,
NO dno lmMN Rinse Fa. a A Sees aeons 23546 INR sahs cece oe ees seco e seer oan 24315
Northern Pacitic Railroad Company, St. The Photographers’ Association of Amer
Paul sMiimmr ee sie eee en ere Saeeee eee 23586 ICA" s Fe is) se hake eee esate ce eee mere 23817
OSbDOLMENIROW ee <itoodscetne- = 23738. 4 0adeetS Oli NOR AGt De mer ncaa renee ee eer eee 23398, 23572
Palace Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio -......---- 23882 sod dl: SamMes: acecaserc sore ee eee eee 23380
Pahmerwewalliamee aon. ecco oe eee 23961603 “Rokuno eee epoca see eee 23893
Parke, Davis, & Co-.-...-.. Snes see mee 23957, 24040 | Treasury Department, Bureau of Engravy-
Peck Chea saeecs s-ack ee Soe eae t ee ehis 23762 hae PROMS BWV ooops obSqace ses secs 23618
BGC Wet sites cess ee eer ee en aio 23643.5|\-roye, Mins shidward!soesco-e> eee ease ee 23905
PNM ps; Wikallett 22224. 220. o2s-55 REG 239148 Ui pham yb Pv. peetee = seek ees ere ees 23405
Photo-Gravure Company ......-.--..---- 23810) | eviail wir st Atman (alee cele ccrseis eee eee 23562
Boesehnemvactonieas: se so son ack cneee eee BIN) |) WENIDISNG ING 5 cc es caso osscoomnosScooetse 23568
Porter phred ssWre once > 6s Fae oles eee eee Dab Wallace: Shippen sss -seac eee seeee eee 24138
Powersiécweightman 5.2 522s. <== ABBE) |) WEILER BUA” ogo see ssosesoseescensee 24337
Purcell Ndi = seis saicee ose wise Saeco DBE) || \WNGURUGISS (Cie soe conscocosnnoonosneSscssces- 24227
Randolph-Macon College ......----.----- Pade Vis ine bOnn Cole PAS peas eee eee 23815
Rheess Walliams s-.ce-22chss ss cneceeee 240 0ies| w WiaAtKINS inch. sea sens a o eee eee eae 23776, 24450
RIC OweEOM savy elli eimai Catena teeters ee ee ree 93869) ie Wheildom), WiilWeas sect. ae ee oe eee eee 23483
RocKenstyne me Es see eeecrisce ene DAS teed DOSE WN] COR peACS Coren ars sete iaretat Soa eons 23534, 23604
20 CkibI Ss WisdWil sees ce te a eee eae e ee ees 23498) Walds Gada. Qcubrouhers) = =seeeee eae 24259
Rogers) Col. George doa eee eee eee 23650) |e Wunderlich wi é (Cojessse2- see ee eee 23669
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Eng-
Nanda soe cere ec ates across cme me . 23558, 23807
DEPARTMENT IT.
(A) ETHNOLOGY.
BAND OU, pL Tem Viet Wane = atater tetatata aie 23656, 24008, 2433 | Berdan, Col. C.H............-.----+------ 24188
PAlllen'\GeOrgerAts. sfescacc 5 <>. ee sree 2491603,24199) || Blake, WadyWdithes. = <2. ssesseeeece== - 23501
EAD PLetOn, w NADH AM ber ey te 2c aioe teats 24212 Wlomm by elemmy shemale ste einer eet 23873
Bache wRene is wi ss oo-t Sa-ce ace oe eee Bag Te boas: Or vNranZe-s-ceesaeesee eee eerie se 23490
Balfour went cases seer e 23783, 24290, 24331 | Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix, U.S. Navy -23392, 24120, 24121
Bartlemanwh. Mics. san classe 5 Sao oe 249160)" Bolton’ DroHei© 22: ese ac eee aa 23813
IBENEdict, J hiesaes ess eO an ee cee a OeeEr 24288 | Bonaparte, Prince Roland ..........-.-.-. 24177
INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS,

899

DEPARTMENT II—Continued.

(A) ErTHNOLOGY—Continued.

Accession Accession
number. number.
Bourke, Capt. John G., U.S. Army-.24113, 24142, | Lewis, Frank D...................-...-.. 24204
24169, 24443, 24483 | Lovett. Edward........._. 23416, 23784, 23950, 24313
BOC ey ELON Sa Edisto io ape cence leeratetet eee nereisetate ZT Se ea co owans rail) sea-2 2 pee ee ee eee 93456
isin, Mike Dey iS socoeeease scl ados 24064 Martin, Mrs. Margaret (Princess Viroqua) 24145
British Museum, London, England. .....- ZICO 2m meMrasOn. Hn Wena te aaa aaa ee 23861
BTIStOl wrote Cherlesmure se ecasn screenees 2o044 7 Mia tGhews,DrW Lasse ccnse- a2. cod sees 23625
BUM an. KO MATION == oe) mice cisvaceie es one cee 23612 | Maynard, Mrs. Nellic Long............... 24528
Bureawof, Hthnology---.---.-------+---- ZAI a eiMernianr yrs Calklant- 2-2 asses 23828
Carter Niss ovarian aan sees] eee eee DODO eNcohawike Grown O sss sas eee 23503
Cincinnati Museum Association, Cincin- IMOMUSOMET yeaa = ae ee eee 23458
Wa biee VNLO see terse coe os emiaeenes a eee 24469) Ne Mooney, James: <2. 2 c+. eee ee eee 23764
Chatelain, Héli--.....-... 23435, 24070, 24190, 24258 | Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass.-_-_--- 23719
ChomchilieWwalliamesccaces eee soe eee 2560) | NeuUnTanm ED ris == 252 See eee 24256
Culinystewarhs s---, o8- scree sccoens 24313, 24402 | Newman, Bishop Jolin P. ..............-- 23785
Guniine Capt Krank .-.<o.<c..c0s2-ssa8s Dabse cll eNorbonse Drs (CssAues ae 7c nena 23641, 23798
(Ghitintch Ayal neaoeaee Peteees Ae ee eee PLGA. || ANG g JMR eo bacinososeonecehenatass 23793
TORIIE ANTUNES Te 8 Cee ee esearch irene tee os 2440 OSDOCNG I aVi-com. eee ee en ee 23775
Daniel, Dr. Z. T.....23489, 23675, 24013, 24167. 24244, | Oxford Museum, Oxford, England........ 24291
24256 | CLOTS aul evar (0 Lite ee 23986, 24087
Dickerson Max Mess sac pe mecca ce oe 237211 i urcelleNe Jnseeen st aeace eee eee 23558
ModtsrenCole Wis Cease rer asice crete. aerate PET) DEUTER ily INNO on ae eanec ene nogadi ss ao 23645
Dowlines Mhomaswytscestasee css ss sees 23809),24134) Redwoods BaD gee. see ee OSE TIME aKING
Hames NLOseSa secs eae ce a eret oe seeo se 23969) | Rockhill; WieW-------. --- 23359, 23372, 23592, 24520
ne elveliewa Seeeae age ere ahs cetera 24128, 24232 | Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England... 23558
seen Institute, Salem, Mass............. 23981 IOMSEGE SAR S Vg Ci aoeonscoldedcaeeqossc -- 23735
Hletcher, Lieut. Robert, H., U.S Army 723829% | Savage; Mom) 220.222.2222 sees eee nee 23640
243680) Seely © Ol heAcmennet aan ee eee eee 23709, 24078
Hosten eh) men eck ss oo eases cee 236020 sherman Acta ace: See EE aaa: == eee 23405
Friedenwald, Dr. H.-.-..- REteSr see asc eens ORM ao wai G Deve ANG MAING) Gos cases se oer cescosacos 23977
TEDW O eo eee NS i 23670 | Shufeldt, Capt. Mason'N., U.S. Navy .23460, 24344
Goode, Dir Ge Browaleastr nase cea ee 28552) |p obuteldits Drive Wiew Ola Sap ACcIn yess 24339
Gordon-Cumming, Alastair P.........-.. cep || Tsieautilty ID Nes hia WN Cenc aocoe ae ose abe s: 23522
Granierebimilose s75 2565 eecnce tahoe PBO4d 94505) || candinewArdi=- oa 2e- se eae See ee 23370
(Grider mrnitistAw =. © ase ec se eae eee 24045 | State, Department of..---.....-...-.....- 24201
ratiwel lee Mins heiMic seen eae eee ee ae 24899) |Psweene ya nV Vesna See eee ae ae 23525
Hawks. Gen: Benjamin BH -....22-..--..-- 93530 | Syracuse Plow Company.--------..------ 24060
Temvenranals: ae, Ohl Gesssecosctenescaec 23990 | Tappan, Capt.S.F --.---..-..-........... 23839
INTE COG Kew OMY 2 aye, ale aie c= vee eee 23462 | The Bishop Taylor Mission, Angola,
Hiormranee Drm Wradi-on. ne ce etter eee 23794 ASITICA. “ae et ce essere seen ae ee ee eee 23667
Hornaday, William T...................- 24129 | Thomson, W.J., paymaster, U.S. Navy.. 23098
ROUGH altOT eer: sos es se las eae PSSA GT INVALCs Mas seAn ma Male cae eee 24381, 24511
Mr lam eeaiO LUE s= sts .c See haem eee ee ATS Gi Vy e200 Ler HL) Oe e eiseyar se eee ee pe 23657
Japanese Trading Company, New York White Profele Cle. S252 se 5 asta nee 23745
(Citi soso coy eG SEER Eee eee eas - 24525 | Wilcox, Maj. John H.,U.S. Army ...-.. 23560
pVotuy elise acne Secon eee aa ae 23753, 23754 | Walliams, Mrs. Talcott .........--...---2- 24501
Kerby eons J Orcs dtac 3s eee ovina | \Wablbirgss de bats: SB aes escene cease anscecsc 24106
ImamorneDreks He sere jo eee eee 23995, 24144 || Wooltz, (George ...------.-....2.-.---2- 23481, 24426
han pley; Prof SiP 2.2 scenes eee eee 24281
(B) ABORIGINAL AMERICAN POTTERY.
AlllenniGeorgekAte ts sa ari.c. eee eae ee 2a OMG heseling MiSs EVs ma sot ee 23621
Bartlemany hi. Mist oss Sencar oe 24D Gul mINTic Mal lari oD) oT asa Se ere 24582
Bureaw of Hthnoloty-. 2. «ass ose 24012 |
DEPARTMENT III.
PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY.
JAG ENIAC R NG) 6 Lea ee sic cta eae eb 239208 ebartleman, ReMi ass> ==> eee eee 23868
PAGAN SHV Was S7Ss whe o> Slate eas ae ree AADC a baxter. Mirs-wivkia 45. scarce esses cacao 24195
Balen gisele acc were mic mcint e Seereee eee OMAR 23786" || Bevill Dr: Chevis..--2-.----2--<se-<- 23608, 24494
BAT DEP As. Wo vse eavividdls de oeeese em eee 24356 nl Braady, Mallat vat cn sae~ ase een, sete te eae 23824
830

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT TI1—Continned.

PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOG Y—Continued.

Accession Accession
number. number.
British Museum, London, England... - 23349) |) Wuovett, cb dward 25 ese cee eee 23416
Bryan O: Nise. eleeie st pec hae eeeeoeee 23379 | Matthews, Dr. Washington, U.S. Army .. 24191
Bureau of Ethnology ----/2.2:---.2..--- ZAOT2 We Malls; RobertvAC eee. saecos- ee eee 23468
Telit rath 2 We WE Sere ian ore ee Pee Ss aa 24514 | Moorehead, Warren K ........----------- 23543
IBUOINSS Wi hiscecee: Seer cos siecle cere ae 23886, 24032 | National Museum, U.S-_......-......-.--- 23445
Cresson Drs Hal borne see eee 23766) 243185!) INISSleynd ite. - eee ee ee ee eee eee 24255
@omvmerseclyC Sessa eee nae see oe 240545 Nyer Willard jreecosec tee en eee eee nee 23869
Cope Prot Desc bekes et ecte aes sisccc 24308)! Perkins) PredericlaS:--. ene neeee eee 23617
Dame POT eee aes eas 23444 124440) 244960) Pillars) James; =. 2... -seeee see neeeeeeer 24103
ID rade), IB Wiha 1B Sap ashe Bet ceceseosece 242020) ali hy rea WWallht ane ieee ee 24349
DowiincUNHOMAss| is shee eee cae eee oe 23989: |Roesslers AcuRe ...0<sctie ee 23414
OG DOU INS ee Sack sea esoeocenareeses 21467) SROGaM,, Jal OS Wiss seine ee eee 23696
HMahbyions \G.eWio-< acess ss aisieissis see ciaiags 23831 Russell Pro ft a Os oe eae ee ne eee 23735
lower Hon hos welll Bee esi 22 ace sa oe 23547 | Rust, Halbert...-.-. woes ase eae eee 24322
IGUL GIy Lupe ese oa ere oes Be ee Oe 24690.|) Saint. GcAsee scasse eee eee eee eee 24414
HOWKen GeharGs s-.-sateace a eeceromee ae 23599c||.9ccor Davidsbell s22ereee oe aeeeeekeeeeeee 23757
TAB OU AGCOLMO Beis. aes aerere ree creas Sa arse PRAT WP asiriniey see Ph) eo Seoeseceoaetashon.-22- 23926
IPI Sh) Wider de so eeonceeupbe donasonedneoe PREGAME teeny eye Os aid Joy Me arene Resa eS Sccis oe nk 23431
TOS ela acetone oc eile teen mace neceiee 23441.|' ‘Stanton: (lo W a= lc.-..c1 Sate see eee 24200
GEV Os AW al srasereist o's Snes coe sestepeiacie ge he ee 23670) || helner, ORs. > aes scinicieis/s oe See eee eee 24147
Godwin rib 22 oo. os see eee ce ae ee 24997 Stubbs: Dr CharlesiMe-se> --e- eee e eee 23752
(Greenwood) GiGi) seuss. ere 23497 | shickmory i Ae nen cece st eee eee 24273
Haynes, Prof. HOW) 22 i). cet sccensiee esc. 23863 | Treasury Department; U.S. Coast and
enna we NOMas so-so eee eee 23438, 23661 | Geodetic Survey -...-...-.....----.---- 23255
Je hymns Ja es eit (ele ee ce seecer coaSs oboe 24099 | University of New Brunswick....--....- 23712
Ionerarany Bah il WU Seat Seoeoase nen see 24026 ale Var eyo. PU sence eects sence eee eee eee 23925
dO ksi 10, Je sachs osenecelaenbo sce aaeeone 24077. |) WiateONi2 25. bate ce osose mises oo eee 23396
TOU s,s OE Sees ace ne Semen Ss oan are PIBY |) AWE ead piste ace oaaee aon Sacopodoccssogs+cc 23751
Katzenberger, G. A.. and Brother .--...-.. 23384 | Webb, Judge John G...-...------.--- 23727, 24115
RCA Cyl aN ars erie siepeevers oi aiotos ie rtac is cies 249050 | Wallcoxiosep hea hae ire eee eee eee 24357
COCHIN ei ile cise ae eae sem a ek ee 23697. ||. Willis: Rhomas'd)..-222. 2-22 4-4 23440
Memmonelehed. |G. = aosc see ese eae ee ee = + 24305) ||) Walson: (Thomas). o-5- 5-5-5 -ee eee 23823
DEPARTMENT IV.
~ MAMMALS.
INO OO Dies Wie dp oooncseonoecor Soa0 ee 2365624008) Marron, AenOMas == .5 os == eee eee eee 23536
IX@laiin Gy Obl ecnsesearcdd: Seoneeoes eck 23432523890) | Mayer, J°--4.2-2on-- eee ene Soe eee 23459
Alleghany Collegiate Institute, Alder- | Merriam Clinton igs: =. ee=—es eee 23827
aQil, Wo Wlnsenaatece Se eee 24030 | Merrill, Dr.J.C., U.S. Army--.---.------ 23729
American Museum of Natural History, | National Museum, U.S ...-...-28445, 23931, 23976,
Wie Wail e Orin, Sodeaceos oe poGe 23418, 23987, 24306 24046, 24208, 24365, 24480
Bel GUT Owls pee ias tes seo arsine ae. aie Zadse ie Orcutt: Cons. eee ee 23575, 23724, 24014, 24021
BOK ery Wise: se ceeis ae adn some eats 24312 | Palace Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio-.-........-.- 23882
Istana, ISG elt On Seeonplerse nee aad ee 240K Palm ene Wan eee eee ee emer 23646, 28851, 24369
BullsMastenbcesass sek as ee seme 23574 | Palmers eee ae oe ese nee ae 24384
ChatelainsHeliccse aac ose gee 23435, 25162 | Peirce, DrcA® Cee ak).ss sees eee ee 24286
ColletteDrsRoberteseseeeeree ee -oeeeee 242360) Richmond GW Wie = esses eee joSnoosos- 23517
Coulson, Capt. W. C., U. 5. Revenue Ma- Ridgway, Audubon W).-------2-.--2--e== 23420
rine Service, Treasury Department .-.. 23850 | Rock, Prof. Miles............-.----.---24811, 24371
dwards envy 222s. ~ 226 =-aeteeeeaas 23891 | Shinn) Dr Vise soos soca tee eee 23833
Hlliott Eleunyawiee- sss se ee eee 23646, 23851 | Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army 23542, 23556, 23852
ING Gh No 8 eaSsoceeeacc Sedsnswcosuosees 2etG%s 20010) | Sikora, Wtanzg.o2--ee= == ooo eee eee 23993
Gardtiersd) -s-os ~~ «2h cee ene DS516 ai eSmith: Drv Wies se eee eee 24284
(Gray OO USP ON Cela erate a eee tee 2498) || Stanard, Dr... (Bi. /<: 2.2. 24079
(CIGNA REN IRN eee SeeeeOpcosaoess nko 23967)|\3 Sterling rH) oon s-mes eee eee eee 23450
art Wie el ae CO o- cca eee ee ees 24209.) Dodd Aurelinss<--:4--seesstoosesee eee 23480
Hopkins y@yilu 22 ees eee aero DATS) Pail, Wisiks cotiss seashore ee once 23758
Knudsen; AMeuUstismhn en —ceeee eee 24194 | Treasury Department; W. C. Coulson, U.
Lee, Bvt, Lieut, Col, J,G.C., U.S. Army... 24029 S. Revenue Marine Service.....-.--..-- 23850
PU CASH lire csisiateysinwie naiewiere ete Cecelia OTOL UTD GO) CAtisccieis oc etce se eels wee coi terete 23551
WMACtATA MO en cewisivinsiviaieloleeeoreiecit rive 23685 | University of Pennsylvania.............. 23880
INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS.

851

DEPARTMENT LV—Continued.

MAMMALS—Continued.

Accession | Accession
number. | number.
Ward's Natural Society Establishment, ) MSHT RIC Giindictshy Wish AUsihy QoS ce - ence 24510
Rochester, New York .-....... 23 M14 23820) 23921 | Wittkugel, Erich..-..-.........2..-2ss55- 24294
NViarnie@kes CW cc ate sy ee ae siaraieicisisic.cuacetze oie 24285 | Worthen, C, K....-- 23741, 24068, 24069, 24092, 24265
DEPARTMENT Y,
(A) Brrps.
FAI DO bi DT Wie lancet qe eee nee era000. -4008.- Merrill! Dr. J: C., UsS. ATM *, Sono ereer 23729
PATA AINE! OnE occicre,cccsae aco sass eee 2d0220 eMerrill ye ivirs. Nie 2-2. .c/16 nes cee ee 23836
Agriculture, Department of......-....--- 23895" eilermudt. W.-Allisom ....:.2.-+.cseeonenee oe 23529
PAPI SUPOUM OSI IB ats cpa nis yo sag sevens es nies 244327 Montgomery, Hale’. - 22m: ales oe Ja ee 24157
Banticuisbdiwardes 4282.04 one seeea see POSS Te VLU COCKS Wisk ess. c sence eso ee ee 23878
SAVE Kailas... see me en eee 24440 Museo Nacionale de San José, Costa
BEG Kees E ee sano e oe eee eee 24471 PEUIG See rseseans so fee 5 Se we Sec ee 24376, 24155
Benedict dames Ty j2cceeer esses sete 23961, 23991 | National Museum, U.S... .23445, 23872, 23976, 24085
BELLY OWENS! = Jo 5 se iset celepaersctee a 23883 | 24365
Billimes; MaGr, W. SNaw yess ese ose. sce 23341 | National Zoological Park.............. 24295, 24451
Brewstermwalliam\.Jsss2- aces aco laagesl lO) | NGISORS ES Worl. ccc.) scscleecies Ge doe oes coe eee das
IBTOWO FLOLDOLL2 sescnocce ee See caine Boo hUNee+ sme alm Oral ames sec. 2 cae cole esa eee 23646
Oferries Geoucetke = a> ee eee 2454 Posey aMiss Kate: setae. 2 ssc nee 24512
@lanke: Widacle. .25s.- ss pentane we mas ae BOOTIE MRO GEL OIRON. ise kee ceo eas.Seisis a dame eee 23910
Coin One Bene Mela 5 ee en cee ee ae 2S S40)e pike el) 1rspAs Gaon oe ames cele eee oso o eda gS
Cox Am bhinmeM ere secre anoint kee 24080) |SRalph Dr Walliamels-s-. i... =: BE soeetrc 24341
a0 (tes RICHMONd CaNVier- me. Sociales ce 23382, 23517, 24386
23808 | Ridgway, R..........-...- 23369, 23875, 24027, 24156
SOUT DENS at Sea gh USS a ee I sy 24153
23046 J salu harleges pean seeceoae eck eee ees 23410
: 244g CHENG K dls 3 se oeee Mena eRe apes seeee 23896
ADEE CANS Sn aaa eee CoC et a 23885 = Schmid, Edward S. . 23362, 23366, 23501, 23576, 23792,
GalewD enigmreer aoe tae cere eee ace = 23909 23816, 24118, 24022, 24239, 24393
Greeny Hh Girerre toon saci cena. a eoos 2 Za || SCO Viole IDSs dese Sop cecosassncse sasase 23642
Goriffin. MasspMi oh o-.ane nomen onc: a aces <8 VoL Ne shiteldt. o ene yaw se aciseeasee: a2 eee 23868, 24348
lay seein, AN CTD yi Sl Ba oe ese oeeenae 23368 | Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army ..-...----- 24111
VES OU MELOMG Yana ete wens eee ars = 2/)<s 245274) Shuteldtcik.eWts jl. 7---<s-eeeeee ne eeeee 23884
Reiss Atop pre samt le Seton eaa eat atss ZO1O0 || OlMON ds SCEPC Nee sae ee eee 23780
TOR SEGD NAMM se Sale cias cote sels atociee sinctes = PRBUPIE) herd ey ee bse SReeaBoeeaoae 283520, 23559, 23566
Hoplsinss Samiwel His eee eee eer 24189) (Smithy Dre lloyd Bic. 222 sass 24497
EM elinsonyeArbhiir Cc «2.5 22>) scene 23847 | sibel Wall bey itin Gree pee acer as 23935, 24041, 24042
JIOCCRG 108 VOLE Ss ae ran orrsAer eG acne Dados a eS Palkea ck TaD ky WV" ojos o\c.c es oh sicineeten meee 24462
TGA Gi Gis BOAR Eee Ree ame erie sca DEO IBD ASD ED ye Se Ole cic <a \ci<<sis2.-e vlete oes eneeisee =e se 23528
PRON NSELON 2 Dla Oe ao: aim. aye eus ie = eee PALO miata Oreelanrol ds bas oss scesee eee 23984, 24053
WAN ERUUSLORNCLS == 5..+ 2221s oo Scena 24385 | Stahlers dames 2. ceces ones 23876, 23881, 24240
attire Chomas J -.c2...-.22s-2: ae oe. 3791 fe stejneger, Dr. L, . ces ....-.-:cceee-ceeee 23506
ILS), LOS eee Re oRE ee eBe rome emerson Danelle || MUNOMAS WE Tede Wai toc see eins see nea eee 24415
Macfarlane, R......: Sa Meee See EOSOnl | Moca ge Wie Mise seo sacs haces sci ws oe See 23758
MMA COTUOSEDD sols soy wane -eeiseeese ane ooo nee DES bese) | AWE lke died ids eae ean Ree e eee 23806
Mars all |GeoroGssncos oo. sae Sea eee oe 23367 | Winton, George B ............-.23860, 38992, 24130
Mearns, Dr. Edgar A., U.S. Army-..,.-- Bao a Wablkumel, sbrichh =... 27st. inc seae eee 24394
Merriam slr Cub artes. tc2 acc aaa 24126 | ZAMMETMAW Os Bice ccsecc cen ceseeeenee 24293
(B) Brrps’ Eacs.
Alb botur Draw wlstnsacse1- es cise no merece 24008 | Cooke, Dr. Clinton T.-.-.... ought a -egeteree ose 24184
PAMOLY sR. Wallan Go oan e4e0ToAdso.et465) |) Cox, Mrs) ©2C. 2 cpssescniniecw ane ctenaeeeee 23728
1 SYST AVST DS 4 Deere ee tetaen aoe, i, ee aed ABOU SM SHEMLWATGS: EL. Wismicie yiciccceys pase cee sete 24350
BO WNeMOLVELUss- - -- ease wares a= 25 pl4. 24071, Elliott, Henry: Wiese yc-- 3: Be OOS cee. 23646
IRATTAIS MEE sae os oe io Wa saae eR als ete sele Zao MGrale: DCS =ra2 a Seas 2s nce Ra ee Jan esos
Carpenter, Capt, W.L., U.S. Army... .24389, 24424, | Hardy, Manly -.....-....-ssceue- cer rrser- 23424
24476, 24499 | Jacksonshomas sccaseee eee eee 23557, 23579
COU LEM L OLIMe Aeene etme ie sae eniscem ast) a O400 a | ee CllOTy CLV Gare fis sd adele s Scien ee ste ees 24390
ELMO ME COlLOO MW aauieiehwasienpireaetecsne 4007s 1) IZOMON; Uadd scree sine vesivecemeciene cnerienvivi sseteug.
832

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT V—Continued.

(B) Brrps’ Ecgs—Continued.

Accession | Accession
number. number,
Lyon, Marcus W., jr--------------------- 23433 | Ralph; Dr: William. --- 2-2. 24166, 24323, 24516
McHarlanerh tee conn serene cae ee 93685 -|o RamboeMeehlmertctsssec sees sone eee 24436
Menge,J.F ....-.--------------------+--- 24496 | Scott; Ws HD) S22. cSt ssies eee eee 23578
Merriam, Dr:@sHart.---- 2-28 -o-=— 23378, 23954 | Smith, Dr. Hugh Mor. 225- 25a eee 24072
Merrill Dr di@.U -io:eAcrinny ses ater Po4G3e Smith. William! Gite s2ee es eee eee 24050
Palmers wallismuss-cs- +. s6- Se eee 23646) |) Surber Ehaddeus)--2-2---==-5--eeeeeeee 24308
eno CK CeO soc aee eee 23523: | TayloreA. R . -.. 222-2222 2225 5.22 2eeoee 24078
Teiyany GO Ra) 1D) cae cout ose sceescencasusor OBR lp Mee 8b 18 Boose otaessoocansscuss = 206 =e 24198
TeIRGXK We Dito [ol Dos eee ee coeeoe 24506:.|| Gora Wis Wes- sae- san ot elcas ae eres 23758
Tera Dyes Ne Chad oa akoce choesenebseo See '94433"94498'4!-— Wiebbs WialtOnel, cles e setae cee arte 24263
Ragsdale, G, H ..-...---------------+--+-- 23434
DEPARTMENT VI.
REPTILES.
JNU Aa De \ We Oe aera eR 23656, 24008 | Macomber, James-...-----..............- 24262
Agriculture, Department OES Seon cc 23548, 23704, | Merriam) Dri. Hart: --.-.-o-saceee eee 24388
FI TBUNOADIA | IMG tCali@a Ml. oss. sone=.- cera eee eee 24519
PMilanweone egAc on tee sense ee 24160 Moser hieut od): ES WsSs Navyeeeee- eee 23352
Barber, A. IV tek Serene Ps it ee PELE ES 24356 National Museum, U.S. .23976, 24178, 24246, 24270,
Barawecbrof WuBs: 2 222sch tote 23648, 24214 | 24345, 24365, 24396, 24472
Bartlemanvinniv coos: 2 sees see se ee 94216 | Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio .-.--.-..-. 23632
Bancheld eri @s Hess =-= ose ao cea 24057 |. Oncwtit, C. Rip as seek oe 23575, 23724, 24014, 24021
Ibe hit Bate eee sedoet 3 damorce Bemereme ee 93586) “|e Orcellg uN d= ec. sets ee 23599
Brimley, sve, MACaSieses Beene 23943) 2424770) vandal: C0) ee eee ee eee 23472
Browit Aber eee aise oes soe tenn 23705 | Reed, Capt. Allen V., U.S. Navv.......- 23355
Brown: erbentssteso ss eee 24192, 24346, 24412 Vichmond.(Charles--c.-- > soase eee 23343
Carpenter, Capt. Weslae nie Ss -Armihiviss.- = 23723 RIA CLMONG OAM Wier. he coer ee ee eee 24460
Gacrollea Villian Oeseesss ss eee ee one 24061 Rid Gweini, CAML Oster resis = eens eee 24241
@hatelainepeeliesestea ss sae s-e= ac = 23400 Rid@way.choberb --.- sees see wees 24374
Mawson Vallianlassss: sacs Sse aoe, 24362 | Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army ......23540, 24111
Derbrow, George Ww EA Ra on «te 24321 Smitli; Horace Gspitenese-o-ot ee eae 23962
Milwardsvbiennyeseey soos ae eae 23891) | Smithy Drs Eide hiVieepec =. seer 24397, 24413
Fish Commission, U.S... -.23493, 23787, 23900, 24047 | Stearns, Prof. W. A-......-.2....-.22.-. 23662
PaMin, Wied) sp oasaconsqgesesconsassssasa® D3AgGy Steiner ers iln.. saeceen sae.) ee ee 24488
lenshammadbn wicca se eset c foe asact seers 93743" |" Stinchcomb.wAWwA, sae | nese eee ee eee 24283
Kies Me = kee ae eee sees Seeob onc eo co 23541 | Test, Frederick © 2..22.,.2... 2) 24945, 24515
Hopkins, C. L...-.--2-------+------------ 24175) Durner, Mi See 2 es eee ee 93386
HMomtere ulus) o—= seas 200, 2ovli.eoroos244ole || oWiesbexre ally Groie) eee et ee eee 24354
Jouy, IPA SS8s oo SO SoA anes cee conse 23877 Worthen Cike i! se ae ee eee 94410
NO WEL OM tHe Eh sn ctece ap eer cer Eee eace 24395 | Wotherspoon, Lieut. W.W., U.S, Army. 24482
Kolm Gustave seo eae ee 28960, 24028, 24090
DEPARTMENT VII.
FISHES.
Agiken's Wiallhensect ose els tae Se ar 23725 ) Forest and Stream Publishing Company,
Mim yah omas Visa see ae epee eee 24481 || *iNews Mork City sa-cr- eeee eee eee 93495
Sep tpl Bees he Seabee aeAcer BEE Soudan 23573, 23596 | Hale, Dr. 1 OP i ee Se 24089
Blackford, Hon. BE. G..--.-.---- 23423, 23496, 24230 | Hodges Colnh Bi a5-- --- eee eee 23672
Calverley <awalliiaims= 4 qc =o eeeeeterts 236738. | kenkins-serot. (OM PEeacea eee 23988
Carpenter, Capt. William L.,U.S. Army. 23723 | Macgowan, Dr. D. J .-. Rem Ro 23456
Comstock eh ely ore eecs as eater eet 2447, | Maxson, ©. @......-.5--- 06522-2222 ae oo 23510
CoxePhilip as: soa scoce eens = Stee eieenee 23708. | Moser, Lieut. J. F., U.S. Nawy: .---.----- 23352
Wanic.tG COLSON Eee ec see ae eee 23452 | Museum of Natural History, Paris,
Bvienmannsserolewlss Wee 227s eer 23988 EYrané:. i.) ae eRe ee eee ee eee 23245
Nott weeny Wisees seater. see e eee eee 236460), National Museum Wi sscepeee sess aaee 23445
Fish Commission, U. S.-....--- 2349393787 Jonhl a @reiibtes Ohavles thence smear niece 23724, 24014
23900, 24037, 24038, 24059, 24047, 2048, 24049, 24098 | Palmer, William.........-....-..:....... 23646
Tuya Mia ta U5 Tel soo adnebcodgnbssesodonuoos 23935 | Phinney, Plihu ..-..-------..--... Patna 23971

INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS.

DEPARTMENT VII—Continued.

FisHES—Continued,

sM 91, pt 2——53

833

Accession Accession

number. number.
RacaAnOSOpN: «sess a=. coer eee ae ceee ee 7a) ical Wd 8 yt) ho: Soe ee ee Re RISE Spc nicicic 23551
Tiaivoliis led Dei. al Oe ea ae ae ea 2890 Ze |) REALL Wise Bl, «ature alerts eee croetee eee eee 23758
Shufeldt, R. W., jr., and Percy W..-..--- 2451 Boies Wil S ONG UME i. tere SOocdsacoQoUsS: 23371
SUGIRITEba\) eee: GORE ESS Bt p Oho ene Ee oe 23662

DEPARTMENT VIII.

VERTEBRATE FOSSILS.
Agriculture, Departmeut of........------ 23344 |e UlkenMitus 35 55250 50sosaccc sete aes 23545

DEPARTMENT IX.

MOLLUSKS.

ANTS LO Lite EN eV fof Lea tata o/aleretotaie cr = ais Slate tein PATS oi) Meehan Ges Ni Gee om noncanceSadoooscadon os 23858
Agriculture, Department of....--.-.--- PSEA PATA HMSO ON Wace M stich ahalei tat tel ta a 24233
PNGTAG (eM OE 6 Le Oe eee ara Ree ee 23763 | Merriam, Dr. C. Hart-.-.. 23554, 23614, 23695, 24165
LSD he ep Sees Ee ERAS aS DEAD GAEDE TOAe 24416 | Moser, Lieut. J. F., U.S. Navy.---.------ 23352
PATO ld EON Ol OSeeta -eelsce ec ae aetier ars 24112 | National Museum, U.S..-----.------.---- 23445
Paker eM areUus cco stance sso ee os ccaeeesas see 23624 | Orcutt; Charles Re-2-- 2-2-2 s-- ses = 23724
Barber, A.W ...--- Eas sesnvee ste eos shee g 24356 Palmer) osephts-- sean ee eee 23511
Bartieman kh. Maes et = Sos se seecs cet 23900, 242160 Palmer ow illiame a2 oeeie <= eae eseee 23646
IEG Sii yd sia eee soo cna aoe BaCaeocaeme nee ata T3000 Pile bie EL aeArs Se aloans cetacean cress 23664
ISO IE Is USS ae cetisns aes Boneeeogeses 23419 N23039 FRO V, wETO lO. View eerie eee eeeee er 24347
PMN e yagi Geese see iee Sc skese ses 23843) RO GETS) “LhOMaSh- ce. sas ceases aac tees ee 24019
Bolles; tient. ‘To Dix, U.S: Navy--..---:- 23392 | Royal Zodlogical Museum, Copenhagen,
British Museum, London, England. ---.- 23665 Denmark. /.2205 <2. cea see cee es eee 24114
ES EON Me LUA WV essyar aie orel = atnje aia of aia= aime ctalete 24197 Shepard Miss Cc cAl nese oe eee 24151
SEIS sp CAN Rett er Se taleieiny=isitae sbice.= a 23354, 23912 | Shepard, Miss Ida M ..-......... 23387, 23663, 23997
Pl ereAmnW eee ene eh ae foes 24966n i. Shepards James: =-eaeeseece seen oeeeeeee 23747
Whatelameveleliness.a- 2s-c2 eo hase seeie 93400) po himeks Prot... face s-ce.qceiesioatels\sa 3 <1 23870
Condonmek rote esate eine asa see 23693) (smithy rs eeu by Me sess aecesewe en 23923 -
Dal eeWltam A oo sos eee 2391S 2SGSO I SPENCer WMG W sass esc aeee ce asic ae 23443
Delaney, James M.....-....-.- sepa gecces 23051) | SbCALNS eh Leder C Ker. were ae se meester 24417
Obi ELOnLYye Wisin = 2s eames se ee eae slate DEY CIM Since arisaa aide is, Aire 2. neneeeer Serer geacscs 23662
Fish Commission, U. S...... wosisaece 23487, 24038 | AMiQa sed oe Lee Aa meine sete are 23466
Iie, UGTA Gi 36 Ses ae SS sepsococococe 24076 | Vaughn, T. Wayland ..-.-.-.------------ 24445
IH Gone Hees jar are en = onc l= 23491, 24444 | Von Thering, Dr. H.-.-..--.....-.-....- 24102, 24139
Bupupne ME AWe EP. - 2. .2-...22- 2-2-0 o os Dpthe ‘lieWebster G., Wi 2226-5 -5-< coas ane 23980
(Gand RPE Sones ae ee nee] sapere 24093. 24446 | Wheeler, Charles Iu. -...--...--..-------- 24465
EE TOC Kes CNATIONE <> - 225 2c ~seinseicecste os CBE el Ayislavi (syed Ore, ( Oe) \eae conan soenaoaboS A sabo se 24458
Heathcote, WwW. Henry.....-.-.----.--..2. 2eGh sy |) \yiidlomies dig dl seseecocomaesesocenescsccseces 23864
Herap ill Henry 2... -- --- -- a 23690523777 |) Wallcox, Joseph s---22+-2- --sieesa ss see ee 24447.
MERAON RODE Ss <6 Sc. ens inasics coe ce 23731 | Williamson, Mrs. M. Burton - ..23485, 23681, 23844
Keep; Prof. Jiosiah-----.-.--:----7------- 23838 | Winkley, Rev. H. W ..-.-..--.-..-------- 23688

DEPARTMENT X.

INSECTS.

PATHE T TW Ly =. so calcew ce oe oes 23656, 24008 | Boehmer, George ....-...-.-..---------+- 23454
Ailien. George AQ. <5... ss.cls es ees epee ee ZETAO Teak lig Cen! & lay I (5 3: nee cee ee seenbosotoes 23982
Agricultural College, Lansing, Mich .... 23941 | Chatelain, Héli..........-.......-.-.-.--- 23400

Agriculture, Department of. - ..23916, 23934, 23942, | ‘Collins’ Gace 352 oe ese se eee eee 23854

23964, 23974, 24009, 24017, 24018, 24056, 24136, 24277 | Cook, O.F -.-....-....----.-..-----+:----- 23854
PAO Wi GLUE == cto snc nee See Poop alee all sWoaillaam Meh = eis = 2 Sees aiqaeeereee 23748, 27819
pacsterr © Bess... sense eee eat odlOe4Soo Mee Laney, dames Woo 2 a2 oon sce semce 23429
Baileys ee sW)'..-=-- Yes sBoslageeaaeeeea 2S ieee. Hredenc Mi. cn... 22o2ce ose sees 23725
IB SSRN Ub ABs os ce a\25'9.06 eos te oe DOLE US Ma CMOLOUZ.. Oisccinice hole, fas era's sis cit sreye/- le eee ee 23963
Bantleman eM p< ic'- 2. weeete enc = CY Ba DY Gyan EID iqeteted (ss gil seh SEA Ca Ia eSe once Cee iee cin 23555
BASSO bi aGrOORZOWW) 2 wee acme oe laiaiet-winioie PEE ra Dita (Olena Se: Sra oee an ecbes 24473
Babes CMW snes 6 Ses cess mosses ses ne 23492) | hdwards, Henrya<2 5: << 555/222 -pccaecse se 23891
evHl rey Cheyisi:.-5stecsstes acces 2es0s,28008) | ONIott  Henr ya Ween. --cecsccisncseseesces 23646
834

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT X—Continued.

InsEotTs—Continued.

Accession Accession
number. | number.
Byniery.,Hdward nec. acces > noe see eses 244057 | Orcutt, \Chanlesehies-e--s eee asee 23724, 24055, 24014
Hine elhardtyihsboccee esses se ace see 2344611 "Ore; Wei J soe foe eee ee eee 24502
GGG eh etce none eee care oe eer teeae 23606 | Osborne) erots Henberten. = pee 23347
(Gonder NWet Eee eee ee ee 24010 | Palm, Charles ........... Pots: = Ae 23853
Gorham Revco s=<ses sete eee soe 239000| se almerraWalliaimts sce eee ae eee 23646
lebih 10s] Me aases ae adorabae Seeman aa ses 24442 | Pond, Lieut. Charles F., U.S. Navy..--- 23687
HALLTOV EN Ole sane ae <a een eas sae 23377 | Reed, Capt. Allen V., U.S. Navy.-..---- 23355
JERI, IRON one ine onenbsesdacecsosee 23769 | RilevsProh.aCy Ve se eeee ee eee 24250, 24279, 24459
Hankins Wi). Bisscscscms se niscesns cess ne 23412; | Strong, WiMe 22 So See ee eee 24421
ied eman Olas cesses. eee eae ne erecta 2345923840, | msbeabnss rote Wi. Asece cease cee ce eme see 23662
Hough? Wialter --.05:~ =< -2-.22 coe c.8225- 23038)" Schiwanz, tHe a 2 22) s.ceece oe cae e Seen ee 23475
IbWalis (CiiayGhyn S\oossecstdoccasasegacesee 23519 | Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U.S. Army .-...24111, 24377
ING Oya Jeans do Oo anoccsceascssssesceceas 241.93) |) smith Be Kar Dye = eee = oe eee eee 23453
IRIN CALC FU see er a ae Dade lente Sees eae cies 24509 | Smith, Prof. J. B. -.23580, 23933, 23940, 24135, 24251
eoomis: evan 2o-5-aa52 notosee nee S47 ol hare. An Giwiniih= sees 4- =e aes 23637
TOGTOPYSH 1S legs] BY ene eon Se GAY Ui (elle tiene) Opa 0 Beep eee ba ceseenee sees oat 23386
MontandonwerotyAG tes esete sees eae 240074 dUllcesiElentyecenanee sen. Sees eee 23620
NTtLOnaleMMsSettmMy (Wij Sses see ae ee see ae A445 ol Win tO, Cs eens = ee = ree eee eee 23518
NOG Paul see sec ccs sewsss asceemseecscs.-s 24278>)| Walleye (CA: Soe sie oriosicinn Seemacetemeseeee 24174
DEPARTMENT XI.
MARINE INVERTEBRATES.
JAUGNR NH LD oN Siac cadsoonibososeskoae 23930| | Oreutt, Charles Rio: oem ean eee 23724, 24014
Beal esl Gait bis orem cia ek ene 23538 Preston, E. D. (U.S. Coast and Geodetic
‘Bolles; Lieut. TL. Dix, U.S. Army -----2- 23392 | Survey, Treasury Department). -....--- 23436
British Museum, London, England ...... 23665 Royal Museum of Natural History, Ber-
Ghatelaine H6li ee soe se tie sale oe ee se 23400 | lin Germany -:e5e) aS ese eee 24474
lpminigieiein, d/ioD odoagsbsecaebonussomeeeoe 24513 Royal Zodlogical Museum, Copenhagen,
OWI eRRO SY DeIGTAee eas poderece sseborere ce 23891 Denmark. ns Bb eoco ere ree ee 24.14
Fish Commission, U.S. .-----.-. 23487, 28904524036; 4] SISSON, ols Lae aoa ae keene ee 24161
24141, 24280, 24517 | Spencer, Miss Hlorence l.-2- 322-2 ees 23497
UGih yp lPSIb eS sbces aosccpecconssmecenreecee 24137 Stearns; Prof. Wy. A‘. 2220223 -n eee ae 23662
Merriam, Dr: C: Hart --=--:-------=----=- 24165 | Treasury Department (E. D. Preston, U.
Moser, Lieut. J. F., U.S. Navy---..-.-.- 23352 S. Coast and Geodetic Survey) ---.-..--- 23436
WahlonalsMinseumt Wie Societe sce sce as 204457 | SWiard) Prof Hc Av. cc 2sseces ee ee eee 23998
Newcombe, Dr. Charles F..-------------- 24419): Wihite; Dr: CsA... as ge ceseee en seeeneee 24458
WM AH on} yy Gooey HaSsasenseseneocoouseacac 23782 ;
DEPARTMENT XII.
COMPARATIVE ANATOMY.
PAibbottsibr: (Wielinacce occ one ce =e eee 74008 (| Palmer Josephi so... o<-- 5-1-2 eee eee 24173
Andris, Walliam) die.eres <ciee ee crenee cles 24181 |) Palmer, Wallianiss-- ---s4-6-- eee 23646
TEYer yl oot: Ubinas eee ate ose as oe ZBoOtS \|) WeavbOny Canes ete oe os eee ee eee eee 24031
Bray. erm anys. aio hac pe ete eee oe ee 24223 | Rhees, William: Jiassse- oe see eee eee 24025
Ghatelaine Helis sec ee oe see eee 23400) || Richmond’ CwWieesseseescce see see eee 24024
CliemmiemG coroe: Keweee er crt aee ere aa 24150) | Rockenstyme, Ca Hier nent- tele eeeeeeee 24317
ColbyaG en eli Viter scene eee eee 24002 \| URUD Ys Charles reo emer cece eee sas eee 23512
Cones POrAHiGtt+s ho ceck ooo eee 24140 | Schmid, Edward S§..--.-..-.-.-- 23504, 23686, 24005
Menisons DAtra eS Par ee ee 24373: | Secrest MED 2. bee ane eee ee 24275
JOTI, (Chl ISAR A SRE gaoreceec moat Scsice = 23482 | Sharp, Capt. T., U.S. Army -.----_..--.- 23521
Obi LENT WW Viomer meme nc cient 23046) || Shiuteldt, Percy Wie aesseserce =e =e ene 24348
Hersineer | CONN esc aoe cs ee pee see ee 25003) || Stabler waarold:B-sesssesaeen see o=-e eee 24006
Gerrard SB tse oss centre eee 23908)" Stevens,G.cAe Ba.c2s-peeee eee eee 24051
Kuerschner, Prof. Hugos = s5-2-= 22-2 —- 234014) Wrard- Prot ikl. Aes =o oe 2 oe, 2 a. 2 a 23856
Orcutt, Charles Ri. -..0525222.8.6502-20010, 20124 | Walleox, Jiosepli. css. s. Biaiagicnsaasieie state 24357
INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS. 835
DEPARTMENT XIII.

(A) INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (PALEOZOIC).

Accession Accession
number. number.
IRAN DOL WAGEW. ox scisiewe soe ec osee Sates cee oe 24356" lemon) selcsseee ks ccee cre ene eee ene 24233
LBTIATES Wied SSeatesagecosnnASusseeperncobe Pai hotel i} allel CabeVsi Gh (ial) eemeonoe a Sa pODAsmOOOceSmamCe Once 23683
MerDya Tot. OWA’ Sn = ce se ss- as ele see PANY T SWI Berita) oe] lel 8 Capes ete ee ei Sees Sok = 23388
Hingh sd. Milton ss... -cs0. cecesoacasecierice Petty |) Wighsechiie Ie KOSIs hae Sas Sent Sopccosas 23920
DTS YAGER Ee Ooi eso GB Eee pe Geeronoas aU, he OUbeK? OSCARS -5.- sac cee ence oe ae eee 23609
(Gyo delay Oiajina) 18 RRs Beene eoe een ooeos- 23342 | Rogan, James W.--.--....--..-.-...--.-- 23696
Geological Survey of Sweden, Stockholm. 24324 Ruddy, Thomas..-......-----..-...--.---- 24325
TUNG IG) earn dS ee oes eouee bes oReebosscoee 23700 | University of New Brunswick..-.......-.-. 23712
Interior Department; U. 8. Geological Ie Age KersS rf Wl Gao s Oy Ie See oa aie 23647
SOURTEN ae ete ne oem ee 23361, 24211 | Winton, George B........-..------- Ss of 23860
HANA ALS; PONT Wie onicc\o 2 seeiclos cre cele 23907

(B) INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (MESOZOIC).

IORTES CON eM Eats yoyo siaraloters siajciisters fein steee = 24995) | Merriam ar: C.sHant. sense emer eee 23554
Interior Department; U. 8. Geological | StenG Glog; Ses be = Sa 5b occneacdeacnopodedeaus 24274
SEU ON ince tetera ices i ohieeeed ene 23898

“UGG Au ting 3 leanne dparere SSSI CHE Eo: SEIS EIS DAEs eS oan 7 RO ER eR Has OA a oon bonne as 23408

DEPARTMENT XIV.

FossiL PLANTS.

ING XAT IDES Wo dl bes eeeseapEeBoSdaeasee= 24008 eMierriams Dr On Hates eee as aeee eer 23760
Ieiiinicpel O1ead ano Rep apeE bec COpeT Seoae 24043, 24294 | Miieller, Baron Ferd. von .-........-....-- 23867
Bab AS bes a2 SoBe IS eae OCC eons 23514 | Orton, Prof. Edward.........------------ 23983
Ghatelian wHelics a. on conceit eae = 23400 | Romeyn, Capt. Henry, U.S. Army -.---- 24110
Hamilton, John B., supervising surgeon- Royal Swedish Academy of Science, Stock-

general U.S. Marine Hospital Bureau, i) holm Swedenancteeo.4c..< nonce a ae oe 23730

iireasury Department:--2 2-2. ssen. POU Sees lth, 1b Se Sak gee cease sootigso=s 23759
late ert pap is acto says. o 2s ances 25 Se ea Zos00) (sherman, Virgo Ale seer ee 24044
EVGUIO DAV ALOIS secon oes /< saa ee 23740 | University of New Brunswick....-...--- 23712
PAIN WBS ReCULGbe 2 2 - oa 0 <u eee cent: 23945 )oViane Ineen, (Gilbbertas.-95c2e5--- seer 23513
LETT Vig aU aI epee eeeReegeeneCAscS = 24094) ) sWrard Prof. Wester Woe sec. -\-siclese ee 24096
MeGinnis: Williant Hi. ..2...22.ss-ccs.-2- 24392

DEPARTMENT XV.

RECENT PLANTS.

ABB DOtt Ta Wie) Wem. settle seine na eaisia 5750 CY 1) break ad le Je Poe detacaeceonoadaasodecin od 24233
PILOT NGrCOPPC Ale sciceinsciesines eile eens ini P4160, | Nationale Museum, Ujs2e.- o> as -ee gs eee 23445
Ieee (Oe Wie seoopsnatee sas csbossre Soe), Seay MOG a Been oO oe ARE a MES opeSobote cues n cs 24404
Ghatelainy Helit- 22 =. .2-6 se-cs0- sheriseceee Swi) |) Letina WOMEN eA os Soomecescccosaosme 23646
Christy, Thomas, & Co....-.----..-.-...- Dsdsma\ Pleas CioM ns! S...2225.c29.55 Aaa 23356
HHO uu Een y Wi saree. ee ss se ae ee niece 23646 Rampor Mie Hlmer ss sa3-(-)- seen 24436
Iohsra Aya RUT Ge IS Sheree oeepemesces 24307 | Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta, India... 23857
Fritillaria Club of Yakima Valley, Wash- Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England... 24435
TVGION on sede pnp besoctdossconeecoesee oe 28871 | RoyalSwedish Academy of Science, Stock-
Frye, \Wo 1B) oe SSS SSeS soos ecbarsesse sece 23467 holm swed GNse-ereeer eee eee aa 23720
Gaielner Phe Bisceac scot psa ee mie ZoslSalesmigh. re eo he Mies 22. see 23390, 23461, 23508
Gorne. CharlessB) -2- o.-- 222s seser =o me PSOSO ess PULL ATT AW ot eee meta re ea ve 23619
Grinnan, Miss Bessie C........:=-..-=-<: ORT TW I Suttrnip veya A G0) oak Woe: Were se Hei tac 23662
SGT Di liern setae e bie eye msstoimenceloiereirera tes acl 2otfs | Lauber, Miss Hliza Mis. 72.5 seas 24330
836

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1891.

DEPARTMENT XVI.

MINERALS.

Accession | Accession
number. number.
JNU Ne, UENO t soe aeesdnooasensocrsose | PARAS IEMs TeaAResy IeltnNS los ose doceoomssosonscc 24168
UJ NSA JB 10) sesame sosetcotseessonesas=6* 24149 | Leidy, Dr. Joseph (estate of)..-.-..--...- 24398
Tiilk 18 bl Wea ages eas esecehC Oe eEeEee sess 236398 MILOS NSGAS mcs oem nosis sclera eee eee 24261
Beatlimeaw Sec ee et eke cacesee P3AUORIASB0VDISED ||) Lucas aD Lee. eeeeee eee eee ae ee 24248
Becks Wirklic ssssee <1: sees see Lt Poise 24492 Inedeking, Cee sie sceee a> eee eee eee 24391
Bronson) Hs, Cole cs cies sos sth ee eee Eo.) 223407) MeDonalds Rev.) Alexanders .csese esses 24297
IBaMment eG wetwe sate Heccece ew eietee cere es 24438) |) McGinnis Walliamini ose. seen epee 24329
Becker Ur-Georgeih. a2 s--sse2 s- = saaeoe 24170: |) McGuire: i S2-e- = esse soe ae 23902
Bone elie dceeee ae oh see aa sans oes cice 239370. Melville: sDr We sll. .c scemn eee 24320, 24493
British Museum, London, England ------ 23359" Meri Georee caseeee-nee eee eres e eee 23597
Brown, Charles F.....--- meee Se DaS1ON 23 D9ss2ab02) || Mera loreneb soe e bees ee eee eee 23597
hase" George See = ss se sce ee ee oe ee PRE |) Ju GhNST (Chl Dee cosads ssa me scnesSoshcosc* Bee BERS)
California State Mining Bureau-_..-.-..---- 24323), Nationale vinseum! isos. see eee eee 23527
@leveland ah. aM wessec soos ssc ce er ce 24387 | New York State Museum ................ 23605
Gronch elbow eens eee 239515) ONeill) Walliam'Oe- 2a eee cee neneeceee 24504
ID) Ose IDE ah Se ce ae seea ancien esse 24392)" Oreut, Charles: Raca-. =e -- eee eee 23698
De Wertheim, A. T., & Son..-.-.---.---- 24276),| benny packers ©. 0bssec oi. 5- eee eee seeee 24441
Wolliven wows Cl. key We Chapters meen ace = 23449") Mb entre Laanerotese late ec ene eee 23799
inele-tHorace Mia ae tear -eie ane 230425) sPIedra, eM SUC) cnc fener iae ee eee 23874
English, George L., & Co...-...---.-- 2369424375.) (Prentiss, iO oes. onaae cess ae esiceee eee 24220
ID enitig Jey, 180 Crosemnsooseeeodanoncsocor 23561" Rice” Willlandisis =a eee oe eee ee eee 22735
Forwood, Dr. W. H., U.S. Army.....--- 2586) || Roebline (Coles W Ae ce=oaco- eee eee 24437
HMOOLE GAG Meets = co oases cbse se cce PZASTONOAdS4 )|| Roessler cA seo -= oe cl seeen see ae eee ere 23391

TPRUSRE, Wie JBL eenisa oppoasaassaesecee spent 23670 | Royal Saxon Mining Academy, Frieberg,
Gernbb: reheat ect. sne ose eee 24468 Germanyer sae eee essere Boo oaae 23830
Cram yoltitg GeCON OC see eee esate ares ine ae 239198 PRASS AGS pene se ee eee ne nee eee ee 23939
Harta watlliam aRiete sei cise ~csisinaiem seis PEVESy ||| elmer IDI BAIN Sooo sesso senses 225 23627
Isiany, IRA) LOHihseae Sas Seeeanrcoased see seoS 237 01m GSealeoMitiess-<-e<s-ene- Ween e eee eee 23922
vd envaWiculy soem eee soles eas 24081) || Seay,- WalliamiW 9-2-2 ose sce eee 24367
Jauiikshans Wallin | 0p pee Soe on eo ser Scs ara 23805al|- SHOOT. dC) cee tee ene eens eee 24485
Hoillebnand er vMwWi. Bo. o nae ee eee ee 23457) Shepard, DriC Ul --e-o eee ciate enna 23929
Rolin ah eodOrein: seek cece coca re eeeceee 24989) iSidey.iWink) -cesee. =. een Lebo: eee eee 23710
Owen GCougestics 22. oss = ese seeseeeee 93469") (Simpson PAC OMe. Sse. ee eee eee eee 24486
Interior Department; U. 5. Geological smedley, samuel Hi. 2222 ee eee ne eee ee 24313
Sunnvey:-) a1 23447, 23448, 23630, 23631, 23677, | State, Department of-.................... 23505
23702; 23739; 23795, 23800, 23812, 23903, | Stroud, Mrs. Mary I .......--..-.--.-.... 23598
23918, 23999, 24003, 24364, 24470, 24484 | Tanner, William G..-...-........--.-.--- 24058
Macks OWieklinadess. maces onctes test tosecees aso eLaylor i) Wie-ce ate eee eee ee eee ee 24500
WENNE Ys IWis eo ewsence ee = tielen cc's eee 28629024299 s eeDittamy 6s Ore eens eee eeeee actbosteeneee 24359
dion; JO Oss socoesdaconeseeedsocossopacse= By At ty bed OO ered Gini tee ee en Se Ek 23628, 23722
Cinwobl; Wiech sae ne oe een soepdoseosess 23849 | University of New Brunswick -.--..-...-. 23712
ViohmstonMavis wee dl oss saceene nese soe 23409 | University of Wisconsin. --.........-- 23385, 23634
Kimberley Diamond Mines, South Africa 23603 | Wadsworth, Dr. M. E..........-....-.--. 24101
He hilenmmWyialbeteies= so sense sic solace 24503) Ward and=Howellee eee. e a= see 23394

Kenn Zs GEOL Ouk seca a\ane ae tee sos eee 23395 | Whitehall Gold Mining and Milling Com-
ake aoe = eee seein cee ean ime on 23626 pany, Washington Ds Clee =aeee eee 24249
ILE eCENIGy isn Wiisacmtnpacooppuodacedae BHD ern PN Airset, NG 7 Go ebwsoccabosecccseoogase- 23655

DEPARTMENT XVII.
([TEOLOGY.

American Manganese Company, Pitts- | Brown, W. Q.-.------------+-+-+---++---- 24066
Ay Th oa A Vege eS SS ee Pee Eee” He 23700) |) Bullmany Charles ie: —-ee-- >= = eee 23612
Ayres EH. B: = .<- ee ee eae oe nee 24327 | California State Mining Bureau. .-.--.--- 24323

Barber! Ai W yw aniceeecee deo ias as Chee eee 24356 | Cameron Silica Company, South Bedding-
IBanhlemanl aha 222 22 ee. see meen eres 24216 LOD VC Ete ee en ee ee 24015
Beebe Mupene sa. -2 os\sce == 52-2 = eee 234709) |Campheld’ Ggheoe ss. ee seh == ae aeeeae 23979
Botanic Garden, Trinidad, West Indies.. 23402 | Chatelain, Heli.........--...-.--...-..... 23400
ISPS JIC conn specaok see sddaracdesssss SHBG GL Wy (ihbivey (CaaS Wyse gad ascesaomeensoses 2 24095
BrOUSOD wie Gren eres = Saree ea eee 234.07 AC EOSD Yeon Wie eee mene eee ae eta 24310, 24524
BPO Walt cee. micomcnincinowe St eeeae sie eee PRLYPH || LOMA hal eTKy i Nir Olga saneenacauscccose 23746, 24088
INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS. 837

DEPARTMENT XVII—Continued.

GEOLOGY-—Continued.

Accession

number.
Dall Mars. C. Hsse5 so seek seeds ese ea 23633
Day Or DavidUa ss. = Seco sss aise e 24100
MMleorneProicd sisescs-ceess sass cc seee =i 24143, 24164
Deimnvalliers. Wowardi Wiss. -sses-c es cnc se 23901
Otte ELEN IVa Wises esis tees sates 23646
DTI, Wii ol Ones Seek cose esa. Bee aodacea= 24179
Harrine tony Orissa ace aaa 52 toes 23859
LOA) aN ae & Lae ae ere a Ae eee 24455
TOE EVES REY Wea osama 2 Re ns a 24109
Folger, Commander William L., U. S.

WENA] dooen den pects coe sbaeenconneeee 23825
ONES Wie 20 cee etinondacoossa ss eanoeetas ese 23670
Gilaser belenimssocce a cemen ec ee eee ‘23451
Godding, McBean & Co--.....--.2---.-.--- 24439
(DUE hein ALS ine ep Reeepesecahasecpeesas -. 24522
Green mR ropwel VAS =5 5. sase seas aes 24117
IB GRE AIEE dor 6 aeRO ees epee tere See 24268
ie wath; (Gi Cnaescse one eet we See wate 23797, 24108 +
ob Ds =) Walia Hessen eee 23613, 23707
PEDO PEL Wall lta ete sete ees are 24062
Huntington, J. H..23381, 23600, 23996, 24107, 24234,

24491
Maes tele Bh ae cts oe Sec i= As 32 23803, 24000
Interior Department; U. S. Geological

DULYV.GV ei.) 5 = 23911, 24003, 24264, 24304, 24479
Jobns, H. W., Manufacturing Company,

MEN ACOH Clin (ase besos oc aaaeaonesEase 23713
GUMS ON ye keey Mesa nore rain cieae eerie sre 24380
DOMMSLONMGAIS, ME) sess ee a= cle 23409
SIG A OTR Will eco cosenecedounenacecs 23804
RGMIMe Le Val ameA ae wen ee ys eee 24294
on OWATON Ie WE sence eae a hese 23357
PRIMING OD etre sans sete eee ems sisi 24133, 24182, 24400
TOPLAS AVES) RO cS Goeein aH Omenisiose =a 24503
MancdalecJeiW) 22-52-25 o.see se cicje anes oes 24222
Ilias INO OR 4 Desde aabpoeder peer eeneer ace 24254
Lewisohn Brothers -.--- Seen hcar pesos 24202
ICG) Sp ANE eco eGo OR SHEE rOoAS 24340, 24406
Magnetic Iron and Steel Ore Company,

BIAGKS DUDE AS C=. o/s osc en emesis 24002
Wii” Di Coe he eae ae eee Se ci 3 24409
Menmls George 2 x. s5i. ease ene se 23527, 24242
Mere Moren: Bi. 22/57... 2's eee eel 23773, 23985
Merrie; i ss. cvccses tsa aces eee 23601, 24185
AVINDIEIE, WY See beecsoscace te seee sececas hace 23350
Monson Maine Slate Company, Monson,

WDA cA eee aaeAesenae de peed aaa oDod 24260

Accession
number.
Mea inser Wallies ae ee eee ae 24237
Marphiy AC 5.252 sn. 0c aces = sseeeeeee 24086
NatonaleMiisenim: Wiis) see2- eee eee 23445, 23527
Noahs Sud ced! dicks 2 see asec eee 23430
Ralmerwalltam= 2-4-0 soe eee 23646
IPaAbheEsone He Jaap oe epee eee 24235
age AS dees <a ce =o eee re aes 24456
Reales reas Cote a. cts 7 ee eee 23924
RACe;, rote WallaameNorihesecoesocseeee 24023
AUG LORee Gc COR COME: se ace ncoen ners eae 24378
Robinson, James H .......-...- Siva nceeets 24426
IRogant Janes) Woon 8 ko been eaten 23696
ODES Ome arts sea ae ae esas alae noe epectee 24521
Ropthermely DrvAGi Wins sessee ase eee 24011
IRSsell werotelaCreaseeee eee ae 23735, 23936, 24328
San Joaquin Valley Coal Mining Com-
pany, telantord)) Call 223 sen eas sess 24448
Schreiber mW eon seesa tea yeceee eee 24425
Schiweyer and hiesss= 2 sec 2-5 ere cee 24083
Shepard =DriC 5) Sse cas0. snes ee eee 23929
ShoenfeltdicB: o25.=2-<2-2-s=- Soca aes 24267
shufeldteRercyewies asses eee 24490
Shuteldt RsWirrese- o-oo ee sees 24489
SMU bh Mas George) sies= = sae ieee 23801
SnowsC@barles tH 2c. aes ee eae 23404
Stevenson Profi) 2s ssceee ee eee 24163
Sturtz4 Bes csoes ces soe once eres 23654, 24196
The John D. Hoff Asbestus Company, San
DiegosWalyees: wees Sosa yetn Se eros 24507
The Pyrite Company Limited, New York
City Cee at 5 Ae ene 24408
SUPA Vert ft Ie Soca ae Set oee hc sass 24123
Phrelkeldeyah ssecocehcusee eee 24059
Trego, Charleswls.4 soas6-saeisectp seas 24180
Tunpe;Albert::.=csoe: 2. aise sees ee 23644
‘Udden) Jit Asst si Fa 825 52: pct Sete. 24217
Wilkes Dttius= asses eset eae aeee eee 23722, 23732
University of New Brunswick........--- 23712
Universityof Wisconsinu---- s=-ss4ss->- 23634
LWiridis worth lr Mig hne =e eee 24101
SWiG Us Wik ise ome etre eee nee: oe ee 24326
Wii; SD rs Crest Ae at ese re ee poe he ee erie 24458
Wihtthe SE Dee ce sonra Soe = ce Boe Neate 23659
White River Quarry Company, Bedford,
nd Sete ete sie wiceistniec hs sae eee eee 24352
Wolff: Pro fading seater teracter = se siete taeiere 23730
es

’

TING ID Byes

Page.

BeMDIEMS Uae ec tees Se te cue ae Bee Mareen Be et Soe tnt igs co eae 116
PRnUb se PONV «le ACCOSS IONS LOM Rat sees peg ns eins el ee 28, 82
African mammals collected bye “=. 2 4as. 228 eee 200

birds presented ybya- 2 Met celle ona) A es ee EY ee 208

ethnological collection, collected and presented by -_- 19

OxploratiOns: Obie. 959s . = ee ees eae _ eens eee 128

insects Tecelved frOmle >. Wee jae k ha cele se ee ll ee 31), 231

DCT RID tee colt WER ee ge) Se Ee ee ary ee 381
Leptiles.collectedyby 22-2 et eee ee eee 80, 216

Aceessionsidurine the year, numberof 2.0.2. 28s 2 24k a. AS ae 14
geographicalireviawol the: -2. 202 wee ee Gi ee 79

BES lps eee ee ae Pe Re be Sk ea i ae sal ie gee 767

received since 1881, table showing number of ____-_____---_--- 105

ACCOUNT DOO Of THowis Xx Vand louis KVLo. 2122228 lesa eee ee 149
ENC OMA CL UTM OM eee fe mn eee kee 2 ee Se ve cc ee ee 141
ArGkenams,, (Cy lc. loliealSs OUEAC ARIS GIOl TON eee eee soe bo oo ooee ee 208
PO CMON A MUSOU DUMLGINOs) Esra cel Se ae ol Seu See 10
PN EIO, MGR CINS OF) Os 2 TSI ON fe Se Sees eS ese ae er ee eee en RE ect a 742
REDON O Lees Peerds Eye Manet [i es ek el ee ee CO See at 147
Administrative: works revlewsOl they sss 222s ee ee ee ee ee eee 35
BS igh LTE ee se lc a ta Pe apd et Me ee 21

Meronautics. sectional liprarye 2 ese so Sea aan ee es ee 42
Praca, TOVAC Ws Ol ACCESSIONS 1rOMe -". ei Az se ee 2 oh. eee 82
Specimens: transmitted tos= 2.2252 522.55 es 5S ee ae 35
Pears ora AMODLEA INTE Si! i SS oe ork eS Fe eS eel Spee yl A OY eee 28
ENTE) co 2 yc ea a Ae A Rc ea eee i: ee ere 21, 23
milton Commercial Company =. 222 22-22. 225 2 222s a ee 109
Bounoss. ish Commission Steamer. s=2222s2 2-22 22. fe s_ 2 eae 2 dee 221
fishes collected bythe steamer = -32 45. 22s ea elt eee eae 30, 80

Album of portraits of members of International American Conference _.. 149
Pulemie nal. Eb., LOssils PeCelVyedsirOMNsa- =o 22.5) e tees sa eee Cee Soe 227
Alfaro, Anastasio, sends a skin of Antrostomus rufomaculatus —_----------- 85
Pues Spurs sand. amp trOMirs Hac eee nee Sn ee ee See oe omen ae 82, 143
Mullen George Ava2 22-25 e See ee eee en a dn ne ot oe ee eos ee 110
repbileserecelveds fromrass 25. - 25-2 ee ae ce ee 216

NULenK Or SELALPISONy. 6 eee eee ese eae oe Ae ee ee Sea eee 66
paper-Onybats Dyess se = = s= -t ee e eee 205

PADCrS Dyce seen ee ee St et Beer ee 742

JN THESE Sl Ba ER 2 a Ro = pn Se ROPE SS Se = 66
FM amaICR  COLECHIONIOL oes a Meare pee ee ol eS eee 149
AmaZzoneviver, ethnological object from-—_ =... -2-..cs26- 560 -- 3s222-e oe 142
American aboriginal pottery, report on the department of_------_-_-_-_- 145
American Historical Association, annual report of the---------.--------- 63, 153
deposits the ‘‘ Vail papers”-_-_--------. 94

MEEHINS OF LNCS has nose ae eee 152
840 INDEX.
Pagsa
American mammals,.accessions Of -le-- 5242.02 ch oe eee eee 28
mmerican Museum of Natural Gistory.=- 22222 --  a 66, 240
chipmunks received from .________- 201
Ornithologists’ Union, third supplement to check list of the... 742
patent system, celebration of ---_--..--_-.-._-- Rese = 2 Rs ie 2a
prehistoric pottery, section Ol. =. 2 =. eae see ee 26
Ancient burial mounds of Japan, paper on the __--_---_.---...-...-2...=. 511
AMOPEWSs Ors Wl AL of pees Dee ol S eS ia UGH oe ae Vice ae es ee CE
annelids received from, 22. Sas ee ae ee 81, 92, 93
report, on marine annelids py 2.-. 22-= o-oo 240
mmPold, chhnowgical collections Irom) .=522 4.0 92 4=. ab aetna 143
And: report LOP LESS _ 2 eee od. Saws ae at ee et ee ee 739
mnomoura, resoarches on thes. 22 222 32-8 ee ee ee 238
FATHHONY. VA. Vig PAPC DY .- 5 - cue ote e lone eon. pees 742
Anthropological accessions of chief importance_-_-_-_--...__.-_-----_--_-- 79
reports. by. Thomas, Wilson 2-2-2 eee 183
Anthropology. review, Of workin division Of 22-52-22). e2-2-.-- eee eee 25
Apache Indians,.collections from the: 2252 £0.) =2U ese a ae ee 141
mppropriations for the:museum>-.<.- 222212 * 5 25) ee a eee 9
Arapahoe Indians, specimens from the-_-2...-__2-2-2-.-2.2-2222- Shy ye 140
Archeological collections received during the year_-----_-.------------- 183
collection, reclassification and rearrangement of the___-_-_- 186
hall, arrangement of cases in the__..--__------------_---- 193
Specimens, distribution Of--==2 "= 6) 522 197
Archeology, important accessions in department of _-_____-______-______- 79
Aron tine Mepublic;w0Ods.Of The i222. 22. 2.2222e2 5 Sl se ae eee 172, 174-178
Arikaree Indians, arrow-heads from the _______ Le oe ek eee Se 140
Armstrong, Krank B., birds’ ergs purchased from).. 22-2) 2-2-2. =e 213
birds: purchased from-=.- 2) 9212 ee ee 208
Arnold, Hon. Delos, fossils: presented by. 2-2.2.2-.5:-225.5-0 25) 87, 227
Arrangement of exhibition series__________- ii i Uae ee 19
Aetists2tools and materials. collection Ol ===] 1a ee 160
_. Arts and industries, exchanges with the department of_-_-_____-_____-_- 5d
Aghimeade \Walliam bless =. sive vet sneha Hons tes eee eee eee Zea
NcigeNviinor. Chalnyshtrt (r@im tase eae sso. 2 5 ee eee onan se eee 142
/Nerenimnoroniare) Taavoliem ashy [YSIS NOP UNOS oe pee eee ee See Soe 140
INSSIStaMiiCuUrAators, St Of 22 taee = sess eos See es ee en ee 20-22
ilbrarian te {2205 ese ee Be 2 A ee 23
Slperiptendent ts 222. sess =e eee 24
NEROCI ations meetings Ofesofere Gea oe a ee 11
Aepyriail Seals castsiOle. ceo Coes. So ee 148
Astronomy, sectional library ----------- on TES ee pod 42
PAGTONOANTS 2502 os ise eS Se Ol Lee dese ee ee 24
neklandeviisetim. exe am ere awiilng = = os oy ee ee 56, 57, 59
AMstralian photoorap hn trom) yao s= Jo... Se ee ee ee 2 ae
specimens transmitted 10). 22.25 225-.3- 2222222 2 eee 35
Australian Museum), exchanoe with 952222) 2 5) sees) eee 56, 57
Austria, Specimens sent to. 5 2225-5... 2 3222). sess = ee 36
Avasupal indians, specimens from the=. 5. 0.255222, ee eee eee 141
Avery, S:b lithographs fromeso: 20s. Ses ee eee ee 161
Wymes bls Bs. sas hs poe Ok Se eo ee 116
Babson; Colsad, (Wi 2652 Sen ae SO a Hott
INDEX. 841

Page
pardad ethnological collectionsirom. 2-2. 22222522322... - 2525 65-2 22-c 142
Bahia shes rome see ss See eee coche os Soe ae ee 30
Paley, 1. -VWi. OXChanmes WINE = sans. S25s0 1 koe Sea Gi eye eet cee) 56, 58, 59
Ree Yn wp tee ne DN Ow in ae SESS ale eS SE 114
Hes Gp) Toe Ye E11 Ko ee RE oa en a oot ec) Pt eee ee ee a ee 32
FE Ue Tear CRUG eee eee Oi enn ea onber a ie eg lia MaRS SEN SSeS nee ee 130
Ep acereee Vian CUS n= es epee eae eR aN ee E  a eee, A e e E 1912
SPN MLOSSIS <2 csc, ao eee RMN ae ees Soe eae SOR 81, 245
<P DLC DUT 91 35 a gm A ee ae es Na aimee eu Ete Sy Oy bee er rg 56, 97, 99, 100
BanlkssysNathan <2 ees a RON ey Ae pate Rap ALI RNOR eck EU FLA Oe a ING, 2a
Bannockwncdians, collechions rom: they ss2 255" sane s. a= oe ee eee 140
panoadoos,’Gaskeb Moms. 20 2808 bee 2. owe a ee eo ee 142
TBA CON AS A Aedes ae ee OR Ae ee eee JOT iE oe VE oan a Siegen Ee 115
eMule rin ailment eat semi yee ce nee te sel) SR US ea See eee 30, 106, 129
Insects Fecelved from: 222 22 keh ie se Cee ee 97, 232
outfit furnished to------------ Speraie R UE ai IIS Bute ee 130
pottery vase, Otc: presented byes) 22 2 ea oe 185
shiellsupresented. Dyas 9 2s a ss 522k eee 80, 97, 227
Bartlett, Dr. John, sends model of a Burmese canoe --------.------------- 82, 94
Barnes, Ldward, birds: presented: by 222222525522 222222. ee ee 208
atchelder, C: My, reptiles:received from == 2s-2-.4222 2222222822 use 216
‘Battle; B. B-; sends portion of avmeteorite... -- 52-22-28. 22252 eh eee 93
aig ry Ge Maen ee pak oe OS ee oe Se. SIL Ree es 66, 742
Baxtor, \rs, Gen. J..:, sends Peruvian: pottery... =-2=--+--=5--=222- 22 96, 185
Eeigioveavviliicm..oind presented: by. 2-> =. 5. 2250 2822 ea ae ee aes 208
Beachiony@harlesiSct = S258 se s8e ae Reese seeiee eee ee eels Meat (0)
Beanebarcon, Av.assistant Curation 22s 2 2. -o2e-- een Se 30, 219, 221
nshesicotlecteds by=2c soa eo Mee oe ee ea 129
papersibyA= ass = S30 aoe ase ee 742
Bean Or. larleton.b. “honorary Curater sss. 2- eee -Gse. 2 eee ae 30, 117
PRPEIS DY See le cos IP See ee ne ee ee 142-4
VE POMb Olea es Se ee ne Re oe ee eee 219
SAR OMNIER ENG, Gf S24. so soba eco nee Coe ee eee we | ee erie 225
ipock enoLlord., bird pressnted: by -=2-£2- = =i 2-32 =Ss22e0 6 aoe tee 208
Reewermere COL eG 22.2 cet aaueer = NE ee Sola eee es) ee 87, 111, 112
ipekiinctris,, specimens received from == -2. == =2_ 22. 2s eee 79, 87, 200
iBeudire, Capt: Charles) E., honorary curator 2-2. 2222252422. 2. eae 29, 109
plantsicollected abyss ssa sans ae ee 33, 205
presents a bird, nests and eggs .-_.-._..----- 108
FEPOrt LOrelS8s Dye soe = Sete 744
TOpORtOlesers= oe ates oe ee ee eee ae 213
enedict, James H., assistantcurator:22-= 225-222-229... 22k 22 31, 116, 235
birds receivedtinomes 25-222 oe 8 a ee cee ee 93, 208
series of skins of Cistothorus mariane received from - 80
Beutenmiller, William, insects purchased from -___---_-----------=------ 231
Berdan, Gen., collection of fire-arms owned by...=--2--- *-=s:- 222 + eee 137
Bernadou, Allen, and Jouy collections in the United States National Mu-
Semmecpaper On the) = ee Sa netee eg ras tel a eee 429
ible nie: sechuand langiare tees: 2s sea 8 ee ee 149
Biblical archzology, collection illustrating .--.--.---------------------=+ 147
Bibliography, list of papers referred to in the ------------=-=------------ 64
Ol NatromealaVinise vinnie SO 5. see ees eee eee eee 7137

Or paleo wotamyaesa se ce ses haat polos pote ease nnn Se eee 256
842 , INDEX.

Page.
Bigelow, Dr. Robert P., stomatopods studied by___-.._.--____-.__.--.-- 240
Billings, (Or W.G secant uscd et. £282 su ae ne ee ene ee ee 110, 208
Binney, W.-G., type shells’presented by=-.=-5-.--) = eae ees eee 227
Binds, condition ofthe collection of eae: ss ee ee ee eee 211
Birds errs, collection Of 22.42. 2p a aeisn as i) gh Seen 0a! eee 29
condition/of the collection oft 2. 2. 2) ae eee 214
from. Mactarlane- <2 jek tay ee 80
important accessions in section of _______________.-- St AoE oe 80
Kepor tion, the Section Oba .2. Ss] 5a4-4 ee eee eee ere re 2 te 213
pirds, exchange with department,of_..2.. 22. ..23 2. 202 e254 ee 56
exhibition series in department Of-2.__- 2253. 22 ee ae 19
important. accessions in department, offi... -.2 sole eee 79, 208
instructions for ecollectinio: .. 7 5. -i2. 250.5 .5 0) eee eee 207
reportion the department. of —2-2-) 4. [Sea se ie 207
Review. OL work in deparimentiOf Lee. 4-22 teres Sane eee ee 29
Bishop Taylor Mission transmits specimens from West Africa ___---_--_- 83
Bishop, William L., birds’ eggs presented by _---_---------_------------ 213
ies cer iurhand 4.262. S5 Ue nr aa vot ehh ee aie Der ae eee 107
Blake, Lady Edith, presents drawings of Indian emblems__________ .____- 95
Boehmer, George H., paper on naval architecture of North of Europe by. 527
IBYOYS IHG OVER OA paid eee eee OE RMA E opt ne. kg Rte eee i 268
Boker; i. W., presents .a specimen of Marmoset 22222202225 2s ee 112
Bolless-lmieut. TDi: | . sess se - Se e 98s OA IOI GR ao
IBYoraa kh swat OFA S [ee eeeteeds oe es Pe eee Sure cen Mees) ee BAN ol 30, 116
Bolton Or: we. C... presents: photosraphs-. 2 ei = eee ee eee 104
Bonaparte, Prince Roland, presents photographs of Somalis and Hotten-

Glee = Scr fe ee WE Ee ee oe RS ee ee 99
ene on ote tel <td PA ein Sek a BU SE se 225
Botanical collection, principal accessions to the__-__.-.------------------- 81

specimens exchanged ____- SSR eee ME Rs nT tans 2 Ae ee 58

Botanic Garden, Trinidad, sends a specimen of the ‘‘ Philippine deposit” 95
Botany, condition of the collection in the department of __--------------- 253
CUVISION: OLS Ae oe oot te Fee eS Se es ee ee 33
report.on the department Of 3222 5-22_ 252 ea eee 251
Bourke, Capt. John G., sends ethnological collections ---------- 85, 86, 91, 108, 185
Bowers Drastephens) 3.05.) Sve a kee oe a ees 240
Bows and arrows, development of a collection of_._---------------------- 137
FAG Oe ELON: 54k 2 es ney ene 2 No 2 sa fe See eee ee 98, 106, 107
Boyd, William J., presents model of vessel Half Moon ------------------- 82, 94
TESORO WO arbre: tere ore nee tg a Aaa Do ee ee 249
ERGCRUUnG «researches! ONab ness ars fais =a ee Cee oes el ee 238
Brady. dic, see es oe oe tt gs ln oS eg eo 112
Brady flict. exchangecwith 24, 2222. 20 522 Be ee ee ee eee 57
INSECTS SeMb DNase ee Nie os ee es ee ee 83, 231

naty ror. GeOrge Se 6 naa e. sate cee Cee ee ee ee ee 58, 240
Braver. Prot: Hredenrick= saeco s gene sc seas ls ae eee eee 232
BREWS ESE VV LUT aria tk es A Mi Cala aly Se or ge i ee ee 66, 86, 208
PAPOPS by leases accu s4 cee ee eee 744

Brimley, El. Hsand:C: S. reptiles received from. 322 45— 2 5see ee 92, 216
Brinton, Mrs. Emma S., pottery lamp from Tunis received from --------- 82
British Museum, collection of Egyptian photographs, etc., labelsfor the. 148
exchange swith == =o SE Ee ma ee eee 5d

marine invertebrates received from the_____._.-------- 236
INDEX. 843

Page

Bemis Museum, relations with thes... 32. -22-2 ees. see eee eee seek 138
sends ethnological objects from Kafirland___-----___--- 83

Shells presented sv ee 8" 23 ae oe Aa Es ot a ee 227
transmitsmarine Objects. 24..5 2.252 <2) e238 104

Bmaitany, specimens: from. 224-22. =. 2... Rr SO a Ie oy 142
LE PLU AO 0G ot D BO a pl Brera oe: 10 toca 00 eer ee reece ROE A a a eR eee 201
Brite, Dr. J. H., fossil plants received from-.- 2. =-..526-5.2202625._-222 81, 90
Bronze weights, etc., obtained by Col. F. A. Seely -__-.__....--_-._.------ 181
EepeMisdr mein Sbly iC yas eee ye ee ee a Sar aye Beas 8s eee 240
Eeomiyneurdinino-sehnoole 2 = jy ae eee 2282 ee 240
EMO tO aha Sends mamneral Sa... sm eee le ee a eee 86. 95
Browneaerbert. bird presen bedi by 252 .aee= 95 Sot. a eee 208
Feptrlos TSECELVeEG frOM)_._ ea 8 oe eee 216

Brown, J. olanley, fossil plants from .... 22222 2222-- 22-2. Se. 2 ee Se ee 255
Bae ev rd OM ©roum DIG 2.0. 25-5 2k Ae ee os 42
Brown, Dr: Samuels. 2... .- BOO are We ie 8 ae oh tn see ea 42
einer Re aul OOS De teat ey Ser a a Se I nd el Le Se 22,
PODOGG Ohses ert. Sosa oa. So eee nea ey eS  e 35

ero SC VCR ME Arete ade Ae Sg ke te ee ee 106
Binoy, Wa, 1Blo4 Colllleouss Auneker ha) wahoo 5 oe oes ee ee eee 204
| ESTE GRAS 0) eI Wg Nh ce ee are ee a Ma ee 114, 115
misecctsicollected | bys2—s. 44 <> ee oe ee ae ee 86, 231

eure Oh AINigs ee Se ee Se ce Sek) SOR Ge eee ey ee ee ee 90, 184
ER AROMA BeBe eee soo ssa e sO Nee ee yl wu sel le So ae ee 66
EO CEL GEN LEAS CG WAU STE 1 no Ce ee i ee No ee oem Rewer ca x & 75
Bulletin of the Museum, recent numbers of the-_----.-.___-_-_-2.-.--_-.- 59
Bullman. Charles, sends ethnological and geological specimens ________- 96
Mingephates and.OTesiees = fo. 2 es <2 i es BS ee 96, 262
Berane bunMOlay an seen eee oe Shed ein ane ah tae 66, 136
material received through the céoperation of the __ 117

Binet iGi Ee rintino ang Mnerayinoo: 2S. 20---< 5s 2S 28 se en 107, 161
neers au cebt Ovaiisman tion c eee Ao) oe eee Le NT Ce Se ee 78
Barmah, blow-gun from -..-—--2-222--2-2.-- © ees = ee 148
JES Peri ETS aT SE eat A RO EIR Ne NERS mc, Soe dpa NPI et 30, 92, 112, 225
BuBnsay\ elu stOSsil, recelved: 1rOomMhe= ==) eee ee pee sae 0 eee eae 246
California Academy of Science, plants from the_------__---_-_---------=- 252
Peat TOMY oss Se a ee ee ee, 169
Cameron Silica Company sends specimens of silica__----_-----_---------- 89
ST TE DAE UGS io) SNe Pet ee se ae ees eee, 2 = leery eee Sa Rene ere | 66, 267
tanadaounnolocical objects, from j-4 20. = 3.2 Ss angse es oe aaa eee 140
Specimens. sent tO ze =e ee Se Be sep Se ae ee 36
PRPEOICOLCG LION: set eae as. Saree eM IS ee ot Ss ek ee 10
Samaras gmarineg, SHelSiPOM, 2-2-2 Seoss- 6 Sa =  2o e  ee 30
POUUEG ARE OMT ya ee ames ae ee oe eM a oe ee oe 145
Parieste WVilliam= Ones frome. 2 cae 2-2 el ihe ee 262
Carpenter, Capt. W. L., presents birds’ eggs and nests ------------------ 108
@arcpenters and cabinetmakers:_°.5-=5) 2-2 2-- a 22252 ee ee 24
Srnec apt. Veli «5528 elec See a suai Sous sesne cae ee See 232
Cass, Gen. Lewis, expedition under the charge of_---.------------------- 302
Cstal Oaierenitries ase eee eee Ne ts) © oe ee 18
of ethnological collections from Kilima-Njaro -_--------------- 399
OmMorean COleCiOHSeses: oe == Dose oo ese See ge aa BPE ay! 555)

Cane ZOLCOSS I Gee ener ee are Pe Se ot, ee 225
844 INDEX.

; Paga

Gensus of Collections 2 25 372s es aa ee ee ee eee 15-17
Central America, Specimens Sent tOe se. 02-26 see 36
Centrifugal milk separator se 2 ae ee a eee 169
@evlon wooden spoons from 2-24) 282-2 ee ee ee 143
Chalon sur Séone, exchanges with museum at ___.______-_____-____--_--- 55
Champney, J: Wells, lithographs ete: from .--2-2 2 = eee 161
Chandies Wf. draftsman 2. 3) 2 oS as ee ee 78
Chandler, Prof. C. F., spedimens from Sia eH SEE ee ee 161
Charlton, Thomas, fore plants irom 222222 a 52 eee eee 255
Whatelain, HiGli 5 tule 2b. a oe Se oe ee eo os 3 eee
Cheney, Mrs: ‘Ednah D-, engraved portraits from -_--/-2-- = ee 161
SOTONE VeeSel ee et soe oe ae le Fe Sco ne eee ee ee Mee (3 5)
Cherokee indians, specimens from the-22— = = eee 142
ehrerme, Georie ene ia. oh Se ee 2h ee oe eee el 57, 66, 85, 208, 210, 218, 744
Cheesman, James: 2: 2b. fice ee ee 169
Cheyenne:Indians, collections from thee 2-28 se 140
Gheyney, J. t.,sends/an old silver watch. 222207232 ee oe ee 89
CHOUYS CUES E Oe ae Ree ne Re De ne ela A Leis Se: Te oak Shee eas Ae 23
NeporbOf a0 ses Soe ae ee 68

hisis.Of Civislonisry =: 2c. ce oe Pr ee es es ee eee 23
Ching; ethnolovical.objects frome 22.2 2 A ee 144
Cincinnati Art Museum, relations wath these] ao5 oes eee a 138
Glaris, Ww SELOWard spa. 2k che pees 2k ee ee ee ee 22, 27, 94
NOpOrtor.- 3. Seth Ce ee A Re ee 149

reportifor. 1888 ‘by 2-2 42. gas. ene ee ee eee 744

lal Dr WV ils She fees see ee ones ile ot Se 66
Clarke velo pe eHidivald a= se 2) fel 0 Ae eS SE ane ae eee eet ee 81, 88
Clarke. teepi. i. W., honorary curator._..-.2.-- 4221222 sesee eee 34, 113
papers by +... 8) -2 Sa ee eee ee 744

reportiOl 25a. 5. ee See ee eee 259

Glarke Merete). Mono et Ce ee 66
Clarke VV. tac le exchanges witho.22s024.8 Se ee ee 56, 98, 100, 209
Classification of papers in Vol. x1 of ‘‘ Proceedings” _..------------------ 60
Vol... xi ofS! Proceedings. ".-= 22 eee 61

Clay-ColsCecil, outhtfurnishedtonss-o:< -.: 2a Sa eee 130
CLS FE TCE eer Se NEMS ME fs eye cane ea Sipe» 8 oe 24
Clerical staff 2_..22=- Se Geert Se NG ee TY Te ae re ee 23
TSISMIS brOE ee 2 ea gm 2 ae ee 23
Coast-and Geodetic: Survey... 2222eLhe : 2 live eee 107
Comsscollectionioiz=..-- 0 oo) keen eae l kt oe 152
Colby,-Gen. Li. W., skull of bison presented by____-2---22--- 2522-555 ee -- S223
Cokections,;censusioOhimes-so--telwss.- 3... et eee cea 15-17
classincation (Ofs.- 5222.42... eS eee 5
CONCIbLOnYOL phe == meee oe Lee J2aceeee cee ee ee 14
installationvoles=c2 Lee eee sk ee eee 5

principal’ sourcesiofithe 2....\..<-. = eee ee 8
Cotleetorsiof mamimals..0 22228. Shoes a. LL ee 204
outfits furnished tos2) so 22.2. ee ee ee 130

Collett; Dr... exchange withi-5252----. 2: ee eee 56, 101
COMA Ne:s ING paper by-~-- teers ee es oe ote 744
Collins “Wapty Ie Wi S20 22s See eee ae tle, .2) a oe ee PAU) IUEZ,
JOH OSES ONG 2 oe n= a jade SE RE Tech eae ee ee 745

Colombia, specimens from United States of ----- eee Si yee JLo ES ee eee 142
INDEX. 845

Page.

Sotsh mworo parormed: by: the: 2 03.2556 2 Re 7
Columbian institute, eharteriof the... 250.0 Se eS ee 274
Columbian University, Washington, rocks sent to the___________________ 263
Pimmnieteeone Commerce -wasebe:- 22 \~ Sel sc roe ye ees io Se 164
Comparative Anatomy, accessions to the department of -..__-. -__-______. 243
condition of the collection in the department of.. 244
depaniment Ola o22 Star 9s se see eee 32
labeling the collection in department of__________ 20
report on the department of._-__-_____- MSs Ue 243
Congo region, ethnological objects from the___.._____.._._--__-.-__--2L. 148
eel Oy Ox Chane With c 28-4. sO yes tee A A ai
INSECLS: NECClV OG: TOMS 2 =. = ee ek ee  D ee ae 231
Oniscaa@-relerred t0s 55 55-2 2 ee ee 240
WARS OV. amr ees aa eee eee co ee. ee De eee 745
SOO ChmEehO bem Ar ale = athe ope te gene gS sya ie We oe LN Re 84, 114, 232

Codperation of Departments and Bureaus of the Government during decade

CHCIN SUNG LOO USO <3 Ao akw Rs at fal ae Le eee 117
Government Departments during 1891 _______-___-_-______ 105
Oia eC Ont Hr scar ame ME ee at aM oe 3 ae Geko yl) oy ee eee 66
leai-shaped implements frome (22 ee eee 184
10 | OV TESUS Rca 0 a ae ee AUN Seg ReeME aa wos iS 8 23
BE OCMC eye ey I er = Re eek, Pree Ree A! Os Be 87, 114, 232
Coergspondence and reports, division Of -.-_.-222-<2__ 2. eee i
MCE MONICE LOS: (toa 2 SS oo 5 ae oe se aah ee ee ee ese 66, 95, 209
VOLE OY SMR] 0 sd ae ee ae dS RTE ea eer a er Es ie 745
Costa Rica National Museum, exchange with_-__-___-__...---___--______. 57
Gauess Dz lulniote,, correspondence with) 24.2. 2.2) 2-22. oes ese 205
sends a specimen of “Pinamoue - 22522290222 2 88

CSIELUS OTSA Sc a aN IAG ae Apel a a eA 2B yh ols ti cg Me ooh 28, 86, 127, 20
ania cl ivln. PEPCTS" D¥iao 2. 22a a= ce a ts oe ae ee ee 745
Coville miirediVites s8— = esata n ee ee So ne eer a= ere ee ee 3a epi
BoA ruhiive... birds: presented. DY.-. 3. 2 oa ae ee ee ee 209
Gox, Mrs: C.C., presents eogsof Australian emu__-_-.2:--_-.-.-.- peas 104
ip mia clien. Clen ke 22! See ee 2 ees ee aa tes ee 22
RE OD Oh 2 ne sme ae es So ae a ee 68
SeenON Gy EON syd. Vib oe Seek See Se oe a oa eo eee eee ee 129, 130
Cresson, Dr, Hilborn T., anthropological objects presented by —_-_-_-___- 79
collections; deposited by s9-- 4222 ae ee 88, 99, 184
Crockett and Harrison send specimens of gum from Zanzibar___-_-______ 82
Meme tte VV a tno he Ge eke fo oa eens. Shee enue ce ee Ole Ol RO ORME
Pee BOL Ni Olee ae. een ose Re ke ee Sa 90, 262
CORPOISTS ba HAVEL) Hin 2 0 ss eo SS Ee N SE SS lil
Crow Indians, ethnological specimens from the-_-----...--------.-----__- 140
Seta ibe utes sir OMe 3 = hae ee oe | Sa 2 I ae ee
Culin, Stewart, sends playing cards from Beirut__-----.-.--_------____-- 98
(CRGTVEEE NOVAS ATE TS ON Se as a a pe ree ee rr eet aE el fo 2122
FODORIG OL DMO 2. toca SS vee ener oe cot. Aca ee 133
Sermon Apu nen et sae Se, Soe oe ee 104, 129
GuriisgGe 2,10 Charso of asronautics—_-. 22-252 SSS a ee [aoe 42
COU OS em VALU Tai so ee eee ee eee el ee ee Se ee ee 106, 136
Sent MEMEWard ACOPESS Dymo = 22s a2 12 is bse 275
Daouerre memorial — 2-92 2----_-_ Vays SRN BS Oe ol ne Ren eRe Ae eee men 10
Pinna TOMI MONO het ee a > 2 Ss Po eae 255

Dakota, valuable collection of plants from ---..-.-.---------------------- ee
846 INDEX.

Page
Dali, Mrs. C. H., sends auriferous black sand: 5_..._-_-= 2=--2- =e ee 87
Dall; William Healey, honorary curator_.-.-.--:.-2-..-2. 22-2 30, 112, 113
papers by 22 ac aac 222 ee te. eee oe ee 745, 746
YEpOrCOlse 2-2 ies. 122s) ae seen eae ee 225
Dana hd ward.S.; paper by =-2°-h.2o. 22. eee 746
Dana, George R., sends a landlocked’ salmon __-_:__.2__-_-2_-=_- == 85
Danturth, Chas. .l..correspondence with .2-_._.-2s_-=-- = = eee 205
Mamiel ADE Ail ee ik Se ee tt Cte eyes 2 ee ee 93, 110
DartmoutheCollege Museum!..2_- ==" (35 5922-2 255s ee 138
Davis; John. prootsol. éneravines by 224222) 5. 161
Mane Capt G7 Areas! L221 Lue Se ee ee ee ee ee 129
Day Dr Davie lx ses SS te oe ee eee ae See 2 ee 112
Death: Valley, plants from the - 252 2-2 less ot. 228 2 ee 33
De Beers diamond mine, rocks from the Soe SS 0Os <-eeh ae Se eee 262
Deep-sea fishes from the Mediterranean. 26 5 == a6 20 ae ee ee eee 30
Heertoot Warm Company 2. 25i.225 2.622 -cep ac aoa ee 90, 169
Denmark: Fons from 2. 222225208 Sse a ee ee eee 142
Beparinientelork:2222 2322 22e.0 52. Pac oe ee ee eee ee ee 23
Department of Agriculture, accessions received through the_--_-__------ 114
insects received from the --___--_-_--- 80, 84, 86, 108
mammals deposited by the --2--225 23-425 202
review of cooperation of the --..-_------=-2=- 126
shells received fromthe | 2 eee 227
transmits jaw and radius of a bear ________-- 91

transmits reptiles, gastropods, and land
shellgse ese. soe ee ee ete See 85, 89
transmits, turtles and mammals ------------- 94
Department of the Interior, co6peration of officials of the___----.-------- 110
review of the codperation of the --_--_------: 125
Department of State, codperation of officials of the -...-.--------------=5 106
review: Of cooperation Ol thee a=. == a— sss aa ae 119
transmits medals (220. " Skil ee 99
transmits minerals from Catania _--=--=2_---222-2. 100
transmits samples of ramie from Sianghai___------- 97
Departments in Museum, index to accession list by ---------------------- 827
Derby, - rot. Orville-A.,; fossils-received from. _22222.2---2.-22sse- eee see 95, 246
Dewey, sh .(., report for 1883 byze --- = — 3.26. Ss. a eee 746
Dewey, lr. plants obtained sirom) s+. 2022 2. 25 she eee ee 252
De With Clinton,” driving wheels of the -..2=-2-2--- 25 oe a eee 165
Development ofexhibitionm series == =. - .. =. Sses20 5 see 19
(Devioerdn COlsh Wiese soe So Bee ct se eee ee eee eee eee 26, 161
Didoram of archceolooical hall 23225222. 22S ee eee 187
Diller SProlL Its aoe ee en ee SS Os So eee eee 112, 255
Dinvilliers; Eh. V., phosphates presented by 2". 222.25) 225°2 sss 95, 262
Disbursinoiclerk.) 7.2 2t Sees) Sterns oe lee ee eee 23
Distribution of specimens, arranged by departments in Museum ~-------- 40
from ylSilto 18902 =o Sa eee 41
geographical statement of ---.---------------- 35
Documéniticlerk, 252. 35: (as So ae es Se eee ee eee 23
Dodge, Byron E., stone hatchet, ete., deposited by-22----2=---£----_ ===. 186
Dade e,tO. Ges sae See Lee RU halle, = heer pee met eage Sn Me OF Se LS hele yoy 110, 111
Dodson, Rev. W. P.,sends specimens from West Africa_-_-----..--------- 83

Dolliver, Hon J. P., presents a fragment of a meteorite ..:...s202c-222-5- 89
Page
ewer cle aniiialss COMSCHONOL 2525252452 45~ scence tele st) SS Ee See 27, 16
ID TRSWRSEAEY STON et oe AAS 2 oe SN Oe I RN Se ee eee aes tee ea eae 2 2
WOR ERLOLMOG: DY WHO sake. Seo Son See ee a MR ee 78
Draper, George H., of Paris, France, presents account-book of Royal Treas-

UAE TAUING CP ABO TIS OX Vee ee eee pacts oo 2 3 SA ee Oe ee, ao eee 99
DuiroOuT Oru ae SenOsian Ss peClMenvOh AM ss 252s see 2-4. oo eae ene 95
Duges, Prof. A., sends specimens from Mexico.....-1_--.-- Eines ater oi} =. .\0
Dire Charles imsectsisemt tOmsseees esa eae one ce 2 eee ah eS ee
ORNRCIMETE WAMU ois, Oy OSC ON Age eR eae eae es ot, Oe ae
Spe el eme eeee eeee : eRe  ie eee Se ee XS Se Pa eee 111
Eames, Moses, deposits an old PLOW See Oe Smee» eee = seo ae Sesctee 91
iT OW sae cee. = tes Sac es ee ee a Se eee Balle Pal 2
PER ReOXDOUUMON Gwe ee tae oo okt ace eee eso tenes ee na ee 4
DSi ial Compare COSSION Suit OMe as == eos Ss ee eee tea eee = Sees | ae 2
HasterislandnethnolosicalsobjectsivOmes ss- a= ss. sae es ene ee 144
iEclipsorexpedition, birds:collected by the....£- 22:2. 22-2225. Me eee 209

fishes obtained by the--....--.--- Seuss 252 Sas eee eee 219
Bamburrh Museum OLSerencetand Art... 22122223522 555 2 ee ees 98, 100
exchanoeswilt hese se. eee eee ae 56
awards. Dr An Mino. esse. See ee Sone Seer ae ee ew ae Sen ee 66, 263
be WP San Ont ieee Se ae ae a te Sete es ce oe = ee ae oe eee 236
iransmips a COnOMICMNSeCiS a=" a2 se. a= a= eee eee 88, 95
transmits marine objects and alcoholic reptiles___--_-_--- 104
Pepper o. Case nhOM sa S ses noses eee ae Nees = soeuoe ese a= 143
Bec onmaarimoe rs ©. sobt = 22-2 02.2 ee Le tee Se ek eens eee Soe 6 ak
Hiceimicamcolection additions tO) these ese se == te ee ee eee 163
MlecMOMACHehC ONOIMO =. 2.9" Ie ae ese ke ce ose ese SR ee oe Bese ee 27, 163
Buiasee Oo Wwernachin@ss ae = ce eek ss Bore apie eS os. 2S ee ae 169
Ellicott, Andrew, surveying instruments used by_------ S eee nee 181
bl ceatste ela WS we Se oe he ns ot Ne SRE a ee a 2 ee 2, ee ie peeen
explorations Of fii). s Se il Soe see ee ae en ee 127
and aWilliam dail ere tate aa ewes tate. Sees ee 28
and William Palmer, mollusks collected by-.---.------ ees 80
MRSC Cb ee ane Dre be ae Y Je EL a ee es ae 107
tae OUOrOn Ml 22 ess We tee ei ok eo 2 ee ed see 91, 165
nMOVOS WS tOl = >. seers te es NS ee ee eee 22
NOW O Ole eee ee = ae eens ee Lee ey YS PP ee eee ee eee 24
[EGA MS Ve Olt NAO TEM NS Sao eo see ene nese eee oo ee Soe aoEasS= 23
macland. ethnological-objects from--.=-2..2.5-2-12------2252-- 2-2 te 142
Bppcimensisent: tO. .- == 2. 25 oo. SOS es 32 es ee ee ee 36
Banrelesmn Museum) Catalomuess.- 2-222 -2.2-- 225555. 3554 oe ee eee 18
Piano whalcbone:nogses = 222. Le 202 os ee Si ie. bs os see ee ee 140
Estes and Lauriat, blind impression fro om an etching pr pecomted Dy eee 161
** Ethnological SUN Ogu: in the U.S. National Museum from Kilima-

PROD Midas rICd. | tne 7 ten Mees Soe eee a2 WER Yoo Ba ee ee ee 381
Ethnological exhibit for the World’s Columbian Exposition ---_----------- 139
Haihnological series, Card catalogue of the_-2-22----..--2¢25-2222-2222 288 138
Ethnology, exchanges with the department of ----_---------------------- 5)

exhibition: series! im.department of. 2. 22-2222. . 25-2 2552= 2 See 19
important accessions in department of -_-- ---------.--------- 79
REpokwon-themMepartment Obes 222s ssecaoe = - = ee ee 135
review of work in department of----------------- seas ee 25
Evermann, Barton Ww - Rea oe eee Ses een ee a EY Se ae FRE iN Se eee _ 221
848 INDEX.

Page.

HVerMann nD aATtOmaVVra uel p Ole OV eee ania cya eee eee eae 746, 750

Hxamination and report, specimens Sent. for... 2-25-22. oe ee ee 43

Bxchanges with foreign establishments. -s2--U2 4522 ta. 52 oe= eee ee 55

H xh bitions series; arrancement Ol.) 29 t= so se een ae ae 19

dévelopmentiofes. 26.225 See “19

EX lOvAtIONS 45-5 1S ste See Nc ee ee ne Se ee 127

by Kish Commisston:steamers: {2220-42 2228. = eee 240

Exploring expedition, bill for the preservation of the collections of the. 312

Exploring expeditions: =< -* 2. 22-18 lovee (2d) 2 _ see 302

LEONE ciel Se Be eee ee. oa Ss DO 2 26, 161

Featherstonhaugh, G. W., expedition under the charge of________--__---- 303

Hernow, (Or... honorary curator -22-2-_.-. 22 2 ee 26, 115

PepOtiOls.<sse Sse eke Sees oe eee ee yal

OMNIA PAGS sana Sle. Sule ne oe meee ee ee eee See SN 114

Hessler, erie 2 co! 622 2 S22 es 2 a es 2 J

iHigt, ethnolosical specimens from -.- -2-2s25.22-222 = eee 144

Hina Ce Clow ose is oS oe os A Ey Be a, 23

Hinance, property, supplies, and accounts ©. -2. 22252. 4-22 2622-5. ee 68

inch. Milton, fossils received from... 22. 2. 25), =< 32222 eee 247

imonien< 225 oo oe 2 ot eR See Ce ee 24
‘First draft of a system of classification for the World’s Columbian Expo-

SUMOn. ROPMIiNtiOl 252k = So ae oe ee Se eS ee 649

Fish Commission (U.S.) brachyurans collected and transmitted by the __- 80

collections transmitted; by thes- 22-2 9--ee— = 116

dred ming si0f thes 3-oeet re = ore ee 31

fishes transmitted by-thei< +) 222.2. 32a ee lease

marine invertebrates contributed by the -------- 236

reptiles transmitted by the 2222552 =e eee 216

review of coOperation of the-2_-__--.__.22_2- 127

shells:contributed: by the. >. =22-22- eee 31, 227

steamers, explorations byl. 422. >. 2=2555 eee 240

transmits collections made by steamer Albatross _ 84

transmits, crustaceans =: 552222225) 5225 ae ee 88

ishereAdam, fossil received: fromm sieen- 2-52) 66 see eee ee 247

Hicher, (Dr: A..K.s paper by, 22 -s2-see~.2> 22... 62) 5 746

Hishes, exchanges with the department of -.__--.-.- = 2222252 2-22 ee 57

important accessions in department Of 5-222. _ 2-5. 22a 80, 219

reporton the department Of-- 5-.--..-<-2-. 5.2.52 219

review of work in department of... i22-222-22c22 52 eee 30

Bish Hoek, eishCommiussion steamer _.-_.----. 222-4. 425 2222 eee 221

iletcher? ieutwinobert Hi 2222222) <>... yee ee ee 108

Eletcher, S. M., sends: specimen of oil sandrock - +. 2-222. 2=.24-—eeee 92

Khint; Dr. James M.-honorary curator <2. 2225265 eee 28, 110, 240

reportfor 1888 by 2-122-625-2202 eee eee 746

PEPOrb Ole = oo ook. 22a Pelee ee ee 179

‘*Mlora Brasiliensis”’_---- eel 2 ee 172

Mower, Elon. Roswellae., presents relies __)--- 225225. - 62 ete ee o1

Folger, Commander William L _----- JienuSe4 tot a ee 109, 262

Polk-lore Congress, meeting ol the: = 25.0.8 pds Ae mee als

Rontaine, Prof. Willian Vi ee a ee a ke eee eee 33, 256, 257

Waper sy 2922. e oe aa eee eee T47

Borbes, (ProteiS. Ase 221 Se Ee ee a er? Meee fe heen a 221

report: by<52sie2.- sso oe ee ee 747
: INDEX. 849

LJ
: 2 Page.
PSL emp RCMP Ogee ane. eis Le VO ee 22 See ew lee 55
Horesupy-collection, accessions to the : <...28 . e222 2. sine se bedee ole 171
Repent Ole ine SOChION Ob ses.) 25. = 28h 22 oe. | eee ee ala
review of work in section of _-_-- BE 2 Wey er ee eager TEN Sey 26
Forrer, R., Roman pottery and Coptic cloths purchased from___________- 100
ore WiG Gd am) Ver eem rete em Me Fae ee ee ee 108
BeesileplantolOxCManeedtes ase essen ee ee Sete eet eee ee 58
deparimentiOtess so 8 20s oS tees Loi Aas See Si:
principal accessions to the department of __--_-_______- ya ee 81
REAGAN CMC Tibi lie eerie ee ee oats Stee 20
reporpon tne deparamenmt, Of. 2228 232 522.5 Sn ak 255
BaAnce nebhnolOmical specimens OM) ==... ae 22s el es. L ok ee 142
SPecimMensisemh teres sae ne een se Me ere 2 ee oe 36
BR UINcA segs OSC Nee om hc aeeneels Sereee ies WN ea Meee Se) ul 92, 99, 101
Bites Hehe BEAO USE C0: G10 ler aa! Semen ee sees Sk 80
Franks, naval architecture of the_-_--_--- ee etre ee eS tale ae ae 552
Hrazar, George B.,.sends stone implements: =. --- == -_ 2. -22-22225. 90, 185
Himes ero ly WV sexChangenylbhnvnes ses seee Sa ee ee 58
Hrost, 1b, sends archavolorieal-speeimens: --5 22-2 ---2 5-2-2232 2-5 02k 87, 91
eve, Wi. h.. presents specimens trom Africa... =. 22 =-2---=-5--5- 58 83
MUO, Ors Euchwexchange wiblye sss eee u sso a oe es ole eee 57
Shellsiobtamedstromest tam ss aoe ee ek hae Ee 227
Bin SCOn MERC Ge EIC Kae = oe La oe Seven a Se kta mei SN ee a ee 33
plants-colleepe davies 72 ene eee 2 ee ees 251
Hurniiure and fixtures, appropriation for 2.2225. +. 224.2. -2.52.2..2.22. 69
Calapacoslslandssmolluskstofatmem ss = sso ee ee ee ee eee 30, 226
Gale Wonis soirds eg. os presented: bys-- 29 s22 2 {se a eee Sg ee 213
bindespresentedubyee =o Seas. = eek = pec ae Nan eee 3 ED)
(CETTE OND YRGel ORG Bi oat oe 8 SINGS Bae ly PE A Oe oe et mene Sh BEE Rees 217
Coaretons Ont Ho. crinold received strom. a= = ass oe ee ee ene ee 246
Bee nee Sy Se ame aR Se ae a gage es UAE FD RRM. Oo Jy he 22
in charge of correspondence and reports .-_-------=2-------.. 73
Geisler, B. and H., authorized to obtain mammals from New Guinea____-_ 204
CGem-collection,. condition of the --2:-..-2).- 25.22.22 Se RE Soe Pe oe Bae 260
iGerenrdnmeCGuelmerallOnseuess 69.0). 5 ot 2 SW ae ee 3
Genesistofshe National Miuseum), hess -- =. 22 ee ee Bee 8 ee ee 273
Geographical list of specimens sent for report ___-_-_-----..-------------- 54
names, board on---------- SS Setanta ee Line See oe, ee ee 13
review of the more important accessions____________--__--- 79
> of the more important accessions of the year______- 82
statement of distribution of sj ecimens-_------._.-..-------- 35
Ceolaoicalimaterials identification(ofes- = ----2-= -=- = ee ee ee 263
Specimens exchanted = <05 2520. 5.2) Sao ee i ee oe 59, 268
Geological Survey (U.S.), collections transmitted by the ----__---------- 111
photographs presented by the -_=.-=----2-2-2= 262
transmits agatized wood -.------.------- wits 86
LOSS Sores se see es 81, 86, 87, 90, 93, 100, 247
munerals’: 52222 2522222286. 571s 958s 94 sO
OES BNC) MOK. Loa l ee oases 81s B45 202
Slabsiofs slater: << 12) sain ee eee 92,
Specimens! OL cyroceras= a= =] ese e see 89
Geological survey of Arkansas ---.--------- ee Re ee aoe 66

sM 91, PT 2 o4.

850 INDEX.

Page.

Geological Survey of Sweden, accessions from -____-_ ._----------------- 245, 247
exchange; with: 3 e22s Seas las ae eee 58

Sseudsiigsstis-= <4. 27 pee 102, 247

Geology, additional space for department of =222i--. 2 ee a ee ee 20
GVA STO mL OL FS ee ae we es ee Se 34
important accessions to the department of------.---_----------- 81
principal collections to the department of-___-_-- Le et ee ee 262
reportion the department Ole. s—ce— sees == es Sea aan ole

review of work in the department of _-_____-____-___-___1___- 34
Germany, pPeermugrirom +=... 2222 s2sS eo es ee ee 142
Specimens sent 10.2.2 2222-2 - 2 L23 See eee ee 36

Clbenet. do rot Charles Fls2i > ssnase eet soe boa ae eee See 116, 221
papers. by-2 2) ss. 225222. 5 See ho ee 747

Gills Dr Pheodore ==-2-=- EM ORS ae Aas Be aie © Ae tess ae so) a a 221, 747
GindsiesCharles, exchanve with .--.. 222.222 seca eee oe eee 55
heliographic impression presented by --_--------- 99, 159, 161

Giiddens@harlGs c= 222255225. Sane. tas nee ae oe ee eee e 169
GoodemRever A: tC = 220525 tery oe bees eae UL eee a oer ee 129
Gage. Cron POW. 2228 250s she eRe ele ee eae ee 221, 237, 239
“Hirst draft of a system of classification,” ete., by ____- 649

‘*The genesis of the National Museum” _______________ 278

Papers Dy Sse. Soe Ree oe Co ee ee ne ee 747

Goodwin, Dr. F. H., carved-stone plaque presented by-__--_- <2u'. ase ee 185
Gordon-Cumming, A. P., sends a Cinghalese headdress--_-__-__------___ 99
Gorham, Rev. Hi. S., sends; African-coleoptera 22-25-4225 s 2555-52 eeeee 84
Coleoptera tease saat aN ee Ee eer ee 98

Gran ELON, WN. Cement shee Sees en toes oases Ss Vel See eee ee 107
Granite Railway Company sends piece of old track of granite railway -__- 90
(ranibs On. WaOUIs B= = 20h see te te ee olen 3. SoS See ee 107
(Grant orelics7ol. Gen U .S.22 22S. 2 22 ee Ce ee 150
Graphic arts, exhibition series in sectioniof - 2. !-4 225. 2-2- 2.2. 3¢0 53 eee 19
important additions to the collection illustrating the ___--- 159

reportion the sectionals] le 5122 Fe see a + ee 159

review of-work inithemsection of =) 02> 2 eto ase 25
Greatisouthibay,nishesioti.=s sees ec epee ee ese - eee ee 219
Greegor, I., presents a series of Tritoniwm femorale_____-__._-.----------- 80, 95
shells, received, from. se 2S6 oe esate ee 227

Greens eros HAL socks andtOres semis! =— ==] ase ee 263
Greenland, ethnological objects from --__--.----------------- ey 140
Greenwood, 'G2G. By mortar presented by :_--25- 5222552 222 22 eee * 186
Groth, ,ProteP., .exchangetwith =-22-t 21 oS 2 ase bese ee 59
geologicall Specimens/sent (0) =2222 5) 22 =2=- oe eee 263

Grover. and Baker machines=< «=. -<_--.-.... 22. eee eee 169
Gudea, .casicOin. sin eee See en 8S Pe eee ee 147
Gnuereza monkeys, proup Ot p22 52055222 2 oe ee ee ee 28
Guildhall Library Committee, London, presents copies of bronze medals. 100
Gunther. sD rsAw. 2: cael Pate es ese I. eee ee 104
Gurney. John Elenry, paper by2-sso02-- 024-5 seesee nessa TAT
Hacen. Drs vexchanve withie2 ees 2) ee ee 58
Norwegian mosses received from-_-_---.--------------- 81, 101, 252

Faltock, Wrilliana-\. 22222. SoBe Se ae = a. 2 eee oe 112

Hamilton, Sure. Gen. John B___-----_- oat, Aen ens A SOOO’
INDEX. 851

Page.

Pagtond, Meni. © OMIMARGOr HY. 552.2 to s% a acces Ga Gan a eee 109, 117

HOES UM RMON ALO INA DOL DY oa. o on. 6 - esse pel. ce ee 748

ETS ES A Gullo ee DRS alae ah SS 8 a a ae eer mere |” * 30, 225

Hartley. scob),, prevents life-size. busts..-: 2... 2) _ 0. 22 2 ee 91

Hartwell irs. WM, sends an old foot-stove........<.2....2. 4-222 91

Eas pEOnCc cH wan vi paper OY. 2-2 20.2 2 oe ool eo a ee 748

ouinelt ee aegis aie eas Bens pe eS ee tae 20

an ph i Or. alee! cee SP ee eae es a Oe 148

leWetll, pUOLOmRaes ATOM.) 222 Soe 2 coe ee 144

Hawkes, Gen. Benjamin F., presents an Eskimo snuff-bag_________.______ 88

Sey reel ONS cA eS eee. eee Se er OP eee 66, 216

Papel bvE: 222222 4... 2 Mee te a ee 748

Eayden, MrevC. Wo, engravings presented by 222... 2... 421s ee 161

Haynes, Prof. H. W., archzeological specimens received from ___________- 184

ficients ORE NCO ISU EG ye tees SNe mh Sele ety ak eR ce a a 2 SLO

Heqimeoand lishting appropriation {Or 5...-22-- 22002258 eee 70

PT errOMIOM Ore ee ee eee 8 oe 2 ee ee 115

Hom pli ie Menry,.~presengs TOSslISe 2. 25 oo 82. c oto aoe wee ee oe 94

STAs Nel cera essa at Cae oe a eee che 87

1 LSTA i asia cle 0) fc) 05512) 0) 1p ee ee aR wp eee Nea en eS 27

SlSCHONOL 2h. ein ce oe ae eee ae - 8382

extnach From) aArbiclesDy == = =e 22 oe er 164

electro-magnetic engine invented and constructed by - 82

EE Pestle ee tS WWlek Is Vf yee tie nee ee ae cat ne Sen a eS ee 27

deposits electro-magnetic engine ________________-____- 82, 94

Hensen, Harry V., bird’s skin from Yezo purchased from_______________-_ 94

Japanese birds purchased from _______-______._.__---_ 79, 209

Veit cnick ee eg ROA Soe sa as a he oh. eng: AG SS ey See) eS 116

BGR traW a WEIS Ware Sa Se atthe) Seek ee ee a wie OS ee 117

Herran, Hon. Thomas, gold ornaments purchased from __________________ 185

sends gold ornaments and pottery .-_-..___________ 96

HewstiG.c., hydrocarbons from-22. 2). Ji cea ee So ene 262

Bina AO saa ey MrOWMs 225. S225 2 FS eee So eee ee ee See 2 ee 2 eeeens 141

Pienescmocr, ride on, Mei. a. 2 as aCe ee oe eo a eee 240

Spridctield, Mage 23 5-2 se ae a cos. ee 240

PleerOtslt. 2b, fossils recetved from. 2922.52 2022.9 = oo ee 246
Hii Peano Wi ob e e 2 sas ono a eo ee PBS a Wk

minerals collected by s-=.2 50. 2-22. 8—s. ae 2 86, 87

sends a specimen of yttrozgummite _________________- 101

LESS sil eeee e eeee  aee Nr  eea eie ee eee ka te 165

Eimes-eetcham: Company. === 228s s2- oe ee 27

incandescent lamps, etc., received from the _____ 82, 94

Nie TOn Ss AOSCAl === 22 - Sta Ble © 2 eee es On) 245

EMS site HleCOleChONS==6). 9 Phe eo oo eos %

Sd Gitrons: to, thera. 202 oo Lo ee elas

Pe pent) Ol: thet ses. 2a. Je a 149

MARUSCENDUS  ChCs ose). oe So 150

Pechicoek; Tomyn. paper Dy, Sa- see 8. ook Shek no Se ee 748

j OLY OS TASS 6. ie aah eR Reg el aE, /* 2 489, 511, 525

presents Japanese playing cards ____- ee ee 98

LA OYE CAEN po] DAA pape! ae ee A oe Ce ge ERED SAIN 114

Hobbs, Prof. Wm., geological specimens sent to._-------.--------------- 263
852 INDEX.

Page.

Hobbs, Prof. Wm., rocks received from 2222-2". 222-2 _-e ose eee eee 262
Sevoslsiaololies} muaVep(Gl oN ex a Se ee Se cease ewes 103

HOO COs Mise wesc = Seen tk sen Vos ae SS eUee ee SLES Cees ee eee eee ees 109
Hotiman sr Wi. dae.) Se hae st See eee oe. ee ee eee eee Ute
sends ethnological specimens: 3-552 2--2.22e-ess—s sane 94

VOU ROOd OR == eae = ae eee ee ee ee ee 28, 179, 256
papers by 2-822. Mesee. hae S ict Bee Sos eee eee 748-749

Sends a specimen of eroproilites2s- 2222-2 S522 Sosa eee 102

iElolmes, Jesse. plantsicollected by 2222 22-2 2 =e eo. See eee Se ee 251
ErolmessVWillltamtEy ae Stee soe Sha ee eee eee aos. ae aoe 26
PaPersiDY 2-2 -2=s-e= So ass tena ee 749

reportOl. sees Se hee eee ee nee ee 145

olzimger,s, Ni... plants from: . 22. . 2223 252 352 S850 Cae eee 251
BIOMED AY QUIRINO) << .- -o ee 2 sb becise aa Stas sees = SSE eee eee Seen esas 22
Hopkins C-.L...presents ae lass-snake=» (22-12 3 2s ess 2 ee 88
Hopkins, Samuel H., sends an American sparrow-hawk ------------------ 90
Horan, Henry ----------------------------------------------------------- 22, 75
[al C iat, [DOO Crs 18S aaa Ooo ee eee eer oe eee oe Canoe eee a= 232
Elo itentore wuOtoowaplis Ol 2se- 222-6. ae 8 eee ee See ee eee ere 1438
RRC a VN Get be To eee oe eee ee 138
paper by... erties ee eee oe aes ae bee eee 429

PApPerssby SNL se See es SNe Pe eS ce ere en Ae 749

presents a specimen of Bostrychus cornutus_--------------- 83

Howorg seweland ©., papers: Dy ies === aoe ee eee 749, 756, 757
Hubbard, Gardiner G., catalogue presented by ------------.------------- 161
Emin birds, reference. 10) paperOne.— 222-22 a eee eae ee 207
Structure of thestoneue, Of) 22 eee. = eee eee 244

MLM eh Ol ds EPs Ss Sa es ee oe a ee neem anes 34, 262
Ores sete, Wromis eo ee 262

Eipavingians collections from the 2922-2" ©1222 2 eee 140
evoneWouib Wass (CS ss oe pa Soe aE & Sg ao ye Ae 268
Eimnter, Julius, reptiles received froma 2. i je ee ee eee 216
H. W. Johns Manufacturing Company, sends a specimen of asbestus - ---- 84
iidahosrepbiles trom 224s ee oe a eee ea be ee eee 29
TG RTB Wo eat arc Jet Been pe ee eS 7 34, 101, 103, 112, 129, 262
iherino. D> Hyon, shellssreceived fnome- 22 -- —- 2 5-2 eee tee Pee fe 227
imperial Museum: of Natural History, Berkin..2_—.--_2> 22-2222 soe eee 240
Imerease in the collections from, 188 tose _ -. -- 2 S2 22 = Se ee ee 15-17
- Index to accession list, by departments in the Museum ------------------ 827
byulocalities= save ce. ~ 5 Se ee oe 815

Indra speclmeng rome ee ans reese is _ Ae eee ee a ee 148
Indian Office, accessions received through the-_-.--==-..----.------------- 110
fucen. Gs van, cossi -plantsiirome. — 22225. ee ee ee 255
Ingram, Edward T., leaf-shaped implements presented by -----..--------- 186
Insectivora of North America, commencement of monograph of the------ 205
insects collection Of Sit sas Soe tae at be Pee ee eee 31
exchanges with the department of =. --: 2-2-5225. 2225--=-2oe eee 57

limpor tant aACCOSSiGns.- Of, 92 e4e= S222. 5 = S22 ee eee 31, 80, 231
Lamedfor collectors 252622 ee 2s ee ee ee 232
Feport-ousthe department of ess". e-2. ee eee 231

reserve andvexhibition! series Ofsess 2 es ee ee eee ee 19
Senitforsstudy.- otk Saee eS, ies ee eee 232

sent imexchange.. 0 a ee 2 er eee ae ene 232
INDEX. 853

Page.

EASOi KOK wNOmOr Mana: eis Ns ee Sh a et) 98

Invertebrate fossils, principal accessions to the departments of —____----- 81

lisletanshiel deiro mess oes pes oo Se eee ela Se oe eae ee 141

HtalyaispeCimens SemlLO) eee shoe oe Sen oe: Beas ee 36

iimesHredericksH accession acOme 2 2-245) Lo Sy wee Pe 161

Jackson, H. E., sends archzological opinions_-_-.---._...-.------.22i--+.- 93

Jackson, DiressKObertelstsnells received trom eo]. see ean ae eee 227

WaAcksON Loomacguel sbirds eo osipresented by 5-5-2 25 2s Sa Mae eee 213

Japan oobnolopical Objects trom: 2... - 2+. 15-82 oats Be ee eee 144

an May pela, aOnisciace retenred! tOs-2 2222. cs. = 242. ea Jee ee ee ee 240

LIEV CU Sera VER Jah 2 2 a ae TS ae eh a a RR OE Popes Si 221

fishes recelvedi(rom-=— = a aah ers ee ee 220

VENNOV RWI ie ose eee Soe Doan eee eee an cas ase ae 112, 256

sends a specimen of white sulphide of zine ----_--------- 89

transmits a specimen of native lead ___-..----.--__---=2: 89

OMMy ViICtOr Ato soo eee SL es 8 geet eat So aan ae See ee eee 107

VoOhMNSston=(awass derOtner Jes Sans so's HS ee ee ee ee 262

exchanges With. 24242205.) sae 4.2 owe coe 59

rocks received Irom .- 2 a2 22 a eee 262

TOCKS Sent tO: sess o5 52 Jka eee a eee 263

sends mineralsoio9-- s'e2 sae eee 100

sends Tyrolese minerals --_---2+.----------- 99

transmits minerals and rocks in exchange... 101

Nordea cess Gy 2 oo tiah 2 ee Sa eS ate ee Sate See es ee 66, 116, 221

fishes; collected ibys cakes yo ses se es a Sa libs 5 ieee a 30

papers) by s2-<5 22225025 aeee nse as. sos te sea ee eas 749-750

ASO PMS SO PIINO Van ee oo aa heb o eee ett: ae eee be ee ee 129

Gu Viw bee ipa ye eee ee Oe Wen Soe Seo Semen oe ee actin eee See 236
archzeological specimens collected by+_-22#2-.-------------=--+ 79 -

pirds.collected: by i222 25-33 2 ae oeee se a ee a cee 209

collectionsimader by. to) 2520s Bees ee eee oie eee 28, 129

collectsimamm alsizcaesse S25 2 oe Siete ee Noa eanree ty eee eee 204

deposits cutlasses and objects of mother-of-pearl and jade from

CIM aie a ea ee See ae se eens 97

linards collected foy= = =o... 3255-5 Aen 2-2 = - eee ee 80

mammalseollectedsby 22 225 555-2 Sones 2a as ceee oe See 201

Outiitiurnished tors. 30/2. 26 ete oe eke 130

parasites *collected by. aos -222- 22 se ON oes ee ee 239

presents Japanese ethnological specimens -------------------- 98

presents specimens from Korea_---- see See see 97

Reptiles: cOleeCted Dy=s: = 5552-22. se2: ses oo 25 22 St ee 215

senas arehecolorical. specimens: 2-2 -222224.- 22 Lee gee 92

sendslizardsfromeyArizona ==. 2-22 eae aa et a eee ee 86

Juni, Benedict ___......-- ER ee Peete ORES ah ate. ie 256

Maiirevanolocical objects: == a. ie Sos --es 2 [Se ee ee Te ee 143

ec ler a ATES PAL seen. en ane Mca t Se ae ana ls 66, 208, 210

RICCO NeI Of mecOlections,” 2 cts-s-cun-s-.- 22a ese eee eee ee 8

Kendall Wares ustudiesion <a 2ven 2s SS ee. See ce eee 239

transmits birds) skins= 22>: _.be 7) see Sys. eee 2 eee 93

{LANs MOIS ASHES = = os ea a ee ee 221

birds presented by -------- na Glee ee See See 209

erie yw ElOn:.s Juan ct Res oe nN Re hae ee Ae sites a 1 106

rere Rhye ENON Ole oa. hepa ct se ete ee a a SS ate Soa oe ae 106
854 INDEX.

Kerby, Hon. J. O., presents specimens from Brazil ___-__.--.2...222222-. 95
ieximSkay Sais. Send srarclajyvaclior die aye sa = ces epee teem ee oe 100
ifewos. lanes iat oe Ae ee ee See PRS aioe t Ss EN 245
Kilima-Njaro, collections from region of__..-.-......--..=----- Sera 2
MONKEY Sxl Qhias or ee a ee ee es Eiht A ae 28

Kermimnberly, @ndiminals <2 = Be. eee secre 4a ams fae ae a ee Bakes 25
< collectionsifromimssa. jas 208 es ye ee 136
Eincaid, "Trevor. -_ - == preter aL ee ERR YOO NCE IE Teck PEGE Ie Te RO Ee Re AIS)
hime rGplantis-transmitted by 12% - 22250552 ao ee ee ee 81
TTS OV ae Ohiwa i. IS, oe Men ete! eee Se ee ee ey eee 237
eeinpelegon trios te) OL moce . Wincott Se ee ena, eae ee 116
fishes received 1rom=s 252-5 sees een he a oe ee ee 220

SHON LDOMorE stil i nerd eine Pe oo Pe eek es BE ge ee elo me
Papers yao ae kaye Leeda eS ee ee ee 747, 750

Knudsen, A. F., sends alcoholic mammals ________--_--___-_-- cit ti wee 104
Koch, J... sendsistone implements... 2 see ace eet 90
Koebele, A., insects collected by__--..-.._-_- Ber eet oe picks: 31, 80, 86, 114, 231
Kocher S: i. .curator-of oraphicartsic a: 2-20 se6o 8 a = ee 26
papersibys =< eee ae Ek APONTE eS Sie pee ha eee eee 750

PE POL GO laa ae ee & See Fee ee se 159

Koehler, Walter H., minerals presented by-_-.----___---__----34, 81, 103, 107, 259
Kohn~Gustave, reptiles received from? — =. 2222252). 2u22 22.5 ae ee 216
Korea ,ovnnoloricali@piects frome oe a ee ee ee eee 144
Kuntzen, Theo., ores and-stones presented by _/-!.----+:-..--.!4--5252022 262
Kunz, George F’., sends specimens of meteorites _____________-___-------- 89
Reacis wpre panAtlOn Ole. =. fst Siem mee St 4 JUN ote ee eee ae 75
IL NG SHAE ae Speen eS a ips RON re ie oe vay RE OR RMR Rea TT ‘ 24
iabrader ethnological objects irom oo sec. sade ee 2s ee ee 140
Pander lertsh, presents coal planis.coci22) sale ee ee 93
Langley, S. P., ancient watch movements collected by ____--------------- 181
presents a pack of Spanish ‘‘monte”’ cards-__-_----------- 102
hManwrdale, John W:., fossils recetved-from: 222.2. 2+ 2 oe 2 o- se 247
Marana) Group ora Ofthe 2: sas ee ee ee ari Satie ee 256
Latin-American department of the World’s Fair____- 2a A eee ee 136
Wawrence. <GeorvesN <..-- 25 --c- 2 Seer eee eae Sees eee ee 66
Paper Dye Seow wee see a tk es ee ee 750

ay fisures, preparation of = - 2: 2222. 2222-22-<- 2 1 le EA WIT Sg Ae eae 136
Wearcollecttoniot shells: sworksomt tees: a= 5. eee een ene ere 227
isendisaac.<minerals bequeathed by As eis ee eee 259
PRS GUUOS A Ste tee, ee oh a Se ke ns 2 AOS eS a ee 65
Lee, Lieut. Col. J. G. C., sends the skull of a mammal __----.-.-..----=-- 108
iLeeros, --rot., silver-pointdrawine byus) 2 sett eee ee 159
eidy, Dr. Joseph, gem collection of__--..2...--_.2L222221-._2_-2 234,81, OF 258
Amon J. Hs fossils received (roms 22062: 2. <2. 3/28 28 sia Ss oer ee eee 247
Mesquereux, Prof. Iueo, papersby 22.42.) 22 2g SR a ee ee 751
plantsidetermined, by 2222455054555. 2= seas 255

hewis and Clarke, expedition ais: =-2 2... ..5... 22 ee 302
NBS Was ce MS Mer Meee 7 aR eee fee se Sie a oe See Ag ile
transinits.two‘*ehost:shivts”-. 25. =) Se eee 93
Liberty,,cast.of the status of «2 202-2 ene ce ee eee 81, 149
Library, ineréase ine 22 7..< $252. eee ee ee ee 9

report Om operations Ol GhGi- {ooo 2. === sae eee 42
INDEX. 855

Page

ietiee-176 lay NoUres, proparavion, Ol- == 22.05 5.282 22 eS ee 136

Pindshl Joshua, correspondence with]. 22.225 222 Sse ee 204

MEW say eda Pally meets a Peer! a= SL SS 52>. SSeS ee ek ee 165

deposit cylinder of ‘‘ Stourbridge Lion” ____--._-_----- 92

MinclovnsMo TOSStSirOCelve Irom s. 2- S203. Soe Sa aU i 246

SeuCs corals ands pLrachilOVOC See saa aa as mee sre eae 89

Peer Louw WI seer eee et Se 22 Fo ra eee eee 239

Pinuny ndians “specimencrTr@m- whe w= —- oo. A st __ ee a ee 141

ESC CORSO M Seer a eee eee ae tetas ye eT Db eee 767

paperspublished, during thesyear=2 2 tise ~ 20 Ss 2k eles ee - 742

Specimens rece vee forexam ination. 9-228. 2-2. ae 22 2 eee 43

woods: oF the Araentinenepu Dlic as wae oo 08. L222 ee ee 173

Uae Cales SN TE a ee ae a oe eee ee ee ee rae se se 114

LGediibies sinde x tOmccession list by 2s =Jatoso2 2-222 S22. See 815

Hiei elicit toys ec Come ape uy mee rms a2 sehen fe ite Nt ee 751

dono, Maj., expeditions under the:charge of-2_ 22-2... ...-----------.2 22 303

Loomis, E. J., transmits rocks from Kimberley diamond mines ---------- 83

Woomuis, 4, sendsicocoons of ichneumon fly. 2... 2-2.-.22. 1-22-22 98

oonmsweevercth Ms, papers bys. - 2-2-2 2Sio22222 Dera CAR Le ee 751

EOE Sear Cte ees eae oe ee Rs Ste es ak ee 113

HOIRIENI, eer et a eh re ge eS gn de 4 2 eR EL 113

sends minerals from Russia__------- 2s ESE Mo) eee he 2 102
monrsianaiState Winiversity: === sos s6 222 ese eee ee eee 240 ~

ovets, Hidward, African objects received from: 2.--222-. 42-2.-..2°2---2 82

CMC MET MES) Wik se Ses ete a OU ay, epee eM RE ee re 56

sends a brass)lota from: Burma 2522-5 22 2..02 “22 ee 97

fire-arill ands iish-nookt fe 22 Jae ee Sat Soe oe 102

knife:and pieces of old pottery =--2222722—- =. s--= 100

ethnological specimens from Fiji Islands_------_--- 104

armen Gonm CharlesiG = 365-225 0 _ fo Pt eee See eee ee a ee 103

leMcasmiredenic A, assistan biCULraALOM Soe s as oe sete ee ee ne Se 32

OSteOlOpist 222s. tue 2 os ieee ee eee eee ee cits

Papers: Dy. se. ce e Se se oe eee eae Se 751

report on department of comparative anatomy by ---- 248

report on vertebrate fossils by 222 2222 2222-= =e 2 eee 223

Special-studies Of ...- 32220 ae Sele eee 32

miei er. presents cOrals~ (2.2 =. . 22.5 22. = feces oe eee eee 89

COSHTIS VECCL Ved) from. — 26550 2222 5a eke se ee 246

itiken, Ory @hr., exchanse arranged with -..:-:2------.-2+-52---4eeeee 58

Sx CMAN CeEWINS oes ooo ee ee oo 57

leanrell, ohowas:.!., bird presented by.--.-=2:=-2-2:---<--25-2-22e5e5 ae 209

MacFarlane, R., specimens presented by ----------------------29, 80, 85, 209, 213

Pee cea we iS |e eee eo es ae eh od aoe eee 97, 106

Mineo sccarmre piles frOMe a 27. sus 5-222 sce os eoile ee ese SS a eee 29

Maire llatmosbesnorkobratie Ol 20-222. s522 220. 22-6 2a ae eee 30

Magnetic Iron and Steel Ore Company sends specimens of ore--..- -------- 93

Smialenue aria TRO =e nee = eee eee. OL eee ee eee eee 144

Mamma loxhibit for the World’s Mair 22.25.5220: 2.225+5--21-25)-£2- 28, 199, 203

Manunais. tabels prepared for. 2. 9-2. 92.52.2520 22-2 eae ee 202

Migced On Oxi DION. =o. 2202 2 2oso = ae 201

BOMEC LOTS Ohne ee eee eee rere ea ey NOD Oe aan te oe ee 204

exchanges with the department of __-------------------------- 56

important accessions to the department of -------------------- 79, 200
856 INDEX.

Page

Mammals, lent for study :2_ 2-252 Seake == A eg SVR ATS SE Cetera 204

MOUN TEU SkIRSIOR hs eet ay Se ee ete ERE er mee 202

number of specimens in the collection of ..2._...--.--.--.--.-: 205

oil paintings hung in the department of _-_--.---------.------- 202

papers published by the Museum in regard to __--_----------- 203

report on the department of ----.-----2-- 2.--/- Twa ce See see 199

review Of workin department/Ofe.- 22-2 se0 2-25 ose. eee 28

sent in exchanvie sso. 2052s Ce Sees eee ee ee ee 204

storage cases for the department Of =2-2-- 23 2222 - ee 202

Maps.for labeling specimens, preparation of..--_-.-+-,-2-.---------22-2- 135s

MEarRIneEEOSMEtal Service 2-2-2520. Wes e ee ess a ee ee oe i ere 100, 107

Marine invertebrates, exchanges with the depar er Of s Srey Sh 58

exibition series Of 4 ose 222 - ees aoe cee ee 20

important accessions to the department of _-__---- 32, 80

report onthe department Of. 22222) 5 se = ae eee 235

review of work in department of--_---------------- 31

sent in exchange or for study --------------------- 240

Minette n dabei 22. oe Coase 2 ees eh ee eee ee 233

PAPO DY. cease sees eee ES Ea Ree pe 3 ee ek 751, 757

Marsh, ror Ouse. honorary curator 2 25205. se 5 2 bs a2 sae FAS 20, 30, 113, 223

METS UMS ass sta ataC Ou Meir OMe a == ee ee ee ee 144

Mason, Edward P., presents an Italian musical instrument, ete ___------- 101

Mason, Otis -.. curator of ethnology '2--¢ 5.280525. fac eee eee 13, 25
DBNELS: DY ssoce sc Soon soe eC mee see ote cee es ee ee 751

PEPORMOl a2 sen oes == Sat aa UY ie Reo ee eee gee eS meee 5)

Massachusetts Society for Promotion of Agriculture. ___-.-..-.---------- 82, 90
Materia medica, number of specimens of oo 22 2 2 222 se ee 17

reportronethe:Seetlon Ofte. o= aa hee ee ae 179

review of work in section of ------ aS eee = Naess tet 28

Matthews, Dr. Washington T -.---_--- SoA ee ne oe Se ee ee ee ee 91, 108, 185

Maynard, Mrs. Nellie Long, presents guns, ete _._. -..-.--.------2---2225 oT

inward ier Yost sok Seek 8 Te ae eee Sa ee 137

Me@onnell Ach psc s0 esse 5 ore eee ope Cee eer oe te ee ee 236

MeMonald“ColMisrshallics: 22.2 4225s Sa ee eee oe eee LG

MeDousal Mr: <b. plants collected by 222-0 <2 22 2 See eee ii, ae 252

MeGuire, JoG. sends pyrite fram Mlba- .2-= = 2222 ee eee 101

MeIntoshs sblion. James. 2952S semen oe ee a eee 107

MeNiurnichs terol Jide ne 5 3a ee. Lee 240

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A_________- Spee Og COU! ra ar a ae alee aeeta ou tte are 66, 90, 109, 209

papers Dy ©2822. 22. ee a ae 751, 752

Medalsiand monuments: 22-2220 oe sek eee 151

awarded to the United States by the Paris Exposition. ------~----- 150

from "Hollander == seo ie. (eee eee er 150

Mediterranean, deep-sea fishes from the_--.---_-_--..--=-2-22-52------=-= 30

INS Coamieers oe acran ame eee Capa a ET1 ae eek Seg fae 30, 116, 221

WMeetine sof associations 25-2. awe ohint | oe ee ee ee ee il

BOCIOtIGS.. cece at esau tases i SS5. eres eee ee 65

be Lyaillie snes Vie eteee 20 ye ies ee Wo ee ae eee 113

Melville» Commodore) US: Navy 2-25. 5. to ee 72

Mendenhall: Dre "To © 252 25 Oe ae ae 9 ee EE ee eae ee ee 107

Menoall Ac WG oe So octal Ae eee ee 131
INDEX. 857

Page

MemeditherEvon.. William = <i <c2ces2-.-L2. 2 eee so. 2s 5 Rees eas Seas 107
ReReN ately, OETA Sere Seer Pe Se. = ae eR 8 Se AIS 207, 227 23
DiIndSKereSmecelve dliromn a= eee ese oo eee een aes 213

corals receivedsttOm, 228-5522 sues Ue Shs Roney ee ee 247

mammal ssreceivied: (roms. 5.2 7-521. J ba eee ae 205

[OSE OTE) | eee ee oe eg mee a ew hie Meteo): Saat 752

HOMUMES MOM see ota cel. coe sued Che ah ee A OMe GS

Merriam, Hon. Clinton L., deposits elk antlers ___...-___-__ .-...-----79, 90, 200
Messer PG Coreeuls, WADer SI i as se hears Or A Sasi Lee Celok 2 ee ean oe 752
FREI OLOVEUN OLS Deeps eae pecs a espera Meee eee eet = Fi ae ae Gane 261

Merrill, George R., human skulls presented by__--.-____2-..-..-.-. 4222. 185
Merrill, Dri JC 224... See See Skt SR ae Sek ee la a ea 109
Marcie worenub., rocks and ores sent. t0.2-7= 85.242 45. oe ee 263
Morrie Dela MONOMLEISOMn Ont ena. ows 22 2e 2 ee al ee 263
Woerrriib, Wi, Allison, birds presented: by 2:--2--.22.2.-25.-22--24.2 SE a ama
MOEBZOLeMOsi sy COlleGhOn: Ol eee se a foe ke a eed Wns eee ye OE 33
EAT AME TITS Nt Olean pe Se eee ae 20

BECOIG Crete weet A Chye orate Ss Lie ee Se a alles 81

repurnon department oh 22+" ssc ae eee 249

MeRen ters sss. 22 fi Noe See Ss et OE TN a ee A ee ee 24
Metcrliouvi Send Sia wizande net. as See Sea ot ae aes 91
MenemriicsrCOMeCHLOULOL 9-2 25a... ee ee ee 2 Oe 259
Maticn Ge. oa jb. nammals identitied: for: 52-2 2.22 222 SoS = es 205
BELO WLC awe ees PO ee Sh eee as ee amare Wee eee ok 72
Monerals. condition of the collectionjof 22.22. .2..6. 222220222 2 ee 260
SKS LOS TS COSY A Ne Ct Ges eee ee = eg an ee ere ee a ieee ETS mee be eS ee are 34

Cie RTC eer ce eam 5 Seat ot Re aS Coe hat bY oft Da Ae ved oR 59
important additions to the collection of ____________- a See eee 81

- NEALLAN Ce MEMb OL: a act Mame ee ee ee es Sy ee 20
Teportion the department Of 2222 sess as 1s ae eR ee 259

PissOUrEN ey College Sse 2s oe ie Hea Soe at Se ee 2 ee 240
Maitehell,C. H., infusorial earth*presented by. _2.-.2.---_-L.2-2:222-222- 269
Rios wr earl. exchange: withs 2 22226 ceki A geese a Lo oo eee ee 58
Nakispuenlos, collections #rom the. =". <2 -2htess sae oe lt ne eee 141
Mojavesinaians ccollectionsirom! the = 222 So ne ee ee ae 141
Mollusks, condition of the collection of -_-------- See eee es 2 eee 228
exchanres wapasthemdepartment of 22s 25) 22. 22a. a2 ee bil

excuibi tion series imidepartment Of @ 2229-2405 222. eae eee 19

RM POrbanceror vane Collection Ol... 2) vies -Sueee ee ee 30

MM PORbANbCCESSIONS Ol = 22 afc. 5: oh eee Se aa Es eee 80, 227

ESpUron tne G@eparvmentOl 22.64.20 2-98. 220 s-e eee 225
Specidaesarches Oles mae. anes s 22. 0G el oe ie 2 es ee 228

review Of workin departmentiol.2- =. 2.524. 2. Sake eee 30
Monographic Catalooues, preparation, Of 5-....2.222 - 4-2. 2-62 e2-c5 See 138
Mianitandon pe oroteAtnlie insects sent tO=o- 4-0. 4- -- s ee 232
POMC Vig RN CS ae Seren te SL ce eee ee ON BA ale oe ih 2 117
ING OTe taller 6 Unter mere eane pare Bee Ne Sancta 2 Sis ay Se he eee 110
Mimrchend collechiontOb relics 29+: 2a 3-2 Le etd: te San oe ee 183
Moorehead, Warren K., deposits collection of relics --------------------- 92
Morgan, Gen. T. J., Commissioner of Indian Affairs ____-__--.----------- 110
Mormon BiMHolOoeieal Obl 6Cts.. = sea) s- Ss. 22 <2525 422 MSs Se 140
Morons, Dr Thomas, plants purchased from: .= 222 's_2.2-2bs) Sees sae 251

Morse, Prof. Alired: Vaul's relations with): - 2259252252... nian See Sete oe 164
858 INDEX.

Page.

Moser, biewihs o's Ai. eS os ee Fo SR eS Set Cte epee ae ae perce ye 88, 107, 237
Mount Vernon) Seminary, Washing tons. s2s5 <2) 2 eee ee eee 240
Muéller, Baron Ferd. von, presents fossil plants _--.._/_.-._--2.-.--- 81, 108, 104
Mullin, Dr. R. P., lead ores:presented) by2--22-) 4.2 2225 - 2 oe ae oe 262
Murdoch; John, librarian. “oc 2- + Sea er i fered Le ee 22
report offi o 2 sce ese ashe, Gree ee, eee 42
Mmnseoide)Productos Arcentinoss2< = 2.320 aa ee eee 172
woods receiyéd! from!s.2 5225 3- eee eee 82, 95

Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, birds received from _-_______-------_____. 209
Museo Nazionale d’Anthropologia, exchange with _------__-_--_-_--_-____- 56
MUneSHINCAtalOSes, CNOPleEs Ino A aoe et Te eee »_ 5 eae 18
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, sends a spear from New Guinea____--____- 108
Museum of Natural History, Paris, birds presented by the----.-.-------- 209
exchange swith» 22.02 2205s: a eee 56, 57

fishes recelved drome 2a. = aes ane 219

Museum, publications oi thes-<: 232.24, 2535582 eee 739
Stalin. 212 ete ako Cs eee SE ee ee 20

Myer, E., correspondence with --------------- 3 ee ae emits Se 3s 204
Nivthology.of the: Japanese” _.-2_ 5.1.98: 32a eee ee 489
Namibe altarspieces irom. i.s62 22 2g i2o ee ve ee ee 141
Nathorst, Prof. A. G., exchange with: 42. 52.<sc2 sate ee eee 58
National Board on Geographical Names 2222-222 5.22222 =32 es eee 135
Cabinet;:of Curiosities, hes sS2- oss lade eee ee 301

Fer baritinies -ocee cst ees eee een a eee fee 126
additions: tov the 252 Sess ee 33

Institutes endothe soses2 oak ae ee eee 331
iristitution, act to, ineorporate -the:2. 2-0-2552 .ees ee eee 286

decline of the =s222 3 Aa SS eee ae 297

object.ol the...»0 2.225. 2sesie ee » 286

organization of the 2-22.25 Lie 274

origin. of the =.--. 222s eee 281

Museum buildine request formamewes2 = 922925552) =o eee 4
direction of, the =. Ga-o. Sis 2) See ee u

firstiuse of the term soe 252 ea ee ee 341

wrow th: Of 5.2 sesso 2 eee 4

Navajolndians; collections from the.- 22222559 es eee 141
Navy Department and the Navy, codperation of the----.----------------- 109
review OL. cooperationlof the s2.2 9-5) - == == eee 123

Neale, Ga.@ 2s. —... - ue RSet Sa eee 2 0 ERE AI os ele ee 268
Nealkey G7. :plants irom: 2.52. 22.2 = Se ee 251
WNeerolomy ants Sane  6 tae occas asco poat Loe Oe ee ee 14
Negroes of South Carolina, basket made by --.-----_--__2--2------2-2 === 142
Nebrling. Ei. work on birds by: 222. 22. ye ee 29
Nelson; 1. W.,, bird presented-by....- 2-2 2.2. ae 209
DADGE Ds ser) oot ek ee 752

Neocene formations, report on the... .-.2l2-2222- 222-6522 ee
Nesisiin the.collection mumiberiohes. 5-2 == 5a ee 29
Newman, Bishop John P., presents a mosaic dish from Madras ~--------- 97
Neumann, Dr. Julius, musical instruments collected by ------------------ 82
sends Chinese musical instruments ---------------- 97

New Brunswick, University of, fossils received from--------------------- 246
Neweombe, Dr Charles Wi .- 5,2 tee ooh Oa eae 236
INDEX. 859

: Page

New Guinea, specimens from _--..-.-----.---- gi Ae peas Ramer ye. OU oe 144

EAVES SLEPT RY G/L ES al Ni Se er ge ea er REE ye At ce 268

New Mexico, dracments Of bowl: frome 2-22. 22 -22c2 2 bet 22 esse 145
New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company sends a wheel of

lGeomotive, 2, Witt, Clinton” 22070222) wie 222k Se 9]

Kneravine ands rinting Company : 22.2225... [20.242 bese se 160

1S LELere (ish tel a fr alae ea SIDS cea ey mR a 0

Noah, Judge Jacob J., plates from Tunis received from ________---______- 83

Ny io He aplet Gy rieee KO ENINWR VV pee se ees er ee ee A eoY oot es 110

Eber al all OxChange, With™ ws s\n eee s ie sleek oe 57

Inseets sent to. 1. -- 2... Epes CRB rane ee ee eee 232

sends Huropean Carivide ..2 2 2. - 222-2 bok 103

BeOS LA LON™ 200 OPC US es es oe Ot oe Ec ES I ae ae 216

SuppPlemMenttOls ss S42 8s 5k eee 29

iunmandyeeruiso: lamp LroOmt-<= 4222-222 52862 oo Se) et Je 142

ee otriGh. ACCOSslONG (POM. 2. 25-22-5042 - 222822 usiwee ne 22 2

Sorina moricanibirds,” by El Nehring: -. 22. -.-2..22222. j-dsescl Yel 22 29

Norton. DriCe Ay, sends) fire-tongs from Denmark 222225. .22. 5222222228 99

RUS POGLCR EPONCS as -cis) 3° So eee aye ten) ee 90

specimen of leuchtenberoite 252202. -.4.-=_ 22224 102

2° TRILEEN Dy Oe CO 1 TBS a toe eB a aetna Con Re es ee RS oe 236

NOMS COULA KCAllOG MOM sere n =. 4 ease oy Se Eos. Le ee ra Tee, aie 140

Siicsete we ReCCESIONS CrOMy a2 i= te. ee hae Ses “eee ee 25

incor smu OEV mse mmM HS GOb ssa 260 oo oka AU) ers | oe i eh 22

O'Neill, William O., onyx marble presented by--_------------------ 34, 81, 86, 262

PramOMe eels aNd Sword (rOml 2 =. 202625524 fo ee a 143

DUET SST ikea a hte ga ee 80, 87, 201, 216, 236

ONPS\EG Va! TTS) Ret iy 110 96 Nee pen = eee AR ee Ope a SE ce ne 140

Pere cane ZA OnEO Tne MUBCUNT 282. 08 See eS pare Be oe Min se ees ee 7

Oriental_antiquities, report on the section of .-..2---22- 2122-220 2222228- 147

Orcknevelsiand, modelWot lamp iromithes soe 3-55 = see ee eee ee 142

Pimento ma StS mons | ie 2 ie Se te et he eet oe eee 207

elahith: conpress Of = =. sa ie ee ie ees 29

ercion, _ rot Ldward, fossil: plants semt by 225. 2224-22 255.2 5. 256-4 seaee 81, 92

COS DORIC pa Vere a sare ees he Sos | eee a seta ee eee 26

ACCESSLONG pe Ce UVeG ti ONMN sae a ey ee eee 159, 161

Dacca preparator, Work Of the * 2. - 22. .-.2 522 lb. 44-1 seo see chr

Pete LONc Ol TOSSING 2= . 7 cee os ee or ee i

Gwen avid Dale, collection made by—.-----2+-...2.22-2+--222-2-.-425238 307

OVINE LKO DGILU RA ore a eee Sen ete eae ees 2 Be Se ae ee eee 299

Oxtordevinseum, relahlonSawith thes=— 2-225. 2 22.) eet ee ee 138

Benos tsurm ese OD ICCisiE = aan a oa. a eee 97

Gy Sierapods SS RVe mn Oltme sak = eon Soe eee eee Soe ee 31

PUPS STUBS. = iS. 3 SE em ea eg a ae 24

Beteozbie nossus sUeparhment Of 622-2 si 2.2225. hs se se. dee ee 32

CIAO e Cee ate en a Se Set Oh aS ae ee ee 58

from the geological survey of Sweden------------------ 81

principal accessions to the collection of --_------------- 246

report om the department, of. <i2- 2-22 sent ane BREE Se 245

SUONAG O10 let nee lees eee. Se Sar eee ea tae cae Saree ee 20°

Palme Gharles insects recelveduiromys.s 935.2442 .5 oa ce) See 84, 231

SO ni sUOwe ss sere apes en oo She, Dy eel ey Rte ae 232
860 INDEX.

Page.
Palmer, Edward, plants collected, by ---..5° 45. 2c pee ee ee 33
Palmers Wien 22 cs loos 2 eee he Soe Pee eee eee 29
Alaskan mammals collected by ~_..-----.-_#2_2 2aae3 200
birds collected iby #2: 4!-2<2-2< 424225 eS See 209, 243
birds* nests'and epss collected! by: 2 5-2 = ae eee 213
chief taxidermist s22!s.. 2c. 2e5 Oe eee 76
explorations Of 2:22. s2=-¢<225- 5-443 =357 eee 127
marine invertebrates collected by-=--_2-- 1232.32 ees 236
paper by : 2/22 5. eb eae ec oe 752
shells and fossils.collected! byos22 24. 222 ae 227
Panopeus, paper on the: Penus. 29.2.5 4252242 Sk i eee 239
Papaco Indians; halter used by: the 222: 22524 222 See ee 141
Papers constituting Vol. xl1of ‘Proceedings’ =__. 3. 25222322; sae 61
deseribing and illustrating collections in the Museum___________- 271
inithe! Reporttor 888: 12s fee ee ee Ae ee ee 60
published:during-the years. +222 a2) 25 ee 742
ORIOLE. OStEOLORY (Ol she tee 2 ee Lo a = yee Pee BREE? 32, 242
Parke, Davis & Co., materia medica specimens from_-_----__-----_-___+= 28,179
Parker: Ariz: -pottery roms. -23% 9 sh eae i Se Oi ee ee 145
Parkhurst,.J. M., ‘appointed engineer. 2s. 4 5-2 38e- 2 as" 2 eee S Ree 71
Participation in World’s Columbian Exposition --__-._.-------_----_._--- 12
SUParis. “Ol Bulletins 9s se ees ee Se ete ee 63
Patagonia, fishes frome 2-252) sys. Bee ee ee 30
Patent.centenhial celebration. 2... 56 255-265-324 =e =o ee 13, 27, 165
iPatenttor a;reirigeratornasss -- eames oe a ee a re 111
Patent OMmcos =. e-shop ese ee ee te eee 111
Tee ale wine At oo Na oaat Be ae oor ele Wes dee een deck ee 113
Peek, C. H.} send relics of the revolutionary war. 222-722-232 eee 7
Pelew islands, canoe from ss s.22 35.222 32 es ee ee 144
Pennsylvania State College._2= =. - 2.22820 520 3 ee eee 240
Perkins, Frederick S., collection of copper objects purchased from__--_79, 94, 184
Perry, Hl. W.,collecting outit furnished) to... -<=-2 4 ee 130
Personal relics ol eminent men ys... 2 ee ee 150
Peru, mace from <foss 262. Se eee es Skee ee ee 142
Peters, Rev. John P., transmits specimens from Bagdad and Mesopo-
talmia,>—--=-5 22 So Sseis = PGS ERE es ese BLES TEA ee ee 98
Photographer ice 2.03.5 Son See aes 2 Eee ee ee 23,77
Photogravyure Company, Neowin Wor ke 22 eee ee ee ee 160
“Phylogeny of the Pelecypoda,” — 1:2. 2-28.2254-- = 2..- = 227
Physical apparatus: ---.. 2-2-2. 225.2. USt Gud Meee oe eee ee wae 26
report on the section Of .!22250 02.232 181
IPICULISS 2 Pets oe se coe ee eee IE eee he ee Se cet oh ear 141
PiedrayMieuel;sendsiopals- 22225252. 2s aes Sa ee 85
Piegan Indians; bead work. of the. ...---.------e22- 2 Se se ee 140
Evisbry, F.0d, papersiby 2.2. 0. 22. ea eee a ee 746
Pima Indians,:whip used. by the -=.-..--2- 222-2: 2402 8 ees eee 141
Piute: Indians, cooking tray used by the_.. }.-_-2<: --22 55-24-42 e eee 141
Plants, department: of fossil 22-2 2... sss ete oe eee 33
report On fossil 222222 <2 els oi 2G Be et ee ee 255
department of recent=.2<. .- 22-5... 3-22.28) ee ee 33
reportion-réecentwn- case eee 22 le US eee 251
Plaster casts of typical stone implements, preparation of ___---_--------- 183, 196

Poimsett, Joel Ria sces ct ee se eet ee ee ee eee eee 287
INDEX. 861

Page.
Poinsett, Joel R:,,extract from address‘of..._.22.-.2...2....-5-.-------2-- 289
PrPanee AuGcpublie COMO ter: ease anata et Vee le ee ls o ee eee 75
Eerie le wht Verde beets ae ee eS eS i eee wee 109
Pond, Tent Chasse s oe See eB ee ee ee 85, 110, 129
Porter, Frederick W., sends a collection of old State bank notes________. 94
Portrait sOmeniinomtsn cero sees esata oo. oe! PS A eet Pe ee 151
ROoragerstianips. Collection Of» ta 20-422 22% (228 (elk eS yeiee el Soe 152
Post-office Department, courtesies extended by the --_-_-_.___.__________ 126
EinAC HOPanGtiaies OL GHG 22 eset ee wee Blo es ks 957
Potter, Oscar, sends a specimen of orthoceras___-.....---.--.--.-.-.-...- 91, 246
ottery trammonts, AaCcCessions Of -2_ - 2522 Jae. 2222 oe 145
movehet; Dr. George, exchange with =. -.2=- eae. 2 56, 57
Owe, Wiad aVW 2 sa-s2 eof estas ee ee a eS ee 1LOS AT ae
CLINOIds PeCehved TOM -e eee estat oe Ye 246
Rewotn ts. resents aichilpmunk.-=-2 5522-5 55_-c2ce ss bl 2 Ll oe 201
TE HS) Lg AUG gr IS a a 28, 179
2 PE ihby TSMOVH 521 51S) 05501 CCE) ae ys ea tc a a a 107
Prehistoric anthropology, exchanges with the daparement Ol Bae 2s See 56
reportion the department Of 222.222 183
review of work in department of__.---_...____-_- 25
Prehistoric naval architecture of the north of Europe ___--_-.____________ 527
ropanaonortapels ees (5 5's: oooh SOE a2 SES se 75
RCMB OES ee Se aera es Ol AR 2b Pees eee Se ee Sees sos 24
Oat Ole GC a ANS are Sete a. aie SO ee ee Sd 76
Preservation of collections, appropriation for-------------------.__.____- 69
Preston, E. D., presents a specimen of Grapsus maculatus _-___._._______- 107
Pribylov Islands, mammals from ----------.--------------- a ten 8 Sales 28
Erincipalr sources Of phescollections <2 4.2217 +- 525282422 2- see ne eee ae 8
frie. Gs, plalits COLGCLEG DY 2222s sccosl eae sete ees hee ee 251
eileen. Ge... Presembs DIrdS: O82 2.0 9. oso at Seema ee eee ee 209
SPE NS  ES S s G ease aoe Sees oes FESS 92
Proceedings of the National Museum pu blished i De oY SLO) We SR em 739
A VAC) LSE. <i fh 07 ea ae sis, Caen ate a dS 60
Vol So OP Sa aa", sete nes) eee a)
Vol. XIII, papers published in _____- 61

Programme of seventh annual meeting of the American Historical Con-
Seeeticlig ti eee eS eee 2 i eC ea il de ee Soe een eee 153
Peeectnyac enigue: 20 eee oP eet ese Se eee es 23
EPOuseroharlesiGy = 2222255. 2252 See eee oe Mee oe ee Sy eee ene ae 33, 256
PAVEESADV ee see teeta toes eee ee Uieo ssa 2 keel 752
Proudfit, S. V., paper by_-_-_--- Ce eects ee Ae ee Woe er eee 752
PpipibentiOns Olvme WiiseumMen t= <i 25 ta. Aes th ee eee 59, 739
SPPLOPLIGHONS TOL fae 2 255-2250. Se ese ee ee eee 60
mupplo models, acrangementiof the =... 226222222 i. c. ec 189
Putnam, Prof. F. W., transmits an ancient iron lamp --_----------------- 92
Quartermaster’s Department, U.S. Army, facilities afforded by the _____- 108

transmits specimens of onyx
MAT DLO the. Pema. Gant eee 86
Pap, Oreawwrlliam, 1, birds presented bys... 22-5252 eee 209
birds’ eggs and nests presented by---------------- 2, 213
presents skin of gray Florida wolf_------------- -- “200
SeENdsrCOWECIMONS .s27 Seana en. Aes ec ye ese 88

Randolph Macon College transmits a commemorative medal____-.-...--- 94
862 INDEX.

Paga,

Rathbun, Miss Mis J.2-5- S282. eee oe ee eee ee 31, 235
Rathbun, Richard, honorary, curator: =22-- 222222225 2se ee nee ae Oem ipee Ey
papers by =- 23 22827 o se ee eae 7152-3

report Of. 1a aeh.ss Fa oS ees Ae Ce oe ee 235

Rau memorial library sic 242 2 Fa eee ae eee 42
Recent plants, department:of -2.-- 40222 «seen c= ee ee eee 33
important additions to collection of ..-.-------- See 81

PEPOT DOM ast eck. a eee 9 SL Sth. 251

Redwood, F. T., sends a wooden image from Peru-------------------_-- : 96
Japanese weapons /2=.—-- 1aUbs S22 eee 98

Reeds Capt-As°V --- 2s 22 ve ee ee ee 110
presents specimens from Brazil::_.° 20-5 ss2 2. eee 96

Resistration and storage:.2 0 0 sus 2 222 bee es ee 35
inelies of historical events ic. 26s. =. cg) to ee eee 151
Report, ‘specimens sent for —. 22:2... 2. 222.2. 2 doe eke ee 43
Reports; increased edition Of .. 222.2... 5225s 9
of ithevcurators 222025 23 -= set 2S eee eee oe 133
National Museums: 22 22284-2223 eee eee 60

list of special papers published in the--. 67

Reptiles and batrachians, condition of the collection of ___---------------- 217
exchanges with the department of -_.------_--- 57

important accessions to the department of___--- 80

installation of collection of---------- ee 19

report on the department of -..._...------------ 215

review of work in department of---------------- 29

sectional library for department of ---__-------- 43

Researches in department of prehistoric anthropology -_-__--------------- 25
Review of Government codperation during the decade ending June 30,1891_ 117
researches upon the archeological collections_---__----------- 194
the‘administrative work -.22 2-522 -2° Stoo eee 35

work in the scientific departments ------------------ ee ee 25

Evice, Eon: William T2005) 6. 2 22S 2 6 ce ene ee ee ee 106
sends historiceal:medals, 2* 2222 ese" =- Se eee 101

ice, Prof: Wim: North, rocks sent) 222-) --203._ — 222 222 263
Richmond, C.- Wosccle 25 Su- eee ae. a Se 115
birds received from) . 2.222 2.2.2 42055 ee 210

sends birds#trom) Chapada. =. o2ee=)sos=2 === =n eee 96

Ridgway, Robert, birds collected. by 2-s-------2--42-22-= 3-2 210
papers by. co. oes. Se. ke ee 753

presents birds’ skim6J2-<¢ 2222232222 2 90

reportof).o- -s. 252. 2e na Se ee = eee 207

Riker, C. B., birds purchased from2:-_. 2.2... -— 225-3 =) ee 210
paper Dyn 2s Maren See ee ee i. ieee 753

Rilley,-erot, Cx V tose eee 8. | SYS oe Sa ae 103, 115
collections received through 222 2ss2- 635225. =—===—— 114

PAPERS ‘byssy Yoo ae eS ee 753-1

TOPOPtOls 04. cae e - Se ie a eee 231-
transmitsicollections;of insects= = -——=s2" 2 === 87, 94, 231

Rio Grande Pueblos, collections from the..222 22 ./- a) = See 141
Robinson, John, information givenit0-- 52-3225. 5 eee ee eee 205
Rock, Prof. Miles, presents mammals from Guatemala. ------------------ 200
Rockhill, W. W., Algerian spurs received from -------=-2==---===-2=2==— 82

deposits a collection of Chinese bronzes, weapons, etc_- 97
INDEX. 863

Page.

Rockhill, W. W., deposits collection of Korean objects_....._.-_..-_____- 97
explorations of - __--- Bk See ee a lye ec 128

presents Japanese weapons, etc ____-._......_.--____-- 98

Spanish Weapons: i. = b= c= cee.) de eee 102

Moca, James, W., fossils received trom 2=-.-2.2..- = fee le2 ela Ae 246
Be eros Oahu NOSOd.-- tenn saa Bee oe en OS ee Rik eee 169
Rogers, Thomas, sends specimens of Planorbis dilatatus.__._......._____- 100
Romeyn, Capt. Henry, sends fossil oysters and petrified wood____________ 108
15s DY EVEIS ge] Ea OP Dee Ss i se ye een ne eae ee MCI 107
FiSgIBy GA ANA a OEY OSs) ONY 3 ees os Sarasa ae eh ae is 745, 757, 760
Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta, exchange with_.__._____________.____.- 58
plants received from the _____._____- 81, 97, 252

Reweorchance wwii 9 oe anes {3a Sein Bie 55

Sendswndiantiabrics=.- 2 e tea ee ee 97

J textilesfaibricswetice-< ase a ae eee 103

Royal Geographical Society, London, presents a bronze medal -_---_-_- 2 Od
Museum\ot Dresden, relations with the:---2-2 5 --22---.) 2s 138
Natural History, Berlin, exchange with_______________- 58

echinoderms received from ____81, 96
98, 99, 100, 108

Saxon Mining School, minerals from the-.-........._--..--.-____._34, 259
Zoblogical Museum, Copenhagen, exchange with______- ee ae 7,58
mollusks received from the_____ 227

sends natural history collections. 102

LEE Wy GUN IG Se eine eee ee ee eee ee eames eee, Soe 109
Ruddy, Dhomas, accessions received irom - 2222.2. 22. 5_2222-2. 2522222 245
aleaynossll simon eo eee es | eee 9 ee oe See 81, 100

FOSS SeRCCOLVGOsfPOMl a= a= ee = rls And Sol ae ale aes be ae 32

Ordovician fossilsi-eceived frome-=- == -- 2 247

Eisby sik, plants purchased (roms = = 222-22 2. A eee eas 251
SUSE CSM od NG eS a ge ee gee ee Neer RNR Fat i 1h[s3
Sxploravions Made, Dy 22 sesso s sess) eee oN ee eee 129

Bends specimens from Alaskas =: 92.2 ees ee os 2 eee 86

OR Coal ot 1a eel iss eee ee ee ae Sa ee 85

SLOMeEANOLIArs, Cler. presehbed! Dy 9-2 a 2282 a eee 185
RSSToESDECLINONS SCN bbO sae ae = oe OT a ke ee Le ea eee 37
eel Ori neral ereCOlVved aca s Soo ue he ok eed oe Oe eee 2 ae eee 34
Rust, Halbert. collection of bones, etc., presented by --------.-.----._-.- 185
SpeumGee Gl 5 TLS Al Sa A ae Cee See er mee a ee aed Se 25
colleetionsimade bycc. 2s Sa ce = ee ee 136

SOME Osoll Plants Prom 225 8) p= 2 Le Oe oo ee 87, 255
Dama nominglosical collections. from 2 =.--=2--2- --22---- Ls 534.252 ee 144
Samson, Dr. Geo. W., labels for oriental objects from----_------------_--- 148
SEH Denar) Geb. w plants SOMimDY 22522225 0205=552_ 22 ee
POnS, Mavalarcnireetire Of then 5.0 te 22- -!6 L222 2 ee 549
Sawyer, Lieut. E. E., camera and film furnished to __-_-.-.--_--..----___- 130
Scandinavians, naval architecture of the __....----__-_=+-----------.-=.- 553
Poitier ward >... presents bIrds.. "2-25. 2 = 25-.22hs2c28. 2a eee 84,99
Poe DLS RCRerammMIOD Te My.) Am: eet remade. teen edie ae So Be he 93, 102, 112, 118
Pape IND pene te Pn cee ot eae oer tk Pe ee Bee 11s)

S Clavgaieze Bite Ae= =e eee Se es ees ape Lae ears ee So ence 115
Schweyer and Liess send polished slabs of marble _--_----_--------_------ 92

Scientific departments, review of work in the ____--- Dati Aes Se eee 25
864 INDEX.

Page,

Scientific societies; meetings Of 2 se.5 2s. S82 222-2 es gee eee 65
Stall 28-225 22e Shows eee tee ean eee ee eee See 20, 22
ecollickad. Wo sac. 5) Seb os sete Poe oe ee ee ee ae nie ee 77
Scope ofthe museums. 2-2) See ae ae ke ee cee en ee 7
Scott;-W..D: birds collected (bys. 1-3o-8 = 20 a eee eee 210
Seriven, Lieut. George P., camera and film furnished to_.-.---.--------- 130
Seudder, NwiP ees ce. one aoe Ms ei ee ee ee 43
Scudder, S.H:., presents fossils. +22. 2562-22-24. ee ee 81, 90
Seal aye! Pere eer ee eS oe 3G Ji setae ee eee 116, 117
fishes. collected. by 2.2. 2-< -= 2 == aa eie eee 30, 221

Scalsiom Muro pean ecOvier mm CMs i= ae ree Wh eee 150
Pectionallibrariesin the. Museums .9.5: 2572 29) ae eee 42
Seely Cole uWA 22 es Se se See See oes ae 102,111
peehy.. Mrs. cA® 2 3. 2 See es Sac 2, 2 eke oe oe ee ee 169
Sewoll- son. ,biarold W222 257.30. een oe Oe ene ee 107
Seychelles; reptiles from. thes<2 25... 4.2. .J9a3 36-45 22-3 oe ae ee ee 29
Sharp, Capt. Thomas, presents anatomical specimens -------------------- 108
Shepard, Miss Ida, shells received frome... 22+. . 2-52-32 --5--- eee eee 227
Sheppard, jr..sDroC, Nock. ss5 so eee ee jose see ee 262
Sherman, Mrs. John A., presents sea mosses and ferns_----.------------- 87
Shetland: Islandi2. -.2< J. 22 soe a Se ee ee ee eee 142
Sintdilen, Av tZONO < eos 2542s a ee ee Oe ee a 78, 138
Sholesand Glidden, typewriters <- 224.25 2) s5s0254 ee 28s eee 169
Soles slaw bnain. 20 Pes ge A ee sual. Skee 169
Shoshone Indians; specimens from thé 22-22-22) -26 223) 32-25-52 eee eee 140
Shutelan, Capb. Mason Ne. -2 3 Sel5 22. 2 ace eee eee 110
iSimalelatwieerey uVWie. 22. s 5-2 556s fo ils: fc Se ee eee ee 210
Silicate alopecia pe eee epee amie eee TEE, Sa I 2G 66, 109, 243
bird: received: frome. = -- 62. -= 22 sss ee eee eee 210

mammals received. frome: 22-2. >- 0 4-5 3a ee 87

outfitfurnished! to 22222522. 222 eS ee 130

paper by: 225 ees eee ee at ee ee 758

reptiles meceived= from: =—- = 22262 2. 2 ee 216

Gia sfoticn frOM= 52.) se eee ee eo ee ee 141
SiliweTeanVO UUM be Carles = = Se Re a ap 150
Simpson, Charles Torrey _---_--_-----.-=---+---2 2-535 52 -- 052 225
papers, bya-25.5- =-0-4 55 eae 758

Simpson, J. H., plants collected by -------------------------------.------ 251
Singer Manufacturing Company ---------------------- ee ees 95, 169
Sioux. Inaians, collections from» the. 49-2242 25 = ee 140
SisilledwiabOtens= fee. oe. ce Shee he ee ee ee 24
Sligeum, Moms). Cs sce) -S=. 55 a3 a ee ee ee 88, 110
Smillie, James D., aquatints presented ie Ce wet Spot Seen ee ee 160, 161
Smillie, T. W., photographer Jen eeSoo 55 Seo LER EE ee oe 77
Smith, E. rinby, jr. sends.a lantern fly...:+- 2.2). 52 2 2.2. (2s eee 86
Giant De eho in IMS oe ee ae 2 Ae eee 80, 88, 96, 109, 116, 210
DEPSE bY ssc ho 24) 2. hoe oe 758

Sri MOTOS SI WuEN tee Sto. ca, Sa ee Mn 2 ee ene ae See 84, 231
PAPSTS.DY 224 is see eS. ae AES ee 758

Smith, Capt. J. D., plants received from _------_---..---+-=------------55 251
Smith Capt. O. M2 2 sscoseye 2 es Ree ee ee 90, 108
Sib Se see eee See Serres ee fa ers eh ele 237

Smith, William’ Gis 42 os 225 5 ae. se eee ee 210, 213
INDEX. 865

Page.
Smithson fund intrusted to the National Institution ___.______________._- 285
JaMes MVOCUeS MOMs sa = oS a. eS SS ee ee eee 273
SMG MG OLA VENSEUTM ee t= uke = 22 oe Se as oan foo ea ee 6
Enstitution, aciancorporating the =. _--... 2222) Ae ee 298
and the national cabinet of curiosities__________ 331
establishment Of 2.22222 s ches eee 3
to the national collections, relations of the____- 343
SHOWA ECOle Hawes eee Seetar eke eo ee ee Ree 33
LOSSUEp LAN tO PROMS se — Su 3.5 SB os ee 255
SiRevcen, Lon. aOuUdOm Ausosee 26 58 2 kite cA Se fete Ss CL ee 107
Solomon lslands,;specimensdrom the 22.25.20 See 144
SoMeiices DMObOm rams VOL sna os. 2 2 St Maile 8) hes Se Se ee 143
POM Anciont COCs IM apan” =. 61252 ec CL 525
SOULS MoOAmUel ows a mace aes Le We een Se eee Sp Sola ee 169
Souponocaulsiands, jorass ic Veati trom. 22292220) 232) eva eee 144
SPanvetano logical specimens trom... S.05. 22 vee. Ales ee 142, 143
psi ramcs. VV... ind presembted Dy 222-0222. 22202 S552 bl eee 210
STDSTIRS NS le Se Rt Be Se SO eo ape gee oe SPER SNR iy oP 72
special Bulletin No.1,” reference to_- = —-=.=+-==- Pe ee Se ee Ie 63
Special researches by curators and Others -2. 2.2 2- 2-2-2522. -245--4seeee 67
LO DICSIO MUN CRY CAIss se saat s hs Seay eae ae San oe Re eee 9
SPeelMe ns LOrinmtOishUGeMtS* a2. 2 so 2.6 32 ees A eg eee ee 66
received for examination and’ report. 2222222212222 2. 22 5- see 43
STOCRECE: ea ONNIAM Vermeer a et SL Ea pees ks ea a a 240
Spofford, Hon. A. R., Librarian of Gener ess. A eS ee Seer 43
PReROMruMer Mase Mnine < $028 ise Ot 2 ee oo eee ee eee 20
Stas, Mrs, R. M., engravings presented by |. 2 ..--...-----2222.-222225 161
SOUSA ONAL JAB WAY Se eae ea ee a es eg ae ont ee alte eee tae get he SN 113
Slate Normal school, Mulwaukece..28 Slee =. oe Soe ee ee ee 240
Statement of the most important accessions of the year_----__----_______- 79
Statue of Liberty, cast of ___----- Se OIE gS a ge a0 ne eee 10
Diearnowrederi ckashellsrecel ved rom =. ==) ee 227
SACS Drain hy Cad jUNCh CULALOR sss = === er eaten = ne Soe 30, 113, 225
Papers Dy) 22. - 2252 e 2s. es es a ee 758
SESS eA ite Ge ee ee ee aw s2 cea Se seas aS. Ee 236
Suemeeercy Ding Ieee me esl CUP Rohe eee eS Ee ic eee et 20, 29, 42, 210
INVESbLSAtLONS DY 822 ones. ee Re eee ee 210
PAPERS DY 2225 SSS ee ee ae 758, 759
POPOVUOls 25.52 20 ee ae eee ee oe ee 215
Steuart, C. A., assistant superintendent of buildings -----------2.--------- 22, 75
Seon suEmverse Dill gats, {ate oe oe ewe ee 25
SLOrAToerOomenOrmlemn aS. fete eS 28
STORE KEG Ciseet= at a eee Se ee ee See ee eee eee 23
SSouenrigte Mion. Orleinal boiler of the_.-=22 =. 2242s 252253222 3eeee 165
Straus, Hon. O.S., sends a cast of the Jerusalem stele ___-_.__----.----- Sap O?,
Sr OMlbenmeten ima seem ear 2h S los. oS See 72
sutoud, MroyMary 1... deposits dagnerreotypes _2- 2. =. ._-- -- --. 222 - ae 88
POLInAi presented by 2—.-- 2. 2-2 Roe 2 ee 161
Russian minerals received from_-____------- 34, 81, 102, 259
Stubbs, Dr. Charles M., stone picks, etc., presented by ------------------ 185
SoUdennsmerducnVelntOre sss seman. oes) 2 ee See 66
NS LUL Tat Ze = Renee Ae See rT oe ee re en 103, 262, 263
St. Vincent, photograph of relics from —_______-- I coed Age APA Foes pees 142
sm 91, PT 2 ys)

866 INDEX.

Page.

Suksdorf, Mr, plants purchased trom, 2.2. 2-2. -- ss. eee eee 252

superintendent -of buildimes’..2. 4. ..22_.. 4.) oe ee ee ee 24

Surveying instruments received from the surveyor-general of Florida_.__ 181

sweden. scecolopical survey Of. 252. -- 30.6 ee ee ee a

specimens sent, tos. 225 oe ee ee eee 7

Switzerland, specimens from -= 2 1255-22 Ses ee es ee 142

Syracuse Plow Company presents model of a steel plow_________._-_____- 92

SyWaplayine- cards from ses l< <a ee ee 142

lan aor pipes LOM P= \h2 5. 8on PEL St teas: Sen ee ee 143

saniner.: Zi Mba sNaper DY, . ac 9 2! ee ros laeStosee a poe 759

pRaos, Crosses ArOmMee. 2 ee oe ee De Be 2 ee 141

Tappan, Col. S. F., sends. ethnological objects_<_- 22-2 2-2. 4) 22s ee 98

axidermic force; reorganization of the... 22.5. - 5) Bae 2 eee 203

Hinxadenmists se... 8 2 vals 522 l 8st ee oe Sa ee ee 23

WORK Of he 2 Sy oo saben eee Se aoe PE 76

‘Tertiary mollusks of Florida,” reference to a work on the ______________ 226

West elrederick: C25 itso: ee fad. 5 te eee BO Cae 20, 217

_ he Genesis of the National Museum ”._.2--:-.2. 42222-22225 ee ach 278

RhEbet, ethnological objects from 2 2...~.-0. 55 eee 144

diiselton-Diver, Dyes WW oc es ee a 98

exchangesewith! 25.2222. 2 ees. 2 525 50

Bhompson, drnest 1. paper bya. 2565) s 20s lS ae eee 759

Pompson x Jolin Kite 2 a a a os ee el 172

transmits Argentine woods: ..--.225_-* __ 22 22 ee 95

PSHM StOn aba Dlet oe ooo Oa ee aoe Ee ee ea 0 26, 145

nurong Wi, plants trom) 2 hn oe ea Lek ee 252

“ime-keepins apparatus, collection of. 22-8. 8.14.05. Sec ee 25, 137

Sasdell WV. i), camera and film furnished t0-.--02..- 22-2. 5 130

PRO eee 2 Me eg a te ee ul ee ee 26

accessions. received frOm,..4 |. <a ee ee 159

sends Japanese color prints and illustrated books ----_-_.----- 98, 161

odd, -Aurelius, corresponderce with —- 2.5985 = oe ee 204

presents: skin ofa tree mouse = <2 0252222202 =o eee 200

odd, James; presents anold silver wateh = 5. .-:-.-.2-22-222_5__- eee 93

Townsend, Charles HH... papers by is. 22 2-- -22 5 ee eee 759

Grail Wet., birds’ ergs received from: : - 4... = ee ee 80, 213

birds” skins and egysimeceiyed from) 22-522 50e 2) eee 85

presents alcoholic specimens of salmon -------------------- 103

Transportation and engineering, report on section of _-___-------_-_-__-- 163

exhibition series in:sectionjof 22-2 2-2" eee 19

iwavers, it. >, nickel ores presented: by_.2--.-. 2-6 {e224 0=- 262

sends specimens of nickel and copper -------------------- 85

Treasury Department, facilities afforded by the_-__----------------------- 107

presents India impressions of portraits, ete ------- 88

review of codperation of the -__--- eS 119

drochilidse, anatomy of the: sso 3. ee. ee 32
True, Frederick W., commences a monograph of the insectivora of North

(ATNCRIGaMt se 6555. Ue aoe ee ee 205

CUTEtOn tes Fee ere ee = Soe a ee 28

papers by 122. See Cs Se ES 2 ee Sees See 759

report Of 2 15! sees SAG Se oe eee eee 199

Tryon collection of ancient Peruvian pottery _-----.-_-------1-2-----1=2=- 96, 185

Tunis, dagger and lamp from_____- US ao rae ei 2 1 ee cane or 143
INDEX. 867

Page
Peis pOUIony ANN TOM =. 28 et ee. Sse Se ae eee 82
Brarnor, (Ws == 28s. ee Beene te ee ee = ees eee eee eee 112
Met LOS PCOMLEC HOD: Ofte o)op > se tee 2 ee ae nes Oe ae eee 215
Py poSOmoOwen COlleechion Of fossils’... = 2-— 224... t ea 2 oe ee ee 1
lWiddenteeroiJreAc svoleanrerdusts SenbitO. 92a 2 ne eo nes 263
Ulke, Henry, sends North American coleoptera _-.-------..--.2---.----+ 84
Ulke, Titus, presents specimen of fibrous meerschaum ____-______________ 93
sends a specimen of phosgenite from Broken Hill, New South
AN falls te ape rete re oe eee kl ee ae 103
Milicee Niguse jie. vOresihomiy eeteee fo 2S le ee 262
mcderwood, Wri la Ms plants received from. =-.---+ 2... ei. sete eee5 34, 252
Wnited States; specimens distributed in the_-.._-..___-...-___-.2-__2. 222 Si
University of New Brunswick, exchange with .-_._-___-_..--._.---_-.- 56, 58, 59
newmiane SpeoclMmens mrOMbNe 22.222... 5+ 5s 02 sous cece se see 140
eal Pees Dn Cyrene icra ere So ee ta ee ee eee 27
Onlrr nalgetters, Dyes. te aes os Uae. etn ei eae 164
Netley IMac ia CESSIONS TRON» 22+ oS .S4- 62-0 oe kone ss poe ee 165
Matkés Sons original letters .writton to. .<- 2.228.242. 2 ee 2222 oss 2 oe 164
Raat ape o EU OM OSD Cun mmm ee ne). eee Gene ee es hs ee 149
Vail papers received from the American Historical Association ________- 2
“WW QUI @ SS) RENO OETA, ae Sell Si a el re Rc ees A ee 92
Vaillant, Léon, deep-sea fishes transmitted bv --------.----------_------- 80
WEinee Gane James Lvwiae-s se 2a2 2S eS eee ek ee 116
Wangrlise: Clr. material enti tO. 22a ae ae nn Ae eee ie Se es 267
Wanwennoolder, J. Mine “naper by. = 222: = 225s. 222 ae eae Se ee 759
NESTE ag BYU 100 a ela ee ae op a a ti ee A eee ON SU ee Oe 7 115
HONOTarY, CULAtOR = 2. ak ete a eee 33
PADOLSRD Y= 6 oes = oe eee a ee Rag es VS ME pes oe 759-760
EOWORU OM A: Siae er a 5 Sree eee ee ns ee ee 251
Woneztlel a. TICATAS/EROM) 37 «Sy ts -  o  f eeee  o e ee ee ere x ea
SIP UII 0) Sa ape pee ee a ee ee nee ee ee ee See ee 237, 239
Morceprate fossils, card-catalogue Of=22- = 212.2 aes Sel ee ee 223
collection Of = 224542 ae eee ae ne oe rh reo 30
report.on the department Of =o == ==: == sap eee 223
Vesterlund, Otto, Florida plants from _______--- sine oo ee ee 81, 253
WO SIDES 25 tose ae a eel Ee eee ae) eh ery Sh 9, 64
LOM UM VARGCOLCHO hs ae ee ae Se eee 65
EO COE CSS LN COBIOOM y99~ ge sn ES en oat Se ee 65
Morethering, Or: Ho vexchange with -_=...:<s242- 20.26 =S58-5- 3: ee 57
Send ssiossilsiand'shelllis == 3s sre eae ae See ee es 96, 227
Wa Chaea negroes, ethnological collections from the ___----------------- 148
NViadsworineeDreViesk rocks received from, 222-5220 = 22s ee 262
AVL CO Lin Cre) eee eee a ee eS A Dey ee eee TS
MONO LGA GLVaCURAbO Le: sso va: ok oe ee aE BS 32
TOM OVSTEEH ON SS See cers es ere gt ee I ares Sr 761
EEO Ri Olea eae sh = ee fee 21 Se ae Lee ee 245
Walcott, Mrs. Helena B., fossils received from ---.-_--2----2--2-=----+—- 246
Sees TOM pE SIN Seats oe eS. so ee ee a 28
War Department and the Army, codperation of the _--.--------.-------- 107
review of coGperation of the :: 22. s*<.4:.22-2--2-252-2- 121
Ward and Howell present fragment of a meteorite ___-_..---------------- 96
ANCE TET yl E-TECES STB STON iy 5 Uae ae ee cea PE Poe See et ees 32, 66, 236, 240

sends a specimen of Kelaart’s monkey _------ BSB 3 99
868 _ INDEX.
Page.
Ward: Protester Wc oe S20. Se ee eee eta ae ee en a 112, 113°
hoOnorary-CuralOn =. 22s ee ee ene eee 33
PApErS Dy pee Pa Oe ere Meee eee eee 761, 762, 763
presents specimen of Zamia integrifolia___--.----__- 89
ME DOP U.OF ees aera ogee se ee 255
specimens of chalcedony collected by--------------- 94
Ward. S. ‘G..erehing presented by 2.28. =<. tae ee 161
Warren, William, birds purchased from: 2.22.) 20322 3-52 sooo oe eee 210
Wiashine ton. papers and relicsiOl- a= ss a ae aoe an ne See 150
NOVICE Ol eee ante Sa ele em Ne ie ae jek, eee 82, 150
Wasbins:ton State, ethnolorical-objects from --_2--------- 222-5 22. ee 140
Rice hIMEN ce ee Ok eo ce a eee SO gee ee 24
RViaG SUNS ells Wears 2 ns oe SEN eee Se ee pe ee a re 13, 27, 137
CUCM S 1ROMls OMEMAlS sO reSem be Cul yee ae eee ae 161
Papersiby 20.22) ese ee ee oe 763
OPO Ol =a. aeons eee ee ee a eee. - 163
Wihantonarlone Wrilltam-W 22 so=. 2-2 eee ae ee 106
Wheildon, W. W., presents a piece of the ‘‘Old North Bridge”_--_--_---- 90
Rivglbo eae nes Pet Oe ee ee 104, 255, 25
WO tke Oligo aos ani ae eee (OSS ae a eee RE
TAWA PA DY ght © [ah ae eae gems ay oR SIP ert ee ms eS AEST Ps 113
books: presented sby:..22 3. Sa) ee ee 42
honorary; curators! Sess see Sle ks Soe Ke 33
WEAPONS: DY Se 25 2 ral aa nt a eee 763
REpOTH Ole =e kes Ses Se ee ee ee 249
NWahities Se rOt( o eee Us eee aes ees ee 110
sends ethnological objects from Fiji Islands_--_-----_--- 104
ZW hite-lineenpraving for relief printing’ 22-2. 42s >see es See eee 160
Mie mEtOmrcA. Tex. 25 au es oe Soe en Ree ee ee ee 107
Webb, Judge John G., contributions from _-.._-.---------- DL) eae ee 79
transmits fragment of skull, ete__--...--------_-- 186
human: fossilsremains|= == =ss5 5. aes 89
Webb;Walter-E.. birds egos presented<by .2.=--- 2-22 =. a eee 213
WCCO AW, Cnc oe Ae sd SENS Se we eee kn See ene ae 113
Welch ae Marlegis 22 4: 20s tus Soe ee ie Soh eo eee ee 100
NCS Cem NV Ul Ligue = RR 2p ee ee SO ee ee 14
Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., sends Indian idols --__-------- 98
Wrestonrneiia (Gr. dix. <0 0s 2 Ao ee ees ee ee eee 109
Wa clahianmeeelee hes = bo ee ee ah 2 ee Ae. See 114
Wilcox, Maj. John H., presents an Indiam bow-.--- 2. --.--- 2-2 =e ae 108
Waldermotaris Ay paperiby.- =o 2-2. tee oe je ee oe 763
Wildman. lonskRounsevelle.-22 2 2305. So ee 107
Wilkes xplocino Mxpedition == 222.225 22S eae 302
Wailleox, Joseph, fossils presented: by+-..-=2=- =~ As he Tae eee 186, 227
Williams, Henry S., papek-Dy o-- 22: = 2-2 Ss ese es 763
* Williamson, Mrs. M. Burton, shells received from __--------------------- 227
WalSon: wCohomas: Curator. -250e> 222 an SA ee oe ee 25
deposits a bronze Sword . =: \2_=2-s=.-- =. 2 eee 101
lectures: by 22 = 2a. 6 Se 2h eee ee ee 66
papers: by: .toes2 2toek ee ae tee ee ee 763, 764
report Of (25. - S20 2.oceaeeo set) 22 eae eee 183
WalOole ) We Se Se oe a en ae eee ey ee 26

in, change of qstronomy 2-2-0 4-2 -oc ee ee eee 42
INDEX.: 869)

Page

nl OGIO np MBMOMUN mss mes ss 2225. one Sle ee eae eee 764
Or ele ae ona: en ta Se ae ee 181

Widnes U be dame tee et mere nn. = So esos se eS eee 108
Winnebago Indians, doll from the_-_--------------- JS ee 140
Wanton: Georze:ls., birdsypresented by. -2-2--L.2-- + -s2222524 2.5.58 eel)
Waoitkugel: Erich, prrds purchased from: —-.-. 222522. 222. 3-2 2522L222 80, 85, 210
collects: mammals in’ Honduras: . = 22-5252 -222- fee see 204

NVvoltey Nl. specimens presented by --- -2-=-- == 2+ ==. 225-4 Jeno ae 161
MOO ds2N cl SOnm ise ee meron te a ee Se ks eee 27, 77
World’s Columbian Exposition ----- SLUGS te eet oo se ee ee 12

participation of Smithsonian Institution

in! thee ns So eth eee eee 139, 2038

Worthen, Chas. K., authorized to collect bats and shrews_-_------------- 204
collectine material furnished to: -2s. 2222225. 0 9-2 131

CSPCUOS LOCONVed frome sss * 2-2 Te eee feo 80, 89, 216

BMOnLorspoOm olitOuteaWe Wes 402s 22 S26 So 5 eo t  e 108
We kG Se amManswrsenedtebhe s-seb. at oes on Se 168
Walia bay, ethnoloticalsobjects from. 2 s2.2 2220222 322 --.-=.-2 2 sees 140
Meatest\V eT Se assistamt CUratOn == <2. 202 sees. = eee aces oe cee oo eee 34, 259
Winttavlnieiis rabble used: Dye. s2-S2S-2.-— 222 So eee at ee eae 141
PARZI Ary SOCCINONS OL CUM IPOMl= = 4 2— = ies 8 Toe 2 ee oe 82
Zoolorical accessions of chief importance -~-.—..- 22-2 2-2... 222-2252 2ee 79
Zoological Museum, Christiania, exchange with -------------------------- 56
Zoological Park, mammals received from the ----.------.---------------- 201
specimens fromthe =s. 2-5-2: 2.2 eso dees. oe see eeee 28

Ain ieerImolocical ODj|GCt8;<5 2.52 29-4 22a=-5224-22=- secs -sosesse54-eaeeee- 141
ee ae

] ¢ es” dh We
ae eke be
4} ry ie oe vat :
+ ¥, me ay 3 Pe ¢ : :
nS a is rae
Soh + * "te oe

aa evga?
a ef
ets ”
ee al ee - Pa, = sala Ps *
a pee es eam py Sy Eo
< cage? fay a! 7 a 4 sai aes ae
Da Se Ee oe ceo ee aoa pia SN '
, a og eS eS

| ata” AAT
RAS?

ba
hw ,
4 3 cs 2. c ae oS 6 8 O&O ee we we
ee AER a eS ee SE ee eS Be Bes] OF
a; “a So te) ew a: SWE a: “ ei WQ ae «
ee a Se. a ee "ae : se sa) a -

Os as

pS
te: Bo
: i

‘st @) & i a * ,
) 3 a et ao ee ee eB tT ee us ~ €
1 eae Oe Cy Sl we SS ww we ee we mL iy
Aa ta 4th & | @  ® “; rt ae Oh et. .
A Ee ee ne
a sa) af aw sik a : . of, C7 be mp aif ant AMD aa oi

\
4 ). a al a wt eh a a al
j 3 ey a. al a ~~ i. a a < @ "ik “ee ‘an i an ah "ay an at
_% 2 2.5 88 Ce af a * a) @ af ST Gp ge ae of ag a8

<=
sea z
. 2 ~ ~
= vy re ww =
Cs > Lf ~ ~»
_ —— — a - = ~ = =
P . ie Z Pa a ‘ 7 &; Si. = ® is
rat —— e-- = ; * 7 e soe 22
: = -s ‘= Fa ri Pet a” s os - os
= . é
‘ = -
ae oa Giomd — - —_ ‘ :
. . . —e a te * si oa) “ ong
a s wet . et S - ‘
a —_ —- - _ 2 >: . ” =
z Sy. ‘ re %, is PA s - a a ~ a
= — - - - — as = - Sin ~ -
_ é . i > oe : * ee 238 =
ee et — — = ~~ - ~ 3 . A =
: : . " e 2 =
—< oe Sie —_—_ oat ~ _ :
a2 ¥ - =
‘ $ = cS
— — —— a - ~ 2 =
sia head on ae = a » ;
——— eee, ots ane =
: ~" .
er end ~ ~— oe = ns =
x - 74
; z:
~ ry — ws B aes 2
— an — a _—~ : a
co ee Sar —_ _ _ +
PSEA 3 * oe ey 5 eo
ar — ni —— are ~
s 7 5
= en’ _ — ees aoe F
pes - fl
— 4 — nt onl ‘ me,
i - Z
- » »
a Sey => vw — = - ‘ . 5 -
a. & > 5
— ey —— ary at J a
out ph ea ewnt! = - c=
. ie 4 SF -
Yo ait oa a — sro ‘ 5
-) oe a a Me . : a és 4
= - = “5
ad oat —* par ce S : z 3
. " x ys f ; 5 .
2 + % * =
sa Ae a ~_— — — “ r ‘ = ~ = ~ e
eh = as = . < a : * x “4
ve eee ae —— - - ; -
3 3 4 : :
al lly ey — io + neal s a A ~ ~ ~ rs 2 :
eet iano es nae - - xe a “ < P . =
, — ‘ $
- = Paces
nd ve = ~ er « - ~ _ re ze . 3
. > aa _ - = a
— . ——- . ~ =) a ‘ a =
~ ‘ _ = € a ~ ~ 5
: . ‘Fangs E - = sf
sah skaghiy a — . —— —. : -< -— = — 4 * : a # =
= a ive - - 5
— | —— ——— at - _— ~ — tt ¥ s ¥ . 7 : Pa aa > 2
sd — oa - ' y -
an ve se - - - = 7 5 ss 2
@ Simi ae a cae ee <a ee a S é :
; FE . F 3 2 =
pat ~: — =< swe ieee "7 Na ~ 5 * . : 8
ss eo
- s & Ss
4. PS ee : ee a a ¢ : : a |
. E ry
a > .
i -  ee br - ne es F a vue ~< = ‘
7 > ; % = ue x P:
7 \ 7 ~~)
sie eee ‘ = - % tae a eas? = ? 4 a
o _ - - * = <
= > > e ¥ at \ Fa ad 5 4 * - Se
ay ts aia aa . a Sa — - , a tl . - 5 > : z y % <
. “ = SS “ : ’ x PS a =
? 3 . 3 3 2%
en - oa = a et ones Se -_-* — _- = es * 3. © e
~ as i
~*~ S m
<i a — - wi — vo _ = 7 Ca = - > 2 i <
&. y - Vie
3 ; = F a -
— — >" ose al " — —_ = —— - 2 © aie ; = s . a
we iene — ait ms Z = Mas ——— pee —— — _ E 4 é Z 3 s 2 Zi Ms ;
’ : 2 * 4 > ® =3 2
ss 5 t a a
. 4 2 ‘ =
~ ' ee pis: ie ae 4 4 é
Cae w ae bs ;
~«
Z
et
—
a
—

a

“y
peo
Fea |

“af
ae

ae
—_
ae

> 7 ‘
—" Qe,
pom

woe lee,

~ rr * ir * a 4
‘ _ | orton g : 3 2 ¥ ¥ i
- : ia cs ; - ae
. on —— F , oa ‘ e “ z
‘ enti. i . i * . a cS , a ie
. %. oN * : ‘ é & pone
S. ig mth f : > = . ‘ 2
be . 2 4 ce * P
“ % ~ a c %
nonoeig* — ; _ yi z e wd 9 z 3
ove é pat, $i 7 & ? 2
x ‘i 2 4 i “ o “4 ‘
ae oa, . ‘ $
me a < . p 2 ‘ tye 3 F " ‘ coy
< eo : : 3 2 >
- is ma - 2 ane es, <
4 _—— » ; é rs hae =e ‘ 7)
x oF = u Mi
be = 1 \ i n ” i. 2; es wee - D = 3
—s . Y 5 . “ ‘ ’ 4
nel camel F ‘ OS cS $ ¥ i 4 7 3
te a 5 = mS a P
ont mam : < ts 2
fac 4 , , 5 c a Gr 4 we i : ;
as af é ca x v
“ ? f # %y “ ? ts B
£ ‘1 oe cm ; i : 5 2 iS 2 it ;
ee : a aes <9 at . t e . "
— . 4 - ey 4 4 - x
Be ~< % Poot = *) x
¢ — ates . wy “ bs
¢ a & od 4 he t Lae
[: i f ¥
= aes 4 ts - be . ‘ 2 a “ a
‘ " a 4 os : . < f : ,
‘ a = oe sin ee “ s \ s ’
= 2 " age 3 5:
sa ‘ * on - ae
rd ‘ . . wadeg
a ay af ba
© * x 4 _*
“ ‘ i = a
- - ® re . R . pie prt
x % of = >
q on " ay
al a 3 : éj :
= a an | n~ te . a “
e a * ea y mn
: - = oxi “
how : %, : :
; , % me ~«<
> ‘“ - ~ i - sy n
S o ° he ne :
my | He a ae hi » aes -
A mm we * vs
— * ~ = 3) °
. 4 ‘ 4
< ‘ 2
a fy C ~ bos . = A — ere |
& ‘ > « a Z
ow ws a BY . d : a;
. > é nt ”
/. al * ¥ “
7 eae . ‘ =
% s. é i fate
rm . . x
bot a : : ee —7.
2 3 ly nctiect “
= — F a 1
— . - " = ad
» s a) Fa -
= ~ os Sof AO wating
1 - - - > < .' NY
‘ = “
wd le ff ‘ ‘ = ; t .
re} — o € m ‘ =
oo r & , u ad
. ro _ .
r ay on a ey
: “ ‘« Pe
> ~ ——,
; oe — 1) £ 4 :
anne —d
~ . 4
Fes panel wrt rs , om erties “ey
* ex Y ss —
® Re Pi = ‘ . 7 vey
vase Faas a‘ ~ ,
cs
oi — : ‘ ‘ -
Oy prtet ¥
; ~ ; fs t ¥ : . ad week
— ~ 8 ae >
—_
* Vis: f —
’ 7 . .
+ e ee / = ;
ae 7 wv .
$ > * :
“ 3 * ‘
= a =~ .

