Serr see sie 8 es
Ce ee ?, He a 7 i
LSD We wo Ww

ie ale Nal

ee le
wee ie

“9 sates Sy eta! re satel

a a Cai a * ea ee ee

at Re a

e cy ee ae aay ag 3 we Ye ei be i.) We > ee eee wee
8 ie ws, a8 a 58. aH _ LA os - “ e * ie ep & ee ae
iS As a ee? Gt ee Oe ee

oe ae ae ie aH ob bal ae LU ee ee be ee eo. 6 © We
j ae rae ‘3 we “fe ¥ oe RRR Eee ee ew Oe
a OO Oe ee as ie 4 ee ee Se ee

, 15 1 ee & «ew ‘e eee ew eee we we we Pe
bar na al ae ae ae te ea oye Cet et hy

ae cH 2 é 2\
o fe a} }
s Vi
ANNUAL. REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

ees

(Publication 3034 )

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1930

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. »= - - - - Price $1.75 (Cloth)
‘apr Ce TOTS AA”
41O erMaoa a 40 Cason”

i | VA 1 QO aH ie IMe2 qn a " a
AOITUTITevi 9) a

AAT OnnWwons: . as

CvA 2aAUTIQMATKA 2AorrTasaqO
VOITUTITEM SH YO AOWTIAKMOD
Of TAUL DMIGUa AARY SHT M04

Ese]

erat ene,

Pr aN ee aN, '

— .
SAeaet 5 as**

=

Sh

*,
pet Ans ev ae

{ snr toigaotd ist)

ese ara any i
AOI. OMIVAINT AY
Be sig corti ANE:

, We linea aks ae asian tad cure ae

Bae ley Rita Py ae ce Rt ies ee:

1 Dp Sip bead Bp gl 5

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1929

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, November 26, 1929.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1929. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Asgor, Secretary.

Ill
init

sae

CON TEES

IST ODNOMICIAIS Meee See Le © 2 hee ea, Spe hea ae ae are
ive SMC HSOnIa MMS GU t LOI seg Seles ps eee te Ete
Outstandingievents Obthesyear! = ye — a oe 2 eh ae ge ee ea
aheTestabusbime mh lees ree ohn ee a ok eee eed
sivep Board votsRegente = ees — bese srys se eer oe eae I el ye ai

1 NSPS GE gap ag ey a Mp l BNEEN AES

Ma therssoteenerall imterestey soe ele oe eee eek eS Le

DTU OVE ECS ESN) IAN GE Rope I Al BA A ll ath) s “PS? SORE UT

Guit. of art,.collection of John Gellatly 5202 2. un.

Division of Hadiation and Organisms. 22 00. gos elo e es

Rx plora ions amd held sworn kes apy cue ley tn) 2 cee ernie ye ee res
Cooperative ethnological and archeological investigations -_-_~_-_-

RUIOIIC ATLOMS Huey 2 4) Sa op ae ae eee ee ia ee ee 2 eee

1 Asp] YE a Ec PH OG ASN LE a a PE
Goyvernmentally supported. pranchesso-2- 25222525. 20 seen eee ees
ING OT er UsVH Se Uti seta canals See epee ay ec Sug ye SI ye le

dt’ DUPE OE Bh Bs ih |STAN ee eo Pa De Ne CI

Hire ers GratlletayanO tag AUat ieee ees ek Spec eee eee SR gs ee
SUICCAU Oly AMIOTICA EuDONGIOSY. c= eyo ee ok ee ee
Taner rclo male exe lnssi epee eee ae reed re ems 0 eth sae epee eet we
National’ ZOolOg I Galh air Rete nee a yee hee ied ie ee a

IAS LEO PMV SICAL O DRE VE LOY Uses ee Mel ee i Se pa
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_____._....__-_---_--

1s SEES eT EY A pee ea, MSS Se A Dare MONONA A cet RR De i 68
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum__.___-_---.
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art.o2-.......2-..=--
J ReDOLDIOn the: Brees Galleny Of ATGnea ee. eee ae eee
4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology -----__------
5. Report on the International Exchanges_______.___._------
6. Report on the National Zoological Park_....._._._._..-..---
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory __.....----------
8. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms- - - - ---
9. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-

LOR RepoOLtonuhe library] soso ae Se ee oe eee eee

[deep oni Ont pulbliGa trom see ete ee ee ere oe ls ee eee eis

12. Subscribers to James Smithson Memorial Edition of the
Smithsonian Scientific Series_________ Ie A i Faget Neel iL

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents______------
ipsoceedings of the Board of Regents.i220 500 boo ee ee ee eee

GENERAL APPENDIX

The physics of the universe, by Sir James Jeans_____.___._.__-----------
Counting the stars and some conclusions, by Frederick H. Seares_-_-_-_-- ~~
fhedingering. dryad by Paul Ru Hleyls- 2G jy ee ee lee

+[n part governmentally supported.
VI CONTENTS

What is light? by Arthur H. Compton
Artificial cold,’ by Gordon Biyilkes): (eee iy We ee
Photosyrthesis; by &. CO: Caizaly: ae ee ee
Newly discovered chemical elements, by N. M. Bligh__________________
Synthetic perfumes, by H. Stanley Redgrove__________________-__.-.-
Xcraying tie carta, Dy Reginald A. Waly sae et Se see ee
Extinction and extermination, by T."P. Tolmachofi__-~_ == == == 222
The Gulf Stream and its problems, by H. A. Marmer_________________-
hemmystery Ollite, "by. G. Domnane = tee tee a eee ee
The transition from live to dead: the nature of filtrable viruses, by A. E.

ROY C ODE ore ee ea me cece ae a ge hee
Heritable variations, their production by X rays, and their relation to

EV OMIELOWS iy tly ie Vee ot ee ae ee ek ne ean
Social parasitism in birds, by Herbert Friedmann____________________-
iow Imsectacily.) by IRS Be SMOG eG rAsS so. oe ee = fe Ne eae ne ee ere os og
Giimate and miprations oye. (©. Curva. ee ayer eae een Anim Cond
Ur of the Chaldees: more royal tombs, by C. Leonard Woolley________-
The population of ancient America, by H. J. Spinden__________________
The aborigines of the ancient island of Hispaniola, by Herbert W. Krieger_
The beginning of the mechanical transport era in America, by Carl W.

J DILET a 029 0 OMS a a ae ena cs odlecs Acacia emntahales = sina jrn siya Sy bebe Wee wee, 2).
The servant in the house; a brief history of the sewing machine, by Fred-

CELE il leppal Bey 10, ope Rea e p St e Steee e p  Skg  ie D, Saenh det
Thomas Chrowder Chamberlin (1843-1928), by Bailey Willis__________-
iBideyo INOPuchiy by  Sinionmmlexnerss: os Me eee ene ee ee

Page
215
229
237
245
253
261
269
285
309

323

345
363
383
423
437
451
473

507
559

585
595
LIST OF PLATES

Counting the stars (Seares):

JEANS yoy d lee ran orale alas Rata eae sp mg iy Mp 2 tlh pA pelt eg enchant Pte LY 2

What is light? (Compton):

JPA Heyayh 1] tay mask aes TO va ae ie OO ay Cea ee er

Artificial cold (Wilkes):

LEVEY Gi) Aen al eee ee Ne UCLA Ok So SPA

Ur of the Chaldees (Woolley):

TEAS rays j Iba I feb A ede ey ae aa dll steepn ooh, «pall any Weare Reena

Abrogines of Hispaniola (Krieger):

2AM HaPeyesa le=PA7 (A I een pS Doe ee ee eee eee,

Beginning of mechanical transport (Mitman):

TELA Ges ili) chain nnarr cae mnet.. Feomun hal SEVEN Umer nee ar eee LENE Ne
Jedi ets, VOTO ete a8 Ss ol) CET Rh eh sm a EN On a TE
Pistest Ges ye ke Pees ee pl Pee ie Dee 8 ae
LEAL aretey ‘WL 7p ies ee Some ebm peed Pv ape PO Me ie Sa Ne
IPL CES et Ace ears eh 4 oe yer ee ae ee arate) Ue ae OS

History of sewing machine (Lewton):

Sed BAGG H GS Y st Least senate A a Rs i i er wat eg be fed ee ca EAN Mec g

Chamberlin (Willis) :

Noguchi (Flexner):

Gemeinde ein eee 2
th ee a ot

ES Tu at
WA ROLY FE

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1929

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1929, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1929.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1929.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.

These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1929.
Ix
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1929

Presiding officer ex officio.—HERBERT Hoover, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—WILLIAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
HERBERT Hoover, President of the United States.
CHARLES CurTIS, Vice President of the United States.
Witt1am Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
Henry L. STIMSON, Secretary of State.
ANDREW W. MELLON, Secretary of the Treasury.
JAMES W. Goon, Secretary of War.
Witi1aAm D. MitcHELL, Attorney General.
Water FI’. Brown, Postmaster General.
CHARLES FrRANcIS ADAMs, Secretary of the Navy.
Ray LYMAN WIxbour, Secretary of the Interior.
ARTHUR M. Hype, Secretary of Agriculture.
Ropert P. Lamont, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES JOHN Davis, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
WILLIAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
CHARLES CuRTIS, Vice President of the United States.
RrEED Smoot, Member of the Senate.
JOSEPH T. Rosprinson, Member of the Senate.
CLAUDE A. SwaNSoNn, Member of the Senate.
ALBERT JOHNSON, Member of the House of Representatives.
R. WaLTon Moore, Member of the House of Representatives.
WALTER H. Newton, Member of the House of Representatives.
Rogert 8. BRooKkines, citizen of Missouri.
IRwiIn B. LAUGHLIN, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Freperic A. DreLano, citizen of Washington, D. C.
DwicHTt W. Morrow, citizen of New Jersey.
CHARLES Evans Hugues, citizen of New York.
JOHN C. MrERRIAM, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Executive committee—FrRrEDERIC A. DELANO, R. WALTON Moore, JoHN C.
MERRIAM.
Secretary. CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief Clerk.—Harry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer and disbursing agent.—NIcHOLAS W. DORSEY.
Editor —WeExsSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—WiLiiaAM L. CorpBin.
Appointment ‘clerk —JamEs G. TRAYLOR.
Property clerk.—JAMES H. HI.

1 Resigned June 30, 1929; Hon. Robert Luce appointed on July 1, 1929, to succeed him.
XI
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.

Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—WILLIAM DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators.—WALTER HovueH, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, GEORGE P. MERRILL.

OCurators.—Pavut Bartscu, Ray S. BaAssteR, THEODORE T. Betote, AusTIn H.
CLARK, FRANK W. CLARKE, FREDERICK V. CovILLE, CHARLES W. GILMORE,
WaLterR HoucH, LELAND O. Howarp, ALES HrpriéKa, Nei~ M. Jupp, HERBERT
W. Kriecer, FrepertcK L. Lewron, Grorce P. MeRRILy, GERRIT S. MIvirr, Jr.,
CARL W. MITMAN, WALDO L. SCHMITT, LZONHARD STEJNEGER.

Associate curators —JoHN M. ALpRrics, CHEesTrR G. GILBERT, HLLSwoRTH P.
Kine, Wittiam R. Maxon, CHARLES HW. REssER, CHARLES W. RICHMOND,
Davin WHITE.

Ohief of correspondence and documents.—HERBERT S. BRYANT.

Disbursing agent.—NIcHOLAS W. DORSEY.

Superintendent of buildings and labor—J AMES S. GOLDSMITH.

Editor—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant Librarian.—IsaBEL L. TOWNER.

Photographer —ARTHUR J. OLMSTED.

Property cierk.—WiLLIAM A. KNOWLES.

Engineer—CLaAYToN R. DENMARK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Director.—WILLIAM H. HOLMES.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator—JOHN HELLERTON LODGE.

Associate curator —CaRL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate-—KATHARINE NASH RHOADES.
Superintendent.—JOHN Bunpy.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Ethnologist’—JoHN P. Harrineton, JOHN N. B. HEwITt, Francts LA FLESCHE,
TRUMAN MICHELSON, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Archeologist —FRANK H. H. Roserts, Jr.

Editor.—StTANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—E.ia LEARY.

Tilustrator.—Dr LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Ohief clerk.—CoaTEes W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director —WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant director—ARTHUR B. BAKER.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY XIII
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Research assistant.—FREDERICK Hi. Fow 1s, Jr.
Research assistant.—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
Research associate in charge.—FREDERICK S. BRACKETT.

Consulting plant physiologist—BHarL S. JOHNSTON.
Research assistant.—LELAND B. CLARK.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assisiant in charge—LkronaRgp C. GUNNELL
PTCA OA HE

fa eng

iol

MSS) veo

REPORT
OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBoT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1929

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1929. The first 22 pages contain a summary
account of the affairs of the Institution. Appendixes 1 to 11 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the United States National
Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the
National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Divi-
sion of Radiation and Organisms, the United States Regional Bureau
of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, the Smith-
sonian library, and of the publications issued under the direction of
the Institution; and Appendix 12 contains a list of subscribers up to
November 15, 1929, to the James Smithson Memorial Edition of the
Smithsonian Scientific Series.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

OUTSTANDING EVENTS OF THE YEAR

The year has been gratifyingly and unexpectedly rich in progress.
Among many items of importance it is even hard to select the great-
est. The National Government and many friends of the Institution
have added materially to its income——Mr. John Gellatly, of New
York, has made the gift of his extensive collection comprising classic
American and European paintings, outstanding specimens of jew-
ellers’ art, tapestries, furniture, and oriental art, valued altogether
at several million dollars, to the Smithsonian for eventual exhibition
in the National Gallery—A new department, the Division of Radia-
tion and Organisms, has been added to the research laboratories of

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

the Institution, and already has made notable headway under Dr.
F. S. Brackett, its director, in its preparation to add fundamental
data to our knowledge of the dependence on radiation of the growth
of plants and the health of animals and human beings. In “onnec-
tion with this division, four rooms in the basement and four in the
flag tower of the Smithsonian Building, heretofore of little value,
have been fitted for laboratories and offices, and much modern labora-
tory furniture and apparatus have been purchased.—Four volumes
of the 12-volume set entitled “Smithsonian Scientific Series ” have
been issued by the publishers in beautiful form. Many expressions
of pleased appreciation have been received from subscribers, and the
royalties to the Institution, as author, to be used for promoting re-
search and publication, have exceeded anticipation. The remaining
eight volumes of the series are far advanced in preparation, and will
be at least equally as interesting and beautiful as those already
issued.—Many expeditions of excellent accomplishment have gone
forth from the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
the Astrophysical Observatory, and the Freer Gallery to remote quar-
ters of the earth—Numerous monographs and original research
articles have been published, embodying valuable results of observa-
tion.—By cooperation with the War Department the military exhibits
in the National Museum have been entirely rearranged. Along with
this have gone other extensive improvements in the exhibitions.—
Under the act of 1928, by which Congress appropriated $20,000 to
promote cooperative investigations in ethnology and archeology in
the several States to be expended at the discretion of the Smithsonian,
allotments totaling over $9,000 have been made for projects in 10
different States.—Great progress has been made in the improvement
of the hbrary.—A new building for birds, believed to be the best
for this purpose in the whole world, has been added to the equip-
ment of the National Zoological Park. Congress has gratifyingly
made provision for a new reptile house equally well designed—All
of these and many other matters of scarcely less interest will be men-
tioned in more detail in the pages which immediately follow, as well
as in the special reports of the different branches of the Institution.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who, in 1826, bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore
constituted an “establishment ” whose statutory members are “ the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the
Chief Justice, three members of the Senate, and three Members of
the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them the same State.” One of the Regents is
elected chancellor by the board; in the past the selection has fallen
upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice; and a suitable person
is chosen by the Regents as Secretary of the Institution, who is also
secretary of the Board of Regents, and the executive officer directly
in charge of the Institution’s activities.

The only change occurring in the personnel of the board during
the year was the termination of the Vice Presidency of General
Dawes, and the succession of Charles Curtis, March 4, 1929.

The roll of the Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as fol-
lows: William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United States, chan-
cellor; Charles Curtis, Vice President of the United States; mem-
bers from the Senate, Reed Smoot, Joseph T. Robinson, Claude A.
Swanson; members from the House of Representatives, Albert John-
son, R. Walton Moore, Walter H. Newton;! citizen members, Robert
S. Brookings, Missouri; Irwin B. Laughlin, Pennsylvania; Frederic
A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; Dwight W. Morrow, New Jersey;
Charles Evans Hughes, New York; and John C. Merriam, Wash-
ington, D. C.

FINANCES

The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the fol-
lowing:
Total endowment for general or specific purposes (exclusive of

reer MUNUS LE eee Wien iaIy ns baat ery woah fie alldereres $1, 648, 389. 45

Itemized as follows:
Deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as provided by

1 Resigned June 30, 1929; Hon. Robert Luce, of Massachusetts, appointed on July 1,
1929, to succeed him.

82322—30——2
4

Deposited in the consolidated fund:

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Miscellaneous securities, ete., either purchased or acquired

by gift; cost or value at date acquired
Springer, Frank, fund for researches, etc. (bonds)

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, fund for researches, ete.

(stocks)

Younger, Helen Walcott, fund (real-estate notes and stock

held in trust)

STO Geil een eS Pa a eh aah So Ne ee te

$557,056. 95

30, 000. 00
11, 520. 00

49, 812. 50

1, 648, 389. 45

The invested funds of the Institution are described as follows:

United Consoli- | Separ
Fong Tretgey | dated fund funds” | Total
AST OTE TTATNC pW sy LR ews Oe A oe $14, 000. 00 | $48, 678.65 |_...-.-.--_- $62, 678. 65
Bacon. Virginia euray. LUNG) ea een eee ee ene een aateares Garsgeraa cree ree 65, 494. 44
Baird bucy Merdund bss 25. ese See ees ae eee aes WOT SH 22s Sete ae oe 1, 978. 22
Ganfields@olleetion find.) 9-2 3 See sa ee ea OF Onde sn aaa 49, 270. 77
Cascysylhonias iy und see eese = ne eee ene eee nee DZL2s Sou eso se ee 3, 212. 83
Chamberlain fandss 3 225-8 Se eels eh a eee S SGnGh1e 50) 42 Ps 36, 811. 50
Min GOWANeM tn Ge ee oan ene ee ee en ees (RRC Dee) | eae 61, 427. 74
Mabelifund)s 5-62. 2s oe Bocce Stee See eee eases OOS OCH |= ser see | Cees oe 500. 00
TR CHE MD One HT eee te ee se | as Cee ey eee ee. See '58259:.50)\| 22 es 2252 5, 259. 50
Hfamiltonefunds 202.228 <a fo ee eee 2, 500. 00 20580. Meee aes 3, 026. 85
TONY At ALOLIMO UT Cee eee ne ee See eee tte 1 5808 Obs Sen- = eee oe = 1, 580. 95
Hodgkins fund:
Gonoral s22 =< eas tgs ce ie Se 116 OD0800))|) 989204010) | Siena onan 155, 204. 10
Specific so. vre nee ont oe eee nearest oe naee TODS OOO 00" Ce aaa 3 ae es 100, 000. 00
pighes sy orucey ind. sae eeere see eee nee eee eee 7866.) 12) ||. 5 ets 282 17, 856. 12
Miver, @atherineWrttndass= sees = 8 ane eee eee PLUUGY PL BRI meena eee eee 20, 672. 33
Pell Comeliawuivingston, tune ss=-2 2s ee == aaa e |S eean ener BLOGs OIE eon eres 3, 156. 10
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund--_-~------------ 265670. 00)|| 929, 220:470)\|-== se 22s 55, 890. 73
Reid, Addison Ri funds 2 2222 2h ee ee 10,0003 OO); 10,569.23) (Sa e eee oes 22, 569. 23
Rhees fund_-_-__- ppp hg Leh thE Sea ag Shs he He 590. 00 (PES B Bye tae ae oe De 1, 208. 33
Ropbling fin Gee enns es cy fa eee whe ee heey 2) A T67 2O8593 1 2. see ee = 157, 758. 93
Sanford, George vH., fund 2052-25 ee 1, 100. 00 1163588) aac eee 2, 263. 88
Smithson fed ee eS ek eee ER ngs ee ae 727, 640. 00 DBO (bees ek eee S 729, 235. 75
Sprlngersehinarikes fin dss 2 nese ae SR ae) Bo ee ae See eee ens $30, 000. 00 30, 000. 00
Walcott,.@harles D) and Many Vaux, fund—- 2...) eo 11, 520. 00 11, 520. 00
Younvers Helen Walcot; Unde sass ae en ee ee a eo te 49, 812. 50 49, 812. 50
TNO tale obs ee ee ce a ee er oa ee 1, 000, 000. 00 | 557,056.95 | 91,332. 50 | 1, 648, 389. 45

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following

donors:

Dr. W. lL. Abbott, for further contribution for archeological explorations
in Dominican Republic and for expeditions to Haiti and Santo Domingo.

Mr. Francis B. Atkinson, for general endowment fund of the Institution.

Carnegie Corporation, for expenses of exhibition of Ranger paintings.

I. M. Casanowicz, estate of, for general endowment fund of the Institution.

Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey, further contribution to the Thomas Lincoln Casey

fund, for researches in Coleoptera.

Hon. Charles G. Dawes, for search in Spain for valuable ancient documents.
Mr. Fairfax Harrison, for general endowment fund of the Institution.
Hon. Irwin B. Laughlin, for general endowment fund of the Institution.
Mr. Dean Mathey, for general endowment fund of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

Missouri Historical Society, for further studies of the language of the Osage
Indians.

Research Corporation, further contribution for research in radiation.

Rockefeller Foundation, for research in radiation by Dr. Anders K. Angstrém.

Mr. John A. Roebling, further contribution for researches in solar radiation
and study of world weather records.

Stanco (Inc.), for botanical expedition to Peru.

Messrs. E. H. Siegler and C. H. Popenoe, for valuable patents covering
insecticide.

Freer Gallery of Art.—The invested funds of the Freer bequest are
classified as follows:

Court ,angd, crounds, fundiesc3 len eros? ite oth hans stegersts $574, 524. 12
Court and grounds maintenance fundies oo eo 148, 112. 53
SUT oie op ra GG UP ok BE tS RAR ee Pl NT Se PERRIER «01 596, 301. 18
Residuary legacy. 2—~ 2. pa eee’ a irre sei 1 ery rs eee es 8 0, 917, 116. 19

Motel 2 ee ee ee a a 5, 236, 054. 02

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been contin-
ued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted
to $5,631.82.

Cash balances, receipts and disbursements during the fiscal year?

Cash epalance onvhandedune*sO; 1928. a ee a $238, 369. 41
Receipts :
Cash from invested endowments and from miscel-
laneous sources for general use of the Insti-
GUE LO 2 eae ee eet Roan se ig a Pin ate, pep eeerre Bee yarn) $61, 309. 56
Cash for increase of endowments for specific use. 3, 000. 00
Cash for increase of endowments for general use_ 6, 535. 00

Cash gifts for specific use (not to be invested)____ 50, 111. 01
Cash received ag royalties from sales of Smith-

sonian Sctentific Series 22 — ers ee 14, 454. 01
Cash gain from sale, ete., of securities (to be

aT THESES (3) es ieee cee Le ates Lk ORR Uy Ree 22, 944. 95

Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment, and from miscel-

TANCOUS SOUNCES) = 262 8ese 6a 82, 425, 70
Total receipts other than Freer endowment______________ 240, 780. 22
Cash income from Freer endowment:
income from investments 282, 435.13
Gain from sale, ete, of securities (to be
IMIVESTS!) eee Bese be OA ee Te ieee eye 940, 476. SO

——_———— 1, 222, 911. 93
1, 702, 061. 57

2This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.

* Under resolution of the Board of Regents three-fourths of this income is credited to
the permanent endowment fund of the Institution and one-fourth is made expendable for
general purposes.
6

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Disbursements :

General work of the Institution—

Buildings—care, repair, and alteration_____- $11, 564. 59
Kurniture and fixtures.) 2 746. 06
General administration, .--.—-5--- == so 20, 652. 66
1810) ¢2h a ee ee ee ee 3, 006. 55
Publications (comprising preparation, print-
ine. and GistribUbiGn) —=-=— = ee 16, 865. 75
Researches and explorations.____________---~- 13, 707. 11
International Wxchanges=———2-- = ss %, 921, 67
—_—_——— _ $74, 464. 39
Funds for specific use other than Freer endow-
ment—
Investments made from gifts, from gain from
sales, ete., of securities, and from savings on
ATR CORTON 0 i Ey race A MO a 51, 860. 45
Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, inerease and care of
special collections, etc., from income of en-
dowment funds and cash gifts for specific
UT SE see te AE ERLE Re yt eS Re nites 2S 118, 498. 06
———————._ 165, 358. 51
Freer endowment—
Operating expenses of gallery, salaries, pur-
chases of art objects, field expenses, etec____ 287, 679. 63
Investments made from gain from sale, etc.,
of securities and from income___------~_~ 957, 564. 76
——___——_ 1, 245, 244. 39
Balance) June sO) OOO ee ee es Ses Se 216, 994. 28

1, 702, 061. 57

Recapitulation of receipts, exclusive of Freer funds

Cash balance Gn phand SUN sO ODS soe a ee ae eee ee $238, 369. 41
Receipts :
General uses—
Kor addition ico endowment. 222 22a. eer $25, 254. 99
Reserved! as. imcomesere win ee 64, 923. 06
a 90, 178. 05
Specific uses—
Accretions to endowment__---__---__------- 18, 065. 47
Gifts for specific use (not to be invested)_--- 50,111.01
Cash income from endowments for addition
EO CT OW TNT CM Da eae 6, 258. 39
Cash income from endowments and from
other sources for conducting researches,
CXPLlOTATLONS (CLC, 282 Se eee Ee el ae 76, 172. 31
——_—___—__ 150, 602. 18
Total receipts, exclusive of Freer funds__--_--_---- 240, 780. 23

#Includes salaries of secretary and certain others.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Statement of endowment funds

Specific pur-
General pur- | poses other | Freer endow-
poses than Freer ment

endowment
Hndowment, Junelso; 192863 {Te le ers eee $995, 632.81 | $598,668.69 | $4, 268, 244. 26
Increase trom. income. witts, etc. or ee 21, 347. 69 8, 742. 89 5, 671. 62
Increase from gain from sales, etce.-..---------------------- 4, 443. 21 16, 366. 66 951, 893. 14
Increase from stoekidividends- £2 LkiGs ys Lave see ok 962. 04 2, 225. 46 10, 245. 00
Endowment, June 30} 19202-2055 = es sere 1, 022, 385. 75 626, 003. 70 5, 236, 054. 02

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1929:

SACS RAT OXPCUSCGe Pica a eee a ee Le ee $32, 500. 00
LRSM ACTOS Obra ee 48, 208. 00
ANSEHEN ES H dled DELON ON (Gy s-0 eee eee ee 60, 300. 00
Cooperative: ethuolosical researches. = 2-2 =- =e aaa eee eee 20, 000. 00
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___________-_-_-_ 7, 460. 00
Asirophiysicalni@ bserviator yes ete See Ses rere Sere ee eae 33, 200. 00
National Museum:
Harniturepands fixtures. 2.22 slp ae ee $29, 560. 00
EL eaten Serre ML Oc Gr ee ee ee ee 84, 040. 00
Preservation Ol COMCCLIONS net 502, 546. 00
Buildine! repairs)2 2 seo eee) Oe ie ee eee 17, 730. 00
Safeguarding dome of rotunda, Natural History
ESTP NR 9 os Ee AN Dee BA ete Se Re een 80, 000. 00
BUS OV RS a a eg oe 2, 000. 00
TER OST Eg Spt eco Are EE SP NE eS ROR Sa ESE 450. 00
—————-___ 716, 326. 00
NationalaGalleny yor eAa ts te: tae We eh rs ee ee ee 31, 168. 00
National Zoolovicalhjeark = OF iy Mie Eis ee as SEs 182, 050. 00
National Zoological Park, building for birds--..- + _-___-_-_- 30, 000. 00
Perini wand qin dial eee cee oe Pe Lae ee es ee 95, 000. 00
YTD ere eM cp OP RYE MT PL et A ep RP 1, 256, 212. 0C

MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST
FINANCIAL

Several new features have been introduced by the treasurer, Mr.
N. W. Dorsey, and by the executive committee of the Board of
Regents in their financial reports. Returns from royalties on the
Smithsonian Scientific Series appear for the first time. Reported
for six months, only, these amount to nearly $15,000. The Regents
have directed that one-fourth of all sums to be received from such
royalties shall be treated as income, the remainder as endowment.

5 Work done under direction of Supervising Architect and funds disbursed by U. S.
Treasury.
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Tt was felt that the immediate application of a quarter of these funds
to research would better promote progress and attract greater inter-
est among friends of the Institution than would the assignment of
the entire proceeds of royalties to the permanent endowment of the
Institution.

Tables have been prepared showing the condition and objects of
the many special funds and showing the increases in general and
special endowment from time to time during the history of the
Smithsonian. Certain funds of fairly general application had been
allowed to accumulate for a good many years. The chief of the
Bureau of Ethnology having reported the critical emergency to eth-
nology which inheres in the imminent decease of the last surviving
members of certain Indian tribes, the secretary directed that of the
annual income of the said funds, an amount totaling about $3,500
should be devoted for several years to collecting this vanishing
knowledge.

In accord with the recommendations of the Institution’s financial
advisers, Messrs. Scudder, Stevens, and Clark, of New York, and
with the approval of the permanent committee of the Board of
Regents, a considerable part of the endowment has been held for
several years in the stocks of widely diversified and well-established
companies and in short-term bonds. In this way the Institution has
been able to share in the prosperity of our country and has enjoyed
a considerable appreciation of its funds.

Especial mention is due the cooperation of the Research Corpora-
tion of New York, whose grants of funds have helped greatly to
establish the new Division of Radiation and Organisms.

GIFT OF ART COLLECTION OF JOHN GELLATLY

The most important art collection to be received by the Institution
since the Freer gift came during the year from Mr. John Gellatly,
of New York City. The collection, valued at several million dollars,
comprises more than 100 works of American art, some choice Euro-
pean paintings, and large collections of glass, jewels, tapestries,
oriental specimens, and other valuable material, all provided with
beautiful cases: Mr. Gellatly’s offer was considered by the National
Gallery of Art Commission and its acceptance highly recommended
to the Smithsonian Regents. The Regents acted favorably upon the
recommendation, and subsequently Congress passed the following
joint resolution, approved by the President on June 6, 1929:

Whereas Mr. John Gellatly has offered to the Nation his art collection for
eventual permanent exhibition in the National Gallery of Art under the adminis-
tration of the Smithsonian Institution; and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

Whereas the National Gallery of Art Commission has recommended to the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution the acceptance of this collec-
tion on account of its high merit; and

Whereas the said Board of Regents have approved in principle this recom-
mendation: Therefore be it

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Siates
of America in Congress assembled, That the Smithsonian Institution is re-
quested to convey suitable acknowledgment to the donor, and is authorized to
include in its estimates of appropriations such sums as may be needful for
the preservation and maintenance of the collection.

By the terms of the deed of gift the collection is the property of the
Smithsonian Institution in trust for exhibition in the National Gal-
lery of Art. It will remain in the Heckscher Building in New York
City, where it is now housed, for four years. It is hoped that by
the end of that period the National Gallery of Art will have a suit-
able building and the collection can then be transferred to

Washington.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

In the early history of the Smithsonian Institution its operations
were well rounded. The natural history sciences and the physical
sciences shared nearly equally in its work. Of late years only in the
Astrophysical Observatory, and to a minor extent in chemical in-
vestigations in the Department of Geology of the National Museum,
have the physical sciences been represented in the Institution’s re-
searches. However, the work of the Astrophysical Observatory has
developed a body of experience in the measurement of radiation and
of heat, and a collection of large pieces of optical apparatus, which,
combined, comprise a unique preparation for research on the rela-
tions of radiation to life.

It is therefore with unusual satisfaction that I record the establish-
ment on May 1, 1929, of the Division of Radiation and Organisms.

The staff is at present composed of Dr. F. S. Brackett, research
associate in charge; Dr. E. 8. Johnston, consulting plant physiologist ;
Mr. L. B. Clark, research assistant; and Miss V. P. Stanley, stenog-
rapher and laboratory assistant. With these cooperate the staff of
the Astrophysical Observatory. Offices have been made available by
remodeling the flag tower of the Smithsonian Building and installing
an elevator, and laboratories are being constructed and equipped in
the basement. These include plant-growth chambers, spectrograph
and photometer rooms, a physical laboratory accommodating infra-
red spectroscopes, a chemical laboratory, and a glass-blowing room.
At the close of the year work was nearly completed on the prepara-
tion of these laboratories and general equipment and special apparatus
were being arranged for.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Investigations upon living organisms will at first be confined to the
growth of plants under rigidly controlled physical and chemical
conditions, the control extending to soil, gases, temperature, humid-
ity, and intensity and color of light. General biological problems
will be attacked through spectroscopic investigations of the compli-
cated molecules which are a part of living organisms; that is, a study
of the radiation arising from the internal vibrations of the molecules
themselves. The work will be done in close cooperation with the
Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory of the Department of Agriculture, as
well as with men of diverse training in the biological sciences, so that
modern specialization may be taken advantage of in these studies on
the border line of several sciences.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

The field expeditions sent out under the administration or coopera-
tion of the Institution as an important part of its program in the
increase of knowledge numbered 29 during the year. They pertained
chiefly to anthropology, geology, biology, and astrophysics, and many
thousands of specimens and much valuable information resulted from
them. Preliminary illustrated accounts of the work appeared in the
annual exploration” pamphlet issued by the Institution, and brief
notices of many of the expeditions will be found in the reports of
certain of the bureaus under Smithsonian direction, appended hereto.
The Institution is able to bear the expense of but a very small propor-
tion of the explorations, the rest being supported by cooperative ar-
rangements with other governmental and scientific establishments and
private individuals. .

The year’s expeditions visited such widely scattered regions as
China, Alaska, Canada, Labrador, Haiti, Cuba, Honduras, various
European countries, the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, and the Philippines,
besides 15 States in this country. Among the more extended expedi-
tions may be mentioned Dr. Paul Bartsch’s molluscan work in Cuba;
investigations of the ancient Eskimo culture of northwestern Alaska,
by Dr. A. Hrdlicka and Mr. Henry B. Collins; the joint zoological
and archeological expedition of Messrs. Miller and Krieger to the
Dominican Republic and Mr. Arthur J. Poole’s exploration of
Haitian caves; the zoological collecting of the Rev. David C.
Graham and the Freer Gallery’s archeological work under Mr. Carl
W. Bishop in China; and the botanical explorations in Honduras by
Mr. Paul C. Standley.

COOPERATIVE ETHNOLOGICAL AND ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS

As stated in my last report, Congress in 1928 passed an act au-
thorizing the appropriation of $20,000 for cooperative ethnological
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ei

and archeological investigations, the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution being designated to pass upon the merit of the proposed
work and to make available from the money so appropriated a sum
equal to that provided by any State, educational institution, or
scientific organization in the United States, such sum not to exceed
$2,000 in any one State in any one year. The direction of the work
and the division of the result thereof was also placed under the
Secretary of th he Smithsonian. During the past year 16 allotments
for cooperative projects have been approved as follows:

1928

June 19. State archeologist of Tennessee, to conduct archeological investigations
in the Great Smoky Mountains, $500.

July 16. Indiana Historical Bureau, to make an archeological survey of the
southeast portion of the State of Indiana, together with the excava-
tion of a typical mound, $900.

Nov. 12. Oklahoma Historical Society, for excavation of a group of mounds of
the true Mound Builder type in the northern part of Le Flore County,
Okla., $1,000.

Nov. 20. University of California, to conduct ethnological investigations among
the Yuma and Kamia Indians of southern California, $200.

Nov. 20. University of California, to conduct ethnological investigations among
the Yokuts and Western Mono of San Joaquin Valley and southern
Sierra Nevada, $200.

Noy. 26. University of Chicago, to excavate a series of mounds near Quincy, IlL.,
$1,000.

Nov. 28. University of Washington, to make a study of the Lummi Indians near
Bellingham, Wash., $100.

1929

Apr. 12. University of California, for an investigation of the Nisenan or Southern
Maidu of north central California, $300.

Apr. 12. University of California, for an investigation of the culture of the
Kawaiisu of south central California, $250.

Apr. 12. University of California, for an intensive study of the basketry art of
the Indians of northwestern California, $250.

Apr. 12. University of Michigan, to conduct an archeological survey of Muskegon
and Marquette River Valleys, $500.

June 12. Colorado State Historical Society, to conduct archeological reconnais-
sance and excavations in Montezuma County. Colo., $1,200.

June 12. Logan Museum (Beloit, Wis.), to conduct archeological excavations in
supposed Arikara sites, $500.

June 12. San Diego Museum. to conduct archeological investigations and exca-
vations in western San Diego County, Calif., $800.

June 12. Yale University, to conduct studies of Indian music, $500.

June 27. Indiana Historical Bureau, to continue archeological survey of the State
of Indiana, $1,000.

PUBLICATIONS

Partly through its very extensive correspondence, but chiefly
through its publications, the Institution carries on its program of
diffusion of knowledge. All of its 11 distinct series are scientific in
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

character, except the catalogues of the National Gallery of Art. Two
of its less technical publications, namely, the Smithsonian Annual
Report and the annual Smithsonian Explorations and Field Work
pamphlet, are intended primarily for the general reader who is
interested in the progress of science. All of its publications are dis-
tributed free to a large list of libraries and scientific and educational
institutions throughout the world. A limited number of copies of
papers in the Miscellaneous Collections series are held for sale at cost
price.

The Annual Reports of the Smithsonian Institution are perhaps
its most widely known series. Printed each year as a general ap-
pendix to these reports is a selection of about 30 articles chosen from
the periodical literature of the world or specially contributed to illus-
trate in a readable and authoritative manner the advances in all
branches of science for the year. For example, in the report for
1928 the following three typical articles appear:

New Results on Cosmic Rays, by R. A. Millikan and G. H.
Cameron.

The Controversy Over Human “Missing Links,” by Gerrit S.
Miller, jr.

Communication Among Insects, by N. E. McIndoo.

The Institution published during the past year a total of 128 vol-
umes and pamphlets; and 197,573 copies of Smithsonian publica-
tions were distributed, including 26,709 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Annual Reports, 31,121 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 3,773 Smithsonian Special
Publications, 115,128 publications of the National Museum, and
20,112 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology. More
detailed information regarding the publications is given in the report
of the editor of the Institution, Appendix 11.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES

As a means of augmenting its income for researches and publica-
tions, the Institution entered into an agreement in 1928 with the
Smithsonian Institution Series (Inc.) of New York to publish a
set of 12 volumes to be known as the Smithsonian Scientific Series,
under the editorship of the secretary. These volumes, prepared at
the Institution, present in popular form, profusely illustrated, the
scientific activities of the Smithsonian and the wealth of natural-
history material in the National Museum and Zoological Park. The
sale of the series is entirely in the hands of the New York publishers,
the Institution appearing only in the capacity of author.

The first four volumes appeared during the year and were dis-
tributed to the subscribers to the James Smithson Memorial Edition

————
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

whose names will be found in Appendix 12. These volumes were
as follows:
1. The Smithsonian Institution, by Webster Prentiss True.
2. The Sun and the Welfare of Man, by Charles Greeley Abbot.
8. Minerals from Earth and Sky. Part I, The Story of Meteorites, by George
P. Merrill. Part Il, Gems and Gem Minerals, by William F. Foshag.
4, The North American Indians. An account of the American Indians north
of Mexico, compiled from the original sources, by Rose A. Palmer.
The remaining eight volumes are in press or well advanced in
preparation and will be issued in course of the calendar year 1930.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library is made up of 10 divisional and 36 sec-
tional libraries. The former include the Smithsonian deposit in the
Library of Congress, which is the main lbrary of the Institution,
the Smithsonian office library, the Langley aeronautical library, and
the seven libraries of the bureaus under direction of the Institution.
The sectional libraries are smaller units maintained in the offices of
members of the staff for use in connection with their work. The
library as a whole comprises about 800,000 volumes, pamphlets, and
charts. Accessions for the year included 7,244 volumes and 7,627
pamphlets and charts, a total of 14,871 items.

Three important changes took place in the library during the
year: The library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, previously
an independent library, was made a division of the Smithsonian
library; a new divisional library was organized for the recently
established Division of Radiation and Organisms of the Institution ;
and the technological library was made a part of the National
Museum library.

The outstanding gift of the year was the Harriman Alaskan
library, brought together by Dr. W. H. Dall and presented by Mrs.
Edward H. Harriman. Other important gifts include 1,000 publi-
cations from Mr. Herbert A. Gill, 500 books and periodicals on
photography from Mr. A. B. Stebbins, and 1,500 publications of the
Philosophical Society of Washington from the society itself.

Items of notable progress in the reorganization of the lbrary
under the direction of the librarian will be found in Appendix 10.

GOVERNMENTALLY SUPPORTED BRANCHES

There have grown up under the initiative of the Smithsonian
Institution and at large expense of its private funds numerous en-
terprises which have become public necessities. Of these, seven, by
direction of Congress, are still administered by the Institution,
though almost entirely supported by governmental appropriations.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

These are: The National Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the
Bureau of International Exchanges, the Astrophysical Observatory,
and the Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scien-
tific Literature. Besides these the Smithsonian administers the
Freer Gallery of Art, the gift of Charles L. Freer to the Institution
in trust for the American people.

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Of the governmental branches of the Institution the most impor-
tant is the National Museum. On the one hand its exhibitions en-
tertain and instruct visitors, young and old, from all parts of our
country and the world. On the other it is the repository of an
enormous number of specimens of fauna, flora, geology, mineralogy,
history, ethnology, and archeology, representing not only the United
States but other regions, including the great oceans. These collec-
tions in many instances can no longer be duplicated, owing to the
changed conditions now existing. They form a rich basis for re-
search, valuable both for utilities and for pure science. The duty also
devolves on us of continuing explorations and collecting, especially
where the conditions tend toward the early loss of opportunities now
available. Only in this way can the interests of the future be
protected.

The appropriations for the maintenance of the Museum totaled
$748,024, an increase of $97,064 over the preceding year. A large
part of this increase was provided for much-needed adjustment in
the salaries of the Museum staff, including a revision of the sched-
ules of the various grades and a one-rate increase for employees
who had attained proper efficiency ratings. Although the effect
of this increase in salaries was immediately apparent in improved
morale, the Museum salary rates are still below the average for
similar organizations in the Government service, and it is urgently
hoped that provision may be made for a further one-rate advance.
The question of additions to the personnel is of growing impor-
tance, as in several divisions there are no assistants in training to
carry on the work when the older men are gone, and for certain col-
lections of scientific material there is no specialist in charge. The
acute housing needs of the Museum include additional wings on
the Natural History Building to relieve the present overcrowded
condition and a more adequate and modern building to replace the
old Arts and Industries Building, constructed nearly 50 years ago
and entirely unsuited to present requirements.

The collections have been increased during the year by the addi-
tion of 545,191 specimens, by far the largest part of these coming
to the department of biology. Gifts to schools numbered 3,258
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

specimens, and 23,326 were sent out in exchange to other organiza-
tions and individuals. Loans to scientific workers totaled 33,723
specimens.

The department of anthropology received a large collection, gath-
ered by Mr. H. B. Collins, jr., from islands off the coast of Alaska,
of ivory and bone implements illustrative of Eskimo culture from
very early times to the period of Russian exploration. A series
of objects representing the ethnology of the Nigerian and Gold
Coast in Africa was presented by Mr. C. C. Roberts and another
from the region of the Belgian Kongo was given by the Rev. Ellen
I. Burk.

In biology there was received the valuable collection of mammals,
birds, and insects bequeathed by the late Col. Wirt Robinson, and
large series of birds and plants obtained in hitherto unrepresented
areas of western China by Dr. Joseph F. Rock, presented by the
National Geographic Society. Through the continued work of
Dr. David C. Graham large collections of biological material from
western China were received, and Mr. EK. C. Leonard collected large
series of plants in Haiti through the financial assistance of Dr.
W.L. Abbott. The division of mammals received a complete skeleton
of an adult sperm whale, the gift of Mr. Ippei Yokoyama, president
of the Oriental Whaling Co. Nearly 200,000 land shells were col-
lected in Cuba by Dr. Paul Bartsch, under the Walter Rathbone
Bacon Traveling Scholarship.

In the department of geology a meteoric iron weighing 1,060
pounds, from New Mexico, was purchased through the Roebling
Fund. The mineral collections were enriched under the same fund
by the addition of a large mass of pegmatite from Maine, a nugget
of platinum weighing 17.274 ounces from South America, and a cut
gem of benitoite weighing 7.67 carats, the largest known cut
stone of this material. Through the Chamberlain Fund a number
of interesting specimens were added to the gem collection. Among
additions to the fossil collections may be mentioned remains of
dinosaurs of several species brought by Mr. C. W. Gilmore from
Montana, and specimens of Pleistocene mammals collected by Doctor
Gidley in Florida.

The arts and industries department received many valuable addi-
tions, including three early types of Winton automobiles, one of
the engines of the Army airplane Question Mark, which remained in
the air nearly seven days, and an exhibit illustrating the entire
process of shoemaking by machinery. The most important accession
in the division of history was a silk dress worn by Martha Washing-
ton, received as a permanent loan from Mrs. Morris Whitridge.

The usual large number of field expeditions were taken part in
by the Museum; these will be found described briefly in the report on
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

the Museum, Appendix 1. Work on safeguarding the dome above
the rotunda was completed on May 14, 1929, the work being per-
formed under direction of the engineers in the office of the Super-
vising Architect, Treasury Department. The auditorium and lec-
ture rooms were used during the year for 125 meetings, covering a
wide range of scientific and other activities. Visitors to the Museum
for the year totaled 1,929,625, a large increase over the previous
year. Hight volumes and 61 smaller papers were published, and
115,128 copies of Museum publications were distributed during the
year.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

The outstanding event of the year was the gift by Mr. John
Gellatly of his important art collection mentioned in detail else-
where in this report. Other than this, but few accessions came to
the gallery, owing to the complete exhaustion of available space and
the fact that no provision has yet been made for the erection of a
new building.

The eighth annual meeting of the gallery commission was held
December 11, 1928. At a special meeting held in April, 1929, the
commission recommended to the Smithsonian Regents the accept-
ance of the Gellatly collection. At this meeting also the chairman,
Mr. Gari Melchers, announced that the Carnegie Corporation had
granted $1,000 for the purpose of assembling the art works so far
purchased under the Ranger fund for temporary exhibition in the
National Gallery. It is intended to hold the exhibition during
December, 1929.

Six special exhibitions were held in the gallery, including a group
of four portraits by M. L. Theo Dubé; a collection of paintings
of the Gothic cathedrals of France, by Pieter van Veen; an exhibit
of early American miniatures, by Edward Greene Malbone; 42
water-color paintings of scenes and figure subjects in India, by
William Spencer Bagdatopoulos; a collection of paintings of Arctic
and Antarctic scenes and character studies by Frank Wilbert Stokes;
and an exhibition of paintings and sculpture by American negro

artists.
FREER GALLERY OF ART*

The year’s additions to the collection by purchase include exam-
ples of early Persian and Egyptian bookbinding; Chinese bronzes;
Syrian glass; Persian, Turkish, and Egyptian manuscripts; Chinese,
Japanese, Indian, and Persian paintings; Chinese, Persian, and west
Asian pottery; and Chinese silver.

6 The Government’s expense in connection with the Freer Gallery of Art consists mainly

in the care of the building and certain other custodial matters. Other expenses are paid
from the Freer endowment funds.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 137

The total attendance for the year was 116,303, of which number
2,101 came to the offices for general information, to study the build-
ing and methods, to see objects in storage, or for other purposes.
Ten classes were given instruction in the study rooms and twelve
groups were given docent service in the galleries.

Gratifying progress has been made in the work of the field service.
Dr. C. Li, of the field staff, was given every assistance by the Chinese
Government in carrying on important archeological excavations in
the Province of Honan. Political conditions in China have improved
steadily during the year, and it may be confidently expected that
the Freer Gallery’s work in the field may now be carried on without
interruption of any kind.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

On August 1, 1928, Mr. Matthew W. Stirling assumed the office of
chief of the Rena succeeding Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, who retired
earlier in the year.

The work of the bureau for the year covered widespread ethno-
logical and archeological investigations relating to numerous Indian
tribes. Mr. Stirling completed a survey of an interesting group of
_ mounds in the vicinity of Tampa Bay, Fla., selecting a large mound
at Palma Sola as a site for later intensive excavation. Doctor
Swanton continued work on the Timucua dictionary, and Doctor
Michelson renewed his researches among the Algonquian tribes of
Oklahoma and the Fox Indians of Iowa. Mr. Harrington completed
his report on the Taos of New Mexico and studied the Karuk of
California. Doctor Roberts brought to completion his archeological
work along the Piedra River in Colorado, uncovering 50 houses of
the prehistoric Pueblo peoples, and prepared a report covering the
investigation. Later in the year he began excavations at a site In east-
ern Arizona, revealing eight pit houses occupied by Basket Maker III
and Pueblo I peoples. Mr. Hewitt continued his ethnological work
among the Iroquois, and Doctor La Flesche revised the manuscript of
his Osage dictionary. Miss Densmore studied the music of various
tribes in Wisconsin.

The bureau published three annual reports, with accompanying
papers, and five bulletins. A total of 20,112 bureau publications
were distributed during the year.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

The number of packages of publications handled during the year
was 620,485, a large increase over the number handled during the
previous year. The total weight of the packages was 621,373 pounds,
also an increase. These totals include both the packages sent abroad
and those received for distribution in this country.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

The total number of sets of United States governmental documents
forwarded to foreign depositories remains at 105, but those sent to
Latvia and Rumania have been increased from partial to full sets,
and in several countries the location of the depository has been
changed. The daily issue of the Congressional Record is now ex-
changed with 101 foreign establishments.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

The total number of animals added to the collections during the
year was 479, including an unusual number of gifts of valuable
specimens, while 541 were lost through death, return of animals,
and exchange, leaving the number on hand at the close of the year
at 2.211. These represent 579 species of mammals, birds, reptiles,
and batrachians. Because of the restrictions of exhibition space, no
attempt has been made to enlarge the collection for the present,
effort being concentrated on selecting through exchange and pur-
chase only choice and especially desirable species. As a result, the
collection is now unusually rich in rare and interesting forms.

The most spectacular addition of the year, and in fact of many
years, was N’Gi, the gorilla purchased with money. remaining from
the Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition funds. On the first Sunday»
that he was shown at the park, despite the fact that it was a cold
day, over 40,000 people came to see him. For the year the attend-
ance reached a total of 2,528,710, a considerable increase over the
preceding year. This total included 497 classes of students, aggre-
gating 30,886 individuals.

Work on the exterior of the new bird house, built last year, was
completed, including the construction of outdoor cages and the lay-
ing out of an attractive approach to the building. The roofs of sev-
eral of the older buildings were repaired, and many of the bridle
paths in the park were altered after consultation with those inter-
ested in riding.

Congress has appropriated $220,000 for the construction of a
reptile house, which for years has been badly needed. In order to
insure the best and most modern building for the exhibition of rep-
tiles and batrachians, the Smithsonian Institution from its private
funds sent the director of the park and Mr. A. L. Harris, municipal
architect, to Europe to study the zoological parks of foreign cities.
Twenty zoos were visited, and through the courtesy of those in
charge many valuable ideas were obtained which will be used in the
preliminary plans for the new reptile house.

Of the several additional buildings needed for the proper develop-
ment of the National Zoo the most urgent is an exhibition building
for apes, lemurs, and small mammals. For the small mammals,
which include some of the most interesting of all animals, there are
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

at present practically no suitable quarters, and the great apes, of
which the park has a valuble collection, are now so housed that it is
often impossible for visitors to see them. Tentative plans for a mod-
ern, hygienic building to remedy this situation have been prepared,
the estimated cost being $225,000.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, through its field sta-
tions on Table Mountain, Calif., and Mount Montezuma, Chile, and
the cooperating National Geographic Society station on Mount Bruk-
karos, South West Africa, has continued the exact measurement of
the intensity of the radiation of the sun as it is at mean solar dis-
tance outside the earth’s atmosphere. The California and the Chile
observations, having reached definitive status, now concur within nar-
row limits in their determination of the sun’s variation. ‘The Monte-
zuma values of the solar constant are published by the Weather
Bureau on the Washington daily weather map.

Further investigations have apparently confirmed three definite
periodicities previously noticed in the solar variation of approxi-
mately 11, 15, and 26 months.

At the Mount Wilson, Calif., station, Doctor Abbot and Mr.
Freeman repeated with richer results the bolometric determination
of positions of solar and terrestrial absorption lines and bands in
the infra-red solar spectrum, which formed the main subject of Vol-
ume I of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory. Another
research carried through at Mount Wilson was the observation of the
distribution of energy in the spectra of 18 stars and of the planets
Mars and Jupiter, accomplished by Doctor Abbot, with the aid of
Doctor Adams, of the Mount Wilson Observatory, using the 100-
inch telescope and a sensitive radiometer.

Preparation of the text of Volume V of the Annals, to contain the
numerous observations since 1920, was begun during the year, and
it is hoped that the volume will be ready for publication in the
fiscal year 1931.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Publication of the International Catalogue was suspended in 1922
because of lack of financial support, but the United States bureau,
conforming with an agreement made with other bureaus, has con-
tinued to keep records of current scientific periodicals and to do other
necessary work in order that actual indexing may be resumed when
reorganization of the catalogue becomes possible. Expenses have
been kept at the absolute minimum consistent with maintaining the
bureau intact.

82322—30——3
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

The assistant in charge of the bureau has during the year drawn
up a detailed plan whereby the work of the catalogue could be re-
organized and publication resumed. The initial capital required
under this plan would be $75,000 for equipping a printing plant and
maintaining the central bureau for one year. After the first year
the enterprise would again be self-supporting through the sale of
the catalogue to subscribers. At the close of the past year the assist-
ant in charge was in correspondence regarding the plan with Prof.
Henry E. Armstrong, F. R. S., chairman of the executive committee,
in whom the 1922 Brussels Convention vested authority to consider
and propose plans for resuming publication.

NECROLOGY
ROBERT RIDGWAY

Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, died at Olney, Ill., March 25,
1929. He was born at Mount Carmel, Il., July 2, 1850, and was early
attracted to natural-history subjects. When a boy of 14 years he
came to the attention of Professor Baird, who later secured for him
the position of naturalist on the fortieth parallel survey under Clar-
ence King. He went to San Francisco via Panama in May, 1867, and
spent three years in the field. He prepared a report on the collec-
tions made by him, which was published in 1877. In the meantime,
Professor Baird had projected a work on birds in conjunction with
Dr. Thomas M. Brewer, and Mr. Ridgway was engaged to provide the
technical descriptions. This work, the History of North American
Birds, was published in three large volumes in 1874 and covered the
land birds only. In 1884 the two volumes on water birds appeared,
completing a memorable undertaking.

Mr. Ridgway was employed at intervals by the Smithsonian In-
stitution up to 1874, when he was designated as ornithologist, a posi-
tion he held under varying titles to July 1, 1880, when he became
curator of birds, and continued under this title until the date of his
death. He was a very busy worker, devoted to his subject, and spent
little time in recreation. His first published note appeared in the
American Naturalist, in 1869, and from that date to the present his
communications were frequent, amounting to well over 500 titles in
all, exclusive of his more pretentious works. In 1886 he published
a Nomenclature of Colors which was quickly adopted by naturalists
and became the standard for descriptive work, to be replaced only
by the same author’s Color Standards and Color Nomenclature issued
in 1912. In 1887 his Manual of North American Birds made its
appearance, followed by a second edition in 1896.

For many years Mr. Ridgway had been collecting material and
data for a technical treatise on the birds of North and Middle Amer-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY elit

ica, a work that Professor Baird had in mind years ago, and when
authorized by the late Doctor Goode to produce such a work he
was well prepared. From 1901 to 1919 eight parts of this work,
Bulletin No. 50 of the United States National Museum, were issued,
and he was engaged on the manuscript of the ninth and tenth parts
at the time of his death.

In recognition of the quality of his work he received many honors
from scientific societies both at home and abroad. Some years ago
he was granted the Walker Grand Prize, issued by the Boston Society
of Natural History, the Daniel Giraud Elliot gold medal, and the
William Brewster medal and prize. He was a member or honorary
member of various ornithological societies, the Zoological Society of
London, the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, and
others.

Mr. Ridgway was keenly interested in field work, and made many
trips to various parts of Illinois and Indiana. He visited Florida
in three successive years (1895-1897), accompanied the Harriman
Alaska expedition in 1899, and made two collecting trips to Costa
Rica, 1904 and 1908.

EUGENE AMANDUS SCHWARZ

Kugene Amandus Schwarz, custodian of coleoptera in the Na-
tional Museum, died October 15, 1928. He was born in Liegnitz,
Silesia, April 21, 1844, and came to America in 1872, taking up
work with Hagen at Cambridge, Mass. In 1874 he accompanied his
friend and pupil, H. G. Hubbard, to Detroit, where they founded
the Detroit Scientific Association and started an entomological
museum. In this year he spent several months collecting insects in
Florida, the first of a long series of collecting expeditions that con-
tinued throughout his life. In 1878 he came to the Department of
Agriculture, where he remained until his death. In 1898 he was
appointed custodian of coleoptera in the National Museum, and here
he introduced better standards of care and arrangement. Besides
the extensive collection made by Hubbard and himself he secured for
the Museum many other important collections, and he started and
actively promoted the formation of a collection of coleoptera larvae,
which has since grown to be probably the largest in the world.

Doctor Schwarz was very modest and self-effacing, but during the
last 40 years his fame as a man of great learning slowly spread
among the entomologists of this country until it became generally
recognized. He always willingly placed his unlimited knowledge
and experience at the disposal of the younger generations. His
bibliography contains nearly 400 titles, mainly on coleoptera.
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929
HARRISON GRAY DYAR

Harrison Gray Dyar, custodian of lepidoptera in the National
Museum, died January 21, 1929. Doctor Dyar was born in New
York, February 14, 1866, and was educated at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology and Columbia University. He came to the
Museum in 1897 and his term of service amounted, therefore, to more
than 30 years. During nearly all of this time he was a volunteer
and unpaid worker, but for a few years he was on the staff of the
Bureau of Entomology.

Doctor Dyar was one of the authors of the large monograph of
the mosquitoes of North America published nearly 20 years ago by
the Carnegie Institution, and he continued from that time to be the
principal specialist in the group in the western hemisphere. The
monograph having been out of print for some time he completed
quite recently a new work on the mosquitoes of both North and South
America, which was published last year by the Carnegie Institution
in one large volume. He gave much attention to the early stages of
the mosquitoes, so that his classification covered these in a very
unusual degree.

In 1917 Doctor Dyar gave to the Museum his entire collection of
insects, numbering some 35,000 specimens. As a result of his labors
the National Museum has one of the largest collections of mosquitoes
in the world and probably by far the largest one in larval stages and
in mounted specimens of genitalia,

JOHN DONNELL SMITH

John Donnell Smith, for many years honorary associate in
botany, Smithsonian Institution, died December 2, 1928. Captain
Smith was born in Baltimore June 5, 1829, and at the time of his
death was the oldest living graduate of Yale University. Aside
from distinguished service in the public welfare, his interest centered
m the botany of Central America, in which field he was an acknowl-
edged authority. In the course of his studies he had built up an
extensive library and an herbarium of over 100,000 specimens, which
were presented to the Smithsonian Institution several years ago. In
the death of Captain Smith the world has lost a scientist of note and
the Smithsonian Institution a distinguished friend and patron.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1929:

The total appropriations for the maintenance of the Naticnal
Museum for this period amounted to $748,024, an increase of $97,064
over the appropriations for the year 1928. Of this increase it is
gratifying to record that a large part was provided for much-needed
adjustment in the salaries paid to the Museum staff. This adjustment
came partly through the operation of the Welch Act regulating gov-
ernmental salaries in general, under which there was a revision of the
schedules of the various grades, and partly through allowance by the
Congress of additional funds to permit a 1-rate increase under the
provisions of the reclassification act for those employees who had
attained the proper efficiency ratings. An increase of $3,000 pro-
vided for additional storage facilities for the steadily increasing
study collections. The addition of three employees, namely, an
engineer, a fireman, and an elevator conductor, required for the
adequate operation of the heating and lighting plant and for the
proper maintenance of elevator service, necessitated $3,840 more.
There was added also the new position of assistant curator in the
division of mammals, where assistance was urgently required. An
allowance of $1,200 provided for the purchase of uniforms for guards
and elevator conductors on day duty in our buildings. An increase
of $4,610 under the item for building repairs covered an additional
painter, the purchase of further paint materials, and allotment for
replacement of cement work on the private roadways leading ts the
east service entrance of the Natural History Building. The sum of
$500 was added to the appropriation for the purchase of books for
the Museum libraries and $2,500 to the allotment for printing and
binding for the Museum.

In the first deficiency act for the fiscal year 1928 there was pro-
vision of $80,000 for safeguarding the dome of the rotunda of the
Natural History Building, the work to be performed under the
direction and supervision of the Supervising Architect, Treasury
Department, and the money to be available until June 80, 1929.

23
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

The increase in salaries has been most gratifying and has brought
needed relief in economic situation for many Museum employees.
The effect of this betterment has been immediate in increased morale
in an organization whose employees have always been constantly
devoted to its best interests. To consider this matter further, it may
be pointed out that the reclassification act at present calls for advance
in salary until the average salaries paid under the various grades
reach the average fixed by law for these grades. At the present time
the majority of Museum employees stand at the second salary rate in
their respective grades, permitting an advance of one more step ac-
cording to the provision of the reclassification act. As the salary
rates are still below the average for similar organizations in the
Government service, it is urgently desired that further provision for
this 1-rate advance be made. The present moneys in the various
appropriations above the salary roll do not permit these advances.
Should this additional amount be made available the salary status
under the different appropriations will be rendered more or less stable
without necessity for further considerable increases in salary allot-
ment under present circumstances. There will remain only the need
of adjustment of classification in some instances and the additions of
new personnel required in many cases. It is earnestly hoped that
the promotions required may be made in the fiscal year 1931.

The question of further additions to personnel remains one of
importance, as there is a growing necessity for further workers both
on the scientific staff and on the clerical force. Relief has been
obtained in some instances, particularly in two divisions where
assistants have been provided for the older men now in charge, with
the intention that they may be in training to carry on when the
older members are gone. Several cases of this kind remain still to
be cared for, and there are in addition certain collections for which
the Museum now has no specialist in charge. At the present time
it is necessary to employ for short periods temporary cataloguers,
typists, and laborers to assist in the regular work. ‘These persons
should be available on the permanent staff, since the work is spe-
cialized and requires considerable training for adequate and proper
performance. This training it is not possible to give during a period
of temporary appointment.

In the annual report for last year attention was called to the neces-
sity for further space to house the steadily growing collections which
increase annually in spite of efforts to eliminate material that is not
required for permanent preservation. The whole collection forms a
valuable part of the riches of our National Government—a part
that will increase steadily in value because each year more and more
objects become impossible to duplicate through the destruction by
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

our advancing civilization of an increasing number of natural forms.
Proper provision must be made to secure everything of importance
obtainable while there is yet opportunity.

Needs for housing in the National Museum, as outlined last year,
include additional wings on the Natural History Building to pro-
vide for relief from the present congestion, which in many cases is
now acute. Of equal importance and necessity is more adequate pro-
vision for the collections in arts and industries at present housed in
the old National Museum Building, which when constructed in 1881
was adequate for the needs of those days, but which is not designed in
a manner commensurate with present requirements. This building
should be replaced by another much larger structure that will pro-
vide proper housing for the objects in this collection. These have
great importance to the American Nation as a record of industrial
development, commerce, and engineering in all its lines. The series
of Patent Office models alone, representing the basic principles from
which our important economic advances have grown, is of itself of
sufficient importance to warrant the proposed building. With these,
coupled with related historic objects of all kinds drawn from other
sources, it results that the national collections contain materials that
can not be duplicated in any other museum of the kind in the country
or in the world. With provision being made for industrial museums
in other sections of the country we should prepare at once for more
adequate housing for the national collections of this kind in
Washington.

The collections of history at present are placed in part in the
Natural History Building and in part in the building given over
principally to arts and industries. The historical materials concern
persons and events of supreme importance to our Nation, since they
treat of the very birth, growth, and expansion of our country. As
such they are of absorbing interest to every patriotic American and
should be displayed to the fullest advantage. At the present time
the limits of space are such that many interesting objects can not be
placed on public display and it is necessary at times to decline
materials that should be accepted, because of lack of proper facilities
for their preservation.

Preparation of plans and other necessary arrangements for housing
space will require considerable time. With our need now acute the
preliminaries necessary before actual construction may be begun.
should not be postponed. The present interest of the public demands
prompt action in these matters.

The steadily growing attendance in the Museum halls is in itself
sufficient indication of the interest of the American public in the

Cee wae
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

National Museum and its collections. More adequate housing
facilities can not but add to this interest and will assist in making
Washington even more attractive to the hundreds of thousands of
our countrymen who journey each year to visit the seat of government
of our great Nation.

COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections of the National Museum during the
fiscal year have reached the large total of 545,191 separate objects, by
far the greater part of these coming to the department of biology.
This increment, while not quite equal to that of last year, is on a
parity with that received in the last few years. The collections of the
National Museum are now universally recognized as of such great
value and importance as to draw to them donations of the most valu-
able kind in the form of collections gathered under private or other
auspices which it is desired to place where they will have assurance
of proper care and permanent preservation. Recognition that in the
National Museum there may be found these conditions is highly
gratifying. Material of various kinds sent for examination and
report during the year amounted to 1,314 lots, including many thous-
ands of separate things. Gifts to schools and other educational insti-
tutions included 3,258 specimens, while in exchange with other
scientific organizations and individuals there were sent out 23,326
specimens, these being duplicate materials for which others were
received in return. Loans of all kinds to scientific workers outside
of Washington included 33,723 specimens, many of them highly
valuable.

Following isa digest of the more important accessions for the year
in the various departments and divisions of the Museum.

Anthropology.—An expedition under direction of Henry B. Col-
lins, jr., to St. Lawrence Island in Bering Sea, including work on
the islet of Punuk, brought the largest selection of historical-archeo-
logical materials ever obtained by the Museum in one season from
the Bering Sea area. In it are found many hundreds of ivory and
bone implements illustrative of the culture of the Eskimo from very
early times down to the period of Russian exploration. The carvings
shown are of three distinct types, indicating as many cultural stages
in the development of the people who made them. The entire collec-
tion is one almost without parallel in our history and will be of great
importance in elucidating the period of habitation at the village sites
represented.

Among other valuable collections there has come a series represent-
ing the ethnology of the Nigerian and Gold Coast in Africa, the gift
of C. C. Roberts. <A further collection from Africa of considerable
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

importance in ethnology is one from the region of the Belgian Congo
received as a gift from the Rev. Ellen I. Burk.

There was received also a number of miscellaneous materials
secured by Dr. David C. Graham in connection with his work in
western China, principally in the Province of Szechwan.

An exchange of specimens with A. S. Kenyon, of Melbourne, Aus-
tralia, brought a miscellaneous collection of decorative art work on
wood, stone, and shell, and in basketry, as well as stone and wooden
message sticks and an assortment of throwing sticks, including
decorated boomerangs.

Archeological materials include an old type of reed basket from a
rock shelter in Russell County, Ky., secured by purchase; flint and
stone implements and bone and copper beads presented by Mr.
Charles Beckman, from various sites along the Columbia River in
Washington; and a series of stone implements collected by Dr.
Walter Hough, head curator, in the vicinity of Abilene, Tex.
Among Old World specimens there may be mentioned a series of
nearly 500 that come from the work of Dr. George Grant Mac-
Curdy, director of the American School of Prehistoric Research,
from localities in Dordogne, France, received as a loan from the
Archeological Society of Washington. Skulls and skeletons of
ancient Eskimo from the Collins collection on St. Lawrence Island
form one of the most important additions to the division of physical
anthropology in this department. There were received also 10 masks
taken from living Labrador Eskimo, obtained in exchange from
Prof. V. Suk, of the University of Brno, Moravia.

Biology.—Noteworthy among receipts in this department have
been the highly valuable collections of mammals, birds, and insects
left to the Museum by bequest by the late Col. Wirt Robinson, long
a valued contributor to the Institution. There may be mentioned
also large collections of birds and plants obtained by Dr. Joseph F.
Rock in western China from areas previously unrepresented in our
halls, which were received as a gift from the National Geographic
Society, under whose auspices the field work was performed.

Excellent collections from western China in many branches of
biology, principally in birds, mammals, insects, crustaceans, and
fishes, were obtained through the continued efforts of Dr. David C.
Graham, who has long been a resident in the Province of Szechwan,
and who has been most assiduous in obtaining representatives of the
fauna in that area for the National Museum. From farther south,
in Siam, there were obtained large and valuable series of mammals,
birds, reptiles, insects, mollusks, and miscellaneous invertebrates col-
lected through the efforts of Dr. Hugh M. Smith, honorary curator
in zoology on the staff of the Smithsonian Institution, who is now
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

fisheries advisor to the King of Siam. The material obtained this
year, supplementing that mentioned in previous reports, has included
a number of forms, particularly in birds, that have been new to
science.

Collections from Haiti, through the financial assistance of Dr.
W. L. Abbott, have included large series of plants from the north-
western part of that country secured by E. C. Leonard, of the division
of plants, in the prosecution of his field studies cae a flora of the
island. At the same time there were obtained further collections of
bones of extinct animals from cave deposits through the field re-
searches of A. J. Poole and W. M. Perrygo, of the Museum staff, who,
in addition, collected series of birds and aapiies to supplement niki
collections in these same fields. Doctor Abbott further presented an
excellent collection of Siamese mammals which were obtained during
an expedition under his auspices.

One of the most valuable accessions in the division of mammals
has been the complete skeleton of an adult sperm whale, presented
by Mr. Ippei Yokoyama, president of the Oriental Whaling Co.,
through the interest of Prof. Chiyomatsu Ishikawa. It was brought
to this country under the direction of the Japanese ambassador, the
Hon. Katsuji Debuchi. Another accession in this division consisted
of 27 mammal skulls from India, received as a gift from Gen. Wiliam
Mitchell.

Under the Bradshaw Hall Swales fund the division of birds secured
by purchase 45 specimens of species not previously represented in its
series. Through the Smithsonian Institution there were obtained by
purchase from J. A. Reis, jr., 177 skeletons of birds from Cameroon,
numbering about 116 species, a valuabie addition to the skeleton col-
lection. Eggs of the California condor, a bird nearly extinct in the
wild state, were obtained from the National Zoological Park.

Dr. Homer W. Smith, of New York City, presented specimens of
the lung fishes of Africa.

One of the important accessions in the division of insects has
been a collection of Lepidoptera received as a permanent deposit
from the Brooklyn Museum, which included more than 66,000 speci-
mens, with types of about 650 species.

The division of mollusks obtained about 200,000 land shells from
Cuba, collected by Dr. Paul Bartsch, traveling under the Walter
Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship.

Geology—tThe meteorite collection has secured through purchase
under the Roebling fund an iron weighing 1,060 pounds from the
Zui Mountains south of Grant, N. Mex. A smaller specimen of the
same type, also purchased from the Roebling fund, was secured from
Red River County, Tex., while a third came from near Lawrence,
Kans.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

Through the income of the Roebling fund the mineral collections
have grown in a highly gratifying manner during the past fiscal
year. A striking addition to the exhibit series is a large mass of
pegmatite from Newry, Me. Another purchase of importance was
that of a nugget of platinum weighing 17.274 ounces from South
America. There may be mentioned further a cut gem of benitoite,
weighing 7.67 carats, being the largest known cut stone of this
mineral.

Through the Chamberlain fund there have come to the gem col-
lection a carved statuette of rose quartz, a Chinese carving of tourma-
line, a yellow topaz weighing 34 carats, a cameo of Hungarian opal,
and a cut gem of pollucite.

Fossil materials include large lots of invertebrates obtained by
exchange, gift, and collection, among them three rare star fishes and
five crinoids from the Ordovician of Minnesota, purchased under the
Springer fund. From field work by Mr. C. W. Gilmore in Montana
there have come remains of dinosaurs of several species previously
not in the Museum, and there may be mentioned also specimens of
Pleistocene mammals collected by Doctor Gidley in Florida.

Aris and industries —vV aluable additions in this department have
included three early types of Winton automobiles; one of the engines
of the Army aircraft Question Mark used during an endurance test
that continued nearly seven days; and a working model of the tele-
phone transmitter and receiver obtained from the American Tele-
phone & Telegraph Co.

A horse-drawn brougham, a fine example of the work of the famous
nineteenth-century coach builder, Healey, of New York, was presented
by Mr. William P. Eno, an interesting object in this day of motor
transport.

An exhibition now being organized dealing with mechanical power
has received a number of accessions, among them an electrically op-
erated model of the original Pearl Street electric power station in
New York City.

In the division of textiles a number of manufacturers have con-
tinued their cooperation through the contribution of exhibition ma-
terial of modern textiles. An interesting exhibit received from the
United Shoe Machinery Corporation illustrates the entire range of
shoemaking by machinery.

An important addition to the section of photography was the first
portrait taken on an autochrome plate by the inventor of the process,
Antoine Lumiére. Four photographs donated by Philip P. Quayle,
of the Peters Cartridge Co., of bullets fired from a gun, record
the bullet in silhouette, and a representation of the sound waves
produced,
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

History.—The most important accession in this division was a silk
dress worn by Mrs. Martha Washington, received as a permanent loan
from Mrs. Morris Whitridge in memory of her sister, Miss Sallie
Pinkerton Mackenzie. This has been installed in its proper place in
the series of dresses of the mistresses of the White House shown in
the costumes collection.

For the military collections there was obtained a series of uniforms
owned and used by Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood, United States Army,
from 1898 to 1921, presented by Mrs. Leonard Wood. ‘The naval col-
lections received a model of the schooner Hannah, of Marblehead,
the first armed vessel to sail at public expense during the War of the
Revolution.

Through the cooperation of the American Numismatic Association
a number of valuable additions were made as loans to the numismatic
collection. These included 133 specimens from many countries. ‘The
Bureau of the Mint, United States Treasury Department, continued
its cooperation in building up this collection by the transfer of 85
coins struck by the United States Mint in 1928, as ‘well as other
specimens.

The philatelic collection was increased by 5,775 specimens, of which
the greater part was received from the International Bureau of the
Universal Postal Union at Berne, Switzerland, through the Post
Office Department.

REORGANIZATION OF THE MILITARY EXHIBITS

The military exhibits concerned with the World War, assembled
after the close of that conflict, through necessity of available space
were installed originally in widely separated halls—in part in the
Natural History Building and in part in the Arts and Industries
Building on the opposite side of the Smithsonian Park. These
exhibits, whose assembling was possible only through the interested
cooperation of the War Department, for years have been an attractive
subject to large numbers of our visitors. For sometime past ways
and means for a better coordinated installation of this material have
been under consideration. The War Department, taking renewed
helpful interest in these exhibits, in 1928 appointed Maj. Louis A.
O’Donnell, United States Army, to cooperate with the Museum au-
thorities in the preparation of plans for their better display. On
September 28, 1928, the War Department further announced an ad-
visory committee to assist Major O’Donnell by consultation and co-
operation as follows: Lieut. Col. Harry B. Jordan, General Staff
Corps; Lieut. Col. Paul D. Bunker, Coast Artillery Corps; Maj. John
W. Lang, Infantry; Maj. Marion O. French, General Staff Corps;
and Capt. Edwin M. Scott, Quartermaster Corps. Through plans de-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

vised by Major O’Donnell and approved by the assistant secretary,
certain material was returned to the War Department as no longer
needed for exhibition, an artillery park was arranged in the open on
ground belonging to the Smithsonian Institution, the military collec-
tions were concentrated in one connected series in the Arts and
Industries Building with the majority of the other historical collec-
tions, and definite arrangements were made for building up all the
military collections along agreed lines.

In connection with the assembling of these military exhibits in ~
the Arts and Industries Building there was required reorganization
of part of the display in the divisions of mineral and mechanical
technology and the transfer to the Natural History Building of the
lace collections. All this has been accomplished and installation
made of a considerable part of the military material. Work on the
rest is progressing and will be continued along the plans definitely
outlined. <A part of the contemplated display will necessitate assist-
ance in the way of additional funds, which it is hoped may be pro-
vided without too great delay.

The actual process of transfering the military collections from
one building to the other began about April 1, 1929, and was a
task of considerable magnitude, as it necessitated the transfer of
materials covering approximately 22,000 square feet of floor space.
The greater part of the work was accomplished by the staff of the
division of history with the Museum labor force. The War Depart-
ment cooperated measurably by the detail of five enlisted men and
a truck to aid in the transfer.

This brief review of what has been accomplished will serve as
partial acknowledgment of the great assistance rendered by Major
O’Donnell during his connection with the Museum. On June 15
Major O’Donnell was transferred to other duties and was succeeded
by Lieut. Col. Arthur Hixson, United States Army, as representative
of the War Department.

EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK

Various researches in the field have been carried on under the dif-
ferent departments of the Museum, principally through funds pro-
vided by the Smithsonian Institution through its private income or
through the contributions of friends interested in certain projects.
Limited assistance in a few instances has been given from the annual
appropriation for the Nationai Museum but this aid has comprised
only a small part of the total amounts utilized, by far the greater part
of which have been obtained from other sources. Additional money
- for such investigations is an urgent need that should be given atten-
tion. Comparatively small sums are sufficient for most of the Mu-
a2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

seum’s projects, so that much good may be accomplished with slight
outlay. A brief account of field activities of the present year
follows:

During the spring of 1929 Dr. Walter Hough carried on archeo-
logical studies in west central Texas with a view to extending the
known Pueblo or pre-Pueblo culture areas. In the same region
he uncovered evidence relative to aboriginal man’s early history.

From January to May, 1929, through the interest of Dr. W. L. Ab-
bott, Herbert W. Krieger continued archeological investigations in
’ the northern part of the Dominican Republic. The immediate cul-
ture problem that occupied his attention was to determine whether
the area anciently occupied by the Ciguayan Indians of Samana
extended as far west as the valley of the Rio Yaque del Norte. A
second problem was the attempt to extend the area known to have
been anciently occupied by the pre-Ciguayan cave dwellers of the
northern Dominican Republic. Results appear to indicate that the
pre-Ciguayans had occupied the entire island, but that the Ciguayan
Indians never reached as far west as the Yaque River. The work
included further reconnaissance along the north shore of the Samana
Peninsula and the collection of biological material from former
Indian village sites for the department of biology.

Henry B. Collins, jr., was in the field from July to October, 1928,
engaged in investigations of the ancient Bering Sea culture on the
islands of Punuk and St. Lawrence, with the aim of tracing early
chapters in the history of western Eskimo culture. Material collected
shows that there are three stages through which the art of St. Law-
rence Island may be traced. An earlier stage, found only on the
northern and western parts of the island on deeply patinated objects,
consists of gracefully delineated straight and curved lines; an inter-
mediate stage is simpler in design; while the third, the well-known
modern and simplified art, is found at all recent sites. At Cape
Prince of Wales nothing of any real antiquity was found. Results
generally suggest a direct Asiatic source rather than a local cultural
development for the well-known Eskimo arts. In May, 1929, Mr.
Collins again left for field work to continue through the summer in
the Bering Sea region. Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka also proceeded to Alaska
to continue his studies on early Eskimo anthropology.

Mr. Neil M. Judd was in Arizona during the summer of 1929,
engaged in preparation of reports covering the 1920-1927 Pueblo
Bonito explorations of the National Geographic Society, and super-
vising the society’s 1929 beam expedition. This latter had for its ob-
ject the collection of timbers from pre-Spanish Pueblo villages that
will aid in completing a tree-ring chronology by means of which it is
believed that absolute dates may be determined for many of our .
southwestern ruins.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

At the end of May, 1928, Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, travel-
ing under the Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholarship, began the faunal
study of certain groups of land and fresh-water mollusks of the West
Indies, the work for that season being prosecuted in Cuba, where he
was assisted materially by Dr. Carlos de la Torre, president emeritus
of the University of Habana. During four months Doctor Bartsch
covered thoroughly all of the Provinces of Cuba, except that of
Oriente, collecting over a quarter of a million specimens of mollusks,
including large numbers of new races and species from places hitherto
unexplored. The rainy season was chosen for this field work in spite
of its discomforts, for it is at this time that land mollusks are most
active. The collections obtained will yield much information bearing
on problems of distribution, both present and past, and will throw
light on the derivation of the molluscan fauna of the Antilles. Inci-
dentally, Doctor Bartsch secured for the Museum important collec-
tions of birds, insects, batrachians, mammals, and crustacea.

Through the interest of Dr. W. L. Abbott, A. J. Poole, aid in the
division of mammals, and W. M. Perrygo, of the taxidermist force,
traveled in Haiti for a period of about four months, working the
caves of Haiti proper and those of the island of Gonave for extinct
animal bones. In addition to cavern exploration an important part
of the work was the collection of birds to supplement distributional
data already available, and there were obtained also mammals,
mostly bats, as well as fishes, reptiles, marine invertebrates, mollusks,
insects, and miscellaneous ethnological and anthropological materials.

One of the important expeditions undertaken during the year by
friends of the Museum was that of the auxiliary yacht Mary Pinchot
to the South Seas under the leadership of the Hon. Gifford Pinchot.
The vessel left New York City in April for a cruise of about 10
months, with Dr. A. K. Fisher, of the Biological Survey, as natural-
ist, to obtain material desired for the National Museum. In the
collections made in the first few weeks there have been received a
skull of the little-known long-beaked porpoise Prodelphinus plagio-
don and 10 forms of birds new to the Museum collections. Further
shipments of important material are expected as the cruise continues.

Dr. Joseph F. Rock, traveling under the auspices of the National
Geographic Society, visited the Kingdom of Muli, or Mili, in south-
western Szechwan, China, as well as adjacent parts of the Province
of Yunnan, exploring also to the northwest of Muli in the hitherto
unvisited snow range of Konka Risonquemba, rising to a height of
25,000 feet, and mountains to the east and northeast. From this
work there have been obtained important collections of birds and
plants, the specimens coming to the Nationai Museum through the
gift of the National Geographic Society.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Dr. Hugh M. Smith, in the course of fisheries investigations in
Siam, visited the northern part of that country in November and
December of 1928 and made hurried collections on Doi Angka and
Doi Sutep, two previously unexplored peaks of the Khun Tan
Mountains. Material secured has been of particular interest and
has resulted in the discovery of new and rare species, among them
seven new forms of birds.

Dr. David C. Graham continued work in the vicinity of Suifu,
in the Province of Szechwan, China, and in July, 1928, set out on
a journey to Ningyuenfu, by way of Yachow, spending about two
months on the trip. Though bandits threatened at most of the
interesting points, many valuable specimens were obtained.

During brief field investigations into the hosts of certain para-
sites in Virginia and North Carolina, Dr. H. E. Ewing, of the
Bureau of Entomology, was accompanied by C. S. East, of the pre-
parator staff, who collected a small series of birds for skeletons.

Dr. J. M. Aldrich, of the division of insects, began work in May,
1929, on type specimens of diptera in the British Museum, and later
did some collecting of northern insects, principally diptera, in Nor-
way and Sweden.

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt and C. R. Shoemaker, in the course of an
examination of the crustacean fauna of the region about the United
States Bureau of Fisheries station at Beaufort, N. C., secured more
than 1,800 specimens of marine invertebrates. Mr. J. O. Maloney, by
invitation of Mr. Copley Amory, was detailed for part of the sum-
mer of 1928 to proceed to Canada in continuation of the biological
survey of Mr. Amory’s estate on the north shore of the Gulf of St.
Lawrence, near the Matamek River. Doctor Bartsch visited the
Marine Biological Laboratory at the Tortugas, Fla., from August
17 to August 30, 1928, in connection with work on the crossbreeding
of Cerions, an investigation carried on in cooperation with the
Carnegie Institution of Washington. While at the Tortugas Doctor
Bartsch spent a day under water with the diving hood and the
undersea camera going over fields photographed formerly in order
io have a continuous record of life on the reefs.

From December, 1928, to the latter part of May, 1929, Mr. E. C.
Leonard was engaged in botanical field work in northwestern Haiti,
through the generous support of Dr. W. L. Abbott. Large collec-
tions (nearly 15,000 specimens) were obtained, which will be of very
material assistance in making known the flora of Hispaniola, a proj-
ect upon which Mr. Leonard has been engaged for several years.
During the last three months of the fiscal year Mr. E. P. Killip, ac-
companied by Mr. A. E. Smith and Mr. W. J. Dennis, honorary
collaborators, has prosecuted botanical explorations in eastern Peru
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

and adjacent regions. Reports from the field indicate that a large
amount of herbarium material is being obtained that will be exceed-
ingly valuable in current studies of the flora of western South
America.

In July and August, 1928, Dr. A. S. Hitchcock, custodian of
grasses, visited Newfoundland and Labrador for the purpose of
studying and collecting grasses. A large illustrative series of speci-
mens and much useful information regarding the range of species
in these little-explored regions were obtained. Mr. Jason R. Swallen,
assistant in the grass herbarium, spent the summer of 1928 in field
work in the southwestern United States. Many of the rarer grasses
were collected, as well as other material relating to current studies.

Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of the Department of Geology,
was detailed in September, 1928, to visit various mineral localities in
the New England States. He first worked at the pegmatite deposits
at Newry, Me., where the fine block of material mentioned elsewhere
in this report was obtained. The historically interesting gem locality
at Paris Hill was next given attention; then various localities in New
Hampshire, all of exceptional interest. Following this, the feldspar
prospects at Bellows Falls, Vt., were examined. The acquisition of
the feldspar vein at Newry, Me., was considered to have more than
compensated for the trip.

The explorations of Dr. W. F. Foshag were still under way at the
close of the year. He reports interesting collections, particularly
some borate minerals from various localities in southern California
and Nevada. A part of this material has reached the Museum, but
the recording will go over until the entire collection is received.

Messrs. James Benn and B. O. Reberholt were on several occasions
detailed to collect geological specimens in adjacent localities in Mary-
land and Virginia where desirable materials could be obtained.

Stratigraphic studies of the Cambrian as developed in the larger
mountain range of Wyoming were the main object of an expedition
in 1928 by C. E. Resser. Nearly three months were spent in this
investigation, in the course of which several mountain ranges were
explored. Collections of fossils were limited, the rocks in many
cases being of such shallow-water origin that the fossils have been
destroyed. Much valuable information relating to stratigraphy was
obtained.

Since the field exploration undertaken by C. W. Gilmore and his
party in the Two Medicine formation in Montana extended well into
the present year, but brief mention was made of it in last year’s
report. The expedition, which was in the field from May 12 to July
15, 1928, covered the Bad Land areas along the Milk and Two Medi-
cine Rivers, on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation. Considerable

82322304
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

success attended the work, the collections being sufficient in scope
to be fairly representative of the fauna of the formation. The mate-
rial as a whole is a most important addition to our series, in which
practically all of the forms found were previously unrepresented.
Scientifically it will be of interest, not only for the new species
found, but for its decided contribution to the meager knowledge of
the fauna of the formation, placing this on a basis that will permit
of its comprehensive comparison with other Upper Cretaceous
formations of contiguous areas.

Upon completion of the above work Mr. Gilmore visited the Bear
Creek Coal Field in southern Montana for the purpose of securing
some of the Paleocene mammal remains occurring in the Eagle Mine
at that place. Lack of time prevented search being made for these
minute fossils on the ground, but 400 pounds of the fossil-bearing
matrix were boxed and shipped to the Museum.

In the early spring of 1929 work was again taken up at Mel-
bourne, Fla., by Dr. J. W. Gidley, in continuation of the project
relative to the presence of early man in Florida. About six weeks
were spent in this work, for which generous financial assistance was
furnished by Mr. Childs Frick. Again important evidence was
gathered indicating the presence of man in Florida contemporaneous
with an extinct fauna of the Pleistocene, while the mammal remains
obtained will be useful in determining the exact phase of the Pleisto-
cene represented—a still unsettled part of the general problem under
investigation. In this connection it may be mentioned that assistance
is being rendered by Dr. Thomas Barbour, of the Museum of Com-
parative Zodlogy, in continuing collecting activities in this area. The
material thus obtained is being placed at the disposal of Doctor
Gidley for study.

Almost at the end of the fiscal year Doctor Gidley was detailed
to visit fossil-bearing beds discovered by a United States Geological
Survey party at points in Idaho. Since operations had hardly
begun at the close of the year, a statement regarding them will go
over until next year.

In cooperation with the Peabody Museum of Yale University,
Mr. N. H. Boss was detailed late in March, 1929, to engage in further
exploration of a cave in New Mexico where a giant ground sloth was
found last year, as well as to search other similar caves in the region.
Following these operations, Mr. Boss joined Mr. Gilmore in an ex-
pedition to the San Juan Basin, N. Mex., to collect dinosaur and
other vertebrate remains. As this work is expected to continue into
the next fiscal year, no detailed report on either expedition will be
given at this time.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

Mr. Remington Kellogg and Norman H. Boss continued explora-
tions of the Miocene along Chesapeake Bay from time to time. At
little expense to the Museum, various fossil cetacean remains were
added to the collection.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Usual repairs have been required to keep the buildings housing
the national collections in proper condition during the year. In
the Natural History Building exterior woodwork in the east court
was painted; the walls and ceilings in 24 rooms on the ground and
third floors were repainted, a necessary renovation that has been
postponed for years and now must be completed in order to properly
protect the surfaces in question. A section of concrete roadway op-
posite the east wing was renewed and temporary repair work was
done on the roadways of the north entrance and on the west side of
the building. The need for planting shrubbery to relieve the barren-
ness of the approach to the north entrance of this building has long
been felt, so that it is pleasant to report that in the fall of 1928,
through cooperation of the Office of Public Buildings and Public
Parks, two beds of evergreens were planted, one on either side of the
drive, greatly improving the appearance of this side of the building.

Work on safeguarding the dome above the rotunda began on Sep-
tember 12, 1928, and was finally completed on May 14, 1929, the
work being performed under the efficient direction of the engineers
in the Office of the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Depart-
ment. Two great bands of steel were placed around the four huge
piers that support the dome, one at the level of the floor of the
attic and one near the tops of the piers and ceiling above. Between
them steel beams were installed extending vertically from band to
band behind the piers, with a series of screw jacks between the beams
and the piers proper. Tension was placed on these jacks in such
a way as to bring even strain all around, holding the piers from any
possibility of spreading at the top. The delicate operation of ad-
justing the screw jacks, which required nearly three weeks for com-
pletion, was performed with the cooperation of a corps of engineers
from the Bureau of Standards. Work of cleaning the stone surfaces
in the rotunda and the painting necessary following the work out-
lined above was still in progress at the close of the fiscal year. The
rotunda has been closed to the public since December 1, 1927, but will
be opened early in the next fiscal year. In the Arts and Industries
Building the café at the west entrance was remodeled, walls and
ceilings in various rooms were painted, and necessary refinishing on
exterior surfaces was carried on so far as was practicable.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

In the herbarium hall in the Smithsonian Building cork carpet was
laid on the floors, and exposed floors were painted, together with the
walls and ceilings in various other rooms. An old stone walk on the
south side of the building in bad condition was replaced by concrete.
Grills were installed in window openings on the north and south sides
in the new gallery of the herbarium hall.

The roof of the aircraft building was painted, as well as the exte-
rior of the south shed.

The power plant was in operation from September 30, 1928, until
May 28, 1929. The consumption of coal was 3,361 tons, an amount
slightly less than that used in 1928. The average cost of coal was
$5.36 per ton, somewhat less than that for last year. The Steamboat
Inspection Service of the United States examined the boilers during
the summer and reported them in good condition. The elevators
have been regularly inspected by the District of Columbia inspector.
The total electric current produced amounted to 648,863 kilowatt-
hours, manufactured at a cost of 1.89 cents per kilowatt-hour, includ-
ing interest on the plant, depreciation, repair, and material. The
amount of electric current produced represents approximately an
increase of 45,000 kilowatt-hours over any previous year. Demands
for electric current are steadily increasing and further provision is
required to be made before long for this current since our plant is
now practically at the maximum peak of production. The ice plant
manufactured 409 tons of ice at an average cost of $1.80 per ton,
which is at a cost considerably less than for the past year due to
the fact that there has been very little need for repairs.

During the year 30 exhibition cases and bases, 179 pieces of storage,
laboratory and other furniture, and 1,476 drawers of various kinds
were added, practically all of these being manufactured in our shops.

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The lecture rooms and auditorium of the National Museum dur-
ing the present year were used for 125 meetings, covering a wide
range of activities.. Government agencies that utilized these facili-
ties for hearings, meetings, lectures, and other special occasions
included the Forest Service, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Geological
Survey, the Public Health Service, and the Extension Service of
the United States Department of Agriculture. The Forest Service
arranged a series of addresses during the year on various matters
connected with their work.

Scientific societies that met regularly in the auditorium or small
lecture room included the Entomological Society of Washington,
the Society for Philosophical Inquiry, the Anthropological Society
of Washington, the American Horticultural Society, and the Hel-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

minthological Society. Meetings were held also by the Washing-
ton Society of Engineers, the Wild Flower Preservation Society,
the Potomac Garden Club, the Biological Society of Washington,
the Botanical Society of Washington, the Aero Club of Washington,
and the Vivarium Society. The National Association of Retired
Federal Employees held regular meetings through the year, as
did various groups of Boy Scouts for special addresses.

On February 22 there was a patriotic meeting under the auspices
of the Masonic Clubs of the District of Columbia, addressed by
Congressman C. A. Woodrum, of Virginia, on George Washington,
with music furnished by the Masonic band. Groups of pupils from
the public schools, Divisions I to [X, were addressed on May 28 by
Dr. H. A. Smith, of the Department of Agriculture, on the pro-
tection of forests. On May 29 the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the
United States, Federal Post No. 824, United States Department of
Agriculture, held memorial services in the auditorium. Groups of
students from Howard University were convened for special ad-
dresses on medical subjects on several occasions.

The biennial conference of the Division of Scientific Inquiry of
the Bureau of Fisheries of the United States Department of Com-
merce took place from January 2 to 5, inclusive. The fiftieth
anniversary celebration of the Geological Survey, United States
Department of the Interior, was held on March 21.

The sixth National Oratorical Contest took place on April 25; and
the fifth annual National Spelling Bee on May 21, the first prize being
won by Miss Virginia Hogan, representing the Omaha World Herald.
The Public Health Service, United States Treasury Department, held
the twenty-seventh annual conference of State and Territorial health
officers on June 3-4.

Boy scout executives of the scout councils held their third regional
scout seminar on October 22-23. The third regional scout executive
seminar of the Boy Scouts of America came on January 14. On
January 30 the Early Birds, an organization interested in aeronautics,
convened for an illustrated lecture.

A memorial meeting was held October 16 to commemorate the serv-
ices to science of the late Dr. Eugene A. Schwarz. A memorial meet-
ing came also on March 26 in commemoration of the life and work
of the late Dr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds in the United States
National Museum.

An exhibit of the work of students in the department of architec-
ture of George Washington University was held from April 21 to
May 6. From May 15 to 27 there was displayed an exhibition by
negro artists, assembled under the auspices of the Harmon Founda-
tion and shown under the patronage of the committee on race reletions
of the Washington Federation of Churches,
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929
MISCELLANEOUS

The exhibition halls of the National Museum were open during the
year on week days from 9 a. m. to 4.30 p. m., and in addition the
Natural History Building, the Arts and Industries Building, and the
Smithsonian Building were opened Sunday afternoon from 1.30 to
4.30. All buildings were closed on the day before Christmas, Christ-
mas Day, New Year’s Day, and Inauguration Day. On Saturday,
March 2, by special request of the committee in charge of inaugural
arrangements, all buildings were held open until 5 p. m. to allow
persons assembled for the inaugural ceremonies a better opportunity
to view the exhibits. The flags on all buildings were flown at half-
mast on March 26, 1929, out of respect to the late Marshal Foch,
and on Memorial Day, May 30, from 8.30 a. m. until noon.

Visitors to the Museum during the year totaled 1,929,625 persons,
an increase of more than half a million over the previous year, an
indication of the increasing interest of all Americans in the Capital
City, and of the attractions found in the exhibitions of the National
Museum by the traveling public. Attendance in the several buildings
of the National Museum was recorded as follows: Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 277,295; Arts and Industries, 868,952; Natural History, 650,-
815; Aircraft, 182,563. The average daily attendance for week days
was 5,175 and for Sunday 6,330. The latter figure is a definite
indication of the public desire for the opening of our exhibits on
Sunday afternoons.

During the year the Museum published eight separate volumes
and 61 miscellaneous papers, while the distribution of literature
amounted to 115,128 copies of its various books and pamphlets.
Additions to the Museum library included 2,247 volumes and 748
pamphlets obtained partly by exchange, partly by donation, and in
small part by purchase from the modest sums available for that
purpose. The library of the National Museum, as separate from that
of the Smithsonian Institution proper, has now 74,562 volumes and
107,629 pamphlets. Though many of the accessions for the present
year, as usual, came through exchanges of publications, there may be
noted the gift of 1,000 volumes, pamphlets, and manuscripts of a
miscellaneous character from Mr. Herbert A. Gill, of Washington,
D. C., these pertaining in large part to the work of the late Dr.
Theodore Gill, at one time librarian and associate in zoology of the
Smithsonian Institution. Five hundred books and periodicals on
photography, both American and British, some of them old and rare,
came from Mr. A. B. Stebbins, of Canisteo, N. Y. The first four
volumes of the Smithsonian Scientific Series, Patrons’ edition, were
presented by the Smithsonian Institution. Thirty publications were
given by the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

The Museum maintains 36 sectional libraries in connection with its
various scientific divisions. The library during the year made sub-
stantial progress in organization and increased efficiency along the
lines of a program of development initiated five years ago.

Dr. J. A. Stevenson, of the Bureau of Plant Industry, United
States Department of Agriculture, was given honorary appointment
as custodian of the C. G. Lloyd mycological collection. Mr. Albert
C. Smith and Mr. W. T. Dennis, who accompanied Mr. E. P. Killip
on a botanical expedition to Peru, were given honorary appointments
as collaborators in the division of plants. In the division of insects
the interest and valuable aid of Mr. J. T. Barnes were recognized by
his appointment to the honorary position of collaborator in the
section of lepidoptera.

Mr. Conrad V. Morton and Mr. Egbert H. Walker were appointed
aids in the division of plants. Dr. Remington Kellogg was made
assistant curator in the division of mammals by transfer from the
Biological Survey, United States Department of Agriculture, this
position being one newly established this year. Mr. Frank A. Taylor,
in the division of mineral and mechanical technology, was advanced
from aid to assistant curator. Miss Ethel A. L. Lacy was appointed
librarian in immediate charge of the accessions department of the
library. Mr. W. L. Brown was advanced to the position of chief taxi-
dermist, with general oversight of the work of the taxidermy shop.

Two employees left the service through the operation of the retire-
ment act—William H. Kimball, finance clerk, after a total Govern-
ment service of about 46 years, nearly 45 of which were in the Na-
tional Museum, and Robert Stokes, laborer, on June 11, 1929, after a
service of 28 years.

The Museum lost through death during the year six of its active
workers and four members of its honorary scientific staff. Dr.
Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, died March 25, 1929. Capt. John
Donnell Smith, associate in botany, died on December 2, 1928. Dr.
KE. A. Schwarz, custodian of coleoptera, died on October 15, 1928.
Dr. Harrison G. Dyar, custodian of lepidoptera, died January 21,
1929. Mr. H. K. Harring, custodian of rotatoria, died on December
19, 1928. Other losses by death included Mr. Charles E. Mirguet,
taxidermist, on February 20, 1929; Mrs. E. Bennett Decker, clerk-
illustrator, August 29, 1929; Eustance S. Brannon, watchman, on
September 30, 1928; Frank Smith, laborer, on November 16, 1928;
and William T. Murray, laborer, on June 9, 1929.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuartres G. AxBgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report on the activities
of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1929.

The year is made notable by the gift of an important collection
of art works by Mr. John Gellatly, of New York. Through the
instrumentality of Mr. Gari Melchers, chairman of the Gallery Com-
mission, the donor indicated his desire, certain conditions being
complied with, to present to the Nation for permanent assignment to
the National Gallery of Art his collection of art works, comprising
more than 100 choice examples of American painting in oil and water
colors, large collections of jewelry, tapestries, glassware, and other art
works, having an estimated value of several millions of dollars.
After a preliminary hearing before the executive committee of the
Board of Regents of the Institution, Mr. Frederic A. Delano, Hon.
Reed Smoot, and Dr. John C. Merriam, a special meeting of the
gallery commission was called April 13, 1929, to consider the offer.
After hearing in some detail of the collection offered, of the condi-
tions imposed by the donor, and the responsibilities necessarily as-
sumed by the Institution and the Nation, acceptance was recom-
mended to the Board of Regents. Subsequently the Congress
passed a joint resolution which was approved by the President, June
6, 1929, authorizing the Institution to convey appropriate acknowl-
edgments to Mr. Gellatly and to include in its estimates sums neces-
sary for the accommodation and maintenance of the collection. The
collection is at present installed in the Heckscher Building in New
York City, where it is to remain for four years. <A portfolio of
45 plates illustrating the collection was subsequently presented by
Mr. Gellatly to the Institution and assigned by Secretary Abbot to
the care of the National Gallery.

THE GALLERY COMMISSION

The eighth annual meeting of the gallery commission was held in
the Regents’ room of the Institution at 10.380 a. m., December 11,
1928. The members present were Messrs. James E. Fraser, J. H.

42
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

Gest, John E. Lodge, Charles Moore, James Parmelee, E. C. Tarbeil,
W. H. Holmes, and C. G. Abbot, secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. In the absence of the chairman of the commission, Mr. Gari
Melchers, Mr. Charles Moore was elected temporary chairman.

The minutes of the previous annual meeting were read and ap-
proved, followed by the reading and approval of the secretary’s
report on the activities of the gallery for the year.

The committee on resolutions on the death of Dr. Charles Doo-
little Walcott, Secretary of the Institution, appointed at the annual
meeting of December 6, 1927, presented the following, which was
adopted :

Whereas the National Gallery of Art Commission of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, having learned of the death on February 9, 1927, of Dr. Charles D.
Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and ex officio a member of
this commission, has adopted the following resolution :

Resolved, That we here record our profound sorrow at the passing of this
distinguished man of science, whose achievements as the head of the Smith-
sonian Institution expanded its renown and added greatly to the sum of human
knowledge; but particularly are we desirous of expressing our sense of the
loss of one who was also keenly alive to the importance of developing the art
side of, the Institution’s activities, and to whose foresight is due the establish-
ment of this commission as a means of insuring a high stardard of excellence
for the art works acquired by the National Gallery of Art.

Resolved, That these resolutions be incorporated in the present annual report
of the commission to the Board of Regents and that a copy of them be trans-
mitted by the Secretary of the commission to the family of Doctor Walcott.

Dr. C. G. ABBOT,
Dr. W. H. HoLMEs,
Committee.

The chairman asked Mr. Lodge in regard to the relationship of
the Freer Gallery to the National Gallery, and Mr. Lodge explained
that, as he understood it, Mr. Freer had desired that his gift should
be regarded as a branch of the National Gallery, to be separately
provided for and installed.

The chairman called attention to a project advocated by persons
interested in the promotion of American art, which project favors
the establishment of a fund to be devoted to the aid of young, prom-
ising artists. The suggestion was favorably commented upon and
the feasibility of securing support of the undertaking was discussed
at some length. The cheivan was authorized to alee the matter up
with such persons and institutions as he might find sympathetic.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

The paintings purchased during the year by the council of the
National Academy of Design as provided by the Henry Ward Ranger
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

bequest are as follows, including the names of the institutions to
which they have been assigned:

Title Artist Date of purchase Assignment

69. South Dakota Evening__| Jes W. Schlaikjer_._.._____ December, 1928 _| Vassar College, Poughkeep-
sie, N. Y.

“Onebitth akes-=2225--25-5- HdgariPay ne. 9221s ee eee Gomes as tes The James Lee Memorial
Academy of Arts, Mem-
phis, Tenn.

71. The Harvest Moon-_---- Charles Melville Dewey--| January, 1929___| Not reported.

72. The Golden Hour-_-__-__-_- George Elmer Browne....- March, 1929_____ Michigan State College of

Agriculture and Applied
Sciences, East Lansing,

Mich.

(jy AM eG is ybha doen eye eae Ernest L. Blumenschein, |__-__ (6 Ko eer at The Brooklyn Institute of

N. A. Arts and Sciences, Brook-

lyn, N. Y.

74. Hemlock Grove____----- Emil Carlsen, N. A--..-_-|----- (oleh a Ges Femee5t 4 The Portland Society of Art,
Portland, Me.

75. Summer Plumes-_-_-_._--- Gustave) Cimiotties 22 snes GosALiae Ts The Newark Museum Asso
ciation, Newark, N. J.

7O.tushinesleetee. =) 2. e Malcolm Humphreys-----|_--.- Golsseeeeaere Not reported.

The paintings purchased from the Ranger fund during the last
fiscal year and unassigned at its close (1927-28) have subsequently
been assigned as follows:

63. Cypripedia, by Sergeant Kendall, N. A.; to the California Palace of the
Legion of Honor, San Francisco, Calif.

The project of assembling the Ranger purchases thus far made for
temporary exhibition in the National Gallery of Art has been con-
sidered from time to time, but action has been delayed, due to the
lack of funds requisite for expenses of packing and shipping. At
the special meeting of the commission, held April 13, 1929, Mr. Gari
Melchers, chairman, made the welcome announcement that the Car-
negie Corporation of New York had generously allowed $1,000 for
this purpose. It was deemed advisable by members of the commis-
sion present to hold the exhibition not later than December 1, 1929,
and Secretary Abbot volunteered to take up at once the necessary cor-
respondence with the National Academy of Design and with the
several institutions holding the works.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS HELD IN THE GALLERY

Six loan exhibits of art works added greatly to the interest of the
year’s activities; these, briefly summarized, are as follows:

PORTRAITS BY M. L. THEO DUBE

Four portraits by the distinguished French painter, M. L. Theo
Dubé, membre Societaire de la Société des Artistes Francais, were
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

exhibited in the middle room of the gallery from November 16 to
December 14, 1928. The group included two compositions—A
Tramp and Coquetry, and portraits of President Woodrow Wilson,
1913, and Senator Mascurand, of France.

GOTHIC CATHEDRALS OF FRANCE

A noteworthy collection of paintings of the Gothic cathedrals of
France, 27 in number, by Pieter van Veen, Dutch-American painter,
was exhibited under the patronage of his excellency the French am-
bassador in Washington, the Hon. Paul Claudel, from December 8
to 31. A printed illustrated catalogue of the collection was supplied
by the artist and cards of invitation were issued for a special view
on December 8.

MINIATURES BY EDWARD GREENH MALBONE

A very important exhibit of early American miniatures, the life
work of Edward Greene Malbone (1770-1807), was shown in the
middle room of the gallery from February 23 to April 21, 1929.
Cards of invitation to the opening were issued. The collection was
assembled as the result of extensive correspondence and appeal and
arranged for exhibition by Mr. Ruel P. Tolman, curator of graphic
arts in the National Museum. Mr. Tolman prepared also the illus-
trated catalogue supplied by the gallery.

WATER-COLOR PAINTINGS OF INDIA

A collection of 42 masterly water-color paintings by William
Spencer Bagdatopoulos, English painter and etcher, of scenes and
figure subjects in India, was shown in the northeast room of the
gallery February 15 to March 15, 1929. A catalogue of the collec-
tion was furnished by the artist.

ARCTIC AND ANTARCTIC SCENES AND CHARACTER STUDIES

On March 2 the gallery received and placed on view in the south
room an important collection of paintings by Frank Wilbert Stokes.
Mr. Stokes is probably the only person who has visited and painted
in both polar regions. His collection is the fruit of four separate
expeditions and numbers 500 works covering a wide range of subject
matter. ‘The selections forwarded and placed on view in the gallery
comprise 17 landscapes, 10 portrait studies of Eskimo, and 10 minor
landscape studies. Mr. Stokes’s work has the full approval of Com-
mander R. E. Byrd, United States Navy, with whom he visited the
scenes and people portrayed. The collection remains on view at the
close of the year.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

PAINTING AND SCULPTURE BY AMERICAN NEGRO ARTISTS

An exhibition of 64 paintings and several pieces of sculpture, the
work of American negro artists, was shown in the foyer of the
museum from May 16 to 27, 1929. This collection was shown in New
York City in connection with the annual William E. Harmon awards
for distinguished achievement among negroes. It was brought to
Washington under the patronage of the committee on race relations
of the Washington Federation of Churches and under the immediate
supervision of Dr. Anson Phelps Stokes, canon of Washington
Cathedral, chairman of the committee, and Dr. Emmett J. Scott, sec-
retary-treasurer of Howard University, secretary. Invitation cards
were issued by the gallery and a catalogue of the collection was sup-
_ plied by the committee.

REINSTALLATION OF COLLECTIONS

The two-feathered Serpent Column models, the mutilated originals
of which are still in place in the portal of the Pyramid Temple known
as the “ Castillo,” or castle, in Chichen Itza, Yucatan, were removed
from the lobby to the second floor, thus taking their place with the
archeological collections to which they pertain. The space at the east
end of the lobby thus made vacant is now occupied by the handsome
mantelpiece and fireplace, by Richardson, transferred to the Museum
when the residence of Benjamin H. Warder was dismantled in 1924.

THE ALFRED DUANE PELL COLLECTION

In April, 1929, a large portion of the Alfred Duane Pell collection
which, due to lack of space in the National Gallery, had been installed
ou ane in the Arts and Industries Building, was transferred to
the Pell alcove at the north end of the gallery. ie series of busts of
Sévres biscuit ware belonging to the collection, remains for the pres-
ent in the Arts and Tmeiuceries Building. A eheloen: of this mate-
rial, 996 numbers, was compiled by Miss Helen A. Olmsted, of the
Ree tenest of ies and industries, National Museum, under the
expert supervision of Dr. S. W. aoe

ART WORKS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution, subject to
transfer to the National Gallery on approval of the advisory com-
mittee of the National Gallery of Art Commission, are as follows:

Portrait bust in bronze of the Hon. Elihu Root, by James Earle
Fraser, N. A. A replica of the bust made for the Carnegie Corpora-
tion of New York. (Donor not ascertained.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

Four specimens of modern Japanese cloisonné; gift of Seth B.
Robinson, jr., and T. Dudley Robinson, of New York City.

The John Gellatly collection of art objects, presented to the Nation
for eventual assignment to the National Gallery of Art. Accepted
by Congress under a joint resolution approved by the President on
June 6, 1929. This collection is now housed in the Heckscher
Building, 730 Fifth Avenue, New York City, where it is to remain for
four years, becoming then available for transfer to the gallery.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

A painting entitled “ Mist in Kanab Canyon, Utah,” by Thomas
Moran, 1892; lent by Mrs. Bessie B. Croffut, Washington, D. C.

A painting entitled “A Rainy Day,” by Peter Moran; lent by the
Misses Grandin, Washington, D. C.

Two paintings by Gilbert Stuart—portrait of Thomas Amory, of
Boston, and portrait of George A. Otis; lent by Mrs. O. H. Ernst
and Miss Helen Amory Ernst, of Washington, D. C.

Portrait bust in marble of Mrs. Nicholas Longworth, by Moses W.
Dykaar; lent by the sculptor.

Portrait bust in bronze of Hon. Wade H. Ellis, by Joseph Anthony
Atchison; leit by the sculptor.

Three paintings by old masters—Madonna and Child, by Alonzo
Cano (1601-1667) ; The Madonna, by Carlo Dulci (1616-1686) ; and
Saint with Book, by Giuseppe Ribera (Spagnoletto) (1588-1656) ;
lent by Mr. and Mrs. Maxim Karolik, Washington, D. C.

Portrait of Mrs. Charles Eames, by Gambardella; lent by Mrs.
Alistair Gordon Cumming, Washington, D. C.

DISTRIBUTIONS

Two landscape models by G. C. Curtis, sculptor, 1902, showing
the park scheme of the city of Washington, lent to the gallery in 1917
by the National Commission of Fine Arts, were withdrawn by the
commission through Mr. H. P. Caemmerer, secretary and executive
officer.

The collection of paintings, landscapes, colonial mansions, etc.,
by John Ross Key, originally received January 15, 1927, as a tem-
porary exhibit by the artist’s widow, and retained at her request
and the request of certain Members of Congress, in order that it
might be available for inspection by a suggested congressional com-
mittee, was withdrawn by Mrs. John Ross Key April 25, 1929.

The painting Love and Life, by George Frederick Watts, a gift
of the artist to the American people in 1893 and shown at the World’s
Columbian Exposition at Chicago, accepted by act of Congress July
23, 1894, and transferred from the White House to the National
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Gallery March 21, 1921, was recalled to the White House by Presi-
dent Herbert Hoover on March 11, 1929, where it has an honored
place in his study.

An early painting by George Inness, lent to the gallery by Col.
Henry C. Davis, United States Marine Corps, was withdrawn by
Mrs. Davis, his widow, of Coronado, Calif.

An Italian masterpiece, The Immaculate Conception with the
Mirror, by Murillo, lent to the gallery by Mr. DeWitt V. Hutchins
on April 28, 1928, was withdrawn by Mr. Hutchins and shipped by
his order to Thomas J. Kerr, New York City, on June 24, 1929.

The portrait bust in plaster of President James Monroe, by Mrs.
Margaret French Cresson, was withdrawn by the sculptor.

The portrait of Surg. Bailey Washington, jr., United States
Navy, (1787-1854), by an artist unknown, was withdrawn by Mr.
John Washington Davidge upon order from the owner, Miss Alice M.
Reading, of Reading, Calif.

LOANS BY THE GALLERY

At the request of Mrs. Herbert Hoover, two paintings belonging
to the William T. Evans collection of contemporary American paint-
ings—The Flume, Opalescent River, Adirondacks, by Alexander
Wyant, and Castle Creek Canyon, South Dakota, by Frank De
Haven—were lent to the White House, for temporary embellishment
of the state dining room, on May 23, 1929.

MISCELLANEOUS

Four large ebonized kensington cases of the gem type have been
added to the gallery furnishings; these are for the accommodation
of that portion of the Alfred Duane Pell collection recently trans-
ferred from the Arts and Industries Building. Four No. 500 “ win-
dow spot reflectors” have been installed in the skylight over the
middle room of the gallery for the better lighting of the art works
on dark days.

LIBRARY

The gallery library has been increased by gift, purchase, and sub-
scription in volumes, pamphlets, periodicals, ete.

A gift made possible through a fund in Yale University estab-
lished by Canon Anson Phelps Stokes, consisting of a set of 14 etch-
ings made for the Yale University Press by Louis Orr, entitled
“ Ports of America,” was added to the library pending other assign-
ment when the various departments of the gallery are more fully
established.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49
PUBLICATIONS

Hoitmes, W. H. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 30, 1928. Appendix 2, report of the secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1928, pp. 52-62.

Catalogue of A Group of Original Paintings of the Gothie Cathedrals of
France, by Pieter van Veen, on view in the National Gallery, Natural History
Building, United States National Museum, December 8 to December 31, 1928.
Under the patronage of his excellency the French ambassador, Hon. Paul
Claudel. Washington, 1928; 6 pp.; 2 plates.

Catalogue of A Collection of Water-Color Paintings of India, by W. S.
Bagdatopoulos, on view in the National Gallery of Art, United States
National Museum Building, February 15 to March 15, 1929. Washington,
1929, 4 pp.

Catalogue of Miniatures and Other Works, by Edward Greene Malbone, 1777-
1807. February 23—April 21, 1929. Washington, 1929, 21 pp.; 5 plates.

Catalogue of An Exhibition of Paintings and Sculpture by American Negro
Artists, at the National Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C. May 16—-May 29, 1929. Washington, 1929; 15 pp.; 11 illustrations.

Respectfully submitted.

W. H. Hotness, Director.
Dr. C. G. Axsort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the ninth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1929:

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

29.4.

29.17.

29.18.

29.19.

29.8.

29.63.

BOOKBINDING

Persian, sixteenth-seventeenth century. Turkish school. Red leather,
with decorations in stamped arabesques on gold.

. Egyptian, fifteenth century. Brown leather, decorated in blind and gold

tooling.

Egyptian, fourteenth century. Dark-brown leather, decorated in blind and
gold tooling.

Egyptian, fifteenth century. Red leather, decorated in blind and gold
tooling.

Persian, sixteenth century. Light-brown leather, lined with rose-red
leather. Decorations in blind and gold tooling, and in stamped ara-
besques on gold and blue grounds.

BRONZE

Chinese, sixth century or earlier. Period of the Six Dynasties. A large
mirror, the back decorated with engraved silhouettes of gold and silver
set in lacquer.

Chinese, seventh-tenth century. T’ang period. A mirror with phoenix
and running animal figures in relief on the back.

Chinese, sixth-seventh century. Sui period. A mirror with formalized
design of palmettes in circles in relief on the back.

Chinese, third century B. C.(?). Han period or earlier. A sword, with
ornamental designs inlaid in gold on the pommel, and in gold and
turquoise on the guard, while both sides of the blade carry inscriptions,
also inlaid in gold.

GLASS

Syrian, thirteenth-fourteenth century. A pilgrim bottle, of transparent
blown glass, decorated with polychrome enamels and gold.

MANUSCRIPTS

Persian, seventeenth century. By Kemal ad-Din. A page of calligraphy
in four colors on a pinkish-cream paper. Ornaments of floral ara-
besques on a gold ground. Signed.

50
29.64.

29.65.

29.66.

29.67.

29.1.

29.2.

29.3.

29.76.

29.25,
29.46.

29.75.

29.77.

29.78.

29.79.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

Persian, seventeenth century. By Kemal ad-Din. A page of calligraphy
in three colors on a pinkish-cream paper. Ornaments of floral ara-
besques on grounds of gold and blue.

Persian, seventeenth century. A page of calligraphy in three colors on
blue paper with a floral ornament in gold.

Turkish, sixteenth century. A page. of nastalig script in white on a green
ground. The writing is cut from paper and mounted. Ornamental
band in colors and gold.

Turkish, sixteenth century. A page of nastaliq script in white on a blue
ground. The writing is cut from paper and mounted. Ornamental
band in colors and gold.

. North African, sixteenth century. Two sheets of parchment (from a

book) with Maghribi writing on both sides in brown and blue. Orna-
ments in gold and color.

. Persian, eleventh-twelfth century. A sheet of paper (from a book) with

Kufie script on both sides in black, red, and gold. Page ornaments
in gold and black.

. Hgyptian(?), eighth-ninth century(?). A sheet of parchment (from a

book) with Kujic script on both sides in black and red. Ornaments
in gold, black, and red.

. Egyptian(?), eighth-ninth century(?). A sheet of parchment (from a

book) with Kufie script on both sides in black and red.

. Egyptian, thirteenth century. A frontispiece of a Koran with naskh

script in black on paper. Borders, medallions, and small ornaments in
gold and black.

. Egyptian, thirteenth century. A frontispiece of a Koran with naskh

script in black on paper. Borders, medallions, and small ornaments
in gold and black.

PAINTING

Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 797. A fragment of a
Buddist seripture from Tun-huang, with figures of Buddhas and
Bodhisattvas. In colors on paper.

Japanese, eleventh century. Fujiwara Buddhist. Hdérdkakwu Mandara:
The Buddha and attendant divinities. In color and gold on silk;
mounted as a panel.

Indian, seventeenth century. Mughal. A prince and an ascetic. In colors
and gold on paper.

Indian, seventeenth century. A pilgrim and an ascetic in conversation.
In delicate color on paper.

Persian, thirteenth century. Mongol school. Twenty-two illustrations
on loose leaves of a Shah Namah, rencered in colors, black, gold, and
Silver (oxydized).

Persian, sixteenth-seventeenth century. Turkish school. A court scene.
in bright colors and gold on paper.

Persian, about 1600. Shih ’Abbias school, in the style of Yusuf. A man
playing on a lute. In full color and gold on paper.

Persian, seventeenth century. Two pheasants. In full color and gold
on paper.

Persian, middle fifteenth century. Timurid school. A warrior of Timtr.
Drawn in black and slight tint, with ornamental details in gold.

82322—30

5

52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

29.80. Indian, early seventeenth century. Mughal, time of Jahangir. A love
scene. In colors and gold on paper.

29.81. Indian, middle seventeenth century. Mughal, time of Shah Jahan.
Portrait of Asalat Khan. In white, black, color, and gold on paper.

POTTERY

29.6. Chinese, T’ang dynasty. A cylindrical jar with ribbed sides and three
stump feet, glazed in blue outside and in yellow inside.

29.7. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Chtin ware. A fiowerpot with 12 lobed sides
and festooned rim; glazed in deep strawberry-red and blue.

29.12. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Chien ware (Honan type). A covered jar,
glazed in black with a painted ornament in metaliic brown.

29.13. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Tzt chou ware. A vase with trumpet-formed
mouth, with a floral ornament in black on a white ground.

29.14. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Ying ching ware. A covered box, glazed in
pale greenish-blue, with a stamped phoenix design on the cover in
slight relief. *

29.15. Chinese, T’ang dynasty. A figure of a dog, biting at one leg, seated on
a hollow base; glazed in white with a mingled overflow of blue and
yellow.

29.9. Persian, eleventh—thirteenth century. Rhages. A jug with a bottle
neck, painted with fisure designs, over glaze, in blue, green, black, and
yellow.

29.10. Persian, eleventh—thirteenth century. Rhages. A jug with a wide cylin-
drical neck, glazed in white, and decorated in applied relief outlined
with red, with other adornments of red, green, and blue enamels and
gold.

2911. West Asian. Rakka. A plate, glazed in white, with a sphinx figure in
slight relief, enameled in green, dark blue, and brown.

SILVER

29.5. Chinese, ninth century. T’ang dynasty. <A covered box, with a delicate
floral design engraved upon it.

29.16. Chinese, ninth century. ‘T’ang dynasty. A cup with a delicate floral
design engrayed upon the outside.

Curatorial work within the collection included documentary study
of Chinese and Japanese inscriptions on several new purchases and
on various objects already included in the collection. Many objects
have been submitted for an expert opinion upon them or for trans-
lation of their Chinese, Japanese, or Tibetan inscriptions. The total
number of such reports covers 681 objects and 56 photographs and
tracings. The collection known as “A gold treasure of the late
Roman period,” a group of Byzantine objects of the fourth to sixth
century, has been catalogued, and the collection of antique glass,
which was listed in the Freer inventory, 8. I. 189, as “ Egyptian
glass,” has been classified for the first time and duly catalogued.
This collection contains 1,271 manufactured objects, ranging from
vases of several inches in height to minute beads and embracing
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

many types of early glass from Egypt, Syria, and elsewhere. In
addition to these there are 80 small rods used in the making of
mosaics, and 44 shells, probably from ancient graves and used as
amulets, making a total of 1,395 objects. In this work the curator
had the assistance of Dr. Gustavus A. Eisen, author of Glass, New
York, 1927.

Repairs tending to the preservation of objects in the collection
have been completed as follows:

(1) Resurfacing:

2 oil paintings by Whistler.
(2) Remounting:

1 Japanese screen.

1 Japanese panel.

2 Chinese makimono.

1 Chinese panel.

(8) Mending of breaks:

17 pieces of Chinese bronze.
pieces of Chinese jade.
pieces of Chinese pottery.
pieces of Egyptian glass.
piece of Hgyptian bronze.
piece of Korean pottery.
piece of Japanese pottery.
2 pieces of Chinese stone sculpture.

et et EL OO Or

These pieces were broken when purchased and have ‘been put in
condition for the first time.
Changes in exhibition during the year have involved 106 different
objects, itemized as follows:
25 Chinese bronzes.
6 Chinese paintings.
2 Chinese stone sculptures.
28 Chinese pottery.
6 Japanese screens.
5 Japanese paintings.
15 Near Eastern pottery.
19 Near Hastern paintings.

THE LIBRARY

During the year there have been added to the main library 231
volumes and to the library of the field staff 114, making a total of
845 volumes; 41 unbound periodicals and 129 pamphlets to the main
library and 53 periodicals and 62 pamphlets to the field hbrary,
making totals of 94 periodicals and 191 pamphlets. Thirty-four vol-
umes of Aokka were rebound and 9 other volumes. The field library
sent 39 volumes to the bindery. A list of new accessions to the
library, in its two divisions, accompanies this report as Appendix A,
Parts I and II (not printed).
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929
REPRODUCTIONS AND PAMPHLETS

Two hundred and eighty-one new negatives of objects have been
made. Of these, 139 were made for registration photographs and 142
in response to special orders. The total number of reproductions
available, either as carbon photographs or as negatives from which
prints can be made upon request, is now 2,689.

Three hundred and forty-two lantern slides have also been added
to the collection, making a total of 829 available for study and for
sale.

The total numbers of sales of reproductions, at cost price, are as
follows: Photographs, 2,156; post cards, 18,834; lantern slides, 60;
negatives, 5. Two hundred and eighty-five lantern slides have been
loaned for lecture purposes.

Of booklets issued by the gallery, the following number were sold
at cost price:

BR. 'G: A. pamphlets. 22222. --2225 25-2 Se 2 ee ee ee 148

Synopsis.o£ History folders)... 2- 2455 ht eee ie 8 eee ee 154

Mist of American paintings... een SS ee ee eee 69

Annotateds@utlines' of Study=2.. 2-880 See ee te eae eee 21

Gallery. books... 2. 2) 3. oe a PERE he Bese Eo Soe 277

Moor: plans=.-2 22. 2-4 Bk ee een Ofek 28 ee ee 17
BUILDING

The shop has been occupied constantly with the usual repair work,
the making of stands, frames, and easels for exhibition galleries, and
of furniture and equipment for the building. A detailed report of
shopwork, including painting, accompanies this report as Appendix
C (not printed).

ATTENDANCE

The gallery has been open every day, with the exception of Mon-
days, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day, from 9 until 4.30 o’clock.
The total attendance for the year was 116,303. The aggregate Sun-
day attendance was 41,411, with an average Sunday attendance of
796. The week-day attendance amounted to 74,892, with an average
of 290. Of the 2,101 visitors who came to the offices, 207 came for
general information, 20 to study the building and museum methods,
54 to submit objects for examination, 327 to see objects in storage,
166 to study in the library, 75 to see the facsimiles of the Washing-
ton Manuscripts, 7 to make photographs and sketches in the exhibi-
tion galleries, 17 to make tracings from illustrated books in the
library, and 228 to purchase photographs. Ten classes, in groups
ranging in number from 3 to 15, were given instruction in the study
rooms, and 12 groups ranging from 1 to 40 persons were given docent
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5d

service in the galleries. On November 19, 1928, Mr. Bishop lectured
in the auditorium on The Development of Chinese Arts, with lan-
tern-slide illustrations, before an audience composed of the art sec-
tion of the Twentieth Century Club and the department of fine
arts of the District Federation of Women’s Clubs.

FIELD WORK

The work of the field staff has been carried on during the past
year without interruption, in this country as well as in China, and
gratifying progress has been made in both.

The labor involved has now reached very considerable portions
and, is steadily growing in amount. In addition to that of a routine .
nature, it has come to include the handling of a large correspondence
with individuals and organizations in this country and abroad, the
writing of articles and the delivering of lectures designed to pro-
mote an intelligent interest in the civilizations of the Far East, and
the maintenance of a cordial understanding with the Chinese Gov-
ernment. Negotiations with the latter’s National Research Institute
have been brought to a highly satisfactory conclusion and have
already borne abundant fruit. The plan inaugurated by the Amer-
ican Council of Learned Societies for the undertaking of a world-
wide survey of the resources at present available for the prosecution
of Far Eastern research has also received active assistance from
our field staff and is to be put in execution in the near future.

Every effort has likewise been made to bring our field brary of
reference, with its books, periodicals, pamphlets, clippings, photo-
graphs, maps, etc., to a high state of efficiency and usefulness. The
labor devoted to this task has already amply justified itself.

Dr. C. Li, of our field staff, who was in this country last summer,
returned to China in the autumn by way of Europe, Egypt, and
India. As a direct result of our understanding with the Chinese
Government the latter extended to him on his arrival every assist-
ance in the planning and prosecution of important archeological
excavations in the Province of Honan, one of the principal centers
of the archaic Chinese civilization of the protohistoric period. A
full report of his finds during the past spring is awaited with inter-
est and should throw much new light on a hitherto dark page of
culture history.

It is highly gratifying to note that political conditions in China
have undergone a steady improvement during the past year. AJ
present indications appear to unite in justifying the confident ex-
pectation that our work in the field will be carried on without inter-
ference or interruption of any kind.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

During the winter season Mr. Bishop gave the following lectures,
in addition to that mentioned above:

Archeological Research in China, before the Cosmos Club, Washington,
October 22.

Exploring and Excavating in China, at the Museum of the University of
Pennsylvania, January 19.

The Bronze Age in China, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York,
on February 9.

Travels in China, at the Chevy Chase School, Chevy Chase, Md., March 3.

An account of the activities of our field staff, briefly outlined
above, is given in detail in Appendix B, submitted herewith (not

printed).
: PERSONNEL

Mr. Archibald G. Wenley, field assistant, arrived from Paris,
France, on September 21, and spent a few days at the gallery before
going to Japan. The past eight months he has been stationed at
Kyoto.

Dr. Chi Li arrived in Peking on November 21 and has since been
engaged in archeological research.

Mr. Y. Kinoshita, of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, worked at
the gallery from January 14 to June 27 on the preservation of
oriental paintings.

Mr. S. Mikami, of New York, worked at the gallery in three
periods between March 25 and June 27 on repairs to various objects
of jade, bronze, stone, glass, and pottery.

Dr. G. A. Eisen, of New York, spent two weeks in April at the
gallery, classifying the collection of ancient glass.

Respectfully submitted.

J. EK. Lopes,
Curator, Freer Gallery of Art.
Dr. C. G. Asgor,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Kthnology during the fiscal year ended {une 30, 1929, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved May 16,1928. The
act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation
of archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, in.
cluding necessary employees, the preparation of manuscript, drawings, and illus
trations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses, $60,300

Mr. M. W. Stirling entered upon his duties as chief of the bureau
August 1, 1928, succeeding Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, who retired
January 15, 1928.

During the months of September and October Mr. Stirling worked
with a group of Acoma Indians who were visiting Washington and
secured from them in as complete form as possible the origin and
migration myth of that very conservative tribe. This myth not only
describes the emergence of the first human beings from the under-
world but also explains the origin and functions of the pantheon of
demigods and heroes connected with the legend. The myth likewise
explains the origin and function of the clans and the medicine societies
and the reason for the many ceremonies practiced. In connection
with this work phonographic records were made of 66 songs, many
of which have been transcribed by Miss Frances Densmore, as de-
scribed in her report. This information fills an important gap in
our knowledge of the oldest inhabited pueblo in the United States.

Mr. Stirling spent the months of March and April in Florida,
where a survey was made of the mounds in the vicinity of Tampa
Bay. An interesting discovery was made of a series of mounds
composed of mixed sand and shell, constructed at a distance of about
4 miles inland, parallel to the shore, and in each instance directly
back of a large shell mound located on the salt water. Preliminary
excavations were made at Cockroach Point, Palma Sola, and Safety
Harbor. The shell mound at Cockroach Point is the largest on the
west coast of Florida and is composed entirely of shell and bone,
refuse from the meals of the Indians who formerly occupied the

57
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

site. Collections of shells and bones were made in the different levels
of the mound, together with human artifacts associated with them,
with a view to establishing a culture sequence.

The site at Safety Harbor was determined to be of the same
culture as that excavated at Weeden Island during the winters of
1923 and 1924.

The large sand mound at Palma Sola proved to be of exceptional
interest and was selected as a site for intensive excavation next
winter,

During the latter part of April Mr. Stirling visited Chicago for
the purpose of delivering lectures before the Geographic Society of
Chicago and the anthropologists of Chicago and vicinity. From
Chicago he went to Memphis, Tenn., where he attended the meeting
of the Tennessee Academy of Sciences and addressed the society at
their annual banquet. Proceeding from Memphis to Macon, Ga.,
he visited the large mounds on the site of Old Ocmulgee Town, tra-
ditional founding place of the Creek Confederacy.

During the third week in May Mr. Stirling attended the con-
ference of Mid-Western Archeologists, which was held at St. Louis
under the auspices of the National Research Council, and as repre-
sentative of this body went to Montgomery, Ala., to deliver an ad-
dress at the unveiling of a monument by the Alabama Anthropologi-
cal Society on the site of old Tukabatchi.

He also attended the meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in New York in December, 1928, as repre-
sentative of the United States Government.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was engaged during the year in
completing the proof reading of his bulletin on the Myths and Tales
of the Southeast, which has been released for publication.

Considerable material was added to his manuscript paper entitled
“Source Material for Choctaw Ethnology.” Part of this was col-
lected from the archives of the State Department of Archives and
History at Jackson, Miss., and some from the eastern Choctaw at
Philadelphia, Miss., in July, 1928. Also, a great deal more work
was devoted to the projected tribal map of aboriginal North America
north of Mexico and to the accompanying text, including the in-
corporation of some valuable notes furnished by Mr. Diamond
Jenness, chief of the division of anthropology of the Geological
Survey of Canada.

Work was continued throughout the year on the Timucua diction-
ary which, in spite of the elimination of a large number of cards on
account of closer classification and the correction of errors, still fills
14 trays.

Shortly after July, 1928, Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, left
Washington to renew his research among the Algonquian Tribes of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

Oklahoma. He first studied the linguistics, sociology, and physical
anthropology of the Kickapoo. Kickapoo in certain respects is very
important linguistically. While working on Arapaho he was able
to formulate many phonetic shifts of complexity. Even so, the
amount of vocabulary that can be proved to be Algonquian is very
small. The grammatical structure is, however, fundamentally Algon-
quian. It is also true that there are a few traits which are dis-
tinctly un-Algonquian; for example, the order of words.

The first week in August Doctor Michelson went to Tama, Iowa,
to renew his work among the Foxes. He there restored phonetically
some texts previously obtained in the current syllabic script and
worked out some translations. He also obtained some grammatical
notes on these texts. Some new Fox syllabic texts were collected
and new and important ethnological data were obtained.

Doctor Michelson returned to Washington in September. He cor-
rected proofs of Bulletin 89, Observations on the Thunder Dance of
the Bear Gens of the Fox Indians, and prepared for publication by
the bureau a memoir entitled “ Notes on the Great Sacred Pack of the
Thunder Gens of the Fox Indians.” Early in June Doctor Michelson
left for Oklahoma, where he obtained more Kickapoo linguistic notes,
further elucidating the relation of Kickapoo to Fox. From this it
appears that; Kickapoo diverges more widely in idiom than hitherto
suspected. He also secured some Kickapoo texts in the current
syllabic script and obtained new data on social organization. Some
brief Shawnee linguistic notes were collected. These show that while
Shawnee is in certain respects very important for a correct under-
standing of Fox phonology, as a whole it is not as archaic. It is also
now clear that Shawnee is further removed from Sauk and Kickapoo
than he had previously surmised. Doctor Michelson witnessed sev-
eral Kickapoo dances and attended a Shawnee ball game.

In June, 1929, Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, completed his
report on the Taos Indians, who inhabit a large pueblo on an eastern
affluent of the Rio Grande in north-central New Mexico. These are
the northernmost of the New Mexico Pueblo Indians and are
peculiarly interesting because of the long intimate relations they
have had with the Jicarilla Apaches, Utes, Comanches, and other
tribes of Great Plains culture. During the period of Spanish
domination in New Mexico the Taos had to play the double and dif-
ficult rdle, because of their frontier position, of persuading the
Spanish that they were really on their side, and the Plains Indians
that they were really on theirs. The relations with the Plains
Indians existed far back in Taos history and amounted at times to the
incorporation of large bodies of these Indians in the blood which went
to make up the present-day Taos. And there is a still more remote
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

and fundamental connection with one group of Plains Indians,
namely, the Kiowa. The Taos language, which was the language of
one of the ancient groups which contributed to the composition of
Taos, has been determined to be a dialect of Kiowa, which seems to
indicate that this contingent of the Taos population at least, like the
Kiowas themselves, once lived in the northern region of the Rocky
Mountains, probably in what is now Canada.

Grasping still another opportunity to check the old and new
information on this region, studies on the related Karuk Indians of
the central Klamath River region of California were resumed during
field work on the coast and were continued throughout the year,
resulting in an accumulation of carefully analyzed material, a large
part of which is now ready for publication. The work consists of
many divisions of information, including the grammar of the lan-
guage, its sounds, its peculiar musical intonations, and the system of
long and short consonants and vowels; the history of the tribe, which
remained intact and unspoiled up to 1850; the census, with the peculiar
old personal names; the villages, which were strung out along the
river and its tributary creeks; the construction of the living houses
and sweat houses, and the description of all the manufactures, and
the process of making the objects, all in Indian; the social life, an
organization without chiefs; the great festivals and the various
dances; feuds, wars, and peace making; sucking and herb doctors,
and the sources of their power; medicine formulas and myths, all in
the language, for any other record of them would be inadequate.
This information is accompanied by photographs and phonograph
records and is rapidly approaching completion for publication as a
report of the bureau.

Early in June Mr. Harrington went to Chaco Canyon, N. Mex.,
for the purpose of making further study of the Pueblo Indian lan-
guages, notably the relation of Zuni and Keresan to the newly
discovered Kiowan family. Cooperating with students of the Uni-
versity of New Mexico attending the university summer school being
held at Chaco Canyon under the joint auspices of the State University
and the School of American Research, a minute comparison was
made of the Taos and Zufi languages, resulting in the discovery of
the genetic relationship of these two languages, a relationship which
ean be traced through hundreds of words of similar sound and
identical construction, which was long ago hinted at by the discovery
of such words as lana, big, and papa, older brother, which are the
same in sound and meaning in both languages. About 200 kymo-
eraph tracings were made. Similar genetically related words and
features were also discovered in the Keresan language. Cooperating
in this work were Miss Sara Goddard, Miss Clara Leibold, Miss Anna
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

Risser, Miss Janet Tietjens, Miss Winifred Stamm, Mr. Reginald
Fisher, and several other students. The results are ready for publi-
cation, including the kymographic alphabet, which is mounted and
ready for the engraver.

The months of July and August, 1928, were spent by Dr. F. H. H.
Roberts, jr., archeologist, in completing archeological investiga-
tions along the Piedra River in southwestern Colorado. During
that time the remains of 50 houses belonging to the first period
of the prehistoric Pueblo peoples were excavated and examined.
As a result of those researches it was possible to determine a 3-stage
chronoldgical development of the house types in the district as well
as to postulate very definite reconstructions of the dwellings. An
additional discovery was that in the arrangement of the structures
the builders had developed the prototype of the unit house which
was the characteristic building of the following stage, the Pueblo II |
period. Besides the work in house remains, a number of burial
mounds were explored and many skeletons and objects of the mate-
rial culture of the people were obtained. The latter include a large
number. and variety of pottery specimens, many of which repre-
sent an entirely new feature in the ceramic industry, bone and
stone implements, and ornaments. The work as a whole gives a
clear-cut picture of the life and conditions prevailing at a time
of instability and disturbance due to an influx of new peoples, with
its attendant cultural transition.

On the completion of the work along the Piedra River one week
was spent in a reconnaissance of the Governador district in north-
ern New Mexico. The Governador region includes the Governador,
Burns, La Jara, and Frances Canyons. The latter are of special
archeological and ethnological interest, because it was to that sec-
tion that a large group of the Pueblo Indians from the Jemez
villages fled after they had been disastrously defeated in the Battle
of San Diego Canyon during the month of June, 1696, by Spanish
forces engaged in the reconquest of the Southwest. The ruins of
the dwellings built by the refugees are in a good state of preserva-
tion and furnish excellent information on the methods and styles of
house building prevalent at that time. At the close of the Gov-
ernador explorations Doctor Roberts returned to Washington, reach-
ing there the middle of September.

During the autumn illustrations were prepared to accompany a
manuscript entitled “ Recent Archeological Developments in the
Vicinity of El Paso, Tex.,” which was published in January, 1929,
as volume 81, No. 7, of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.
Proof of another paper entitled “Shabik’eshchee Village, A Late
Basket Maker Site in the Chaco Canyon, New Mexico,” was corrected,
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

and this appeared in June, 1929, as Bulletin 92 of the Bureau of
American Ethnology.

Considerable time was spent in the laboratory of the division of
American archeology of the United States National Museum in
working over the collection made during the excavations along the
Piedra River. <A portion of this work included the restoration, from
fragments found in the various houses, of a number of unusually
fine culinary and storage jars and a series of decorated bowls.

From January to June a 545-page manuscript on the work in
southwestern Colorado was prepared. Accompanying this report
are 40 text figures drawn by Doctor Roberts. The figures include 64
drawings, consisting of maps of the San Juan archeological area
and the Piedra district, outlines of the various village and house
groups, restorations of the different forms of dwellings, details in
building construction, outline groups of pottery forms, and designs
from decorated ceramic containers.

On May 11, 1929, Doctor Roberts left Washington for Denver,
Colo., where one week was spent in studying museum specimens.
From Denver he proceeded to Gallup, N. Mex., where he outfitted
for work in the region of the Long H Ranch, eastern Arizona, 45
miles from the Pueblo of Zuni. After conducting a reconnaissance
a site was chosen on the Long H Ranch, 1 mile northwest of the
ranch buildings, and a series of excavations started. As work pro-
gressed it was found that the site was one which had been occupied by
Basket Maker III and Pueblo I peoples and that it showed the transi-
tion from the one period to the other. At the end of June, eight fine
examples of pit houses had been uncovered. Excellent data on the
type and character of this form of structure were obtained and sev-
eral new features in the method of house grouping were observed.
The burial mounds of three house clusters were examined and 30
interments exhumed. The latter were accompanied by mortuary
offerings of pottery; bone and shell implements; shell beads, brace-
lets, and pendants; and turquoise ornaments. With the various ob-
jects found in the houses the total number of specimens reaches 300.
The work has furnished valuable information on a little-known phase
of the prehistoric sedentary cultures of the Southwest.

During the year Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, continued his
studies on the Iroquois. In 1900 and immediately subsequent years
Mr. Hewitt undertook seriously to record in native texts the extant
rituals, ordinances, and laws pertaining to the institutions and struc-
ture of the League or Confederation of the Five (later Six) Tribes
or Nations of the Iroquois of New York State. At that time there
were still living two or three men among the Iroquois of Canada
who grasped more or less fully the intent and purpose of the various
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

institutions of this league, and Mr. Hewitt had then acquired a
conversational knowledge of the two languages in which these rituals,
ordinances, and laws were chiefly expressed, to wit, the Mohawk and
the Onondaga. The use of the Cayuga, Oneida, and Seneca was
exceptional.

From these men Mr. Hewitt obtained standard texts in the native
tongues of the informants. The death of two of these informants
made a study of the material furnished by them difficult. Resort
was had then to other less noted informants in these matters, and
there was obtained a large number of versions of portions of the
standard texts already mentioned, which disclosed views and state-
ments which it seemed impossible to harmonize with those appearing
in the standard texts. It was imperative that the value of these dis-
cordant statements should be ascertained where possible and that
palpable omissions from the standard texts should be utilized. The
task was to ascertain in these analytical studies what was transmitted
tradition and what was the personal opinion of the informant, unwit-
tingly expressed.

This work of comparison was undertaken to secure the best possible
translations, interlinear and free, of the several native texts thus
studied. The texts of the Installation Chant, the Eulogy of the
Founders, of the Traditional Biography of Deganawida which de-
scribes in great detail the years of difficult work which had to be done
to establish the League of the Five Tribes of the Iroquois in the Stone
Age of America, and also the native text of the Requickening Address
of Installation, were subjected to this kind of study.

Mr. Hewitt represented the Smithsonian Institution on the United
States Geographic Board. In addition to attending the meetings, he
spent about three days in researches for the executive committee.

As custodian of manuscripts of the bureau, Mr. Hewitt did some
classificatory linguistic work on new items acquired.

Mr. Hewitt left Washington on May 6, 1929, to continue his
studies among the Iroquoian Tribes dwelling in Canada and in the
State of New York. His work consisted chiefly in literal and free
translation of formal native diction embodying legislative, rituslis-
tic, and forensic thought; and also in the coordination of divergent
traditional statements of traditionally historical events, in eliminat-
ing the incongruous, and in conserving the congruous. He secured 15
parcels of wampum strings, severally bearing the name of one of
the burdens of the ritual, the Requickening Address of Installation.

Dr. Francis Le Flesche, ethnologist, during the last fiscal year
completed Wa-sha’-be A-thi", an Osage war ceremony, composed of
270 pages of manuscript, with diagrams and illustrations; also the
Wa’-wa-tho", a ceremony pertaining to the peace pipes, composed
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

of 129 pages of manuscript, with illustrations. In this paper is a
full and detailed description of the discoidal pipes, ancient and
modern, found in the Eastern States, many of which may be found
in the various museums.

With the assistance of Mrs. Grace D. Woodburn, he has revised
the work on the Osage Dictionary. There are approximately 19,000
words of the Osage language in common use among the tribe with
English equivalent; about 17,000 English words with Osage tran-
scriptions are given. The words, with their meanings, can not be
given positively, but a clear idea of usage has been made. About 35
illustrations have been completed for this work.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

The study of Indian music has been continued during the past
year by Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the bureau.
Material has been submitted on the songs of the Menominee, Winne-
bago, Pawnee, Yuma, Acoma, and the Indians living on the Fraser,
Thompson, and Squamish Rivers in British Columbia; also on a small
group of songs recorded at Anvik, Alaska, and obtained through
the courtesy of Rev. John W. Chapman. A comparison of the songs
in this wide territory has been important in the development of the
research.

Kight manuscripts have been submitted with the following titles:
“Menominee Songs of Pleasure, Dances, and Manabus Legends”;
“Songs of Indians Living on the Fraser, Thompson, and Squamish
Rivers in British Columbia”; “ Origin Song of the Dice Game and
Other Winnebago Songs”; “ Winnebago Songs Connected with the
Recent War ”; and 17 analytical tables comparing Pawnee with songs
previously analyzed; “ Winnebago Songs Connected with Legends,
Games, and Dances”; “ Acoma Songs of the Flower Dance and Corn
Dance”; “Acoma Songs Used in Treating the Sick and Other
Acoma Songs”; and “A Comparison Between Yuma, Acoma, and
Alaskan Indian Songs,” with 18 tables of analysis of Yuma songs.
The number of songs transcribed and analyzed is 117, and a large
number of dictaphone song records were studied without transcrip-
tion. Miss Densmore corrected the proof of her book on Papago Music
and the galleys of Pawnee Music; the final work of preparing the
Pawnee material for publication was also done during this year.
A large amount of work was done upon the preparation of Menomi-
nee and Yuma material for publications. Catalogue numbers have
been assigned to all transcribed songs, except the Acoma, the highest
catalogue number in her series being 1848.

During August and September, 1928, a field trip was made to
the Winnebago and Menominee Tribes in Wisconsin. A large dance,
continuing three days, was held by the Winnebago near Black River
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

Falls. This dance was witnessed, as well as numerous incidents of
life in the camp, and about 50 photographs were taken.

At the conclusion of this gathering Miss Densmore went to
Keshena, Wis., for further work among the Menominee. The manu-
script already prepared was read to reliable members of the tribe and
details were added. An interesting opportunity for seeing Menomi-
nee dances was afforded by the annual Indian fair which continued
four days. Among the old dances presented were those in imitation
of the fish, frog, crawfish, rabbit, partridge, and owl. The songs
of these dances, together with their action and origin, were recorded.
The Manabus legend concerning the first death was obtained, to-
gether with its songs, and the work included the recording of other
old material.

A drum-presentation ceremonial dance, commonly called a dream
dance, was held at the native village of Zoar on September 2 to 5.
This was attended each day and closely observed, Miss Densmore
remaining 10 hours beside the dance circle on the third day of the
ceremony. Many photographs were taken.

On September 14 Miss Densmore proceeded to ‘Tomah, Wis., and
resumed her study of Winnebago music. Additional songs of the
war-bundle feast, also called the winter feast, were recorded, together
with several old legends and their songs, and the origin of the bowl-
and-dice game, with its song. The legend of this game origin had
previously been obtained among the Menominee. Numerous photo-
graphs were taken, and two drumming sticks were obtained, one
being decorated with otter fur and used a generation ago by the
leader at the drum.

During October, 1928, Miss Densmore went to Washington, D. C.,
and recorded 27 Acoma songs from Philip Sanche, who, with several
Acoma Indians, was engaged in work for the chief of the Bureau
of American Ethnology. A larger number of Acoma songs had
previously been recorded for the chief of the bureau and these records
were studied, 16 being transcribed as representative examples.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs.
Frances §. Nichols, editorial assistant. The status of the publica-
tions is presented in the following summary:

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British
Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Teit, and
Roberts) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tenuessee (Myer). 626 pp
137 pls. 200 figs. 1 pocket map.

c
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Forty-third Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Osage Tribe: Two
Versions of the Child-naming Rite (La Flesche) ; Wawenock Myth Texts from
Maine (Speck) ; Native Tribes and Dialects of Connecticut, a Mohegan-Pequot
Diary (Speck) ; Picuris Children’s Stories (Harrington and Roberts) ; Iro-
quoian Cosmology—Second Part (Hewitt). 828 pp. 44 pls. 9 figs.

Forty-fourth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Exploration of the Burton
Mound at Santa Barbara, Calif. (Harrington) ; Social and Religious Beliefs
and Usages of the Chickasaw Indians (Swanton); Uses of Plants by the
Chippewa Indians (Densmore); Archeological Investigations—II (Fowke).
55d pp. 98 pls. 16 figs.

Bulletin 84. Vocabulary of the Kiowa Language (Harrington). 255 pp. 1 fig.

Bulletin 86. Chippewa Customs (Densmore). 204 pp. 90 pls. 27 figs.

Bulletin 87. Notes on the Buffalo-head Dance of the Thunder Gens of the Fox
Indians (Michelson). 94 pp. 1 fig.

Bulletin 89. Observations on the Thunder Dance of the Bear Gens of the Fox
Indians (Michelson). 78‘pp. 1 fig.

Bulletin 92. Shabik’ eshchee Village: A Late Basket Maker Site in the Chaco
Canyon, New Mexico (Roberts). 164 pp. 31 pls. 382 figs.

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS

Forty-fifth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Salishan Tribes of the
Western Plateaus (Teit, edited by Boas); Tattooing and Face and Body
Painting of the Thompson Indians, British Columbia (Teit, edited by Boas) ;
The Ethnobotany of the Thompson Indians of British Columbia (Teit, edited
by Steedman) ; The Osage Tribe: Rite of the Wa-xo’-be (La Fliesche).

Bulletin 88. Myths and Tales of the Southeastern Indians (Swanton).

Bulletin 90. Papago Musie (Densmore).

Bulletin 91. Additional Studies of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the
Guiana Indians, with special reference to those of Southeastern British
Guiana (Roth).

Bulletin 98. Pawnee Music (Densmore).

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS

The distribution of the publications of the bureau has been con-
tinued under the charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted by Miss
Emma B. Powers. Publications were distributed as follows:

Report? volumes, and Separates ge Ai. Wee NN EE eee ee 7, 605
Bulletins; andr (geparategei uma ego tock cet ier Ee ee 11, 890
Contributions to North American Ethnology________________----_---__ 34
Miscellaneous) spublications)s 2 Yaeiin 1120 kere, ed A ee 583

MO tA utes oa eee Ey EAL alee a ES, SD cer DOE 20, 112

This is an increase of 10,986 publications distributed, due to the
fact that five more publications were distributed to the mailing list
than in the previous year. The mailing list, after revision during
the year, stands at 1,642.

ILLUSTRATIONS
Following is a summary of work accomplished in the illustration

branch of the bureau under the supervision of Mr. De Lancey Gill,
illustrator :
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

Photographs retouched and lettered and drawings made ready for

COTA TVR eR ee Soe dE a eget edad Wid on ieee 874
Drawings prepared, including maps, diagrams, ete___________-________ 53
Hn ravers pProoks eriticized miss tes. ett Senttalned ils Sa rayon Th 690
Printed editions of colored plates examined at Government Printing

OPTIC CEE eee ee eee eee we eee ee PBS ee meer 23, 000
@orrespondeneesattiended, t02 2-2 ee ee ee eee 125

Photographie laboratory work by Dr. A. J. Olmsted, National Museum,
in cooperation with the Bureau of American Ethnology:

TINO EU GI CS ee ree tes ct Se ea 8 a fre EE A SAN Rs So eR 143

PES SIT Us ee tare ne en Sa re ey Nn eee Oa oy a ee 275

Himes tdeveloped fron held "exposiress-22 522242. 2e6 2a wee eee 12
LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the care of Miss Ella
Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Thomas Blackwell. The library
consists of 28,512 volumes, about 16,377 pamphlets, and several
thousand unbound periodicals. During the year 591 books were
accessioned, of which 112 were acquired by purchase and 479 by gift
and exchange; also 200 pamphlets and 4,100 serials, chiefly the pub-
lications of learned societies, were received and recorded, of which
only 112 were obtained by purchase, the remainder being received
through exchange. The catalogue was increased by the addition of
1,400 cards. Many books were loaned to other libraries in Wash-
ington. In addition to the constant drafts on the library of the
bureau, requisition was made on the Library of Congress during the
year for an aggregate of 200 volumes for official use, and in turn the
bureau library was frequently consulted by officers of other Govern-
ment establishments, as well as by students not connected with the
Smithsonian Institution.

While many volumes are still without binding, the condition of
the library in this respect has greatly improved during the last few
years; 431 volumes were bound during the year.

COLLECTIONS

100,592. Several thousand anthropological specimens and small collections of
mammals, plants, mollusks, and minerals from various localities in Alaska,
secured by Henry B. Collins, jr., during 1928. (3,730 specimens. )-

102,768. Small collection of archeological objects gathered by Charles T. Earle
at an aboriginal camp site at Shaws Point, Fla. (26 specimens.)

102,769. Two textile fragments collected in the Canyon de Chelly, Ariz., by
Dr. W. H. Spinks. (2 specimens.)

102,896. Collection of 61 ethnological specimens secured from the Hupa In-
dians of California by E. G. Johnson. (61 specimens.) ha

103,344. Two specimens of sheet mica collected from unidentified mounds in
Ohio by the late Dr. B. H. Davis and presented to the bureau by Miss Betsey
B. Davis. (2 specimens.)

$2322—-30-——_6
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

103,964. Pair of charms used by the Karuk Indians of northern California to
ward off pains and bewitchments. Made by Mrs. Phoebe Maddux, of the
Karuk Tribe. (2 specimens.)

105,865. Collection of ethnological objects gathered from the Hupa Indians
of California by HE. G. Johnson and purchased from him by the bureau.
(27 specimens. )

PROPERTY

Office equipment was purchased to the amount of $292.70.
MISCELLANEOUS

The correspondence and other clerical work of the office has been
conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief, assisted by Mr.
Anthony W. Wilding, assistant clerk. Miss Mae W. Tucker, stenog-
rapher, assisted Dr. John R. Swanton in his work of compiling a
dictionary of the Atakapa and compiled two catalogues of the manu-
scripts in the archives of the bureau—one arranged according to
author and the other numerically. Mrs. Frances S. Nichols assisted
the editor.

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the North
American Indian peoples, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods to the south.
Various specimens sent to the bureau were identified and data on
them furnished for their owners.

Personnel_—Mr. M. W. Stirling was appointed chief of the bureau
August 1, 1928. Dr. J. Walter Fewkes retired as associate anthro-
pologist of the bureau November 14, 1928.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Srirune, Chief.

Dr. C. G. AxBsor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1929:

The appropriation made by Congress for the support of the Ex-
change Service for 1929 was $50,355, an increase of $3,500 over the
amount for the preceding year. Of this increase, $2,147 was pro-
vided for in a deficiency bill to cover the additional sum required to
meet the provisions of the Welch Act amending the classification act
of 1923, $1,000 to meet the extra cost for freight, and $353 to ad-
vance to the next step in their respective grades those of the employees
of the exchange office eligible for promotion.

The total number of packages handled was 620,485, an increase of
78,262 over the previous year. ‘This is the second largest increase in
the number of packages passing through the service in any one year
since its organization in 1850. ‘The greatest increase in packages was
in 1927, when it was over 100,000. The total weight of the packages
handled was 621,373 pounds, an increase of 27,252.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are
given in the following table:

Packages Weight
Sent |Received| Sent | Received
Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_._______-- 239, 096 \\oH2- zee OD) A404 | Bex ces ee ie! =

Publications received in return for parliamentary documents__-|--..------ SATBN| _Detee eae 23, 051

United States departmental documents sent abroad_____-._---_ 183;676;|besss- see 152, 6964)=2- 222-222

Publications received in return for departmental documents____|--_.------ O698 it see ae ees 23, 671

Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_-_| 139,520 |.__....-___ 2165780) |zonee=e ee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received

from abroad for distribution in the United States._...._...___|.------__- \eneG; S22) |P=aeee== 102, 766

TS ch a ee a ne Ee eS 562, 192 58, 293 | 471, 885 149, 488

GHAI) WOE oe ese ce secces cones saab Te Ses SSS 620, 485 621, 373

Tt will be observed from the above table that many more pack-
ages are sent abroad than are received, yet the disparity is not as
great as appears from the figures. Packages sent abroad in many

69
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

instances contain only a single publication, while those received in
return often comprise several volumes. Furthermore, a number of
foreign correspondents forward their publications directly to their
destinations in this country by mail.

During the year there were shipped abroad 2,823 boxes, a decrease
of 49 from the number sent last year, although the total weight of
the consignments shipped to foreign countries was practically the
same for the two years. Of the total number of boxes shipped
abroad 604 contained full sets of United States official documents

IVE YEAR PERIOD

1850 te ISH

EacH CoLumN Equal To 200,000 Pounps

Ra EL Wd a al a ee A
feos Severs HOE OAL SU aaee tote SIN | a el eel
1960 b 1864+ aa i

hi
1965 te 1869 HH
fae ba
1975 ts 1879 HERE a
TON gC MESS
este | | Lt |
1890 1894
1895 G 1894 hal EES ea Ae
1900 ta 1904 Da A a
1905 G 1909 egal see ae
1910 & (91¥ En ac a les) tex)
15 & 1919 Spt
1926 t 1924 a a ats ES Yea on [eae ERE

Ps Fe a

fis oe

z I 452 YS5
lige 2461 SIF

1945 b 1929

Ficurp 1.—Diagram showing the relative weight of packages transmitted through the
International Exchange Service between the years 1850 and 1929, divided into periods
of five years each

for foreign depositories and 2,219 included departmental and other
publications for the depositories of partial sets and for miscellaneous
establishments and individuals.

In addition to the forwarding of consignments to foreign ex-
change agencies in boxes, it is necessary, for the reasons given in
previous reports, to mail a number of packages directly to their
destinations. There were forwarded in this manner during the
year 60,856 packages.

The number of boxes sent to each foreign country is given in the
following table:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

71

Consignments of exchanges forwarded to foreign countries

Country Nombes Country Banibes
“Argentina S20 2. oan Seve et tet Sk Gat |\wikeat yin 8 2< me _eeeneee i: ads esa eb oh 11
ATS ETIG Se See oa eer ne eae e aera twee ee 58 | MG@xiCO-2<22.. camas'secccas eneoctaasthcte se 11
PES 00 eee ee ee 649) Netherland s2eiino2s eon senn eae 85
15) of: A | cece eee ©) CEE eee Bee eee eee 40' |) New: South Wialesi2ccb2 <<- Ses see oaks 37
Bulgarians. 22 (ha Sed Be ee Eee fn. DHisNew,neelanG=s<22225 52-5 a ee 26
British Colontest: si. tipi sie 148) MINOGW Ay sto seeee one ees aoe 55
Wandda est oe Be en co eee 6 445 )\, Palestin@-2-<. 222: ee se bse ee a ee 106
(GLE tan ie ERR SRN NR RE a DRAM CEES 2 se Bae ao res eee 21
Ching Sate: AUT errr oes Gig MP oland sect Ohler 45
Polomblae=seLee tages ondt oh 2 \EPortapgall. 25.2244. 2eq27-t astlascesd_2 24
(CORE eye = — es ee ee 29) <@wmeensiand 24-0. 5-25 ee eels 31
CONT Ys ob ets snd ik See eet | Ta | Rammanighs 22 SPA AL Te 28e See eet 24
@vechosloyakisursss-2422se~- sen ceteeue ee G40 WHRTISS geeeeees os ee ee Ses eee 133
Deri sr ks eee eer ee Paes 49\\\\"SouthvAustralia==2-c2s=s _ Sue ee ee 25
LO ag 0 ae ee ee ee ee TREN) FSO oe eee S 38
TRC) at ER ea a a ee ee eee SoS Wed On=—e 22256 2a ee eee a 69
(RUST se ee ANSE EL ee Ls 147) Switzerland: 2-2°2+ -4e2. 27s Seek 77
LONE CS 58 es ee ee oe ed a 174:,||, Pasmania-s. 4-225 sa be LE eee oe 23
ISeroiany ee se aoe sae ae ete eee en S800||)Darkeyzess Se... So tae ee. Se Ree ns 11
Great Britain and Ireland.._____.-_-___-- 382 || Union of South Africa.._.......---..--.- 36
(CMG See ee oe Se ee ee Sone | Ay || Uruguay. aoe ee ee eae 20
1B RENT Ana a a ee a a eet ak Va SU RVOUOZUGIAS tate na ane cee cee ee ae 21
IOV AUTaS EES SEES ee. Soe 2 | Wictorids. 22 foes. NIE eee ot 51
SERTIM Gary 2 ees 8 she ote 2 hey Se ae ek 35i/\| Western Australias-<--5.22 523 eee oe 23
TTR IE: eae Ba te EA edloa ie esa ih esiey emperors baal ROSIGWIAten oa eee hee eee ee ee 16
Tt aliges ee PEEP os ee YE ES 102
Japan eeeewes ase kc eee Bele ee 87 Motel si sf nto cose oe 2, 823

For many years prior to 1926 the interchange of publications be-
tween China and the United States was conducted under the direc-
tion of the Shanghai Bureau of Foreign Affairs. The Chinese Bu-
reau of Exchanges was under the direction of the Ministry of Edu-
cation at Peking from May, 1926, to June, 1928, when operations
were suspended owing to the reorganization of the Chinese Govern-
ment. The Metropolitan Library, in which was then deposited the
full series of United States governmental documents sent to China,
temporarily took over the work of the bureau. The exchange work
was carried on by that library until February, 1929, when a com-
munication was received from the National Research Institute, 205
Avenue du Roi Albert, Shanghai, stating that the Nationalist Govern-
ment had transferred the Bureau of International Exchanges from
Peking to Shanghai and had placed the bureau under its direction.
Shipments therefore have been made in care of the National Re-
search Institute since March, 1929.

In June, 1925, the Egyptian Government, which had not at that
time become a party to the Brussels convention, discontinued its
exchange bureau in the Government Publications Office, and it was
necessary to send packages intended for correspondents in Egypt
directly to their destinations by mail. In June, 1927, as stated in the
v2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

report for that year, the Egyptian Government formally adhered
to the Brussels convention and established as its agency the Bureau
of Publications under the Ministry of Finances at Cairo. Complete
arrangements for the taking over of the exchange work by that
bureau, however, were not perfected until September, 1928, when
shipments in boxes to Egypt were resumed. |

A few days after the close of the fiscal year the Government
printer of South Australia advised the Institution that his Govern-
ment, at the invitation of the League of Nations, had established
under his direction the South Australian Government Exchanges
Bureau to take over the exchange work conducted for many years by
the Public Library of South Australia.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

There has been no increase in the number of sets of United States
governmental documents forwarded to foreign depositories, the total
number being 105. However, there has been a change in the number
of depositories of the full and partial sets, two of the latter, those
for Latvia and Rumania, having been increased to full sets. The
number of full sets, therefore, is now 62 and partial sets 48.

At the request of the German Government the depository of Amer-
ican official documents has been changed from the Deutsche Reichs-
tags-Bibliothek to the Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium des
Innern, Berlin.

The partial set depository in Guatemala has been changed from
the Secretary to the Government to the Secretaria de Relaciones Ex-
teriores de la Republica de Guatemala; and the depository in Hon-
duras from the Secretary of the Government to Ministerio de Rela-
ciones Exteriores.

The depository of the full set of governmental documents sent to
Italy has been changed from the Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio
Emanuele to the Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, Viale del Re,
Rome.

The Nationalist Government of China has changed the depository
of United States official documents in that country from the Metro-
politan Library in Peking to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at
Nanking.

A list of the foreign depositories is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.
Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La
Plata. (Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY tS

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
AUSTRIA: Bundesamt ftir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.
Bexicium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

Brazit: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

OnrTaArio: Legislative Library, Toronto.

QugEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nanking.

CoLtomBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Deposito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José. .

Cupa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’ Assemblée Nationale, Prague.

DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

EXcypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

EstTonra: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.

GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium des Innern, Berlin © 2.

BavEN: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of

Baden.)

Bavaria: Bayerische Staatsbibliothek, Munich.

Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.

Saxony: Sichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.

WouRTEMBERG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

GREAT BRITAIN:

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

Guascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Scienee. (Depository

of the London County Council.)

GREECE: Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens.
Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
InpIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IrisH Free Stare: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IraLty: Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Latvia: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
NEW ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NORTHERN IRELAND: Ministry of Finance, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of

Norway.)
74 ANNUAL REPORT’ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PoLAND: Bibliothéque du Ministére des Affaires Htrangéres, Warsaw.

PortugaL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

Rumania: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

Russr1a: Shipments temporarily suspended.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliotheque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

SWITZERLAND: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.

TURKEY: Ministére de l’Instruction Publique, Angora.

Union oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Yugos.tavia: Ministére de l’Hdueation, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS
AUSTRIA:
VIENNA: Wiener Magistrat.
Boutvia: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Minas GerasEs: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte,
Minas Geraes.
Rio DE JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da ASsemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.
CANADA:
ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
BRITISH COLUMBIA: Legislative Library, Victoria.
NEw Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scotra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
Prince Epwarp Istanp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.
SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
BULGARIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Sofia.
Cryton: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library),
Colombo.
Danzic: Stadtbibliothek, Free City of Danzig.
DoMINICAN ReEpPuBLIc: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
Hovuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.
FRANCE:
ALSACE-LORRAINE: Bibliothéque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg,
Strasbourg.
GERMANY: ;
BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.
Hamsure: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.
Hesse: Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt.
LUseck: President of the Senate.
THURINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitit, Jena.
GUATEMALA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores de la Repfiblica de Guate-
mala.

Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.
HoNpvuRAS: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
Ionnanp: National Library, Reykjavik.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75

INDIA:
BomsBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-
ment, Bombay.
Burma: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,
Rangoon.
Mapras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Depart-
ment, Madras. é.
UNITED PROVINCES oF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
LirHUANIA: Ministére des Affaires Htrangéres, Kaunas (Kovyno).
LourENco Marquez: Government Library, Lourengo Marquez.
Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valetta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.
NICARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.
PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Hxteriores, Panama.
ParaGuay: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asunci6n.
SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, San Salvador.
Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
Straits SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The total number of establishments to which the daily issue of the
Congressional Record is forwarded is 101, the same as last year.

The second convention concluded at Brussels in March, 1886, pro-
vided not only for the immediate exchange of the official journal but
for the parliamentary annals and documents as well. Heretofore,
however, the countries taking part in this interparliamentary
exchange have restricted it to the official journal. During the year
the French Chamber of Deputies, to which the Congressional Record
has been forwarded for some time, proposed to this Government that
the full provisions of the convention be entered into between France
and the United States. This proposal was accepted, and there is
now forwarded to the French Chamber direct by mail, immediately
upon publication, the bills, reports, documents, and slip laws of
both the Senate and House of Representatives.

There is given below a complete list of the countries now taking
part in the immediate exchange, together with the names of the
establishments to which the Record is forwarded:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Buenos Aires: Biblioteca del Senado de la Provincia de Buenos Aires,
‘La Plata.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

AUSTRALIA :
Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
New South Wales: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
Queensland: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
Western Australia: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
AustTrIA: Bibliothek des Nationalrates, Vienna I.
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Brussels.
Botiv1A: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL :
Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Amazonas: Archivo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Mandéos.
Bahia: Governador do Hstado de Bahia, Sao Salvador.
Espirito Santo: Presidencia do Hstado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Sao Paulo: Diario Official do Estado de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo.
Sergipe: Director da Imprensa Official, Aracaju, Estado de Sergipe.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CHINA: Metropolitan Library, Pei Hai, Peking.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
CUBA:
Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Habana.
Biblioteca del Senado, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danzig: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
DomINIcAN ReEpustic: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
DutcH Hast Indies: Volksraad von Nederlandsch-Indié, Batavia, Java.
Heyer: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
EstTontA: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).
FRANCE:
Chambre des Députés, Service de l’Information Parlementaire Htrangére,
Paris.
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
GERMANY:
Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Anhalt: Anhaltische Landesbiicherei, Dessau.
Baden: Universitits-Bibliothek, Heidelberg.
Braunschweig: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums,
Braunschweig.
Mecklenburg-Schwerin: Staatsministerium, Schwerin.
Mecklenburg-Strelitz: Finanzdepartement des Staatsministeriums, Neu-
strelitz.
Oldenburg: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. O.
Prussia: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Prinz-Albrechtstrasse 4,
Berlin, S. W. 11.
Schaumburg-Lippe: Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg.
GIBRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.
GREAT BRITAIN: Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GREECE: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Archivo General del Gobierno, Guatemala.
Harit: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Gi

Honpuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Huncary: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Budapest.
Inp1IA: Legislative Department, Simla.
Iraq: Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad, Iraq (Mesopotamia).
Tpaty
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome.
Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
IrisH Free STATE: Dail Hireann, Dublin.
Latvia: Library of the Saeima, Riga.
LiseriA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Mexico: Secretaria de la Camara de Diputados, Mexico, D. F.
Aguascalientes: Gobernador del Hstado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Campeche: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
Chiapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez,
Chihuahua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
Coahuila: Periddico Oficial del Hstado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Colima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
Durango: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Hstado, Guanajuato.
Guerrero: Gobernador del Hstado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Lower California: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C., Mexico.
Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico.
Michoacin: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Hstado de Michoacin,
Morelia.
Morelos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo Le6én: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
Puebla: Secretario General de Gobierno, Zaragoza.
Queretaro: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Queretaro.
San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
Sinaloa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tabasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 3a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.
Tamaulipas: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
Tlaxcala: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
Vera Cruz: Gobernador del Estado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de
Gobernacion y Justicia, Jalapa.
Yucatin: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatin, Mérida, Yucatan.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Oslo.
Prru: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Lima.
PoLAND: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.
PORTUGAL: Biblioteca do Congresso da Republica, Lisbon.
RUMANIA:
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.
Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Bucharest.
SPAIN:
Biblioteca de la Asamblea Nacional, Madrid.
Barcelona: Biblioteca de la Comision Permanente Provincial de Barcelona,
Barcelona.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

SWITZERLAND:
Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.
Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
SYRIA:
Ministére des Finances de la République Libanaise, Service du Matériel,
Beirut.
Governor of the State of Alaouites, Lattaquié.
TurRKEY: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Angora.
UNION oF SoutTH AFRICA:
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urucuay: Biblioteca de la Cimara de Representantes, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Cimara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Caracas.
YueosLavia: Library of the Skupshtina, Belgrade.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

South Australia has changed its exchange bureau from the Public
Library at Adelaide to the Government Printing and Stationery
Office, the name of the new bureau being the South Australian Gov-
ernment Exchanges Bureau.

The Austrian exchange agency, formerly the Bundesamt fiir Sta-
tistik, is now Internationale Austauschstelle, Bundeskanzleramt, Her-
rengasse 23, Vienna I.

The Nationalist Government of China has transferred its Bureau
of International Exchange from Peking to Shanghai and made the
bureau a part of the National Research Institute.

A list of the foreign exchange bureaus or agencies is given below.
Most of those agencies forward consignments to the Smithsonian In-
stitution for distribution in the United States.

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comision Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Cordoba 931,
Buenos Aires.

Austria: Internationale Austauschstelle, Bundeskanzleramt, Herrengasse 23.
Vienna I.

AzoRES, via Portugal.

BeLcium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots,
46, Brussels.

Bortvr1A: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servicio de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BritisH Cotonirs: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BritisH GuiaANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Butearta: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CaNARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Research Institute, 205
Avenue du Roi Albert, Shanghai.

CoLoMBIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzig: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Hcuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eeypr: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn (Reval).

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.

France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur
St., New Oxford St., London W. C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Hartr: Secerétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Budapest, IV.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

InDIA: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.

ITaty: R. Ufficio degil Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istru-
zione, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

KorkeEA: Government General, Seoul.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LIBERIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LouRENCO MARQUEZ, via Portugal.

LUXEMBURG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

MApEIRA, via Portugal.

MOZAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NicaRaGua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA: Sent by mail.

PARAGUAY: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Hstrella 563, Asuncion.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Kchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque du Minis-
tére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.

PortuGAL: Seccaio de Trocas Internacionaes, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, Brisbane.

RUMANIA: Bureau des Hchanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique Cen-
tral, Bucharest.

Russia: Academy of Sciences, Leningrad.

Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Stam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkol:.

SoutH AvusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

SUMATRA, via Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockhoim.

SWITZERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syria: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TURKEY: Robert College, Constantinople.

UNION oF SoutH AFRiIcA: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicrorIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YuGosLaviA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
C. W. SHOEMAKER,
Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service.

Dr. Cuartes G. Apsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1929:

The appropriation made by Congress for the regular maintenance
of the park was $182,050, and there was the usual allotment of $300
for printing and binding and an additional appropriation of $18,500
to cover the increase in salaries of the personnel under the Welch
Act.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts—The park this year has been the recipient of an unusual
number of gifts of valuable animals. Notable among these are the
several shipments of birds and animals obtained through Dr. H. C.
Kellers, United States Navy, who was on duty with the Marines in
Nicaragua. The animals were brought to Washington on a trans-
port through the courtesy of the Navy Department. The speci-
mens included large groups of spider monkeys, capuchins, and
coatimundis; a flock of 6 sulphur-breasted toucans; a pair of curas-
sows, many parrots, and several unusual birds and small mammals.

Dr. D. W. May sent from Porto Rico two rhinoceros iguanas, an
unusual species in captivity. One specimen is doing well and:
promises to survive. Through Mr. Henry W. O’Malley, United
States Commissioner of Fisheries, the park received a trio of north-
ern fur seals from the Pribilof Islands, a species very rare in col-
lections. From the New Zealand Government were received a pair
of black swans and a pair of the rare paradise ducks. The New
York Zoological Society sent a Prince Rudolph’s blue bird of
paradise and a Lawes’s 6-plumed bird of paradise, part of the collec-
tion obtained by Mr. Crandall on the society’s New Guinea expedi-
tion. Mrs. Emily C. Chadbourne presented a great black cockatoo;
Mr. Harvey S. Firestone, jr., a potto from Liberia; Mr. J. F. Goldsby
four Canada geese; and Mr. Richard Gordon six blue geese.

The most spectacular addition to the zoo in many years has been
N’Gi, the gorilla. The animal was purchased with money remaining
from the Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition funds. He weighed 40
pounds on arrival and has been the greatest attraction the zoo has

81
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

ever had. There were 40,000 visitors the first Sunday he was here,
despite the coldness of the weather, and the following Sunday there
were 20,000 more. Up to the present time he has been doing well
and the officials of the park hope to keep him for a long time.

The officers of the United States Coast Guard patrol boat Marion,
while engaged in survey work in Davis Straits, captured and brought
to the zoo “ Marian,” a fine polar-bear cub. This is an especially
valuable addition, because the other polar bears are now very aged.

A pair of Sitka deer presented by Mrs. Guy C. Chapin, Karheen,
Alaska, through Mr. H. W. Terhune, of the Alaska Game Commis-
sion, are the first representatives of their species in the collection for
many years.

The park is indebted to the office of the Chief Coordinator, which
on numerous occasions has handled imports of animals and greatly
facilitated the work of the park in getting them.

DONORS

Mrs. Anne Archbold, Washington, D. C., kinkajou.

Mr. Harry Bachrach, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Mrs. Lena Bergland, Washington, D. C., grizzly coated cebus.
Mr. J. S. C. Boswell, Alexandria, Va., 7 snakes.

Mr. H. C. Breeden, Florida, raccoon.

Dr. Ira BE. Briggs, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. James F. Burgess, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Mr. Andrew J. Campbell, Washington, D. C., white-nosed guenon.
Mrs. BE. C. Chadbourne, Washington, D. C., great black cockatoo,
Mrs. Guy C. Chapin, Karheen, Alaska, 2 Sitka deer.

Mr. Walter P. Chrysler, New York City, gorilla.

Mr. F. GC. Craighead, Washington, D. C., 3 barred owls.

Mrs. N. M. Crowell, Washington, D. C., blue-headed parrot.
Dr. W. T. Dey, United States’ Navy, two chachalacas.

Mrs: W. J. Donovan, Washington, D. C., Texas armadillo.

Mr. A. A. Doolittle, Washington, D. C., king snake.

Mr. C. S. Fesser, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum.

Mr. Harvey S. Firestone, jr., Akron, Ohio, Bosman’s potto.
Mr. J. F. Goldsby, Polson, Mont., 4 Canada geese.

Mrs. T. M. Goodwin, Scottsville, Va., white-throated capuchin.
Mr. Richard Gordon, Abbeville, La., 6 blue geese.

Mr. E. Hanson, Washington, D. C., coatimundi.

Mr. T. B. Henry, Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 4 scaled pigeons.

Mr. C. A. Higgins, Washington, D. C., green parrakeet.
President Hoover, White House, alligator.

Horne’s Zoological Arena Co., Kansas City, Mo., lion.

Mr. J. B. Jones, Smithfield, Va., bald eagle.

Mr. Ellis Joseph, New York City, Humboldt’s woolly monkey.
Mr. C. H. Keller, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Mr. William Kemble, Boston, Mass., white-faced capuchin.
Mr. Samuel Kress, Port Limon, Costa Rica, 3-toed sloth.

Mr. E. H. Lewis, Catalina Island, Calif,, 6 valley quail, 4 mountain quail
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

Mrs. Mary Lincoln, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mr. M. C. Marseglia, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mr. D. W. May, Mayaguez, Porto Rico, 2 rhinoceros iguanas.

Mrs. McFarland, Hellier, Ky., golden eagle.

Mr. E. B. McLean, Washington, D. C., coatimundi.

Mrs. E. B. McLean, Washington, D. C., sooty mangabey.

Mrs. Elinor Messler, Miami, Fla., coatimundi.

Mrs. Mitchell, Washington, D. C., sooty mangabey.

Mr. M. C. Musgrave, Phoenix, Ariz., Gila monster,

New York Zoological Society, New York City, Prince Rudolph’s blue bird of
paradise, Lawes’s 6-plumed bird of paradise.

New Zealand Government, 2 black swans, 1 pair paradise ducks, through
J. Langridge.

Mrs. E. E. Patterson, Melbourne, Fla., diamond rattlesnake.

Mr. Harry A. Peters, Ballston, Va., Philippine macaque.

Policemen of seventh precinct, Washington, D. C., 9-banded armadillo.

Mr. Freeman Pollack, Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake.

Mrs. W. L. Sherman, Washington, D. C., gray coatimundi.

Mr. J. W. Stohlman, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Mrs. C. F. Spradling, Athens, Tenn., banded rattlesnake, coot.

Mr. C. G. Taylor, Parksville, N. Y., Canada porcupine.

Mr. Frank Temple, Hyattsville, Md., 2 red-tailed hawks.

United States Bureau of Fisheries, through Mr. Henry O’MaUey, 7 Pribilof
Island finches, 3 northern fur seals.

United States Coast Guard, New London, Conn., polar bear.

United States Marine Corps, through Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy,
8 margays, 2 kinkajous, 10 gray coatimundis, collared peccary, 3 speckled
agoutis, 14 gray spider monkeys, 6 white-throated capuchins, caracara, 10 red-
faced paroquets, 2 small green paroquets, 6 sulphur-breasted toucans, 2 curas-
sows, 2 crab-eating raccoons, 45 tovi paroquets, gallinule, red-eared paroquet,
13 yellow-naped parrots, 4 opossums, tree opossum, 3 Petz’ paroquets, troupial.

Mr. L. W. Walker, Hugo, Colo., 2 coyotes, 2 white-necked ravens, 2 burrowing
owls.

Mrs. Mildred F. Williams, Washington, D. C., West Indian troupial.

Bobby Woods, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Mr. W. B. Wynkoop, Washington, D. C:, Philippine monkey.

Births —There were 58 mammals born and 41 birds hatched in the
park during the year. These included the following:

Japanese macaque _______________ 1 LOING TC xtte ee e ee nee ene ene Seana 1
Li aS Se ee ee A ATs oe en WO 3
PSO pam epeeioms reeset ek we Sil FATMETICHMNG like se syne ee ey 1
Neumann's eenet. ou 2 | "Red: deere ta: severe ee) das eae aa 2
CCQ O Mees eee hae a MOG Minlengeer: 2 8 Neate. 7 ANA iA nets al
1 DUET a ROU Relea ee 3: | SBarasin cigs ee eee Le ee 1
\AVIKG] LOYOvE aaa Sal sheteetns. on a Party eee eran 4° Japanese. deere 222s ee me
NVC NOS Sstete! SA n= a0 2 rly Axl ¥ Wallowa Geers. 25 iste 8) Jae 4
PRIMER CAT DISQM= =e DA || Brera Okino lac igor ribet ees Senn ee ee 2
lira Gi ray tial] Ojos ee HN Pa PS a ge 1
SIGHS ES eC RU Leena ee er Li pO anagd Ht SOOSE: arekteegs Voupete nen Pe t
Rocky Mountain sheep___________ 3 | White-cheeked goose_____________ 7
MOU Orso 2 Aare ee ae ZN ONTEIL (OT OT ee. oe ey a a ily
ANY CG ENG SE er eee ft) Sil verpg wllyosies § yet ul tcue. eleeis Sure ki 18
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

The pair of lions presented to President Coolidge by the mayor
and citizens of Johannesburg produced four cubs. The parents are
still young and promise to become magnificent animals.

Each of the two pairs of leopards caught as adults by the Smith-
sonian-Chrysler expedition have bred both this year and last. The
wart hogs last year gave birth to five young, which died, but this
year four young were born and are thriving.

Purchase and exchange-—Among the more important specimens
acquired by purchase and exchange have been a cheetah, to replace
a pair lost last year; a pair of Kuropean wild boars, which have since
bred; a lot of 14 lories; a pair of Orinoco geese; four species of tree
ducks for the great flight cage in the bird house; a pair of Spix
macaws; and two Kea parrots. As the available quarters are lm-
ited and crowded, there have been purchased only especially desirable
species.

Removals.—Losses by death included one gibbon, which died of
pneumonia; a rhinoceros hornbill; a striped hyena, which lved in
the park from May 1, 1918, to September 27, 1928; a Malay tapir,
which was received September 13, 1921, and died September 29, 1928;
a red kangaroo, received in June, 1912, and died November 8, 1928.

Post-mortem examinations were made in most cases by the patho-
logical division of the Bureau of Animal Industry. The following
list shows the results of the autopsies:

CAUSES OF DEATH

MAMMALS

Marsupialia : Enteritis, 1; gastroenteritis, 1.

Carnivora: Pneumonia, 3; congestion of lungs, 1; enteritis, 4; gastroenteritis, 3; in-
ternal hemorrhage, 1; goiter, 1; accident, 1; no cause found, 1.

Pinnipedia: Gastritis, 1.

Primates: Pneumonia, 3; tuberculosis, 1; gastroenteritis, 1; hepatitis, 2; intestinal
parasites, 1.

Artiodactyla : Pneumonia, 1; intestinal obstruction, 1; difficult parturition, 2; old age,
2; no cause found, 1.

Perissodactyla: Accident, 1.

Edentata: No cause found, 1.

BIRDS

Casuariiformes: Aspergillosis, 1.

Ciconiiformes: Tuberculosis, 1; congestion of lungs, 1; enteritis, 1.

Anseriformes: Congestion of lungs, 1.

Psittaciformes: Enteritis, 1; no cause found, 1.

Coraciiformes: Gastroenteritis, 1.

Passeriformes: Aspergillosis, 1.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1929

MAMMALS

MARSUPIALIA
Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) ____-...- 8 | Great red kangaroo (Macropus rufus)_..------- 1
Flying phalanger (Petaurus breviceps)._----... 2 | Wombat (Phascolomys mitchelli)_........----- 1

Brush-tailed rock wallaby (Petrogale penicil-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

CARNIVORA
Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi).-...-..-.---- 2 | Mexican kinkajou (Potos flavus aztecus)__.____- 1
Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas) ----------- Ari Pavan haynes OAT OUT) ee ee 1
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi)............------ 2p Skunk" @ephitisntona) see eee ee ek es 3
European bear (Ursus arctos)---.....---------- Sh} Wolverine: (Guloiliuscs) eee a ee ee ee 3
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis)_...........-__-- 1 | American badger (Taridea americana) __-___--- 2
Apache grizzly (Ursus apache) __...-.--------- 1 | Ratel (Mellivora capensis) __..__......_--_-___- 1
Himalayan bear (Selenarctos thibetanus)__--.._- i | Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaga)_-.-.._-__- 1
Black bear (EHuarcios americanus)_......--.---- 4 | Palm civet (Paradorurus hermaphroditus)___--- 1
Cinnamon bear (Hwarctos americanus cinna- Binturong (Arctictis binturong) _...----.---_---- 1
TL DICTTD a a a eS ee eee ae 4 | Egyptian mongoose (Herpestes ichnewmon).--. 1
Glacier bear (Huarctos emmonsii) __.....---_--- 1 | Aard-wolf (Proteles cristatus)__............_-.-- 1
Sun bear (Helarctos malayanus)...-....-------- 1 | East African spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus)_.....-.------ 3 GENMANG TIS) eRe ee SOE Ry Tie ae Ue 1
Mingo(Canis dingo) A238 s 4 = ae ee 2 | Brown hyena (Hyxna brunnea)__---_.--.--.-_- 2
Gray wolt (Canisimubilus).22. 2 sts ook 7 | African cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) __....------ 1
Wovoten(Canislatrans) seo sue ak ed (| Lalor! Cel isile0) eee Se eee TS PS Ane 10
Albino coyote (Canis latrans)_.........-------- iy |: Bengalitizer(helistigris) us xe ne ee Bae 1
California coyote (Canis ochropus).....-.------ 1 | Manchurian tiger (Felis tigris longipilis) ______- 3
Hybrid coyote (Canis latrans-rufus) ._...----_- 4 | Black leopard (Felis pardus)_.-.._..._________- Tt
Black-backed jackal (Thos mesomelas) _-_------ 1 | East African leopard (Felis pardus suahelicus). 9
Heditox, (Vulpes suloa)zooe a ees ie Se Servalt CHelistserpa)) eae ee ee ee 1
Silver-black fox (Vulpes fulva)..........------- 1 | East African serval (Felis capensis hindei)-...-- 2
European fox (Vulpes vulpes).......----------- ly Ocelot’ Chelistpandalis) =o ee eee 2
at fox. (Valpesipelar) pete see Yb es 1 | Brazilian ocelot (Felis pardalis brasiliensis) ____- 1
Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus)_-.-_--_---- 3 | Mexican puma (Jelis azteca)..--._..._..______- 3
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus)_.......------- 2 | Indian caracal (Lynz caracal) _______._--..-_--- 1
Raccoon (Procyon lotor) -_..--------------2---- 15 | Abyssinian caracal (Lynz caracal nubica) - ._-_- 1
Florida raccoon (Procyon lotor elucus)_..------- 2) | Bay lynx Chyna ruyius)s ees oe ee 3
Gray coatimundi (Nasuwa narica).___---------- 9 | Bailey’s lynx (Lynz baileyi)_..-___..__..._-___- 1
Kein ka jous (0108 flavus) aan nee eee ee ae 5 | Clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa)_......._--- 1
PINNIPEDIA
California sea-lion (Zalophus californianus).... 3 | Leopard seal (Phoca richardii var.) _____._---_-- 2
Northern fur seal (Callotaria alascana) ._.-.---- 2 | Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) _..........----_..- 1
RODENTIA
Woodchuck (Marmota monaz).......---------- 5 | Anubis baboon (Papio cynocephalus)__-_------ 6
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) _..-.------- 11 | Hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) -.------ 1
Albino squirrel (Sciwrus carolinensis) __.------- 2) ly Mlandrilll (am osphine) asses ee 3
American beaver (Castor canadensis) __...-__-_- 2 |) Drill (apioilencoppeirs) ssa ee 1
East African porcupine (Hystriz galeata) -______ 2 | Moor monkey (Cynopithecus maurus) _-------- 3
South African porcupine (Hystriz africx-aus- Black ape (Cynopithecus niger) _....-.--.-_-_-- 1
EICLLES) Repel Nine: mehr wers then eM be ol! Bate eed yl 1 | Barbary ape (Simia sylvanus)__....__...-_.---- 2
Malay porcupine (Acanthion brachyurum)_.-... 2 | Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata)____-__--_- 4
Central American paca (Cuniculus paca vir- Brown macaque (Macaca arctoides)._.-...._--- 2
CSL TL 8) 5-1 lss eae lo th  Upiieedatlh te aaty Dy 2b ppc 3 | Pig-tailed monkey (Macaca nemestrina) _-.__-- 1
Trinidad agouti (Dasyprocta rubrata).__------- 6 | Burmese macaque (Macaca andamenensis)_... 1
Speckled agouti (Dasyprocta punctata)__._-.--- 2 | Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) _.......-_---- 12
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus)_....---_---.------ 10 | Philippine macaque (Macaca syrichta) _.--._--- 3
Capybara (Hydrocherus hydrochzris)---.-_--__ 1 | Javan macaque (Macaca mordaz) __-.-..----.-- 5
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuliginosus)-..-.-- 5
LAGOMORPHA Green guenon (Lasiopyga callitrichus)...-----_- 2
Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) __-_- 10 | Vervet (Lasiopyga pygerythra)..-....--.------- 1
Johnston’s vervet (Lasiopyga pygerythra jonn-
PRIMATES stoni) APATITE ARVN Y plot bade vomblae 2
Zanzibar lemur (Galago garnetti)_.......-----_- 1 | Mozambique monkey (Lasiopyga sp.)--__.---- 2
Red-fronted lemur (Lemur rufifrons)..------__ 1 | Sykes’ guenon (Lasiopyga albigularis)_._..__-_- 5
Black lemur (Lemur macaco) .-.-..-.--.-----_- 1 | Mona guenon (Lasiopyga mona) _---__-_-____-_- 2
Douroucouli (Aotus trivirgatus) _-.....-._.--__- 1 | De Brazza’s guenon (Lasiopyga brazzz)__.----- 1
Gray spider monkey (Afeles geoffroyi) ___-----. 4 | Lesser white-nosed guenon (Lasiopyga petau-
Humboldt’s woolly monkey (Lagothrir hum- TASER) DL sd lob SISAL ADT OAL Oat ORL f
GOLACL) mene nen RN SN CO ma Me Cain bd Ale 1 | Gray gibbon (Hylobates leuciscus)_-_-..--.--_-
White-throated capuchin (Cebus capucinus)_-.. 8 Chimpanzee (Pan satyrus).._.....-...-----_--
Weeping capuchin (Cebus apella)_..-._..---_-- 2 | Orang-utan (Pongo pygmzus) ___-.-.-..---___-
Chacma (Papio porcarius)................-.--- 2) eGrorillan (Goran gorilla) eee enn eee ee
86

ARTIODACTYLA

Witldiboar (Susiscrofd) sess eee eee ee
Wart hog (Phacocherus xthiopicus) __..--------
River hog (Potamocherus africanus)...--------
Collared peceary (Pecari angulatus)_-...._--__-
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius) _._-
Pigmy hippopotamus (Cheropsis liberiensis) __-
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus)_-.--_._-_-
Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius)_._-----_-
Guanaco (Lama huanachus)_-=.....---.-------
Near ieyy CP 770 LL TIGL ge ee ee eye a
Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus)___._--_--------_-
Fallow deer (Dama dama) ____-_-.-.-.-------=-
White fallow deer (Dama dama) ____-_--_------
Atxisideer\(Azis' arig) oo. ews ee ee ke
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinus)____-.-----------
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii)__....-.-_----
Burmese deer (Rucervus eldii)_.___...-.--------
Japanese deer (Sika nippon) _-.....------------
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)_-...__._--____-_--=-
Kashmir deer (Cervus hanglu)_...-.---.--------
Bedford deer (Cervus xanthopygus)__-_---_- ae
American elk (Cervus canadensis) _-..._----_-_-
Costa Rican deer (Qdocoileus sp.)_..-.---------
Guatemala deer (Odocoileus sp.)__-..-------__-
Mule deer (Odocoilews hemionus)__...-.--------
Sitka deer (Odocoileus colwmbianus sitkensis) ---
Brindled gnu (Connochxtes tawrinus)___-_.----
White-bearded gnu (Connochxtes taurinus

CBee TLL TATE ) aD ST RS ae Pi:
Lechwe (Onotragus leche) _........-------------
Inyala (Tragelaphus angasi)__...___-_-------_-
Greater kudu (Strepsiceros strepsiceros) __.-_-.-

STRUTHIONIFORMES

South African ostrich (Struthio australis) _.._._-
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molybdophanes) - --
Nubian ostrich (Struthio camelus)__.....-------

, RHEIFORMES
Rhea: Ceheaiamericana) sete es eee

CASUARUFORMES

Single-wattled cassowary (Casuwarius uwniappen-

diculatus) 22. Navieiats wee Eanoanaie se
Sclater’s cassowary (Casuarius philipi)........-
Cassowary (Casuarius sp.)_.--..---------------
Emu (Dromiceius novxhollandix) _.......--.---

CICONIIFORMES
American white pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhyn-

European white pelican (Pelecanus onocrotalus)
Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus)..--.--------
Australian pelican (Pelecanus conspicillatus) -_.
Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis)_.._-----
California brown pelican (Pelecanus californicus)
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz auritus flori-

Brandt’s cormorant (Phalacrocoraz penicillatus)
Snake bird (Anhinga anhinga) _-..---.---------
Great white heron (Ardea occidentalis) __.__...-
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias)_.--...-------
Hybrid great blue and white heron (Ardea hero-

dias-occidentalis).-____________-- EEO MOORE
Goliath heron (Ardea goliath) ......-_.-----_---

Reed buck (Reduwnca bohor)..-.-.-.---.-------- 1
| East African impalla (42pyceros melampus suara) 2
7 Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) _.-------- 1
1 Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus)_-_-___-------- 2
3 Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) ___----- 2
2 Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus)__.-...---.------- 8
1 Allpinesibex (Capra iber) eae: tt ee en ee 2
1 Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)____-_-__--__----_- 4
1 Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis) ___-_- 12
2 Mouflon (Ovis europz#us) ___-_.-.-------_---_.- 6
7 Greenland musk-ox (Ovibos moschatus wardi)... 1
4 ZebuiCBor indicus) 2222-02 ees eee i
14 Yak (Poéphagus grunniens)___.__._-.---------. 7
1 American bison (Bison bison)_..._..----------- 15
1 Anoa (Anoa depressicornis) .._._..._-.----_-__- 1
5 Indian buffalo (Bubalus bubalis)___....-_------ 3
6 South African buffalo (Synceros caffer)...-.-_-- 1
1 PERISSODACTYLA
10 Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) _.....-.-__.- 1
4 Baird’s tapir (Tapirella bairdii) _.._.......___-. 1
“ | Mongolian horse (Hquus przewalskii) __....-.-- 2
5 Mountain zebra (Hquus zebra)_-.___..--_-----. 2
5 Chapman’s zebra (Equus quagga chapmani)__.. 2
g Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus grevyi-caballus) .___- 1
1 Zebra-ass hybrid (Hguwus grevyi-asinus)__-..-_-. 1
2 PROBOSCIDEA
1 Abyssinian elephant (Loxodonta africana oryo-
ti) SESS. eee en AE Bay sere _ ee ee if
2 | Sumatran elephant (Zlephas swmatranus)_----- 1
; XENARTHRA
1 | Armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus)_--..-----.-- 1
BIRDS
Black-crowned night heron (Vycticorar nycti-
2 COFOLINEVIUS)- 2 Swe sees eee ee ee 91
1 Boatbill (Cochlearius cochlearius)_.-.....--_---. 3
iT White-necked stork (Dissura episcopus)-_-._.... 1
Indian adjutant (Leptoptilus dwbius).-....___-- 2
Shoe-bill (Balzniceps rez) 2.22222 oh ec ne sce e 1
1 Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) ___--....------- 1
Sacred ibis (Threskiornis xthiopicus) _._...-__--- 1
Black-headed ibis (Threskiornis melanocephalus) 3
Whiteibis(Guarcialia) eee eee if
1 | Scarlet ibis (@wara rwbra)__-_.-_-2.-2--22--- 22. 3
1 European flamingo (Phenicopterus roseus)__--- 1
: ANSERIFORMES
Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos)_..-..------------ 26
Black duck (Anas rubripes) _....-....-.-.------ 7
Australian black duck (Anas superciliosa) -___- 1
9 Gadwall (Chawlelasmus streperus)_---..-.--_-_- 12
2 | European widgeon (Mareca penelope) ..-------- 3
1 | Baldpate (Mareca americana)...-----.__-.-.-_- 9
2 | Green-winged teal (Netlion carolinense) _._-.__. 3
5 | European teal (Nettion crecca) _..-------------- 4
5 | Baikal teal (Netiion formoswm) _.....---------- 5
Blue-winged teal (Querguedula discors)__-______ 1
2 | Garganey (Querquedula querquedula)_...----.-- 6
ih Paradise duck (Casarca variegata).-......_-..-- 2
3 | Shoveller (Spatula clypeata)....-...-...---.--- 1
Ieee intelli Ciaplacaceuta) ieee eee ae re il
2 | Bahama pintail (Dajila bahamensis) _._--.----- 3
African pintail (Dajfila erythrorhyncha) _.---.-_- 2
Teh] Wood duck(CAizeponsa) =e eee 7
1 | Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericulata) __... 7

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Canvasback (Marila valisineria) _......--..----
European pochard (Marila ferina) _.-.-.-------
Redhead (Marila americana) ...---------------
Tufted duck (Marila fuligula)_.-......-.--_---
Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis) _.....-..----
Greater scaup duck (Marila marila)_.._---.---
Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana peposaca).----
Egyptian goose (Chenaloper zgyptiacus) ___----
Hawaiian goose (Nesochen sendvicensis)____-_--
Blue goose (Chen cxrulescens)_.-...------------
White-fronted goose (Anser altifrons).....-...-
American white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons

gambeliy Raye ee Se seo eee eS
IBGanyeoosesCA Ns ety ODGlis) = sean etree ee
Pink-footed goose (Anser brachyrhynchus) _-_----
Chinese goose (Cygnopsis cygnoides)_.....------
Orinoco goose (Chenaloper jubata)__.....-.-._--
Bar-headed goose (Hulabeia indica) ._._.._-----
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) __..-.-------
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis hutchinsii) -
White-cheeked goose (Branta canadensis occi-

GENLALIS) 2 OSE Ae NSA 1 OLE! BDL
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis minima) ____
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra)__-..._-_---
Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis)__.....-------
Emperor goose (Philacte canagica)__....._.__---
Spur-winged goose (Plectropterus gambensis) _.-
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata).......------
Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygna autumn-

White-faced tree duck (Dendrocygna viduata) __-
Gray-breasted tree duck (Dendrocygna discolor) -
West Indian tree duck (Dendrocygna arborea) _-
Eyton’s tree duck (Dendrocygna eytoni)__.._---
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)___-.._.....---------
Whistling swan (Cygnus columbianus)___-..---
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)_..._...-----_----

FALCONIFORMES

Condor (Wultur oryphs) 222 sess2ces222 2:
California condor (Gymnogyps californianus) __-
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura)_.....___--.---
Black vulture (Coragyps urwbu) .--------------
King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) .-----------
Secretary bird (Sagittarius serpentarius) _._____-
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)..........----.---
Ruppell’s vulture (Gyps rueppelli)......--__---
Northern eared -vultures---~- 252-222
African black vulture (Torgos tracheliotus) - ___.
Cinereous vulture (A7gypius monachus) --------
White-headed vulture (Trigonoceps occipitalis) -
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway)......-----------
Wedge-tailed eagle (Uroaétus audaz)__-_---_-_-_-
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) __-.....-.-_---
Tawny eagle (Aquila rapar)._.._..-.----------
Bald eagle (Halizxetus leucocephalus leucoceph-

Alaskan bald eagle (Halizctus leucocephalus

Glargcanius) soe SA ete net te LS freien’ Ten epant. 2
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) __...-...-----
Broad-winged hawk (Buteo platypterus) ___._--
East African chanting goshawk (Melieraz poli-

Opbersis)| = Le kinases Heh) sey ht eae ie Swe ey ys
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) .........-----
Osprey (Pandion haliaétus carolinensis) ...-.---

GALLIFORMES

Panama curassow (Craz panamensis) _....-----
Mexican curassow (Craz globicera) _.....-------
Spix’s wattled curassow (Craz globulosa)_..__--
Razor-billed curassow (Mitu mitu)-_.-....------
Crested guan (Penelope boliviana)..--.---------
Chestnut-winged guan (Ortalis garrula)_.._----
Chachalaca (Ortalis vetula)_..............------
Vulturine guinea fowl (Acryllium oulturinum) -
Reichenow’s helmeted guinea fowl (Numida

TALTOUE TEACH ENOU’) on eee ae
PeafowliClavotcristats) 22a ee
Albino peafowl] (Pavo cristatus) _......-_-------
Javan jungle fowl (Gallus varius)__._.---------

| Argus pheasant (Argus giganteus)_-.-_-.-------

Silver pheasant (Gennzus nycthemerus)_..-_---
Edward’s pheasant (Gennzus edwardsi)--------
Golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pictus) ....----
Lady Ambherst’s pheasant (Chrysolophus am-

REV Stilt) hotest eee eee an ee
Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus torquatus) ---
Migratory quail (Coturniz coturnix)_....__-----
Pigmy quail (Ercalfactoria chinensis) _-.-_-_---.
Valley quail (Lophortyz californica vallicola)__.-
Sealed quail (Callipepla squamata)_.-..-_------
Crowned wood partridge (Rollulus cristatus)---

GRUIFORMES

Florida gallinule (Gallinula chloropus galeata) _-
Purple gallinule (Jonornis martinicus).-...-_---
East Indian gallinule (Porphyrio calvus)-.-_---
Pukeko (Porphyrio stanleyi)......---------.---
Black-tailed moor hen (Microtribonyz ventralis) _
American coot (Fulica americana)_.._...------
African moor hon (Fulica cristata) --___.-------
African black crake (Limnocraz flavirostra) -___-
Lesser rail (Hypotznidia philippensis).___-.-_--
South Island weka rail (Ocydromus australis) - -
Sandhill crane (Megalornis mexicana)_._.------
Little brown crane (Megalornis canadensis) - ---
White-necked crane (Megalornis leucauchen) ---
Indian white crane (Megalornis lewcogeranus) .-
Lilford’s crane (Megalornis lilfordi)__....__----
Australian crane (Mathewsena rubicunda).-___-
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) __-------
West African crowned crane (Balearica pavo-

East African crowned crane (Balearica regu-

lorumigibbericeps) ene eee ee
Common trumpeter (Psophia crepitans) ___-.--
Green-winged trumpeter (Psophia viridis) __.__-
Kagu (Rhynochetos jubatus)._..-.---.----------

CHARADRIIFORMES

Ruff (Philomachus pugnaz)...-..--------------
South American stone plover (@dicnemus bis-

triatusivoci{er) 2.2 2soeis: Speke) ease el
Pacific gull (Gabianuws pacificus)___..------.---
Great black-backed gull (Larus marinus) ------
Western gull (Larus occidentalis)_........------
Herring gull (Larus argentatus)._......---.----
Silver gull (Larus novxehollandiz) ......--------
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla)_.......-.-------
Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura victoria) .___---
Nicobar pigeon (Calenas nicobarica) _-.-.------
Bronze-wing pigeon (Phaps chalcoptera)_--._---
88

Bleeding-heart dove (Gallicolumba luzonica) --.
Wood pigeon (Columba palumbus)-.-.---------
Sealed pigeon (Columba squamosa)-..----------
Triangular spotted pigeon (Columba guinea) __-
Fiji Island pigeon (Janthenas vitiensis) -.------
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura carolinen-

Mexican dove (Zenaidura graysoni)._._..------
White-fronted dove (Leptotila fulviventris bra-

(TA aye NY ee Se EE eae ee ae
Necklace dove (Spilopelia tigrina).----..-.-----
Emerald-spotted dove (Turtur chalcospilos) -_.-.
Ringed turtledove (Streptopelia risoria) __-_-.--
East African ring-necked dove (Streptopelia

CONCOLA TODO) Pee ae a ee et ea
Masai mourning dove (Streptopelia decipiens

DEN SDICULLALA) ere ee a Sa a
Zebra dove (Geopelia striata).._..-.-------------
Bar-shouldered dove (Geopelia humeralis)..----
Cape masked dove (Gna capensis) .-.---------
Inca dove (Scardafella inca)..........---.------
Cuban ground dove (Chxmepelia passerina

OfLQDIGG) aia py 5 Se Bie he Bee
Pacific fruit pigeon (Globicera pacifica)__.._----
Bronze fruit pigeon (Muscadivores 2nea)_.-----

PSITTACIFORMES

Keeai(Neston moravilis) eae ee ee
Violet-necked lory (Hos variegata)_...----------
Forsten’s lorikeet (Trichoglossus forsteni)..._---
Great black cockatoo (Microglossus aterrimus) -
Roseate cockatoo (Kakatoe roseicapilla) .-.-----
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Kakaloe gymnopis)_._-.---
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Aakatoe leadbeateri)__--
White cockatoo (Kakatoe alba)......-----------
Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe galerita)..___
Great, red-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe moluccen-

Red and blue and yellow macaw (Ara macao)-___
Illiger’s macaw (Ara maracana)_.-..-.---------
Spix’s macaw (Cyanopsitiacus spizi).....-..---
Hyacinthine macaw (Anodorhynchus hyacin-

JULIUS) ees ee ee NCL) a Se oles
Blue-winged conure (Pyrrhura picta)-..-..-----
Nanday paroquet (Nandayus nenday)..._.-----
Gray-breasted paroquet (Myopsitta monachus) -
Petz’s paroquet (Hupsittula canicularis).-.._.--
Golden-crowned paroquet (Hupsitiula aurea) --
Weddell’s paroquet (Hupsittula weddellii) _____
Golden paroquet (Brotogeris chrysosema)-_.__---
Tovi paroquet (Brotogeris jugularis)..........-_
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona auropalliata) __
Mealy parrot (Amazona farinosa)_.__----____--
Orange-winged parrot (Amazona amazonica)..-
Blue-fronted parrot (Amazona xstiva).....-...-
Red-crowned parrot (Amazona viridigenalis) _ __
Double-yellow-head parrot (Amazona oratriz)_.
Yellow-headed parrot (Amazona ochrocephala) .
Panama parrot (Amazona panamensis) ..__-_--
Festive parrot (Amazona festiva).........-.___-
Lesser white-fronted parrot (Amazona albi-

frONS RANG) Aw ARNE yp ied el bara
Santo Domingo parrot (Amazona ventralis) ___-

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala)...._2__-
Maximilian’s parrot (Pionus mazimiliani)..-__-
Dusky parrot (Pionus fuscus)__.......-----_--
Blue-headed parrot (Pionus menstruus)..---._-
Amazonian caique (Pionites ranthomera).-_---.
Hawk-head parrot (Deroptyus accipitrinus) ..
Yellow-fronted parrot (Poicephalus flavifrons)__
East African brown parrot (Poicephalus meyeri

matschicl) sis 5-2 Nees 2 eo hee Ee ates
Congo parrot (Poicephalus gulielm?)_...-.---_--
Greater vasa parrot (Coracopsis vasa) __.-...---
Red-faced love-bird (Agapornis pullaria)...__--
Gray-headed love-bird (Agapornis madagascari-

. Yellow-collared love-bird (Agapornis personata).

Fischer’s love-bird (Agapornis fischeri)...__-_---
Nyassa love-bird (Agapornis lilianx)_..._.._.--
Blue-crowned hanging paroquet (Loriculus
Galgulus) 2.2. te ee ee earn. Diese
Blue-bonnet paroquet (Psephotus hxmator-

Pennant’s paroquet (Platycercus elegans) ___---
Rosella paroquet (Platycercus eximius).....----
Crimson-winged paroquet (Aprosmictus ery-

ERTODCET US) S22 Cae eee ea
Ring-necked paroquet (Conurus torquatus) _..._
Nepalese paroquet (Conurus nepalensis) _..----
Long-tailed paroquet (Conurus longicauda) __--
Blossom-head paroquet (Conurus cyanocephala) -
Grass paroquet (Melopsitiacus undulatus) _-.---

CUCULiIFORMES

Donaldson’s turaco (Turacus donaldsoni) __.__-
Long-tailed cuckoo (fudynamis honorata)_..._-

CORACIFORMES

Jackson’s hornbill (Lophoceros jacsoni)_.___.--

Red-beaked hornbill (Lophoceros  erythro-
TRU NCH US) eo See Nt eee
White-browed hornbill (Anvthracoceros ma-
LOY GNILS) sak oor ech ee pe ee ae

Plicated hornbill (2thytidocercs plicatus).......-
Keel-billed toncan (Ramphastos piscivorus)---.-
Ariel toucan (Ramphastos ariel)..-.-..---------
Emin Pasha’s barbet (Trachyphonus emini)...-
Barred ow] (Striz varia varia)........----------
Florida barred ow) (Striz varia alleni)_..__.-..-
Snowy ow! (Nyctea nyctea)_......-.---.-_--_--
Sereech owl (Ocusigsio) aoe ee
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus)_--._.-.---
Hagleiowl) (Buhoibulo) pes ee
American barn owl (Tvyfe alba pratincola)___---
African barn owl (7véo alba affinis).._.....---.

PASSERIFORMES

Red-billed hill-tit (Liothriz lutews)....--.---.--
Black-gorgetead laughing thrush (@arrular

PECLON GUIS) 5 = 4 SS EI
White-cheeked bulbul (Molpastes leucogenys)_-
Black-headed bulbul (Molpastes hxmorrhous).-
White-eared bulbul (Otocompsa leucotis) ______-
Red-eared bulbul (Otocompsa jocosa).......--.-
Piping crow-shrike (Gymnorhina tibicen)_____-
White-necked raven (Corvultur albicollis) -_._.-
American raven (Corous corax sinuatus)....----
Australian crow (Corvus coronoides)........--_-
American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos)__.-...-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

White-breasted crow (Corvus albus)-...-.-------
Red bird of paradise (Paradisea sanguinea) -__.-
Prince Rudolph’s blue bird of paradise (Para-

GiSOhmMs TULOLDA nee ene ene
Lawes’ bird of paradise (Parotia lawesi)_-._-.--
American magpie (Pica pica hudsonia)._-_-----
Red-billed blue magpie ( Urocissa occipitalis) __.
Yucatan jay (Cissilopha yucatanica) __.--------
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) __....-.----------
Green jay (Xanthoura luruosa) ___-------------
Pileated jay (Cyanocoraz pileatus) __..---------
Blue honey-creeper (Cyanerpes cyaneus) -------
Blue-winged tanager (Tanagra cyanoptera)-_-._--
Blue tanager (Thraupis cana).....-------------
Giant whydah (Diatropura progne) -__---------
Paradise whydah (Steganura paradisea)_-___---
Shaft-tailed whydah (Tetrenura regia) _-___----
Red-crowned bishop bird (Pyromelana sylva-

Black-winged coral-billed weaver (Teztor niger

MY UESL) eee ern eee eas We eeerre re eS
Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagascariensis) _
Black-headed weaver (Hyphanturgus nigriceps) .
Southern masked weaver finch (Quelea sangui-

SUT OSURISETILE EMI) eae ae nemo see nea aeS en oS
Emin’s scaly-headed finch (Sporopipes frontalis

Orange-cheeked waxbill (Hstrilda melpoda) _____
Rosy-rumped waxbill (Hstrilda rhodopygia) ----
Blue-headed blue waxbill (Urzginthus bengalus

CYONOCERNGIUS) casa 28 ces ton ROD a eee STK
East African fire-throated finch (Pytilia kirki) -
Strawberry finch (Amandava amandava) _------
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctulata)_._--_.-.----
White-headed nun (Munia maja).....---------
Black-headed nun (Munia atricapilla).._...._-
Chestnut-breasted finch (Munia  castanei-

{EO TTD as aee  E  5
Java finch (Munia oryzivora) __..-.------------
Masked grass finch (Poéphila personata) ._____-
Diamond finch (Steganopleura guttata)......_.-
Zebra finch (Texniopygia castanotis)._.....-...-
Cutthroat finch (Amadina fasciata) _........_--
Tanganyika cutthroat finch (Amadina fasciata

Mlerunieni): 22 sateen. Bs eee ST
Red-headed finch (Amadina erythrocephala) -__-
Yellow-headed marshbird (Agelaius icteroce-

DIELS) eae = Neer ee: ety SS SOE 1 ee a
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea cinerea) ___-
European starling (Sturnus vulgaris)......_-__-
Shining starling (Lamprocoraz metallicus)..___-
Southern glossy starling (Lamprocolius pestis) __
Crested starling (Galeopsar salvadorii)..._..___-
White-capped starling (Heteropsar albicapillus) -
Indian mynah (Acridotheres tristis)..._.....__--
Crested mynah (thiopsar cristatellus)..____-
Malay grackle (Gracula javana)___.-__-_---_---
Bar-jawed troupia (Gymnomystaz melanicterus)_
West Indian troupial (Icterus icterws)_.._-____-
Hooded oriole (Icterus cucullatus)._......-_----
Yellow-tailed oriole (Icterus mesomelas)._._._--
Purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula)....._---_--
Greenfinch (Chloris chloris)._._......--.--------
Yellowhammer (Hmberiza citrinella).._.----_--

House finch (Carpodacus mezicanus frontalis) - -
San Lucas house finch (Carpodacus mezicanus

PULDERTIE TIALS) UA ee a ety eS Ome
Canary) (Serinus canarius)_2 20-22 foie ee
Little yellow serin (Serinus icterus) ._......----
Gray singing finch (Serinus leucopygius)_____--
White-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis)-
San Diego song sparrow (Melospiza melodia

COOMETI) 5c TRONS. BESS 2 BST PAE
Coastal pale-bellied sparrow (Passer griseus

SUL CLICILS ee as ed Ae eee ee nd a Se
Saffron finch (Sicalis flaveola)__..-___----------
Guiana blue grosbeak (Cyanocompsacyanoides) -
Chinese grosbeak (Hophona migratoria sower-

REPTILES

Alligator (Alligator mississipiensis)_.........-_-
Broad-nosed crocodile (Osteolemus tetraspis) __
Horned toad (Phrynosoma cornutum) _-_---.---
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectwm)__....-----
Beaded lizard (Heloderma horridwm) _--_-------
Scaly-tailed lizard ( Uromastiz hardwicki)___.._-
Green lizard (Lacerta viridis)__...-......---_---
Egyptian monitor (Varanus niloticus) __-_.._--
West Indian Iguana (Cyclura cornuta)_....--_-
Affican'sand-boa/Ghrur) sss=s-2=see aso eee
Indian.sand-boaiQhryt) s-sen 2 — ee ae eee
Ball'python\ (Pythonwregius) ae 22 non en eee eee
Rock python (Python molurus)-_.--------------
Regal python (Python reticulatus)__.-._-....___-
African python (Python sebz)_---.....---------
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus) _....-..---------
Dog-headed boa (Corallus caninus) .._-.-------
Black snake (Coluber constrictor)....--.--------
Corn snake (Elaphe guitata) --.....-..--.------
Chicken snake (Elaphe 4-lineatus) ---...-------
Pine snake (Pituophis melanoluecus) -..-.------
King snake (Lampropeltis getulus) .._.-.-------
Hog-nosed snake (Heterodon platyrhinos)____---
Water snake (Natriz sipedon) _._-.-..--------.-
Black-necked spitting cobra (Naja nigricollis) __
Copperhead (Agkistrodon mokasen) __.---------
Florida rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus) -----
Western diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus atror)_-
Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus)-..--...-
Snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina).-..------
Florida snapping turtle (Chelydra osceola)_-----
African snake-necked terrapin (Pelomedusa
GUC OLD) So eas aie Sc eee
Australian snake-necked terrapin (Chelodina
longicollis) Siar Sees abe Cbs £53) 2 Ree S50
Musk turile (Sternotherus odoratus)--.-.-------
Mexican musk turtle (Kinosternon sonoriense) -
South American musk turtle (Kinosternon
SCOP TLOUIES) es ee IB le ae ae
Pennsylvania musk turtle (Kinosternon subru-

Wood turtle (Clemmys insculpta) _-_....-------
Leprous terrapin (Clemmys leprosa)_..-._.-----
Blanding’s terrapin (Hmys blandingii) --_----_-
European pond turtle (Hmys orbicularis).___._-
South American terrapin (Nicoria pwnctularia)
Reeves turtle (Geoclemys reevesi)__......_--.----
Loochoo turtle (@eoemyda spengleri) ___.-._----
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Painted turtle (Chrysemys picta)--.------------ 2 | Berlandier’s tortoise (Testudo berlandieri)___-- 1
Western painted turtle (Chrysemys belli)__----- 1 | Soft-shelled tortoise (Testudo loveridgei)...---- 8
Gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) -------- 1 | Chicken turtle (Deirochelys reticularia)_.-.---- 1
Duncan Island tortoise (Testudo ephippium).. 3

Indefatigable Island tortoise (Testudo portert).. 1 Bee eas

Albermarle Island tortoise (Testwdo vicina)_._. 2 | African smooth-clawed frog (Xenopus mulleri). 28
Angulated tortoise (Testudo angulata)_.------- 1 | Giant salamander (Megalobatrachus japonicus). 2
Leopard tortoise (Testudo pardalis)_-._-------- 6 | Horned frog (Ceratophrys cornuta)------------- 2
Agassiz’s tortoise (Testudo agassizii).-_._.----- 1 | Marbled newt (Triton marmorata)-_...----.--- 2

Statement of the collection

Reptiles
Mam- .
Birds | andba- | Total
mals trachians
Presented 2. 22= 535 See hese Es obese cesses - 222 S22 eee 82 136 12 230
BOTT eee ee eee See es oe as Se Se es bE eee 58 Zl eee 99
Receivedtiniexchan gee stesso" ons s2ossne ceo ee eos cee ee ane 13 bi) eases ees 68
IPurchascd® ee eee ene eee eae Jee eee nee ade esos naa s= 17 43 20 80
(O) oye (cy oe) Rene geet eA OR ES ee a hm ly ae Shes 1 2
Total see se ees Ee ee eae eon sa eeas eee 171 275 33 479
SUMMARY
NGC aOVS SPO OY Cyd OE 0K Uae fab Uae We a 2 Pe ecient a AS ei eee Fy PAIR
Accessions’ during the years =. 2 wae een eee 479
Total animalsMhbanGdledi tae: trees 22 8 oe ee ee 2, (oe
Deduct loss (by death, return of animals, and exchange) —~-__-__________ 541
Pesala
Status of collection
Species | Individuals
Vie ria Ls SS Re ee ee ee ce en ah ee 174 §23
BINS Se eee en ae eee nee an ee ae cen oscce ws acne calc eeeee aa eee 343 1, 461
Reppilesiand' Datrachiguss-s=+esess" ese. hase oe See ee 62 227
FRO CE See ee nee re ee nee een Coren en nee ns Sue ieee A Se 579 2, 211

It is planned to erect the reptile house on the site of the old bird
house, and this necessitates the razing of the old building, which has
been used up to now as a storage house for animals and birds for
which there were no other quarters. The destruction of this building
will reduce the exhibition space so much that no attempt has been
made to enlarge the collection, but rather to select, as replacements
for animals and birds that have been lost, only especially desirable
species. The result has been that the collection is unusually rich in
rare and interesting forms. Exchanges of numerous common species
for one or two rarities have been made. These exchanges have been
advantageous in reducing congestion as well as improving the quality
of the collection.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Ol

VISITORS

The estimated attendance as recorded in the daily reports of the
park shows considerable increase over the preceding year and in-
cluded visitors from every State in the Union.

Attendance by months was as follows:

1928 1929

Afiihie Saye see Wee: & yes i see eee 236: Of | Tannanyes ea bs © 0) See, bs 64, 650
UNV DC] ee ee See ee 1968200 i MeDEUat === ee 105, 700
Septembers= 2. =k a as Assy SiO) INGhRe lt ee 366, 500
CLODCT See et Aa C1 L545 0 la. 0) eh eS ar egnebe eeeeeeriobe — Beta ot 295, 339
INGVeCHIA PR as naan ee (or OoOn |: Miaiya= = eae Sein Se ee ee 275, 350
December 2s |< ses ak 2 1S4 SOO} |h dunes 2s See eae 248, 750

Motalstor, year =e = 2, 528, 710

The attendance of organized classes of students was 30,886 from
497 different schools.
IMPROVEMENTS

During the year the work on the exterior of the bird house has been
completed, outdoor cages have been constructed, and an attractive
approach made to the building. Snow guards have been put on the
skylights and the area in the rear of the building has been paved.
In connection with this house it was necessary to lay 285 feet of pipe
to a culvert.

The lion house and the antelope house have had their roofs recov-
ered, in part with asphalt shingles, and also new gutters installed.
It was also necessary during the year to put plastic coating on the
roof of the hay shed, the old elephant house, the old bird house, the
zebra house, the property house, and the buffalo shed. One of the
cages at the old bear yard has been renovated. The office has been
painted and redecorated for the first time in 26 years.

Having received a number of suggestions in regard to the bridle
paths throughout the park, several consultations were held with those
interested in riding and their suggestions followed out as closely as
possible in altering these paths.

An appropriation of $220,000 has been made for the construction of
a reptile house during the fiscal year 1930, and considerable work
has been done on planning this building, which will, when completed,
enable us to extend the collection to include reptiles, batrachians, and
insects. This building will fill a very great need at the park.

In connection with the construction of the reptile house, the Smith-
sonian Institution, from its private funds, sent the director of the
park and Mr. A. L. Harris, municipal architect, to Europe to study
certain zoos. Special attention was given to the planning and con-
struction of reptile houses, but other features were studied and much
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

information obtained which will be valuable in the development of
our own ZOO.

In all, 20 zoos were visited, in the following cities: London, Han-
over, Hamburg, Copenhagen, Berlin, Dresden, Leipzig, Halle, Vi-
enna, Budapest, Munich, Nuremberg, Frankfort, Cologne, Dussel-
dorf, Elberfeld, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, and Stellingen.

In London we attended the centenary of the London Zoo, where a
notable group of zoologists, including many continental and some
American delegates, were gathered. They were entertained by the
London Zoological Society at a meeting and later at a memorable
dinner in the Zoological Gardens. In all of the zoos visited we were
shown the greatest courtesy and given much friendly aid, and by
working together on the steamer on the return trip much time was
saved in getting together preliminary plans for the reptile house.
It is interesting to note that we did not see in Europe a single zoo
that impressed us unfavorably. They are all thriving institutions
and in nearly all of them new buildings are being added. The col-
lections invariably were excellent.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

The most urgent need at the present time is an exhibition building
for apes, lemurs, and small mammals. ‘There, are now almost no
quarters for small mammals. These come into the zoo sometimes in
great numbers as gifts and include some of the most interesting of
all animals. The few that it is possible to exhibit are quartered un-
satisfactorily in the monkey house. The great apes, of which the
park has a valuable collection, are so placed that it is often impossible
for visitors to see them, whereas in a new building they would be
housed in modern hygienic quarters, away from the other monkeys
and chance of infection. Tentative plans for such a building have
been made, and the cost is estimated at $225,000. This building, like
the new reptile house, will provide facilities for exhibiting groups
of animals for which up to now there has been no place at all.

In our entire building program, which includes besides the above
building a pachyderm house, an antelope, buffalo, and wild-cattle
house, the completion of the bird house, and the addition of various
open-air cages, we are asking only for equipment that practically
all modern zoos already possess—simply the necessary facilities of a
modern zoological park.

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. CHartes G. ABsor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1929:

PLANT AND OBJECTS

This observatory operates regularly the central station at Wash-
ington and two field stations for observing solar radiation on Table
Mountain, Calif., and Mount Montezuma, Chile. By arrangement
with the National Geographic Society, the director of the observatory
has charge of the cooperating solar radiation station of the society
on Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa. In addition, the observa-
tory controls a station on Mount Wilson, Calif., where occasional
expeditions are sent for special investigations.

The principal aim of the observatory is the exact measurement of
the intensity of the radiation of the sun asit is at mean solar distance
outside the earth’s atmosphere. This is ordinarily called the solar
constant of radiation, but the observations of past years by this
observatory have proved it variable. As all life as well as the weather
depends on solar radiation, the observatory has undertaken the con-
tinued measurement of solar variation on all available days. These
measurements have now continued all the year round for 11 years,
but should continue at least 11 years more to cover the Hale 22.6-year
solar cycle. In addition to this principal object, the observatory
undertakes spectroscopic researches on radiation and absorption of
atmospheric constituents, radiation of special substances such as
water vapor, ozone, carbonic-acid gas, liquid water and others, and
the radiation of the other stars as well as of the sun.

WORK AT WASHINGTON

Continuous series of solar observations having been made as
hitherto at several field stations on desert mountains in distant lands,
these observations have been critically studied and prepared for
publication at Washington. Several new investigations based on
these observations have been made and published and we have carried

93
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

on the preparation and standardization of apparatus. Details
follow.

(a) Periodicities in solar variation.—Observations at Montezuma,
in Chile, had been reduced to a consistent and definitive system several
years since. This system requires no computations beyond those
which the observers make regularly in the field. Telegrams in code
are received daily from Montezuma, and when decoded are communi-
cated to the United States Weather Bureau, which publishes on the
Washington daily weather map the solar constant value observed 24
hours previously at Montezuma.

In November, 1928, Doctor Abbot assembled the monthly mean
solar constant values of 101 consecutive months ending with October,
1928, and plotted them in the form of a curve. This curve Dr.
Dayton C. Miller, of Cleveland, was kind enough to analyze by means
of his ingenious and accurate machine, so as to bring out the first 30
harmonic constituents, which, combined, approximately represent the
original curve.

From a previous analysis of 77 months, made in 1926, it had
appeared that periods of about 26, 15, and 11 months and the sub-
multiples of these periods were all the periods under 26 months that
seemed to have continuous existence in the solar variation. Accord-
ingly, the interval of 101 months had been purposely chosen as nearly
a common multiple, so that if these periods were still persistent they
might be brought out as approximately the fourth, the seventh, and
the ninth harmonics, with their overtones.

Figure 2 shows the result of this analysis. The zigzag line A
represents the original monthly mean of observations, and the 30
sinuous curves below are the harmonics. Until a longer interval of
observation shall be available for analysis, it is not considered desir- +

able to discuss periodicities longer than ae months. The reader

will perceive that if we therefore neglect the march of the first,
second, and third harmonics, the fourth, its overtones the eighth,
twelfth, and sixteenth; the seventh, its overtones the fourteenth,
twenty-first, and twenty-eighth; and the ninth and its approximate
overtones the nineteenth and twenty-seventh are really the most
prominent features, whereas some of the other harmonics, such as
the fifth, sixth, tenth, eleventh, thirteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth,
twentieth, twenty-fourth, twenty-sixth, and twenty-ninth, not in-
cluded in these three series of overtones, nearly vanish. Indeed,
apart from those named in connection with the fourth, the seventh,
and the ninth, only the twelfth, fifteenth, twenty-third, and twenty-
fifth seem to be of appreciable significance. This suggests that the
third and its overtones may also have real significance. It is of great
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Fieurn 2.—Periodicities in solar variation

95
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

interest to note that the periods corresponding to the fourth, the
seventh, and the ninth harmonics, which we find so well marked in
solar variation, have also been particularly noted by students of
the march of weather and crop phenomena.

Assuming that the harmonics from the fourth to the thirtieth
represent all the real regular periodicities in the variation of solar
radiation, the curve B, at the foot of the diagram, which is their
summation, represents the march of this periodic part of solar varia-
tion. Continuing it to cover the years 1929, 1930, and 1931, we are
led to anticipate features of uncommon interest in the march of solar
variation in the period just approaching. It will, indeed, be exceed-
ingly interesting to see to what degree this forecast is verified.

(6) Reduction of Table Mountain observations——Observations at
‘Table Mountain, Calif., which have continued since December, 1925,
have been critically studied at great length during the past year by
Mr. Fowle and the computers. Mr. Fowle has considered that the
results might be affected by three variable atmospheric elements—
the water vapor, the haze, and the ozone which occurs in the very
high atmosphere. It was easy to arrange the data in groups corre-
sponding to gradual increase of quantities of atmospheric water vapor,
for this vapor is readily measured and expressed as total precipitable
water by Fowle’s method which he worked out from spectroscopic
study in the laboratory many years ago. By such statistical ar-
rangement, corrections for precipitable water were sought to be
obtained.

However, there is one obstacle depending on the contemporaneous
real variability of the sun which hinders immediate estimation of
water-vapor influence. True, this solar variability might have been
eliminated by employing the definitive results of Montezuma, but we
avoided this procedure, since, in the opinion of some, it might not
have left the Table Mountain observations fully independent. Ac-
cordingly, the solar variation was roughly estimated from Table
Mountain pyrheliometry alone, after the method referred to in my
report for 1926, page 116. Allowance was thus made for the solar
variation before determining the water-vapor effect.

When these steps had been taken it became clear that a sudden
increase of the Table Mountain solar constant values had been indi-
cated about August 12, 1927. This change of scale continued with
apparently increasing departures thereafter. No parallel result hav-
ing been noted at Montezuma, every contributary element of the
measurements at Table Mountain was investigated to learn the
source of the discrepancy. It was soon found that the change was
due to a large change in the scale of pyranometer measurements of
the brightness of the sky near the sun. Yet redeterminations of the
constants of the pyranometer itself by observing solar radiation with
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97

it gave excellent agreement with previous values. Very numerous
experiments and comparisons were made at Table Mountain in the
effort to trace the cause of the discrepancy. These were without
result until September, 1928, when Doctor Abbot visited the station
and observed that portions of the vestibule of the instrument had
become shiny by handling. Hence sunlight in addition to sky light
was reaching the sensitive measuring strip. By reblackening the
limiting diaphragm nearly all of this error was removed.

It was now necessary to perform a great mass of statistical com-
puting in order to determine the magnitude of the pyranometer
error at different dates. Fortunately, an error of 20 per cent in
pyranometry makes but 1 per cent error in the solar constant, so
that no great accuracy of determining the error was required. Hence
it appeared sufficient to collect all the pyranometer values of each
month, arranging them in orders of atmospheric humidity, air-mass,
and pyrheliometer value, and to compare the mean pyranometer
values of corresponding months in successive years, as well as the
values in nearly identical sky conditions throughout each year.

It soon became clear that no change in the instrument had occurred
prior to early August, 1927. At that time there had been many ex-
perimental comparisons involving handling of the vestibule, which
had done the damage and led to the sudden change. Afterwards
many more comparisons were made to find the trouble, and these had
ageravated it. After much work it became possible to determine a
set of sufficiently exact corrections to the pyranometry of 1927 and
1928 suitable to each of the 13 months during which they were needed.
These studies were made on Table Mountain observations exclu-
sively, so that they introduced no element of dependence on
Montezuma.

To prevent a future mischance of this kind, imperative orders were
issued to all stations as to the handling of instruments, and standard
instruments, for comparison purposes only, were added to the equip-
ment, with instructions to make fairly frequent comparisons between
these and the instruments in use.

(c) Atmospheric ozone—Mr. Fowle, having become impressed
that the variations recently investigated by Dobson in the quantity
of atmospheric ozone might very possibly affect the observed solar
constant, made a fruitful investigation of the absorption of ozone in
the yellow and green of the solar spectrum.’ He found that this
absorption, though small, is clearly and quantitatively indicated by
means of the atmospheric transmission coefficients obtained in the
application of the fundamental long method of solar constant de-
termination invented by Langley. As we frequently employ this

1 Published in Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 81, No. 11, 1929.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

method at all stations as a check on the short method in daily use,
Fowle was able to determine the atmospheric ozone at Calama, Mon-
tezuma, Harqua Hala, and Table Mountain on very many occasions
since the year 1920.

Tt proved, harmoniously to what Dobson had found, that the ozone
above Mount Montezuma is meager and nearly invariable in quan-
tity, but that above Harqua Hala and Table Mountain it is much more
plentiful and very variable. Having compared the variations of
monthly mean ozone values with the ‘Table Mountain observations of
corresponding variations of solar constant values, Mr. Fowle found
a strone correlation between them. As the yearly march of the
monthly mean ozone values at these northern stations appears to be
a terrestrial phenomenon, a fact entirely harmonious to those well
established by Dobson, it seemed entirely legitimate to introduce a
solar constant correction, statistically determined, to allow for ozone
in much the same way as for water vapor, for the Harqua Hala
values.

(d) Concordant results of Table Mountain and Montezuma.—tThis
having been done, and the water-vapor and haziness corrections hav-
ing been applied, it was found that the absolutely independent final
values of the solar constant determined at two stations 4,000 miles
apart (viz, Table Mountain, 7,500 feet high, in California, and Monte-
zuma, 9,000 feet high, in Chile) march with gratifying accord. For
the ratios of the values determined at the two stations show no ap-
preciable indication of a yearly range, although winter at the one
station corresponds with summer at the other. Furthermore, the
total range. of straggle of nine-tenths of the datly ratios of these
independent values does not exceed 1.1 per cent. 'This involves the
conclusion that the total range of accidental error at a single station
seldom exceeds 0.8 per cent, and therefore the probable value of the
accidental determination of a single day at one station is less than
0.3 per cent. This being so, we are prepared to expect that both
stations, though wholly independent, must concur within narrow
limits in their determination of the sun’s variation.

(e) Preparation of Volume V of the Annals.—With this gratify-
ing conclusion reached in the final discussion of the results of two
independent solar observing stations remote from each other, a point
seems to be reached where it is proper to publish Volume V of the
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, to contain the numerous
observations obtained since the year 1920. Doctor Abbot has been
engaged on the preparation of this text, and it is hoped that the
volume will be ready to publish in the fiscal year ending June, 1931,
thus including a full decade of observations.

(f) Other work at Washington.—As usual, many instruments have
ween constructed at Washington for research purposes. These in-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99

clude a number of silver-disk pyrheliometers, prepared at the expense
of the private funds of the Institution, but standardized against the
standard instruments of the Astrophysical Observatory, and sold at
cost to research institutions of various lands.

Mr. Aldrich has assumed charge of the instrument making and
standardizing. He has also continued work on the fruitful investi-
gation of the radiation and cooling of the human body, referred to
last year. In addition he has assisted in reducing solar-constant ob-
servations, and has attended to the considerable correspondence on
physical and astronomical matters.

FIELD WORK

(a) At Mount Wilson, Calif.—Doctor Abbot spent the months of
July, August, and part of September, 1928, at Mount Wilson, Calif.,
where he was assisted by Mr. Freeman. Besides improving the solar
cooker to greatly increased efficiency, two considerable researches
were carried through. The first of these is the repetition of the
bolometric determination of positions of solar and terrestrial absorp-
tion lines and bands in the infra-red solar spectrum. This had
formed the main subject of Volume I of the Annals of the Astro-
physical Observatory. As photography has not as yet reached far
beyond the extreme red of the spectrum, the best means of observing
these interesting lines and bands of the infra-red lies in measuring
the cooling which attends them. For this purpose a welli-dispersed
spectrum is caused to march slowly over a sensitive linear bolometer
strip, and a continuous curve indicating its temperature is auto-
matically recorded. As the bolometer strip falls into each successive
one of the lines of the spectrum, a nick comes in the curve.

Three approximately 60° flint-glass prisms in tandem were used to
disperse the solar rays, and long-focus mirrors to collimate and focus
the spectrum. Five photographic plates, each 60 centimeters long,
were required to cover the spectrum from “A” in the red to “2”
in the infra-red. Mr. Freeman did most of the final observing, and
also measured the plates. Over 1,200 lines and bands of absorption
were discovered, where only about 550 had been found in the earlier
investigation published in 1900. A paper on this new work has been
published as volume 82, No. 1, of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections.

The other research carried through was the observation of the
distribution of energy in the spectra of 18 stars and of the planets
Mars and Jupiter. This was accomplished by Doctor Abbot with
the aid of Doctor Adams, of Mount Wilson Observatory, employing
the 100-inch telescope and a sensitive radiometer.

Greatly increased sensitiveness had been hoped for by substituting
hydrogen for air, and an excessively light and small radiometer

82322—30——8
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

system, built up with house flies’ wings, for the somewhat larger
mica-vane instrument employed by Doctor Abbot in 1923. With
these improvements it was hoped that stars of the fourth or even
fifth magnitude would be observable. These hopes were not alto-
gether realized. The sensitiveness was potentially attained, but,
unfortunately, could not be made available during the time of the
experiments because a persistent slight charge of electricity which
could not be removed created a governing field, which reduced the
time of single swing of the system from about 10 seconds to only
1.5 seconds during the experiments. On this account the deflections
in the stellar spectra were regrettably small. Nevertheless, with the
special observing scale which had been devised, very satisfactory
resulis were reached, and in one case on a star of only 3.8 magnitude.
These observations have been published in the Astrophysical Journal
for May, 1929.

(6) Montezuma station—During the autumn of 1928 the appara-
tus at Montezuma seemed to grow insensitive, so that a critical in-
spection appeared necessary. By the generous financial assistance of
Mr. John A. Roebling, it was possible to send Mr. Aldrich to Chile.
This expedition occupied him from January to March, 1929. He
rebuilt the galvanometer and repaired and adjusted other instru-
ments until everything was im satisfactory condition. Excellent
results have been coming in regularly of the Montezuma observa-
tions on the solar constant of radiation. These are published daily
by the United States Weather Bureau.

(ec) Table Mountain station—The unfortunate trouble with the
pyranometer at Table Mountain has already been described. Not-
withstanding this, the results as now reduced seem satisfactory and
are very numerous. Indeed, on several occasions Table Mountain
has furnished consecutive daily runs of solar-constant determina-
tions exceeding 50 days and once exceeding 70 days.

The Dobson ozone apparatus, owned by the Smithsonian and
formerly in use at Montezuma. was returned to England for re-
adjustment by Doctor Dobson. It was reinstalled at Table Mountain
in the autumn of 1928 and daily determinations of atmospheric ozone
have been made with it whenever possible since then. These measure-
ments show in contrast with those formerly made at Montezuma
about as much ozone in the higher atmosphere above California as
has been found in Europe. Also, in contrast with Montezuma and
in harmony with Europe, they show a decidedly variable quantity of
ozone from day to day and from month to month. These ozone
determinations will be continued at Table Mountain indefinitely.

(@) Mount Brukkaros—The National Geographic station on
Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa, which cooperates with Mon-
tezuma and Table Mountain in the daily observation of the solar
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101

constant of radiation, has continued regular observations and has
sent to Washington a large collection of records. These will be
statistically and critically studied and prepared for publication.

As the observers, Messrs. Hoover and Greeley, have been three
years in this African field, arrangements have been made for Messrs.
Sordahl and Froiland to relieve them in August, 1929.

PERSON NEL

At the stations Mr. A. F. Moore has continued in charge at Table
Mountain and Mr. H. H. Zodtner at Montezuma. Mr. Moore was
assisted mainly by Mr. L. O. Sordahl, and after his departure, in
June, 1929, by Dr. W. Weniger. Mr. Zodtner was assisted until
April 1 by Mr. M. K. Baughman and after his resignation by Mr.
C. P. Butler.

At Washington the force has remained unchanged, with three
exceptions. Mrs. A. M. Bond resigned as computor on February 5,
1929. She was succeeded on February 18 by Miss M. Denoyer. Mr.
H. B. Freeman, formerly in charge of Montezuma station, assisted at
Mount Wilson and at Washington until May 1, 1929, when he ob-
tained a transfer to the laboratories of the National Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics at Langley Field, Va.

SUMMARY

The year has been notable for the satisfactory continuation at field
stations of observations for the study of the variability of the sun;
for the satisfactory completion of the critical statistical investigation
of the results obtained at Table Mountain, so that hereafter Table
Mountain observations may be definitively reduced by field observers;
for the excellent accord found between definitive results of Table
Mountain and Montezuma (stations 4,000 miles apart in opposite
hemispheres) in their indications of solar variability; for the appar-
ent confirmation of three definite periodicities of approximately 11,
15, and 26 months in solar variation; for the discovery of a new
method of measuring the atmospheric ozone and its influence on
solar-constant observations; for the repetition of a former investiga-
tion of solar and terrestrial absorption lines and bands in the solar
spectrum, but with nearly threefold richer results; and for the
observation of the distribution of energy in the spectra of 18 stars
and two planets.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Apgor,
Director, Astrophysical Observatory.
Tue SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Smr: I have the honor to report the initial development of the
new Division of Radiation and Organisms entered upon May 1, 1929.

The purpose of this division is to undertake those investigations of,
or directly related to, living organisms wherein radiation enters as
an important factor. Through the development of a thoroughly
equipped physical and chemical laboratory wherein the spectro-
scopic side is most emphasized, investigations of biological problems
can be undertaken more effectively than has generally been possible.
Through the cooperation of men of diverse training in the funda-
mental, as well as the immediate biological sciences, it is hoped to
secure the fullest advantage of modern specialization, which gener-
ally, on the contrary, presents a formidable handicap to work in
border line fields.

The program of investigations falls into two main divisions:

I. Direct investigation upon living organisms.

II. Fundamental investigations related to biological problems.
1. Molecular structure investigations.
2. Photochemical investigations.

Direct investigations upon living organisms will, for the present,
be concerned with the growth of plants under rigidly controlled physi-
cal and chemical conditions. Soil will be replaced by nutrient solu-
tions of known constitution. The gases supplied to the plants will
be of known and controlled amounts. Not only the temperature and
humidity but the intensity and color of the light is to be measured
and varied during the experiments. :

Understanding of biological problems is greatly hampered by the
lack of knowledge of the structure of the more complicated mole-
cules which are a part of living organisms, and by a lack of knowl-
edge of even the simpler chemical reactions brought about, or con-
tributed to, by radiant energy. The most promising possibility for
adding to our knowledge of molecular structure is offered by spec-
troscopic investigations; that is, through the study of the radiation
arising from the internal vibrations of the molecules themselves.
The study of photochemical phenomena requires both spectroscopic
and chemical equipment.

102
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

All these investigations in common require a spectroscopic labora-
tory supported by both physical and chemical departments.

LABORATORIES

Space in the basement of the west wing of the Smithsonian Build-
ing, previously used for storage, is being renovated and equipped for
laboratory purposes. Because of the very heavy walls, and the
fact that the rooms are partially under ground, this space is pecu-
liarly suited to the purpose, owing to its evenness of temperature.
A large room on the north side will accommodate the plant-growth
chambers, spectrographs, and photometer rooms. Adjoining, a small
room will serve as dark room and enlarging room. Two smaller
rooms on the south side of the wing complete the assignment of space.
One of these is to be a physical laboratory accommodating infra-red
recording spectroscopes and general manipulative equipment. The
other of the smaller rooms has heen subdivided, the larger portion to
serve as a chemical laboratory and the smaller as a glass-blowing
room.

The renovation of these rooms, subdivision, extension of plumbing,
and construction of the very heavy electrical arteries required for
the artificial illumination of the plants has been ably carried out by
the National Museum personnel.

EQUIPMENT

The purchase of general equipment is nearing completion. Plans
have been drawn up for a preconditioning chamber and construction
has been begun. Drawings have been made for the actual growth
chambers and bids are under consideration. Special apparatus for
the construction of radiation-detecting devices is being made. Grat-
ings for spectroscopic investigations are being purchased from the
Johns Hopkins University. Much of the equipment formerly used
in the infra-red investigation of Langley, Abbot, and Fowle will be
used for the molecular-structure investigations through the courtesy
of the Astrophysical Observatory.

FINANCIAL

The major portion of the expense for the coming year, approxi-
mating $20,000, will be cared for by means of grants from the Re-
search Corporation. Of this sum approximately $12,000 will be
spent upon salaries and the remaining $8,000 upon equipment. As
the work develops it is hoped that it will so commend itself that
larger means may become available.
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929
ORGANIZATION

Personnel.—The present personnel is as follows:

Research associate, Dr. F. S. Brackett.

Consulting plant physiologist, Dr. E. S. Johnston.
Research assistant, L. B. Clark.

Stenographer and laboratory assistant, Miss V. P. Stanley.

Dr. F. S. Brackett took charge of this work under Doctor Abbot’s
direction May 1, his experience being chiefly physical and, more par-
ticularly, spectroscopic. Through the cordial cooperation of the agri-
cultural experiment station of the University of Maryland, Dr. E. 8.
Johnston is directing the biological aspects of the investigation. In
all this work the technical aspects involved in the development of new
equipment will play a very important part. For this work the serv-
ices of Mr. L. B. Clark have been secured, whose varied experience
peculiarly fits him for such an undertaking.

Cooperation.—During some months previous to the initiation of
this work in the Smithsonian, Doctor Brackett directed the develop-
ment of several lines of research in the Fixed Nitrogen Laboratory
closely related to those to be undertaken in this division. This work
is being carried on by that laboratory now, in very close cooperation
with the Smithsonian.

Respectfully submitted.

F. 8S. Bracxert,
Research Associate in Charge.
Dr. C. G. ABsor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith the following report on
the operations of the United States Regional Bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1929:

Continuing the policy of keeping the expenditures of the bureau
at a minimum until actual publication is resumed, the work here
has consisted mainly in keeping necessary records of current scien-
tific publications, preparing data for a revised list of journals, and
other necessary routine matters, so that the actual work of indexing
may be taken up by a full force as soon as reorganization of the
enterprise is possible.

The gross expenditure for the year was $5,060.75 out of the appro-
priation of $7,460.

At the international convention of the International Catalogue
of Scientific Literature held in Brussels July 22-24, 1922, the dele-
gates officially representing the countries taking part in the enter-
prise anticipated that financial conditions would allow resumption
of publication of the catalogue as soon as the financial chaos then
existing should become stabilized. Looking forward to this event,
they resolved to keep the organization alive by agreeing to con-
tinue the work of their regional bureaus so far as possible until
financial support could be obtained. In Europe money to promote
such scientific enterprises is still unobtainable; therefore, it appears
that if this great bibliographical service is to be resumed aid must
be extended from the United States, and that the time has come
for this country to take the lead, not only in outlining a definite
scheme for reorganization but in suggesting a possible means of
obtaining necessary financial support. As a preliminary step this
bureau has been in communication with Prof. Henry E. Armstrong,
I’. R. S., chairman of the executive committee, in whom the Brussels
convention vested authority to consider and propose plans for resum-
ing publication. In a letter on July 6, 1929, the writer stated:

I know, of course, how hard pressed all foreign countries have been finan-
cially, but the sums involved are so small and the results aimed at so valuable

105
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

and so greatly needed that I can not but believe that if some definite and
concerted move is made now we can reorganize and renew this great work.

In his reply Professor Armstrong reflects the financial despondency
of Europe but goes on to say:

I wish it were possible to restart the International Catalogue, but I am
bound to confess that I see no immediate prospect of doing so. Still, I would
prophesy that it must again come into being—the idea was too grand and the
proof obtained that the enterprise was entirely feasible too complete for it to
remain an act unaccomplished. If the nations are ever to unite it must be
in the field of natural science before anything else.

An outline of the present situation is briefly this: Publication of
the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature began in 1901,
when 33 of the leading countries of the world cooperated by estab-
lishing regional bureaus and furnishing to the central bureau in
London classified index references to the scientific literature of their
respective regions and further agreed to subscribe to a sufficient
number of sets of the catalogue to support the central bureau and
pay the cost of printing. Beginning with the literature of 1901, 17
volumes were published annually until the last volume of the four-
teenth annual issue, indexing the literature of 1914, was published
in 1922, making a total of 238 volumes, together with several extra
volumes containing lists of journals and classification schedules.

The regional bureaus were supported locally, in most cases, by
direct governmental grants, while the central bureau derived its sole
support from the income received from subscribers to the catalogue,
the price of which was equivalent to $85 per year for the complete set
of 17 volumes. Just prior to the war central bureau receipts and
expenditures approximately balanced, but after war began printing
costs doubled, and it was therefore necessary to suspend publication
in 1922.

The Royal Society of London acted as financial sponsor of the
enterprise from the beginning, aided on several occasions by dona-
tions from other sources after war began.

The need of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature
is obvious, as no publication ever existed so broad in scope or
exhaustive in treatment and none has since taken its place.

The various abstract journals do not meet the need of libraries as
reference aids, as they overlap their respective fields and in aggre-
gate are too bulky, expensive, and dissimilar in plan to serve as
general works of reference. Abstract journals serve the immediate
need of specialists but do not meet the requirements of lbrarians or
general students.

Before outlining a scheme for reorganization and improvement
for the future, a retrospect of the work may be considered and defects
noted in order that they may be eliminated in the future.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

The organization was started on very limited and borrowed cap-
ital, which greatly added to the cost of production, as it was neces-
sary to have all printing done by private firms. The cost of sub-
scription, $85 per year, placed the work beyond the means of many
small libraries and individual workers. It was originally intended
to make the several volumes yearbooks of their respective fields, and
much of the value and use of the work was lost owing to the fact
that many of the volumes were delayed in their publication. This
vital defect may be remedied by having editing and publishing done
by the same organization. To accomplish this, it will be necessary
to own a printing plant designed and equipped solely for this pur-
pose. This will make possible continuous and prompt printing at
a minimum cost and so reduce the cost that it will be possible to
offer the catalogue to subscribers for $50 per set instead of $85, if
an edition of 1,000 sets can be sold.

Estimates of the cost of equipping and operating a suitable print-
ing plant have been made by several printers and publishers in this
country and by the two leading manufacturers of typesetting ma-
chines. These estimates were almost identical, and from them it
appears that a suitably equipped plant can be installed for less than
$30,000, in which, when properly manned, a catalogue aggregating
10,000 pages a year can be published for $17,500 in an edition of
1,000. This sum includes cost of labor, paper, repairs, and inci-
dentals. To this sum must be added $15,000 for the annual expenses
of the central bureau for one year with which to pay rent and the
executive and editorial staffs and, say $12,500 as a liberal reserve to
meet incidental and unforeseen expenses which always occur in be-
ginning any new enterprise. It thus appears that the money needed
is—

For installing and equipping the printing plant_____________________ $30, 000
Expenses for printing and publishing for one year____________ $17, 500
Maintenance of central bureau for one year__________________ 15, 000
Allowance for unforeseen incidentals_____________-_»____ 12, 500

45, 000

Motalveapitals mecded stor frst Yeats... sts eee eee ee eee 75, 000

After the first year, to continue the work would cost approximately
$35,000 per year, leaving a margin of $15,000 per year between the
cost of production and the estimated receipts if the total edition of
1,000 copies can be sold. This amount, together with sums derived
from the first year sales already included in the estimates, could be
made a sinking fund with which to repay donors.

Should publication be resumed it is expected that a demand for the
first 14 annual issues will arise, and as there is a large supply of
them now at the central bureau, money received from this source
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

may be used to repay the Royal Society of London for the sums
advanced for their publication.

The necessary steps to be taken leading to reorganization and
resumption of publication appear to be the following:
(1) Preparation by the existing executive committee of a definite course and

detailed plan of reorganization and operation.
(2) Obtaining promises of cooperation from the various regional bureaus to
again furnish the necessary data for the catalogue.

(3) Canvassing possible fields for subscriptions and the necessary financial aid.

Obviously, capital is essential before any actual work can be begun,
but definite plans may be prepared by those now vested with au-
thority to act, and when this part of the work has progressed suffi-
ciently to be able to submit a definite and concise prospectus to
subscribers and possible donors it is proposed to solicit support from
both.

Respectfully submitted.

Leonarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartes G. Apzor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1929:

THE LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library, or, speaking in terms that accord more
exactly with the recent reorganization of the library, the Smithsonian
library system, is made up of 10 divisional and 36 sectional libraries.
The former consist of the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of
Congress, which is the main library of the Institution; the library
of the United States National Museum; the Smithsonian office
library; the Langley aeronautical library; the radiation and
organisms library; and the libraries of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Gallery of
Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, and the National Zoological Park.
The sectional libraries are the immediate working tools of the curators
in the National Museum. These 46 libraries taken together, in-
cluding the collections not yet catalogued, comprise about 800,000
volumes, pamphlets, and charts. Although they contain thousands
of publications on history, philosophy, literature, and the fine arts,
they are largely scientific and technological in character, among them
being many society and serial publications. Not only is this great
collection an invaluable instrument in the work of the Institution
and the Government, but it is freely available both to scholars and
to the public generally for research purposes.

The composition of the Smithsonian library underwent several
important changes during the past year. The library of the Bureau
of American Ethnology became a division of the library; the library
of radiation and organisms, designed for the use of a new branch of
Smithsonian activity, was organized as a divisional library; and the
technological library was made a part of the library of the National
Museum.

THE STAFF

Early in the year the second position of assistant librarian--that
of chief of the accessions department—was established and ‘was filled
109
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

by the appointment of Miss Ethel A. L. Lacy, a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Michigan, who had had many years of experience in the
library of the Department of Agriculture and the Detroit Public
Library.

Mrs. Hope Hanna Simmons was given a permanent position as
junior library assistant and was placed in charge of the reading and
reference room in the Arts and Industries Building.

Miss Agnes Auth, minor library assistant, after 10 years of faith-
ful service in the library, was appointed to a higher position in the
disbursing office of the Institution.

Mr. Herschel Chappell, assistant messenger, was advanced to a
position in the office of the chief clerk. He was succeeded by Mr.
William Oliver Grant.

Several members of the staff were granted brief periods of leave
for travel and study. Miss Elisabeth Hobbs spent some weeks in
England, and Miss Mary D. Ashton in Oregon, while Miss Ruth
Wenger attended advanced courses in library science at the University
of California.

In the course of the year the following persons were employed
temporarily: Miss Helen V. Barnes, Mr. Alan Blanchard, Mr. Dale
Hawarth, Mr. Thomas Hickok, Mr. John Paschall, Mrs. M. Landon
Reed, Miss Jeannette Seiler, Mrs. Hope H. Simmons, and Mr. Clyde
Williams.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

Nearly all of the publications currently received by the various
libraries in the Smithsonian system are sent by editors of journals and
by learned institutions and societies throughout the world in exchange
for the publications of the Institution and its branches. This ex-
change has been, from the early days of the Institution, the chief
means of increasing its library, and has brought to it a wealth of
scientific material. This has come partly by mail, but mainly through
the International Exchange Service, which is administered by the
Institution.

During the last fiscal year the Smithsonian library received 30,502
packages, of one or more publications each. After the packages had
been opened the items were entered, stamped, and sent to the proper
divisions and sections of the hbrary, but chiefly to the Smithsonian
deposit in the Library of Congress and the library of the United
States National Museum. Most of the 1,316 letters and the thousands
of acknowledgments written by the library during the year had to
do with this exchange of publications. Exchange relations were
taken up with many new societies and with many old societies for
new publications.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111

Among the items received were dissertations from the universities
of Berlin, Bern, Breslau, Bonn, Cornell, Erlangen, Freiberg, Giessen,
Halle, Helsingfors, Johns Hopkins, Kiel, Leipzig, Louvain, Neu-
chatel, Pennsylvania, Rostock, Strasbourg, Tubingen, Utrecht, Wurz-
burg, and Ziirich; and from technical schools at Berlin, Bonn,
Braunschweig, Darmstadt, Dresden, Freiberg, Karlsruhe, and
Ziirich.

GIFTS

The outstanding gift of the year was that of the Harriman Alaskan
library. This is the collection relating to Alaska and the Arctic
regions made by Dr. William H. Dall, late curator in the National
Museum, who for nearly a lifetime was a student of the regions of
the north. It consists of approximately 1,100 volumes and pamph-
lets, together with 30 or more scrapbooks of letters and newspaper
clippings. It is rich in works on exploration and discovery, and
contains many rare items, including a file of the Alaska Herald from
1868 to 1875. The library was purchased and presented to the Insti-
tution by Mrs. Edward H. Harriman, whose husband, it will be re-
membered, made possible by his generosity the famous Harriman
expedition to Alaska in 1899, in which Doctor Dall and other scien-
tists from the Smithsonian Institution and the Washington Academy
of Sciences took a leading part, and the results of which the Insti-
tution published later in a monumental work. The library will be
made available for reference at the earliest possible moment.

Also prominent among the gifts were these: 1,000 publications and
manuscripts of a miscellaneous character, from Mr. Herbert A. Gill,
of Washington, D. C., brother of the late Dr. Theodore Gill, at one
time librarian and associate in zoology at the Smithsonian Institu-
tion; 500 books and periodicals on photography, from Mr. A. B.
Stebbins, of Canisteo, N. Y.; two sets of the first four volumes of the
Smithsonian Scientific Series, Patrons’ Edition, from the Smithsonian
Institution ; several hundred scientific publications, many in continua-
tion of series already given, from the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, the Hygienic Laboratory, and the Geo-
physical Laboratory; and about 1,500 publications of the Philo-
sophical Society of Washington, from the society itself, to be used for
completing sets in the library, for exchange, or for free distribution.

Many other gifts were received, including copies of the following:
The phototype edition of Codex Argenteus Upsaliensis, recently
issued by the Royal University of Upsala in order to celebrate its
four hundred and fiftieth anniversary, from the University; Inner-
most Asia—a detailed report, in four volumes, of explorations in
Central Asia, Kan-su, and Eastern Iran, carried out and described
under the orders of H. M. Indian Government by Sir Aurel Stein,
AetD ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

of the Indian Archaeological Survey—presented by the secretary to
the High Commissioner for India; North American Wild Flowers,
volume 4, by Mary Vaux Walcott, from the artist-author; A Link
with Magellan, being a chart of the East Indies, C. 1522, in the pos-
session of Boies Penrose, from Mr. Penrose; Enthronement of the
One Hundred Twenty-fourth Emperor of Japan, from the Japan
Advertiser, Tokyo; and Metropolitan Museum Color-prints, series
1-8, with several other publications, from the Metropolitan Museum
of Art.

Among donors on the staff of the Institution and its branches were
Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary of the Smithsonian, and Dr. William
H. Holmes, director of the National Gallery of Art, who, as in previ-
ous years, were generous contributors of publications of different
kinds; Dr. Charles W. Richmond, who gave many volumes, some
quite rare, chiefly on ornithology; and Miss Mary J. Rathbun, whose
gifts during the year increased her total gifts to the hbrary to more
than 200 pieces, exclusive of her own publications. Still other gifts
came from Assistant Secretary Wetmore, Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, Dr.
R. S. Bassler, Dr. F. W. Clarke, Mr. Paul Garber, Dr. J. W. Gidley,
Mr. A. J. Olmsted, Mr. J. H. Riley, Miss Louise A. Rosenbusch, Dr.
Waldo L. Schmitt, and Mr. Ralph Smith.

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library, which is made up of the publications of the
Institution and its branches, various sets of society publications, the
art-room collection, the employees’ library, and many works of refer-
ence, some of which are in the reference room in the Smithsonian
Building and the rest in other parts of the library or in the admin-
istrative offices of the Institution, is one of the most used of the
libraries in the Smithsonian system. Especially is this true of the
employees’ collection, which is now shelved in the reading room of
the Arts and Industries Building. The usefulness of this collection
was greatly increased during the last year by generous loans of cur-
rent works of general literature from the Library of Congress.
These loans were so much appreciated by the Smithsonian staff that
it is hoped they will become a permanent feature in the cooperation
of the two institutions. To the office library were added 144 vol-
umes and 16 pamphlets. The binding of volumes for the library,
which had been discontinued for several years for lack of funds, was
resumed and 41 volumes were bound.

SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT

The Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress is the largest
and most important unit in the Smithsonian library system, number-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113

ing about 500,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts, besides many vol-
umes awaiting completion. This collection, which began with the
founding of the Institution in 1846, was housed in the Smithsonian
Building until 1866. In that year it had grown to 40,000 volumes,
and was, by permission of Congress, deposited in the Library of Con-
gress. Since that time it has been steadily increased by additions
from the Institution. While it is somewhat general in character, its
interest is mainly scientific, and it is rich in serial publications and
monographs, and especially in the reports, proceedings, and trans-
actions of the learned societies and institutions of the world, being
one of the foremost collections of its kind. Although, of course, dis-
tributed throughout the Library of Congress according to classifica-
tion, the deposit is, because of its prevailingly scientific nature,
chiefly in the Smithsonian division, which was established in 1900
to take care of the scientific publications both of the deposit and of
the Library of Congress.

During the last fiscal year the Institution sent to the deposit 19,003
publications, comprising 3,569 volumes, 9,506 parts of volumes, 5,616
pamphlets, and 312 charts. Documents of foreign governments,
largely statistical in character, to the number of about 4,000, were
also forwarded, without being stamped or entered, to the document
division of the Library of Congress. Among the items sent to the
deposit were 1,110 volumes in Japanese on education, several hun-
dred in Russian on various subjects, and 56 in Turkish. The last
had been presented to the Institution many years before by H. I. M.
the Sultan Abdul-Hamid II. Among them, too, were 4,729 dis-
sertations from 30 universities and technical schools at home and
abroad. The publications also included a large number intended for
use in building up reserve sets. Some of these were taken from the
duplicates in the Smithsonian Building, which have lately been made
available; others from the publications recently given to the Insti-
tution by the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
It is particularly pleasing to report that, as the result of the re-
organization of the accessions department of the library, nearly
twice as many volumes and parts were obtained in response to
requests from the deposit as were obtained the year before.

NATIONAL MUSEUM LIBRARY

The library of the United States National Museum, which consists,
_ in the main, of works on natural history and mechanical and min-
eral technology, is housed partly in the Natural History Building
and partly in the Arts and Industries Building. In addition to the
two main collections it includes 36 smaller collections, which are the
sectional libraries of the curators. The library contains 74,562 vol-
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

umes and 107,629 pamphlets. It was increased during the past year
by 2,247 volumes and 748 pamphlets. Some of the additions came
by purchase and gift, but most by exchange.

The current work was kept up as usual, but often by a depleted
force. The staff entered 9,759 parts of periodicals, catalogued 1,422
volumes and pamphlets, and had 1,831 volumes bound. They sent
to the sectional libraries 5,518 publications and loaned to the curators
and their assistants 4,793, of which 2,163 were borrowed from the
Library of Congress and 271 elsewhere. They returned 2,336 books
to the Library of Congress and 299 to other libraries. About 200
publications were loaned to Government libraries and to libraries
outside of Washington. Among the latter were those of the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Museum, Field Museum,
Department of Agriculture of Canada, E. I. du Pont de Nemours
& Co. Experimental Station, and the following colleges and universi-
ties: Buffalo, California, Goucher, Minnesota, and Princeton. One
loan to the Field Museum consisted of a duplicate set, in 43 volumes,
of Linnaea, Berlin, 1825-1882, and was made on semipermanent
charge. It was the third loan of the kind during the last three years,
the others having been made to Johns Hopkins University and the
University of Chicago. All three were for the furthering of special-
ized scientific research, in keeping with the general purpose of the
Museum, as a branch of the Smithsonian Institution, of increas-
ing and diffusing knowledge.

About as many publications as usual were consulted in the library.
But there was a marked growth in the reference and informational
service rendered by the staff, not only to the scientists of the In-
stitution and to investigators from different departments of the
Government, but to scholars generally and to inquirers throughout
the country. In this connection special attention should be called
to the growing importance, both to the employees of the Smith-
sonian Institution and its branches and to the visiting public, of the
recently reorganized reading and reference room, with its loan and
information desk, in the Arts and Industries Building. In the
course of the year the assistant in charge, besides performing her
other duties, recorded 700 visitors, answered more than 200 inquiries
for information, some involving a good deal of research, and loaned
nearly 3,000 books and periodicals.

Because of the amount and urgency of the current work and the
smallness of the staff, only a little time was found during the year
for the further revision of the catalogue, the completing of the
shelf list, or the solving of the major problems that are calling for
attention in the sectional libraries. Time was found, however, for
supplying many of the publications needed by these libraries, pre-
‘REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 115

paring their volumes for binding, and doing several other pieces of
work for them, notably in the sections of botany, geology, and mam-
mals. These libraries number 36, and are as follows:

Administration. Marine invertebrates.
Administrative assistant’s office. Mechanical technology.
American archeology. Medicine.

Anthropology. Minerals.

Biology. Mineral technology.
Birds. Mollusks.

Botany. Old World archeology.
Echinoderms. Organic chemistry.
Editor’s office. Paleobotany.

Ethnology. Photography.

Fishes. Physical anthropology.
Foods. Property clerk’s office.
Geology. Reptiles and batrachians,
Graphic arts. Superintendent’s office.
History. Taxidermy.

Insects. Textiles.

Invertebrate paleontology. Vertebrate paleontology.
Mammals. Wood technology.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

During the year the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology
became a division of the Smithsonian library. This collection con-
sists almost exclusively of works on anthropology, particularly those
pertaining to the American aborigines, covering especially the lin-
guistics, history, archeology, myths, religion, arts, sociology, and
general culture of the American Indian. The library also has files of
manuscript material, photographs, and Indian vocabularies. It was
increased during the last year by 591 volumes and 200 pamphlets, and
now contains 28,512 volumes and 16,377 pamphlets. The staff pre-
pared 418 volumes for binding, and made considerable progress to-
ward providing Library of Congress cards for the catalogue.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory, which is kept partly
in the observatory and partly in the main hall of the Smithsonian
Building, is an important instrument in the astrophysical and mete-
orological work of the Institution, being of particular value just now
in connection with its researches in solar radiation. It consists of
8,868 volumes and 2,949 pamphlets, of which 101 volumes and 224
pamphlets were added during the last year. The number of volumes
bound was 64.

§2322—30 9

116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929
RADIATION AND ORGANISMS LIBRARY

Late in the year a new division of the Smithsonian library was
established to meet the needs of the Institution’s work in radiation
and organisms. A list of the significant books and periodicals in the
field was prepared, in cooperation with the chief of the bureau, and
effort will be made immediately to obtain, by exchange or purchase,
those that can not be borrowed from other units of the library.

LANGLEY AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY

The Langley aeronautical library, while consisting of only 1,697
volumes and 838 pamphlets, is one of the most prominent divisions
of the Smithsonian library, as it contains many rare items, includ-
ing complete files of the early aeronautical magazines. Some of
these were in the original collection as it came from Samuel Pierpont
Langley, the third secretary of the Institution, in whose memory the
library was named. Others were among the publications given since
by Alexander Graham Bell, Octave Chanute, and James Means. The
library also has a large number of photographs, letters, and news-
paper clippings. It is consulted continually by experts from the de-
partments of the Government, from the embassies in Washington,
and from aeronautical and other organizations in different parts of
the country. The library was increased during the past year by 85
volumes and 138 pamphlets. The new catalogue, which had been
begun the year before, was finished and the collection labeled and
rearranged.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the National Gallery of Art, which for the present
is housed, with the gallery, in the Natural History Building, com-
prises 1,001 volumes and 1,106 pamphlets, chiefly on the art of the
United States and Europe. The collection has been chosen with
great care and has been slowly increased as funds and space per-
mitted, with a view to becoming the nucleus of a much larger and
more representative working library when the special building now
in prospect for the gallery is provided. During the last year 153
volumes and 82 pamphlets were added to the collection and 33 vol-
umes were bound. Most of the accessions came, as usual, by purchase
and exchange, but many came by gift, notably from Dr. William H.
Holmes, director of the gallery.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art concerns itself almost
entirely with the interests represented by the collections of art ob-
jects pertaining to the arts and cultures of the Far East, India,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

Persia, and the nearer East; by the life and works of James McNeill
Whistler and of certain other American painters whose pictures are
owned by the gallery ; and, further, to a limited extent, by the Biblical
manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, which, as the possession
of the Freer Gallery, are known as the Washington Manuscripts.
It contains many works in the Chinese and Japanese languages,
some of which are very rare, and thus supplements for research pur-
poses the oriental division of the Library of Congress. During the
year just closed the library was increased by 345 volumes and 191
pamphlets. Of these, 114 volumes were added to the collection
designed for the use of the field staff of the gallery. This collection
now numbers about 814 volumes and 500 pamphlets, while the main
library totals 4,269 volumes and 2,769 pamphlets. Two of the note-
worthy accessions were Sir Aurel Stein’s Innermost Asia and a copy
of the Codex Argenteus Upsaliensis, the latter of which was received
as a gift by the Smithsonian Institution from the University of
Upsala and assigned to the library of the gallery as a fitting addition
to the Biblical material already on its shelves. Among the visitors
there was the usual large number of readers and students, some of
whom came to study the facsimiles of the Washington Manuscripts,
and others to make drawings or tracings from material in the library.
The number of volumes bound was 82.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

The library of the National Zoological Park, which is kept in the
administration building at the park, is the immediate working col-
lection of the director and his assistants. It consists of about 1,209
volumes and 400 pamphlets, chiefly on animals and the care of them.
The number of accessions for the year was 9 volumes and 100 pam-
phlets, and of volumes bound, 5.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS
The accessions for the year may be summarized as follows:

Pam-
Library Volumes pleia Total

charts
Astrophysical Observatogy ie sachet he eh 101 224 325
Brreawrop-Aunericansh ihn olog ys 05 20-652 ee ee ee ee 591 200 791
Kreer Gallery of Art... tae t Se Mood oi hota ebb Bk ae 345 191 536
Hanelovsaeronantical 421-8 se 8. foo Bee on oe kee Lee ne Ee 85 138 223
INaitonaliGallenvoeAtiee sen a ae | aa Se eer ot Fal 153 82 235
National Zoological! Park £23272 Eg SP eae | 9 100 109
RAGiAtionM@ncOreanisms® 4-6 eee Sh ER ee ee eee en eS ee SE te eae ede eu
Pmiphsonism deposit, uibrary Of Congress. —- 22-2 baa see ee ek | 3, 569 5, 928 9, 497
BING HSONIAN OLCOs te nee en Ro te pee Se ee ey EL als 144 16 160
United States! National IVinserrm sie ons ae ie i ee a 2, 247 748 2, 995
ETC | ae meee RO ANE EU Mere I Tete paella oar Nea DS Ute acer es ayy 7, 244 7, 627 14, 871

|

118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

The estimated number of volumes, pamphlets, and charts in the
Smithsonian library on June 30, 1929, was as follows:

Volumes: bee 20) ee ee Sa 8 ee ee eS ees a ee 563, 106
Pamphlets ngs oth were retin hier eeile so an UR Se Ee a eae eee 180, 475
OND AS MAE Reh Agee Or ORO If ME Re op CCB MG RS ys SI a ae ee el 24, 972

Hs LO) st een ee ee et teas Senate pei aa eae: A ata Ne oe le eel a) eine Yeats 768, 553

This number does not include the many thousands of volumes in
the library still uncatalogued or awaiting completion.

THE UNION CATALOGUE

Considerable progress was made during the year on the union
catalogue of the libraries in the Smithsonian system, and that, too,
despite the fact that the catalogue department was very much under-
manned. In addition to doing the current work in the different
libraries, the staff finished cataloguing the Langley aeronautical col-
lection. It will next take up the John Donnell Smith and Watts
de Peyster collections. It will also make a special effort to com-
plete the shelf list in the library of the National Museum. The fol-
lowing statistics show the work of the year in detail:

IVA LUTE TT Sie Salts ANN oT eee oat te een ee a ge eR TE 2, 199
Volumes “recaltalo suede 22 22s 22 oe ae Ae AALS LEE ee 907
pamphlets; cataloguedi =i. eae ok sed eh aes) _ Ue ee Se 2, 080
Pamphiletsiwrecatalog ue dase See a ee oe ee ee 3, 676
Charts catalogued ewe se sis SU DU a 316
Chartstrecataloguedsetetiyes sole oe Nees eh bo Sythe el Loe’ Pees Ee Oe 2
Typedycards dddeduto;catalo0guest == ee eee eee 8, 490
library of Congress), cards added to catalogues === eee 22, 961.

PHYSICAL CONDITION AND EQUIPMENT

Mention was made in the librarian’s last report of the improved
physical condition and equipment of the reading room in the Arts
and Industries Building. Since that report appeared there has
been a similar improvement in two other units of the library. In
the Natural History Building the three rooms used for library
purposes were painted, new lights and ventilators were installed, a
cork runner was laid the full length of the reference and stack rooms,
and the two large awkward reading tables were converted into four
attractive small ones. In the Smithsonian Building the five library
rooms were painted and new shades provided for the windows, and
several ranges of steel shelving were purchased for the catalogue
room.

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

Among the special activities of the year several should be men-
tioned.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

Further progress was made in organizing the scientific material
in the west stacks of the main building, so that by the close of the
year most of it was in order. The finishing of this long, difficult
task will greatly facilitate the exchange work of the library. Already
many hundreds of publications have been found that were needed
by sets in the various libraries of the Institution.

As a result of the work in the west stacks about 1,900 publica-
tions of a miscellaneous character, many in Japanese and Russian,
were sent to the Smithsonian deposit and the document division of
the Library of Congress.

The work of selecting from the Smithsonian duplicates items to
be used in exchange with other libraries for material needed by the
Institution was considerably advanced. In this connection 2,400
publications were sent to Harvard University and 2,900 to Yale.
Other sendings will soon be made to Chicago University, Catholic
University, and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole.

Nearly 1,800 publications of State geological surveys were as-
sembled from various unorganized collections in the Smithsonian
Building and the Arts and Industries Building and many of them
used toward completing sets in the library. Those not needed will
be offered to the library of the Geological Survey.

About 10,000 publications of State agricultural experiment sta-
tions, which had been received and shelved by the library for many
years, but which had little to do with the work of the Institution or
its branches, were given to the library of the Department of Agri-
culture.

A collection of 667 reprints was sorted according to subject and
distributed to the curators concerned.

The cards of the Wistar Institute were filed to date, and the Con-
cilium Bibliographicum cards pertaining to mammals were deposited
in the section of mammals.

The popular and semipopular material that, pending final dis-
posal, had been stored in the basement of the Smithsonian Build-
ing, was transferred to a special building on the grounds of the
Astrophysical Observatory and arranged.

The work of reorganizing the east stacks of the main building was
begun, to make room for the growth of the reference department of
the Institution and of the library of the Bureau of American
Ethnology.

Special attention was given by the accessions department to the
want cards from the Smithsonian deposit and the library of the
National Museum, with the result that the correspondence based
upon them will be brought up to date within a few weeks.
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929
CONCLUSION

Finally, it is gratifying to report that the special allotment of
$500 for expenses, made the past year for the first time, enabled
the library to purchase important books, periodicals, and equip-
ment for the office library that it could not otherwise have ob-
tained. During the year to come the amount that will be available
for books and periodicals for the Museum will be increased by
$500. This will be pleasant news to the curators, who have been
waiting patiently for the time when it would be possible for the
library to get more of the publications essential to their work that
can not be secured by exchange.

Among the needs of the library the most urgent is that of funds
to establish permanent positions for two more cataloguers, another
library assistant, a correspondence clerk, a stenographer, a typist,
and another messenger. It is hoped that at least several of these
positions can be provided for by the close of the next fiscal year, in
order that the unfinished tasks that the library has inherited from
the past, its current work, which is increasing steadily, and its new
projects, may be expedited.

Respectfully submitted.

Wituiam L. Corsrn,
Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes G. ABsBort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
SP PH NOEX 11
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the pub-
lications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government bureaus
under its administrative charge during the year ending June 380, 1929:

The Institution proper published during the year 16 papers in
the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report,
and pamphlet copies of the 27 articles contained in the report ap-
pendix, and 5 special publications. The Bureau of American Eth-
nology published 3 annual reports and 5 bulletins. The United
States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 2 volumes of pro-
ceedings, 4 complete bulletins, 1 part of a bulletin, 2 parts in the
series Contributions from the United States National Herbarium,
and 59 separates from the proceedings.

Of these publications there were distributed during the year
197,573 copies, which included 64 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 31,121 volumes and sep-
arates of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 26,709 volumes
and separates of the Smithsonian annual reports, 3,773 Smithsonian
special publications, 115,128 volumes and separates of the various
series of the National Museum publications, 20,112 publications of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, 177 publications of the National
Gallery of Art, 47 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory, 16 reports of the Harriman Alaska expedition, and 352
reports of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 73, 2 papers
were issued; volume 75, 1 paper and title-page, table of contents, and
index; and of volume 81, 13 papers, as follows:

VOLUME 73

No. 5. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature. Opinions 98 to 104. September 19, 1928. 28 pp. (Publ. 2973.)
No. 6. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature. Opinions 105 to 114. June 8, 1929. 26 pp. ((Publ. 3016.)
121
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

VOLUME 75

No. 5. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology, V. No. 5. Pre-Devonian Paleozoic
Formations of the Cordilleran Provinces of Canada. By Charles D. Walcott.
September 14, 1928. Pp. 175-868, pls. 26-108, text figs. 24-35.

Title-page, table of contents and index. (Publ. 2976.)

VOLUME 81

No. 1. Mexican Mosses Collected by Brother Arséne Brouard—II. By I.
Thériot. August 15, 1928. 26 pp., 9 text figs. (Publ. 2966.)

No. 2. Cambrian Fossils from the Mohave Desert. By Charles HE. Resser.
July 5, 1928. 10 pp.,3 pls. (Publ. 2970.)

No. 3. Morphology and Evolution of the Insect Head and Its Appendages. By
R. E. Snodgrass. November 20, 1928. 158 pp., 57 text figs. (Publ. 2971.)

No. 4. Drawing by Jacques Lemoyne De Morgues of Saturioua, a Timucua
Chief in Florida, 1564. By David I. Bushnell. August 23, 1928. 9 pp., 1 pl., 1
text fig. (Publ. 2972.)

No. 5. The Relations Between the Smithsonian Institution and the Wright
Brothers. By Charles G. Abbot. September 29, 1928. 27 pp. (Publ. 2977.)

No. 6. A Study of Body Radiation. By L. B. Aldrich. December 1, 1928.
54 pp., 9 text figs. (Publ. 2980.)

No. 7. Recent’ Archeological Developments in the Vicinity of El Paso, Tex.
By Frank H. H. Roberts, jr. January 25, 1929. 14 pp., 5 pls., 8 text figs.
(Publ. 3009.)

No. 8. Parasites and the Aid They Give in Problems of Taxonomy, Geographical
Distribution, and Paleogeography. By Maynard M. Metcalf. February 28, 1929.
86 pp. (Publ. 3010.)

No. 9. A Second Collection of Mammals from Caves Near St. Michel, Haiti.
By Gerrit S. Miller, jr. March 30, 1929. 30 pp., 10 pls. (Publ. 3012.)

No. 10. Tropisms and Sense Organs of Lepidoptera. By N. HE. MclIndoo.
April 4, 1929. 59 pp., 16 text figs. (Publ. 3013.)

No. 11. Atmospheric Ozone: Its Relation to Some Solar and Terrestrial
Phenomena. By Frederick E. Fowle. March 18, 1929. 27 pp., 18 text figs.
(Publ. 3014.)

No. 12. Archeological Investigations in the Taos Valley, N. Mex., during 1920.
By J. A. Jeancon. June 11, 1929. 29 pp., 15 pls., 14 text figs. (Publ. 3015.)

No. 13. Descriptions of Four New Forms of Birds from Hispaniola. By Alex-
ander Wetmore. May 15, 1929. 4 pp. (Publ. 3021.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1927.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1927 was received from the Public Printer
in October, 1928.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1927. xii+580 pp., 99 pls., 44 text figs. (Publ. 2927.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

The Accomplishments of Modern Astronomy, by C. G Abbot.

Recent Developments of Cosmical Physics, by J. H. Jeans.

The Evolution of Twentieth-Century Physics, by Robert A. Millikan.
Isaac Newton, by Prof. Albert Hinstein.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 123

The Nucleus of the Atom, by J. A. Crowther

The Centenary of Augustin Fresnel, by H. M. Antoniadi.

Soaring Flight, by Wolfgang Klemperer.

The Coming of the New Coal Age, by Edwin E. Slosson.

Is the Earth Growing Old? By Josef Felix Pompeckj.

Geological Climates, by W. B Scott.

The Geologic Romance of the Finger Lakes, by Prof. Herman F. Fairchild.

Fossil Marine Faunas as Indicators of Climatic Conditions, by Edwin Kirk.

Paleontology and Human Relations, by Stuart Weller.

At the North Pole, by Lincoln Hilsworth.

Bird Banding in America, by Frederick C. Lincoln.

The Distribution of Fresh-water Fishes, by David Starr Jordan.

The Mind of an Insect, by R. HE. Snodgrass.

The Evidence Bearing on Man’s Evolution, by AleS Hrdlitka.

The Origins of the Chinese Civilization, by Henri Maspero.

Archeology in China, by Liang Chi-Chao.

Indian Villages of Southeast Alaska, by Herbert W. Krieger.

The Interpretation of Aboriginal Mounds by Means of Creek Indian Customs,
by John R. Swanton.

Friederich Kurz, Artist-Explorer, by David I. Bushnell, jr.

Note on the Principles and Process of X-Ray Examination of Paintings, by
Alan Burroughs.

The Lengthening of Human Life in Retrospect and Prospect, by Irving Fisher.

Charles Doolittle Walcott, by George Otis Smith.

William Healey Dall, by C. Hart Merriam.

feport for 1928.—The report of the executive committee and pro.
ceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution and the report
of the secretary, both forming parts of the annual report of the
Board of Regents to Corgress, were issued in December, 1928.

Report of the executive committee and’ proceedings of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1928. 14 pp. (Publ.
2979.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June
30, 1928. 147 pp. (Publ. 2978.)

The general appendix to this report, which was in press at the
close of the year, contains the following papers:

The Wider Aspects of Cosmogony, by J. H. Jeans.

The Stars in Action, by Alfred H. Joy.

Island Galaxies, by A. Vibert Douglas.

Astronomical Telescopes, by F. G. Pease.

New Results on Cosmic Rays, by R. A. Millikan and G. H. Cameron.

Three Centuries of Natural Philosophy, by W. F. G. Swann.

The Hypothesis of Continental Displacement, by C. Schuchert.

On Continental Fragmentation and the Geologie Bearing of the Moon’s Sur-
ficial Features, by Joseph Barrell.

The “‘ Craters of the Moon” in Idaho, by H. T. Stearns,

The Oldest Known Petrified Forest, by W. Goldring.

Water Divining, by J. W. Gregory.

Some Problems of Polar Geography, by R. N. Rudmose Brown.

Birds of the Past in North America, by Alexander Wetmore.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Mammalogy and the Smithsonian Institution, by Gerrit S. Miller, jr.

The Controversy Over Human “ Missing Links,” by Gerrit S. Miller, jr.

What is known of the Migrations of Some of the Whalebone Whales, by
Remington Kellogg.

Ecology of the Red Squirrel, by A. Brooker Klugh.

Adventures of a Naturalist in the Ceylon Jungle, by Casey A. Wood.

Communication Among Insects, by N. E. MeIndoo.

Our Insect Instrumentalists and Their Musical Technique, by H. A. Allard.

The Neanderthal Phase of Man, by AleS Hrdlicka.

Indian Costumes in the United States National Museum, by H. W. Krieger.

Mounds and Other Ancient Earthworks of the United States, by David I.
Bushnell, jr.

Geocronology, by Gerard de Geer.

The Physiology of the Ductless Glands, by N. B. Taylor.

Arrhenius Memorial Lecture, by Sir James Walker.

Theodore William Richards, by Gregory P. Baxter,

, SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1928. March
22, 1929. 198 pp., 173 text figs. (Publ. 3011.)

Classified list of Smithsonian Publications Available for Distribution, May 20,
1929. Compiled by Helen Munroe, 29 pp. (Publ. 3020.)

World Weather Records—Errata. By H. Helm Clayton. To accompany Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 79. May 29, 1929. 28 pp. (Publ.
3019. )

REPRINTS

Handbook of the National Aircraft Collection. By Paul Edward Garber. Sec-
ond edition, November, 1928. 32 pp., numerous illustrations.

Smithsonian Physical Tables. By Frederick E. Fowle. Seventh revised edition,
fourth reprint, February 26, 1929. 458 pp. (Publ. 2589.)

Smithsonian Geographical Tables, By R. 8S. Woodward. Third edition, second
reprint, August 17, 1929. 182 pp. (Publ. 854.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of tlie National Museum is in the hands of Dr.
Marcus Benjamin. During the year ending June 30, 1929, the
Museum published 1 annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 4 com-
plete bulletins, 1 part of a bulletin, 2 parts in the series Contribu-
tions from the United States National Herbarium, and 59 separates
from the proceedings.

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the Biology of the Philippine Archipelago and
Adjacent Regions.

Volume 1. Papers on collections gathered by the Albatross, Philippine Bxpedi-
tion, 1907-1910.

Volume 8. The Fishes of the Series Capriformes, Ephippiformes, and Squami-
pennes, Collected by the United States Bureau of Fisheries Steamer Albatross,
Chiefly in Philippine Seas and Adjacent Waters. By Henry W. Fowler and
Barton A. Bean.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125

Bulletin 104. The Foraminifera of the Atlantic Ocean. Part 6. Miliolidae,
Opthalmidiidae and Fischerinidae. By Joseph Augustine Cushman.

Bulletin 145. A Revision of the North American Species of Buprestid Beetles
belonging to the Genus Agrilus. By W. S. Fisher.

Bulletin 146. Life Histories of North American Shore Birds. Order Limicolae
(Part 2). By Arthur Cleveland Bent.

The issues of the Contributions from the United States National
Herbarium were as follows:

Volume 26, part 3. Costa Rican Mosses collected by Paul C. Standley in 1924-
1926. By Edwin B. Bartram.

Volume 28, part 1. The North American Species of Paspalum. By Agnes
Chase.

Of the separates from the proceedings, 4 were from volume 73, 26
from volume 74, 25 from volume 75, and 4 from volume 76.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work has continued under the direction of the editor,
Mr. Stanley Searles.
During the year three annual reports and five bulletins were issued.

Yorty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British
Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Teit, and
Roberts) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer). 626 pp.,
137 pls., 200 figs., 1 pocket map.

Forty-third Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Osage Tribe; Two
Versions of the Child-naming Rite (La Flesche) ; Wawenock Myth Texts
from Maine (Speck) ; Native Tribes and Dialects of Connecticut, a Mohegan-
Pequot Diary (Speck); Picuris Children’s Stories (Harrington and Rob-
erts) ; Iroquoian Cosmology—Second Part (Hewitt). 828 pp., 44 pls., 9 figs.

Forty-fourth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Exploration of the
Burton Mound at Santa Barbara, California (Harrington) ; Social and Reli-
gious Beliefs and Usages of the Chickasaw Indians (Swanton); Uses of
Plants by the Chippewa Indians (Densmore) ; Archeological Investigations—
II (Fowke). 555 pp., 98 pls., 16 figs.

Bulletin 84. Vocabulary of the Kiowa Language (Harrington). 255 pp., 1 fig.

Bulletin 86. Chippewa Customs (Densmore). 204 pp., 90 pls., 27 figs.

Bulletin 87. Notes on the Buffalo-head Dance of the Thunder Gens of the Fox
Indians (Michelson). 94 pp., 1 fig.

Bulletin 89. Observations on the Thunder Dance of the Bear Gens of the Fox
Indians (Michelson). 73 pp., 1 fig.

Bulletin 92. Shabik’eshchee Village: A Late Basket Maker Site in the Chaco
Canyon, New Mexico (Roberts). 164 pp., 31 pls., 32 figs.

Publications in press are as follows:

Forty-fifth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Salishan Tribes of the
Western Plateaus (Teit, edited by Boas); Tatooing and Face and Body
Painting of the Thompson Indians, British Columbia (Teit, edited by Boas) ;
The Ethnobotany of the Thompson Indians of British Columbia (Teit, edited
by Steedman) ; The Osage Tribe; Rite of the Wa-xo-be (La Flesche).

Bulletin 88. Myths and Tales of the Southeastern Indians (Swanton).

Bulletin 90. Papago Music (Densmore).
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Bulletin 91. Additional Studies of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana
Indians, with special reference to those of Southeastern British Guiana
(Roth).

Bulletin 98. Pawnee Music (Densmore).

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual report for 1923 and the supplemental volume to the
report for 1924 were issued during the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirty-first Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with the law, December 6, 1928.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Report to Congress and the various publications of the Government
bureaus under the administration of the Institution were virtually
used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the coming
year ending June 30, 1930, totals $95,000, allotted as follows:

Annual report to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith-

sonian’ Institution Y2sa 0) Lites SAO Si) SEO Re) See ae earl ie Be ee $11, 500
National Museum lias Says k Ne te 2 DO 0 Rs Se 46, 500
Bureauor Americans thnology=.2 S2aeoks 1 See 1 eee ee ees 28, 300
National Gallery of Art 2 222-2 ee ee eee 500
International? Hxehanges: £222 2 ie Car gG Nek CRE ee ie Ue Ee ee Fe 300
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature________.___________-_- 100
National Zoological Park* 2) 21) Cah LUN LEE EOIE SMa A eT ae 300
Astrophysical Observatoryre——— == = — = — a Ee ae 0) 500
Annual report of the American Historical Association_____---_-__-_____ 7, 000

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication, to which are re-
ferred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts offered
to the Institution and its branches. The committee also considers
matters of publication policy. Eight meetings were held during the
year and 136 manuscripts acted upon. The membership at the close
of the year was as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127

of biology, National Museum, chairman; Dr. George P. Merrill, head
curator of geology, National Museum; Mr. M. W. Stirling, chief,
Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. William M. Mann, director,
National Zoological Park; Mr. W. P. True, editor of the Institution,
secretary; Dr. Marcus Benjamin, editor of the National Museum;
and Mr. Stanley Searles, editor of the Bureau of American
Ethnology.

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. True, Editor.
Dr. Cuartes G. Appzor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 12

LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS TO JAMES SMITHSON MEMORIAL
EDITION, SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES?

Mr. Harry T. Abernathy,
Kansas City, Mo.
Mr. Edward E. B. Adams,
New York, N. Y.
Miss Mary Barclay Adams,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Eugene E. Ailes,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John EH. Aldred,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. J. Henry Alexandre,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Walter H. Alford,
Kenosha, Wis.
Mr. Frederic W. Allen,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Rayford W. Alley,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. HE. G. Ames,
Seattle, Wash.
Mr. George S. Amory.
New York, N. Y.
Mr. E. A. Anderson,
Naugatuck, Conn.
Mr. John Anderson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Wendell W. Anderson,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. W. J. Anderson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. 8. Andrews,
Syracuse, N. Y.
Mr. Hugh D. Auchincloss,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Charles F. Ayer,
New. York, N. Y.
Mr. Richard B. Ayer,
New York, N. Y..-
Mr. Jules S. Bache,
New York, N. Y.

Mr.

George W. Bacon,
New York, N. Y.

. Franklin Baker, jr.,

Hoboken, N. J.

. Charles F. Baldwin,

Appleton, Wis.

. William D. Baldwin,

New York, N. Y.

. Howard P. Ballantyne,

Detroit, Mich.

. Louis Bamberger,

Newark, N. J.

. Joseph Bancroft,

Wilmington, Del.

. David Bandler,

New York, N. Y.

. Edward J. Barber,

New York, N. Y.

. Thomas Barbour,

Cambridge, Mass.

. J. S. Barnes,

New York, N. Y.

. Charles M. Barnett,

New York, N. Y.

. Austin D. Barney,

Hartford, Conn.

. Grant S. Barnhart,

Washington, D. C.

r. William S. Barstow,

New York, N. Y.

. W. H. Barthold,

New York, N. Y.

. Philip G. Bartlett,

New York, N. Y.

. Charles H. Bascom,

St. Louis, Mo.

. Harvey Bates, jr.,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Hon. Walter EH. Batterson,

1 List brought up to date as of Nov, 15, 1929.

128

Hartford, Conn.
REPORT

Mr. Oliver G. Bauman,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Armistead Keith Baylor,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. J. N. Beckley,
Rochester, N. Y.
Mr. Barton A. Bean, jr.,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Dr. A. J. Beller,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. La Monte J. Belnap,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Alfred M. Best,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John P. Bickell,
Toronto, Canada.
Mr. Edwin Binney,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles E. Birge,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Clarence R. Bitting,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. James Madison Blackwell,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Hmmons Blaine,
Chicago, Ill.
Mrs. David H. Blair,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Samuel Shipley Blood,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Blossom,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mr. Albert Blum,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Sidney Blumenthal,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Samuel T. Bodine,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. W. E. Boeing,
Seattle, Wash.
Mr. Lucius M. Boomer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. L. C. Bootes,
Jackson, Mich.
Mr. C. Jackson Booth,
Hull, Quebec, Canada.
Mr. Edward F. Bosson,
Hartford, Conn.
Mr. Samuel H. Bowman, jr.,
Minneapolis, Minn.
Mrs. John C. Boyd,
Washington, D. C.

OF THE SECRETARY 129

Mr. A. R. M. Boyle,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. F. W. Bradley,
San Francisco, Calif.
Mr. EF. W. Braun,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. Bradford Brinton,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Henry Platt Bristol,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Robert 8S. Brookings,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Gerald Brooks,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Donaldson Brown,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. H. F. Brown,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Hays R. Browning,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Otto Brunenmeister, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. Gerald Bryant,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Mr. Albert Buchman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Britton I. Budd,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Lawrence D. Buhl,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. F. Kingsbury Bull,
Litchfield, Conn.
Mr. Perey Bullard,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. Douglas Burden,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frederick John Burghard,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Stevenson Burke,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mr. Eric Burkman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Gordon W. Burnham,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. J. S. Burnside,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Hon. Martin Burrell, P
Ottawa, Canada.
Mr. Smith P. Burton, jr.,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. F. S. Byram (2 subscriptions),
Philadelphia, Pa.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Mr. James D. Callery,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mr. Jasper A. Campbell, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John T. Campbell,
Norfolk, Va.
Mr. William Candler,
Atlanta, Ga.
Mr. Albert H. Canfield,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Mr. William C. Cannon,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Martin Cantine,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George W. Carnrick,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. James H. Carter,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John J. Carty,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George Cary,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Theodore W. Case,
Auburn, N. Y.
Mr. Thomas E. Casey,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles A. Cass,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. E. Crane Chadbourne,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Harry Chandler,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. Charles M. Chapin,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. C. Merrill Chapin, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. S. B. Chapin, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. A. Wallace Chauncey,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Starling W. Childs,
INewn Work: IN? Y.
Mr. George H. Chisholm,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. F. Edwin Church,
__ New York, N. Y.
Dr. A. Schuyler Clark,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Eli P. Clark,
Los Angeles, Calif:
Mr. George H. Clark,
Rochester, N. Y.

Mr. Ray Clark,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Robert Sterling Clark,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. A. Clark, ITI,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. John L. Clawson,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Oliver M. Clifford,
St. Louis, Mo.
Mr. George I. Cochran,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Miss Ella S. Coe,
Litchfield, Conn.
Mr. C. W. Floyd Coffin,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. Wallace P. Cohoe,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John N. Cole,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. Philip G. Cole,
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mr. Viott Myers Cole,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Philip S. Collins,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Martin Conboy,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. L. Conwell,
New York, N. Y.
Prof. Thomas F. Cooke,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. T. J. Coolidge,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. Edward F. Coombs,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Howard Coonley,
Boston, Mass.
Mrs. Q. F. Coonley,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Dudley Martindale Cooper,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. S. Corby,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Fred D. Corey,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. John W. Cowper,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Alexander M. Crane,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Clinton H. Crane,
New York, N. Y.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Mr. Gifford B. Crary,
Binghamton, N. Y.

Mr. William Nelson Cromwell,

New York, N. Y.
Mr. Franklin M. Crosby,
Minneapolis, Minn.
Mr. J. W. Cross,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Miquel Cruchaga,
Paris, France.
Mr. HB. A. Cudahy, jr.,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. J. S. Cullinan,
Houston, Tex.
Mr. Victor M. Cutter,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. C. Suydam Cutting,
New York, N. Y.
Cuyamel Fruit Co.,
New Orleans, La.
Mr. Charles E. Dalrymple,
Newark, N. J.
Mr. U. de B. Daly,
St. Louis, Mo.
Mr. Ernest B. Dane,
Boston, Mass.
Dr. Frank EH. Darling,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Mr. Daniel Darrow,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Louis R. Davidson,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Sefior Don Carlos G. Davila,

Washington, D. C.
Mr. Basil H. Davis,

New York, N. Y.
Mr. Edgar B. Davis,

New York, N. Y.
Mr. James Sherlock Davis,

Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mrs. T. B. Davis,

Rock Island, Ill.
Mr. Frederie A. Delano,

Washington, D. C.

Mr. William Adams Delano,

New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frank L. D’Elia,

Jersey City, N. J.
Mr. George Denégre,

New Orleans, La.
Mr. A. C. Deuel,

Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Mr. Fairman R. Dick,

New York, N. Y.

82322—30——_10

Mr. Albert H. Dickinson,
Kansas City, Mo.
Mr. Hunt T. Dickinson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Milton S. Dillon,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Fitz Eugene Dixon,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr SsCsDobbpsijr,
Atlanta, Ga.
Mr. Frank P. Doherty,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. L. W. Dommerich,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. James P. Donahue,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Robert Donner,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Dr. A. G. Doughty,
Ottawa, Canada.
Mr. Robert Douglas,
Rochester, N. Y.
Dr. George S. Drake,
St. Louis, Mo. ~
Mr. Dow H. Drukker,
Passaic, N. J.
Mr. Frank A. Dudley,
Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Mr. Caleb C. Dula,
New York, N. Y:
Mr. A. BH. Duncan,
Baltimore, Md.
Mrs. Jessie D. Dunlap,
Toronto, Canada.
Mr. Eugene EH. du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Henry B. du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Irenee du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Mrs. J. Coleman du Pont,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Lammot du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. S. Hallock du Pont,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Arthur S. Dwight,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Herbert T. Dyett,
Rome, N. Y.
Mr. Chaffee Earle,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. Thomas T. Eason,
Enid, Okla.

131
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Lady Eaton, Miss Catherine Farrar,
Toronto, Canada. Paterson, N. J.

Dr. George J. Eckel, Mr. James A. Farrell,
Buffalo, N. Y. New York, N. Y.

Mr. George H. Eddy, Mr. George R. Fearing,
Kenosha, Wis. Boston, Mass.

Mr. James G. Eddy, Mr. L. F. Fedders,
Seattle, Wash. Buffalo, N. Y.

Hon. Gordon C. Edwards, Mr. Edwin C. Feigenspan,
Ottawa, Canada. Newark, N. J.

Mr. Louis J. Ehret (2 subscriptions), Mr. Orestes Ferrara,
New York, N. Y. Washington, D. C.

Mr. Otto M. Hidlitz, Mr. John E. N. Figved,
New York, N. Y. Milwaukee, Wis.

Mr. Arturo M. Elias, Dr. Mark E. Finley,
New York, N. Y. Washington, D. C.

Mr. George Adams Ellis, Mr. Thomas W. Finucane,
New York, N. Y. Rochester, N. Y.

Mr. Duncan Steuart Ellsworth, Mr. Harvey S. Firestone,
New York, N. Y. Akron, Ohio.

Mr. Albert C. Elser, Mr. Alfred J. Fisher,
Milwaukee, Wis. Detroit, Mich.

Mr. Charles T. Fisher,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. Edward F. Fisher (2 subscrip-
tions),
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. Frank C. Fisher,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Fred J. Fisher,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. Lawrence P. Fisher,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. William A. Fisher,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. B. F. Fitch,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. George W. Ely,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. James Radford English,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William Phelps Eno,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. W. H. Erhart,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Joseph Errington,
Toronto, Canada.
Mr. W. H. Eshbaugh,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Nathaniel I. Evens,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Edward A. Everett, Mr. W. W. Flowers,
Long Island City, N. Y. New York, N. Y.
Mr. George A. Hyer, Mr. Oscar G. Foellinger,
New York, N. Y. Fort Wayne, Ind.
Mr. Charles 8S. Eytinge, Mr. R. W. Foote,
New York, N. Y. New Haven, Conn.
Mr. Hberhard Faber, Mr. John B. Ford, jr.,
New York, N. Y. Detroit, Mich.
Mr. Frank J. Fahey, Mr. S. W. Fordyce,
Boston, Mass. St. Louis, Mo.
Mrs. Gibson Fahnestock, Mr. Oswald Fowler,
Washington, D. C. New York, N. Y.
Mr. Douglas Fairbanks, Mr. Richard L. Fox,
Hollywood, Calif. Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Arthur W. Fairchild, Mr. Charles B. Francis,
Milwaukee, Wis. St. Louis, Mo.
Mr. Herman W. Falk. Mr. Clayton HK. Freeman,

Milwaukee, Wis. New York, N. Y.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 133

Mrs. Emma B. French,
Manchester, N. Y.
Mr. Herbert G. French,
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Mr. Robert E. Friend,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Mr. John Hemming Fry,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. L. A. Fuerstenau,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Dr. Eugene Fuller,
Seattle, Wash.
Mr. Frederick J. Fuller,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George F. Fuller,
Worcester, Mass.
Mr. Walter D. Fuller,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. William Shirley Fulton,
Waterbury, Conn.
Judge Arthur G. Gallagher,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frank de Ganahl,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John W. Garrett,
Baltimore, Md.
Mr. Paul Willard Garrett,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. James L. Gartner,
Tulsa, Okla.
Mr. A. O. Gates,
New Haven, Conn.
Mr. Charles R. Gay,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. C. P. Gearon,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Stanley L. Gedney, jr.,
East Orange, N. J.
Mr. Paulino Gerli,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. James L. Gerry,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William P. Gest,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mrs. Milton E. Getz,
Beverly Hills, Calif.
Mrs. John H. Gibbons,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Edward EH. Gillen,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Mr. Michael Gioe, sr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles F. Glore,
Chicago, Ill.

Hon. Guy D. Goff,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Richard J. Goodman,
Hartford, Conn.

Mr. Edward S. Goodwin,
Hartford, Conn.

Mr. Jose BH. Gorrin,
Habana, Cuba.

Mr. Osmer N. Gorton,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Chauncey P. Goss, jr.,
Waterbury, Conn,

| Mr. Edward O. Goss,

Waterbury, Conn.
Mr. George A. Goss,
Waterbury, Conn.
Mr. John H. Goss,
Waterbury, Conn.
Mr. Lyttleton B. P. Gould,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William B. Gourley,
Paterson, N. J.
Mr. S. C. Graham,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. Alfred E. Green,
Hollywood, Calif.
Mr. George F. Green,
Danbury, Conn.
Mr. Lincoln Green,
Washington, D. C.
Dr. Louis 8. Greene,
Washington, D. C.
Dr. James C. Greenway,
New Haven, Conn.
Mr. David L. Grey,
St. Louis, Mo.
Mr. John Gribbell (5 subscriptions),
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. B. J. Grigsby,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. George B. Grinnell,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Minnie Tillou Grippin,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Mr. B. Howell Griswold, jr.,
Baltimore, Md.
Mr. Edgar J. Griswold,
New York, N. Y.
Grosvenor Library,
Buffalo, N. Y.

(Presented by Mr. Ansley Wilcox, Mr.
William Schoellkopf, Mr. H. W. Wolcott,
Mr. Percy G. Lapey, Mr. Edward L. Jelli-
nek, Buffalo, N, Y.)
134

Mr.

Allen D. Gutchess,
Toledo, Ohio.

. Charles W. Guttzeit,

New York, N. Y.

. Robert EH. Hackett,

Milwaukee, Wis.

*. Fred H. Haggerson,

New York, N. Y.

. Robert L. Hague,

New York, N. Y.

. Edward A. Halbleib,

Rochester, N. Y.

. Mayer L. Halff,

New York, N. Y.

«eK geal,

New York, N. Y.

r, William A, Hamann,

New York, N. Y.

. Joseph G. Hamblen, jr.,

Detroit, Mich.

r, Chauncey J. Hamlin,

Buffalo, N. Y.

r, J. E. Hammell,

Toronto, Canada.

. John Hays Hammond,

New York, N. Y.

Mrs. C. E. Hancock,

Syracuse, N. Y.

Dr. Walter S. Harban,

Washington, D. C.

. W. Albert Harbison,

New York, N. Y.

. Acheson A. Harden,

Passaic, N. J.

. John R. Hardin,

Newark, N. J.

. Louis A. Harding,

Buffalo, N. Y.

. Franklin Hardinge,

Chicago, Ill.

r. J. B. Hardon,

Boston, Mass.

. Huntington R. Hardwick,

Boston, Mass.

. Anton G. Hardy,

New York, N. Y.

. D. W. Hardy,

New York, N. Y.

. Bruce H. Hariton,

Tulsa, Okla.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Mr. Rawson B. Harmon,
Detroit, Mich.

Mr. Henry Harnischfeger,
Milwaukee, Wis.

Dr. James T. Harrington,
Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

Mr. Gordon L. Harris,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William Harris,
Totawa, N. J.

Mr. Alfred Hart,
Waterbury, Conn.

Mr. Barton Haselton,
Rome, N. Y.

Mr. Philip H. Haselton,
New York, N. Y.

Dr. F. R. Haussling,
Newark, N. J.

Mr. Horace Havemeyer,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Elmer H: Havens,
Bridgeport, Conn.

Dr. George Waller Hawley,
Bridgeport, Conn.

Mr. Samuel W. Hayes,
Oklahoma City, Okla.

Mr. George Hearst,
San Francisco, Calif.

Mr. Roy W. Hemingway,
Auburn, N. Y.

Mr. F. R. Henderson,
New York, N. Y.

Mrs. A. Barton Hepburn,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Henry Herbermann,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Milton S. Hershey,
Hershey, Pa.

Mr. Jean Hersholt,
Beverly Hills, Calif.

Mrs. Sallie A. Hert,
Louisville, Ky.

Mr. Reginald Hess,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Francis Lee Higginson,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. C. A. Hight,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. Joseph H. Himes,
Washington, D. C.
REPORT OF

Mr. Edward Hines,
Chicago, Il.
Mr. Lewis A. Hird,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Arthur L. Hobson,
Boston, Mass.
Mrs. Grace Whitney Hoff,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Albert L. Hoffman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Samuel V. Hoffman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William F. Hoffman,
Newark, N. J.
Mrs. Edward Holbrook,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Joshua B. Holden,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. William J. Holliday,
Indianapolis, Ind.
Mr. Edward J. Holmes,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. George E. Holmes,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. W. R. G. Holt,
Montreal, Canada.
Mr. Ernest Hopkinson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Louis J. Horowitz,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John S. A. Hosford,
New York, N. Y.
Miss Marie O. Hotchkiss,
Hast River, Conn.
Mr. W. Deering Howe,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Allen G. Hoyt,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Richard F. Hoyt,
New York, N. Y.
Hon. Charles E. Hughes,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Felix T. Hughes,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Margarita Cress Hunt,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Frederick H. Hurdman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. BE. F. Hutton,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. R. J. H. Hutton,
Buffalo, N. Y.

THE SECRETARY 135

Mr. William Dunn Hutton,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. A. F. Hyde,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. Edmund W. Ill,
Newark, N. J.
Mr. Charles H. Innes,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. Samuel Insull,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Robert F. Irwin, jr.,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Henry H. Jackson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Stanley P. Jadwin,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Alfred W. Jenkins,
New York, N. Y.
Miss Mary E. Jenkins,
Syracuse, N. Y.
Mr. Ulysses S. Jenkins,
Chicago, Ill.
Mrs. Mary L. Jennings,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. BE. J. Johnson,
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson,
Camden, N. J.
Mr. James A. Johnson,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Robert McK. Jones,
St. Louis, Mo.
Mr. Stephen R. Jones,
New York, N. Y.
Miss Grace Jordan,
Peekskill, N. Y.
Mr. R. J. Jowsey,
Toronto, Canada.
Mr. George H. Judd,
Washington, D. C.
Miss Katherine Judge,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Gilbert W. Kahn,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Otto H. Kahn,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Henry J. Kaltenbach,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Foxhall P. Keene,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Russell M. Keith,
Cleveland, Ohio.
136

r, Arthur M. Kelley,

Bayshore, L. I., N. Y.

. Foster Kennedy,

New York, N. Y.

. A. Atwater Kent,

Philadelphia, Pa.

. Marshall R. Kernochan,

Tuxedo Park, N. Y.

. C. C. Kerr,

New York, N. Y.

r. W. W. Kineaid,

Niagara Falls, N. Y.

. Willey Lyon Kingsley,

Rome, N. Y.

r. W. Ruloff Kip,

New York, N. Y.

. William F. Kip,

New York, N. Y.

. Gustavus T. Kirby,

New York, N. Y.

. Edward H. Kirschbaum,

Waterbury, Conn.

. Benjamin Kittinger,

Buffalo, N. Y.

. John K. Kline,

Green Bay, Wis.

*. Joseph F. Knapp,

New York, N. Y.

. Harry French Knight,

St. Louis, Mo.

. W. W. Knight,

Toledo, Ohio.

. Seymour H. Knox,

Buffalo, N. Y.

. Philip A. Koehring,

Milwaukee, Wis.

. Walter F. Koken,

St. Louis, Mo.

. Edward L. Koons,

Buffalo, N. Y.

. J. N. Korhumel,

Cicero, Ill.

. Harry G. Kosch,

New York, N. Y.

. Frederick J. Koster,

San Francisco, Calif.

. de Lancey Kountze,

New York, N. Y.

. J. L. Kraft,

Chicago, Ill.

. Shepard Krech,

New York, N. Y.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Mrs. Anna BH. Kresge,
Detroit; Mich.

Mr. Stanley S. Kresge (3 subscrip-

tions),

Detroit, Mich.

Mr. Arthur W. Kretschmar,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. L. Kuehn,
Milwaukee, Wis.

Mr. Gerard Kuehne,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Felix Lake,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. H. C. Lakin, 9
New York, N. Y. j

Mr. R. P. Lamont, ay
Chicago, III.

Mrs. Marshall Langhorne,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Henry G. Lapham,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. Sylvester P. Larkin,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Irwin B. Laughlin,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Eugene B. Lawson,
Tulsa, Okla.

Mr. John §S. Leahy,
St. Louis, Mo.

Mrs. L. A. Lefevre,
Vancouver, British Columbia.

Mr. Erich E. Lehsten,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William H. Leland,
Worcester, Mass.

Miss Isobel Lenman (2 subscriptions),
Washington, D. C.

Mr. C. H. LeRoy,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William Leslie,
New York, N. Y.

Mrs. Frank Letts,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. William E. Levis,
Alton, Ill.

Mr. Edwin C. Lewis,
Detroit, Mich.

Mr. Henry Lewis,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Samuel A. Lewisohn,
New York, N. Y.
Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Louis K. Liggett,
Boston, Mass.

Josiah K, Lilly,
Indianapolis, Ind.

Josiah K, Lilly, jr.,
Indianapolis, Ind.

Mrs. Robert T. Lincoln,

Mr.

Mr.

Washington, D. C.
John S. Linen,

New York, N. Y.
James Duane Livingston

New York, N. Y.

)

Mr. Horatio G. Lloyd,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. S. D. Locke,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Mr. Ray Long,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frank Lord,

New York, N. Y.

. James Taber Loree,

Albany, N. Y.

. Harl P. Lothrop,

Buffalo, N. Y.

. Charles H. Lotte,

Paterson, N. J.

. KX. W. Lovejoy,

Rochester, N. Y.

. Horace Lowry,

Minneapolis, Minn.

. C. T. Ludington,

Philadelphia, Pa.

. Charles W. Luke,

New York, N. Y.

. G. R. Lyman,

New York, N. Y.

. James Lynah,

Detroit, Mich.

. Grant S. Macartney,

St. Paul, Minn.

- Norman E. Mack,

Buffalo, N. Y.

- Malcolm S. Mackay,

New York, N. Y.

. Carleton Macy,

New York, N. Y.

'. Clifford D. Mallory,

New York, N. Y.

. W. EH. Mallory,

Danbury, Conn.

. Peter J. Maloney, jr.,

New York, N. Y.

Judge Francis X. Mancusco,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Clayton Mark,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. John Markle,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Lawrence M. Marks,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Howard C. Marmon,
Indianapolis, Ind.
Mr. Walter C. Marmon,
Indianapolis, Ind.
Mr. M. Lee Marshall,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Richard H. Marshall,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Bradley Martin,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Darwin D. Martin,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. John C. Martin,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Dr. Philip Marvel, sr.,
Atlantie City, N. J.
Mr. George Grant Mason,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. J. W. Mason,
San Francisco, Calif.
Mr. B. A. Massee,
Chicago, I.
Mr. Gordon M. Mather,
Toledo, Ohio.
Mrs. Grace H. Mather,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mrs. G. E. Matthies,
Seymour, Conn.
Miss Katherine Matthies,
Seymour, Conn.
Mr. C. H. Matthiessen, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frank Matthiessen,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. William L. Mauran,
Providence, R. I.
Mr. Howard W. Maxwell, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ambrose Farroll McCabe,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ormond William McClave,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Kenner McConnell,
Columbus, Ohio.

137
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Mr. James D. McCormack, Mr. Edward G. Miner, H
Vancouver, British Columbia. Rochester, N. Y.
Mr. Cyrus H. McCormick, Mrs. Ff. B. Miner,
Chicago, Ill. Flint, Mich.
Mr. Leander McCormick-Goodhart, Mr. John J. Mitchell,
Washington, D. C. Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Alex W. McCoy, Mr. Leeds Mitchell,
Ponca City, Okla. Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Henry Forbes McCreery, Mr. Roscoe R. Mitchell,
New York, N. Y. Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Hubert McDonnell, Mr. T. E. Mitten,
New York, N. Y. Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Frank H. McGraw, Mr. J. A. Moffett,
New York, N. Y. New York, N. Y.
Mr. James H. McGraw, Mr. Joseph A. Moller,
New York, INe Xe New York, INE WA
Mr. Sumner T. McKnight, Mr. Jay R. Monroe,
Minneapolis, Minn. Orange, N. J.
Mr. R. 8. McLaughlin, Mr. Henry E. Montgomery,
Ontario, Canada. Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Marrs McLean,
Beaumont, Tex.
Mr. William L. McLean,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Clifford L. MeMillen,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Mr. Andrew W. Mellon,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Louis Mendelssohn,
Detroit, Mich.

Mr. William Moore,
Detroit, Mich,
Mr. Adelbert Moot,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mrs. James Dudley Morgan,
Chevy Chase, Md.
Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan (2 subscrip-
tions),
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Buckingham P. Merriman, MRS IONE AN moe.
Waterbury, Conn. EY HOS Hak a .

Miss Ethel Douglas Merritt, Mrs. AUES Grippin Morris,
Wvnahineten enh iG. Bridgeport, Conn.

Mr. William B. Mershon, Mr. W. Cullen Pee
Saginaw, Mich. New York, N. Y.

Mr. A. H. Mertzanoff, wis lay Fa RUS
New York, N. Y. New) Mork, ul)

Col. Herman A. Metz, Mr. Samuel Mundheim,
New York, N. Y. New York, N. Y.

Mr. Cord Meyer, Mr. Frank C. Munson,
New York, N. Y. New York, N. Y.

Mr. Devereux Milburn, Mr. C. Haywood Murphy,
New York, N. Y. Detroit, Mich.

Mr. C. Wilbur Miller, Mr. Henry A. Murray,
Baltimore, Md. New York, N. Y.

Mr. Ernest B. Miller, Premier Benito Mussolini,
Baltimore, Md. Rome, Italy.

Mr. John J. Miller, Mr. Harold Nathan,
Washington, D. C. New York, N. Y.

Dr. S. M. Milliken, National Gallery of Art,
New York, N. Y. Washington, D. C.

Mr. Ogden L. Mills, National Library of Wales,

New York, N. Y. Wales.
Mr.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

John S. Newberry,
Detroit, Mich.

Hon. Truman H. Newberry,

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Detroit, Mich.
Waldo Newcomer,
Baltimore, Md.

F. T. Nicholson,
New York, N. Y.
William BH. Nickerson,
Boston, Mass.
John B. Niven,
New York, N. Y.
Aaron EH. Norman,
New York, N. Y.
George W. Norris,
Philadelphia, Pa.

', Harry Oakes,

Ontario, Canada.

. J. J. O’Brien,

Chicago, Ill.

. Lyle H. Olson,

New York, N. Y.

. John Omwake,

Cincinnati, Ohio.

1 We ONeill,

Arkon, Ohio.

. James L. O’Neill,

New York, N. Y.

. Joseph E. Otis,

Chicago, Ill.

. Roy H. Ott,

New York, N. Y.

. Arthur Newton Pack,

Washington, D. C.

. John F. Palmer,

Pawhuska, Okla.

. Charles A. Parcells,

Detroit, Mich.

. Karle W. Parcells,

Detroit, Mich.

. George Pariot,

New York, N. Y.

. Dale M. Parker,

New York, N. Y.

. Henry Herbert Parmelee,

Paterson, N. J.

. James Parmelee,

Washington, D. C.

. Reginald H. Parsons,

Seattle, Wash.

. William D. Patten,

New York, N. Y.

. Stephen Paul,

New York, N. Y.

Mr. Charles S. Payson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Max H. Peiler,
Hartford, Conn.
Mr. Howland H. Pell,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles Pfeiffer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Gustavus A. Pfeiffer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Knox B. Phagan,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Leopold Philipp,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ellis L. Phillips,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Rowley W. Phillips,
Waterbury, Conn.
Mrs. Thomas W. Phillips,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Howard Phipps,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. H. M. Pierce,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Robert L. Pierrepont,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William S. Pilling,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Townsend Pinkney,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Bayard F. Pope,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Frederick J. Pope,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Joseph F. Porter,
Kansas City, Mo.
Mr. Joseph W. Powdrell,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. Herbert L. Pratt,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. John T. Pratt,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Sydney I. Prescott,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William Cooper Procter,

Cincinnati, Ohio.

Mr. Thomas E. Proctor, 2d,

Boston, Mass.
Mr. Ralph Pulitzer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Percy R. Pyne, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ernest E. Quantrell,
New York, N. Y.

139
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Mr. Edgar M. Queeny,
St. Louis, Mo.
Mr. Gershom T. Randall,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. de Lancey Rankine,
Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Mr. John J. Raskob,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William F. Raskob,
Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Duncan H. Read,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Harle H. Reynolds,
Chicago, Il.
Mr. Harrison G. Reynolds,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. Edwin T. Rice,
New “Vorlk,/ Ne Ye:
Mr. Neil W. Rice,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. S. Willson Richards,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. HE. Ridgeway,
Chicago, III.
Mr. Harry G. Rieger,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Charles E. Riley,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. Arthur W. Rinke,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Anita Bell Ritter,
Washington, D. C.
Dr. William C. Rives,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Walter B. Robb,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Owen F. Roberts,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Irving EH. Robertson,
Toronto, Canada.

Mr. William A. Rockefeller,

New York, N. Y.
Mrs. John A. Roebling,
Bernardsville, N. J.
Mr. Charles H. Roemer,
Paterson, N. J.
Mr. Saul H. Rogers,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William H. Rollinson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Irving I. Rosenbaum,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Edward L. Rossiter,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Stanley A. Russell,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William Hamilton Russell,

New York, N. Y.
Mrs. John Rutherford,

Washington, D. C.
Mr. W. R. Sampson,

Boston, Mass.

Mr. Henry Gansevoort Sanford,

New York, N. Y.
Mr. Harold A. Sands,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. James Savage,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Homer E. Sawyer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Michael A. Seatuorchio,
Jersey City, N. J.
Mr. Bernhard K. Schaefer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. H. W. Schaefer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Herrman A. Schatz,
Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
Mr. William N. Schill,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George Schmidt, jr.,
Hlizabeth, N. J.
Mr. L. O. Schmidt,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Daniel Schnakenberg,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Henry Schniewind,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Alfred H. Schoellkopf,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. J. F. Schoellkopf, jr.,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Paul A. Schoellkopf,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Sherman W. Scofield,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mrs ACI SCOtE,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William Keith Scott,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. William E. Scripps, _
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. Harold H. Seaman,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Mr. Frank A. Seiberling,
Akron, Ohio.

Mr. Walter Seligman,

New York, N. Y.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Mr. Jere A. Sexton,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John C. Shaffer,
Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Richard Sharpe,
Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
Mr. G. Howland Shaw,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Robert Alfred Shaw,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Edward W. Sheldon,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Harry E. Sheldon,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mrs. Charles R. Shepard,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Frank P. Shepard,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Roger B. Shepard,
St. Paul, Minn.
Mr. Robert W. Sherwin,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. Paula W. Siedenburg,
Greenwich, Conn.
Mr. HE. H. H. Simmons,
New York, N. Y.
’ Mrs. Frances G. Simmons,
Greenwich, Conn.
Mr. Z. G. Simmons, jr.,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Robert EH. Simon,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. F. H. Sisson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Louis Sloss,

San Francisco, Calif.

Mr. Andrew R. Smith,
Bridgeport, Conn.

Mr. E. A. Cappelan Smith,
New York, N. Y.

Dr. Edward W. Smith,
Meriden, Conn.

Mr. Frank Hill Smith,
Dayton, Ohio.

Mr. Glenn J. Smith,
Tulsa, Okla.

Mr. Julian C. Smith,
Montreal, Canada.

Mr. W. Hinckle Smith,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Mr. Winfred L. Smith,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. W. T. Sampson Smith,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. F. L. Smithe,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. John S. Snelham,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Sidney H. Sonn,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. T. H. Soren,
Hartford, Conn.
Mr. Henry P. Spafard,
Hartford, Conn.
Maj. Lorillard Spencer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr, John R. Sproul,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Col. W. C. Spruance,
Wilmington, Del.
Dr. Edward H. Squibb,
Brooklyn, N. Y.

141

Mr. Andrew Squire (2 Subscriptions),

Cleveland, Ohio.

Mr. Pierpont Langley Stackpole,

Boston, Mass.

Mr. William Hyde Stalker,
Toledo, Ohio.

Dr. A. Camp Stanley,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. H. J. L. Stark,
Orange, Tex.

Mr. Walter R. Steiner,
Hartford, Conn.

Mr. R. S. Sterling,
Houston, Tex.

Mr. Morris Stern,
Milwaukee, Wis.

Mr. Joseph BH. Sterrett,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Aron Steuer,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Francis K. Stevens,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. J. Crawford Stevens,
White Plains, N: Y.

Mr. John P. Stevens,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Walther A. Stiefel,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Philip Stockton,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. Robert G. Stone,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. James J. Storrow, jr.,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. D. H. Strachan,
New York, N. Y.
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Mr. Robert A. Stranahan,
Toledo, Ohio.

Mr. Silas H. Strawn,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr. Alvah G. Strong,
Rochester, N.. Y.

Mrs. Hattie M. Strong,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Walter A. Strong,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr. W. G. Stuber,
Rochester, N. Y.

Mr. Clement Studebaker, jr.,

Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Ernest Sturm,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles L. Sturtevant,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Samuel B. Sutphin,
Indianapolis, Ind.
Mr. R. O. Sweezey,
Montreal, Canada.
Countess Laszlo Szechenyi,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Edgar W. Tait,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mr. Ralph L. Talbot,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Mr. Gerard P. Tameling,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Edmund C. Tarbell,
New Castle, N. H.
Mr. Charles H. Taylor,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. Harden F. Taylor,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Myron C. Taylor,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Daniel G. Tenney,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Alton T. Terrell,
Ansonia, Conn.

Mr. Arthur Van Rensselear Thompson,

New York, N. Y.

Mr. George W. Thompson,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. John R. Thompson, jr.,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr. Ralph E. Thompson,
Boston, Mass.

Mrs. William Reed Thompson,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mr. 8S. C. Thomson,
New York, N. Y.
Made Covihorn,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Francis B. Thorne,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. Edward C. Tillman,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles H. Titchener,
Binghamton, N. Y.
Mr. Frederick M. Tobin,
Rochester, N. Y.
Mr. Roy EH. Tomlinson,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Charles H. Tompkins,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. John H. Towne,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. J. Barton Townsend,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Dr. Raynham Townshend,
New Haven, Conn.
Mr. Ernest B. Tracy,
New York, N. Y.
Dr. William Howard Treat,
Derby, Conn.
Mr. J. C. Trees,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Gen. Harry C. Trexler,
Allentown, Pa.
Mr. George F. Trommer,
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mr. Albert O. Trostel,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Mr. Calvin Truesdale,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Regino Truffin,
Habana, Cuba.
Mr. Carll Tucker,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Herbert G. Tully,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. George Tyson,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. Ernest Uehlinger,
New York, N. Y.

University of Buffalo,
Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Robert M. Thompson (2 subscrip-

tions), - (Presented by Mr. Jesse R. Porter, es
John C. Trefts, Mr. J. G. Jackson, Mr.
New York, N. Y. Taylor, and Mr. August Keiser.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Mr. Alvin Untermyer,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. George P. Urban,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. George Urquhart,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. Ray A. Van Clief,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Frederick W. Vanderbilt,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. William H. Vanderbilt,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. S. H. Vandergrift,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. H. A. Van Norman,
Los Angeles, Calif.,
Mr. John A. Vassilaros,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. S. M. Vauclain,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Albert L. Vits,
Manitowoc, Wis.
Mr. Ludwig Vogelstein,
New York, N. Y.
Mrs. James W. Wadsworth, jr.,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. George E. Waesche,
New York, N. Y.
Major Ennalls Waggaman,
Washington, D. C.
Mr. N. Erik Wahlberg,
Kenosha, Wis.
Mr. Sidney S. Walcott,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Mr. Elisha Walker,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Harrington E. Walker (2 subscrip-

tions),
Detroit, Mich.
Mr. Mahlon B. Wallace,
St. Louis, Mo.
Mr. Thomas J. Walsh,
New York, N. Y.
Mr. C. O. Wanvig,
Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. Herbert Ward,
London, England.
Mr. Bayard Warren,
Boston, Mass.
Mr. W. Vv. A. Waterman,
Albany, N. Y.

Mr. Horton Watkins,
St. Louis, Mo.

Mr. James 8. Watson,
Rochester, N. Y.

Mr. Thomas John Watson,
New York, N. Y.

Dr. W. Lee Weadon,
Bridgeport, Conn.

Mr. Niel A. Weathers,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. George T. Webb,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. William X. Weed,
White Plains, N. Y.

Mr. J. Borton Weeks,
Chester, Pa.

Mrs. Laura R. Wells,
Washington, D. C.

Mr. George S. West,
Boston, Mass.

Mr. Richard Wetherill,
Chester, Pa.

Mr. F. O. Wetmore,
Chicago, Ill.

Mr. John W. Wheeler, jr.,
Bridgeport, Conn.

Mr. Albert C. Whitaker,
Wheeling, W. Va.

Mr. Harry C. Whitaker,
Wheeling, W. Va.

Mr. F. Edson White,
Chicago, Ill.

Col. Frank White,
Chattanooga, Tenn.

Mr. Lazarus White,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Thomas W. White,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Norman de R. Whitehouse,

New York, N. Y.

Mr. W. R. Whiteside,
Tulsa, Okla.

Mr. George A. Whiting,
Neenah, Wis.

Mr. George Whitney,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Howard F. Whitney, jr.,
New York, N. Y.

Mr. Matthew P. Whittall,
Worcester, Mass.

Mr. Philip J. Wickser,
Buffalo, N. Y.

143
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

. Edward Wigglesworth,

Boston, Mass.

. Milo W. Wilder, jr.,

Newark, N. J.

*, Howard L. Wilkins,

Washington, D. C.

. Blair 8. Williams,

New York, N. Y.

. Charles B. Williams,

New York, N. Y.

. George M. Williams,

Indianapolis, Ind.

*. J. Ferrand Williams,

Detroit, Mich.

. William H. Williams,

New York, N. Y.

. Luther M. R. Willis,

Baltimore, Md.

. Joseph Wilshire,

New York, N. Y.

. John G. Wilshusen,

New York, N. Y.

’, James T. Wilson,

Kenosha, Wis.

*, John G. Winant,

Coneord, N. H.

r, William E. Winchester,

New York, N. Y.

. George A. Winsor,

New York, N. Y.

. Benjamin Wood,

New York, N. Y.

Mr.

Chalmers Wood,
New York, N. Y.

*. Howard O. Wood, jr.,

New York, N. Y.

. Charles H. Woodhull,

Washington, D. C.

. Frank A. Woods,

Holyoke, Mass.,

*, George C. Woolf,

New York, N. Y.

. Clarence M. Woolley,

New York, N. Y.

r, Beverly Lyon Worden,

New York, N. Y.

. George F. Wright,

Worcester, Mass.

. Max Wulfsohn,

New York, N. Y.

*, Rudolph H. Wurlitzer,

Cincinnati, Ohio.

*. Thomas N. Wynne,

Indianapolis, Ind.

. James Wyper,

Hartford, Conn.

. Frederic L. Yeager,

New York, N. Y.

*, Fred W. Young,

Boston, Mass.

*, Christian B. Zabriskie,

New York, N. Y.

. Robert P. Zobel,

New York, N. Y.
REPORT OF,,.[HE .EXECUTIVE,.,COMMITTEE ..ORy. THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1929

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution to-
gether with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the
Government bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8 shillings

6 pence—$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecu-

tion of the claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with pay-

ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015 which had been with-

held during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the

fund! to-the amount Of: BeO ak eee ea REATAEE SER ARR) Sant Oe $550, 000. 00
Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts

from various sources, the income from which may be used for

the general work of the Institution to the amount of________-- 259, 184. 39
Total original endowments for general purposes__________ 809, 184. 39
Capital gains from investment of savings from income__________ 207, 796. 11
Capital gains from sales, stock dividends, ete__-_______________ 5, 405. 25
Present total of endowment for general purposes_______- 1, 022, 385. 75

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested and
stand on the books of the Institution as follows:

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to in-

vestigate fauna of countries other than the United States____ $50, 000. 00
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird_, 1, 000. 00
Canfield collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield col-

HLS CUT OTD Os, TIM TT Chel 1 Se cay see eee Me BE As DI ce ges 46, 232. 86
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of Casey collection and

promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera_______________ 3, 000. 00
Chamberlain, Frances Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collections of gems and mollusks___________-______ 35, 000. 00
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact

knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air_ 100, 000. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove----_---_-----_--- 9, 021. 93

145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works

of art for the use of and benefit of the National Gallery of Art__ $18, 267. 91
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane

Pell COUMSCELOI Ee eS Se ar Nee ee es 3, 000. 00
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Insti-

tution when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000__-_-----_ 24, 5384. 92
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory

OL ASH er MTS eae bed FET eee dE a ee 9, 494. 50
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling

Collection Of PMmINneal Saw kena ee ee ee ee ne ee 150, 000. 00
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and

THY GP Gh ype Medd loet LN AUNLSUe OIC OeE Momo es ONES) OE LN ie se ae ee 30, 000. 00

Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing

TESUDES: MERC OL oes eee aie sage pore aan ace eae ek 11, 520. 00

Younger Helen Walcott, sung helade ini GS has ee 49, 812. 50
Total original endowments for specific purposes other

Chany Weer ve a Oyyrry Ciba Se ae ee ae eee aren 540, 884. 62

Capital gains from investment of sayings from income__________ 65, 586. 11

Capital gains from stock dividends, sales, ete., of Securities______ 19, 532. 97

Excluding Freer endowment, total present endowment for

SDECIAC WPULDOSCS-s2 et a aed a ee al ed 626, 003. 70
Freer Gallery of Art fund, for expenses of gallery J
(original endowment) qe eee $1, 958, 591. 42
Capital gains from investment of savings from
ATU OTC ak yo its og a elt oe al tl ht Ea 398, 778. 71
Capital gains from stock dividends, sales, ete.,
Of SCCURIGICSH S00 pent a ke 2, 878, 683. 89
Total Freer endowment for specific purposes____________ 5, 236, 054. 02
Total endowment for specific purposes_______-_____---___ 5, 862, 057. 72
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes__-__-________________ 1, 022, 385. 75
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
end OWwInentotac ye RN Ee eee 626, 003. 70
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment____ 1, 648, 389. 45
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_-___--------__ 5, 236, 054. 02
Total investedend owment.4A see Swe eee 6, 884, 443. 47

Classification of investments

Deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 per cent per annum,
as authorized in United States Revised Statutes, section 5591_ $1, 000, 000. 00
Invested in approved securities as follows:
Investments other than Freer endowment—

Baa 6 Spates en rte posse eg mate wi hn wee fe Toole GUE OO
FSH OC ese io ad aa ellen ict 264, 988. 45

Real estate first-mortgage notes_________ 21, 500. 00
—_ 648, 389. 45

Total investments other than Freer endowment__-__--- 1, 648, 389. 45
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 147

Invested in approved securities—Continued.
Investments of Freer endowment—

Bondst&200 ta). Tess tare ot $2, 785, 000. 34
Sto@k suis 2 oo) 8 a a ee De a 2, 360, 553. 68

Real estate first-mortgage notes_________ 90, 500. 00
—________——. $5, 236, 054. 02

Ota INVES CNUs see eke ke eee Se eee 6, 884, 443. 47

Income from investments for present year

On $1,000,000 deposited in United States Treasury at 6 per cent__ $60, 000. 00

On $648,389.45 invested in stocks and bonds other than Freer en-
aowmentate4 sdasperxcentia. 2.) Sas tere Oe Fo Se 30, 582. 77
Total income other than Freer endowment___--------__-- 90, 582. 77

FREER ENDOWMENT

On $5,236,054.02 invested in stocks, bonds, ete., at about 5.39
jae ree CYS 01 we ee eee ar EE ee ae ee ee eee 282, 435. 138

Nota ancomecfr OMe iV CS LIN ELIS ae m= a ee eee care eer een 373, 017. 90
Statement of the annual income of the Institution from all sources *

Wash balance on handy june 305 1928s. en eee $238, 369. 41
Receipts :
Cash from invested endowments and from mis-
cellaneous sources for general use of the

TOUS ETE Oa a tl een nent lt ne Spt $61, 309. 56
Cash for increase of endowments for specific

UT SS Co pee ers Fe Se a ee ee 3, 000. 00
Cash for increase of endowments for general

TT SS es aa eS i ee 6, 535. 00

Cash gifts for specific use (not to be invested)_ 50,111. 01
Cash received as royalties from sales of Smith-

SOMIAMISCIEILINCISCLLCS = eee 14, 454. 01
Cash gain from sale, ete., of securities (to be
ANIVIESTEC)) Rees eee ee ee 22, 944. 95

Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment, and from mis-

SEllaneGUs. SOULCCS==— 2-2 Le to eee. 82, 425. 70
Total receipts other than Freer endowment___-------_-_ 240, 780. 23
Cash income from Freer endowment—
Income from"investments22 2-2 se Fee 282, 435. 13
Gain from sale, ete., of securities (to be
TUT SIS) HELO Uy oS oc a pa eet ca 940, 476. 80
1, 222, 911. 93
A EY cee [= aR ORNS Bid SORE ae MOEN eb I ie Wh BS RN Pew 1, 702, 061. 57

1This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.

2Under resolution of the Board of Regents, three-fourths of this income is credited
to the permanent endowment fund of the Institution and one-fourth is made expendable
for general purposes,

§2322—30——11
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

Disbursements:
General work of the Institution—

Buildings—care, repair, and alteration____ $11, 564. 59
Hurnitureyan da xtures] 2s ee 746. 06
General administration *________--________ 20, 652. 66
J DID OF EW ah pecans eget ts ema en Mee NI St 3, 006. 55
Publications (comprising preparation, print-

Ing, And | GIStEID Ubon) S22 ee eee 16, 865. 75
Researches and explorations______-___-___ 13.40%, 11
International exchanges_2- =) 22ers 7, 921. 67

Funds for specific use other than Freer endow-
ment—

Investments made from gifts, from gain
from sales, etc., of securities, and from

Savings on incomes sass eee 51, 860. 45
Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, increase and care of
special collections, etc., from income of
endowment funds and eash gifts for

SDE CHIC USC Soe Sees eee ee pee 113, 498. 06

Freer endowment—
Operating expenses of gallery, salaries,
purchases of art objects, field expenses,

Git cient ee ae NY oe, at ae 287, 679. 63
Investments made from gain from sale, etc.,
of securities and from income___-------- 957, 564. 76

Expenditures for researches in pure science, explorations, care,
study of collections, etc.

Expenditures from general endowment:
J eTUNOVN Ges E01 dys} sks ae ORES pve a Set Nei bi CL Je aia eae A lctahl $16, 865. 75
Researches and explorations__________________ 13, 707. 11

Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:

Researches and explorations, ete_______________. $67, 955. 19
Care, increase and study of special collections___ 18, 078. 97
1 2 005 DV GESY Bric) 0 peers pe ay a em alr UEC gS yO a POS 16, 829. 59
Purchase of specialalibraryos eee ae 3, 500. 00

Eg Seo [ SA aS PrP RN ERD PtP MOAI all Wome SOMME! 2

®* This includes salaries of the secretary and certain others

$74, 464 39

165, 358. 51

1, 245, 244. 39
216, 994. 28

1, 702, 061. 57

increase, and

$30, 572. 86

106, 363. 75

136, 936. 61
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

149

Table showing growth of endowment funds of the Smithsonian Institution

Year

Endowment for
general work
of the Institu-
tion, being orig-
inal Smithson
bequest, gifts
from other

Endowment
for specifie re-
searches, etc.,
including in-
vested savings

Freer gift for
construction of
Freer Gallery
of Art Building |i

sources, and in- of income
vested savings
of income

S702 000K O04 eee eae
802, 000. 00 $101, 000. 00
852, 000. 00 101, 000. 00
877, 000. 00 102, 000. 00
885, 807. 58 111, 692. 42
885, 807. 58 116, 692. 42
886, 084. 02 143, 515. 98
887. 607. 08 160, 527. 30
887, 830. 00 164, 304. 38

2 883, 867. 00 176, 157. 38
884, 305. 00 190, 489. 38
884, 747. 00 198, 149. 02
884, 933. 74 272, 538. 31
886, 107. 14 291, 858. 14
886, 246. 14 306, 524. 14
886, 373. 31 319, 973. 19
886, 769. 73 338, 136. 77
886, 830. 13 342, 876. 37
886, 877. 79 498, 401. 96
929, 068. 21 665, 233. 29
51, 022, 385. 75 626, 003. 70

Freer bequest

for operation of

Freer Gallery
of Art,
neluding sala-
ries, care, etc.

$1, 253, 004. 75
1, 842, 144. 75
4 3, 296, 574. 75
3, 401, 355. 42
3, 459, 705. 34
3, 714, 361. 23
4, 171, 880. 61
4, 268, 244. 26
5, 236, 054. 02

1 Original endowment plus income from savings during these years.
2 Loss on account of bonds reduced on books from par to market value. !
3 Cash from sale of 2,000 shares of Parke, Davis & Co. stock, including dividends, and interest on gift

of $1,000,000.

‘In this year Parke, Davis & Co. declared 100 per cent stock dividend.

5 Increase largely from funds transferred from specific endowment column and income released for genera

work of the Institution.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, JUNE 30, 1929

ASSETS

Stocks and bonds at acquirement value:

CWonsolVe ated’ frum Ce ee ee $557, 056. 95
Freer, bequest... .-.--____.__/ - ae ee 5, 236, 054. 02
Springer’ um Wl oe ee eee 30, 000. 00
VWWeICOLE TE ce Aes eesi sine y ese see nee en ee 11, 520. 00
Younger -fund2n. =) 0000 J00 . Le Ge 49, $12. 50

Ue-S-Ereasury-.depositiz= 82 200 Dit: 1 Be ae oe
Miscellaneous, principally funds advanced for printing publica-
tions and field expenses (to be repaid) —_-___-__-_____________-

Cash:
Funds in U. 8. Treasury and in banks__-______ $216, 394. 28
Onghand for petty transacvionsa2e-= = 600. 00

LIABILITIES

Freer bequest, capital accounts:

Couch aAnadr SLOun GS. Lun set ecceeeen seem eee enE ee $574, 524. 12
Court and grounds maintenance fund________ 148, 112. 53
Guarralio raphe ltt has ye ee tt ee fey 596, 301. 18
Residuanyaestatestunde sae. sae ee ee 3, 917, 116. 19

Consolidated; fund capital accountss 22 ee ee
Springer fund seanitaliec: 22.2 2 ve De ee eee
AVY 7s! CO tyre CLS SAT a ee SE ee a
VOUN Serre hUna Ge FC eT ed a = es a cee a ge
WS breasuryageposit} capitals. 2 eee ee
Freer bequest, current accounts:

Court andssrounds fund = 22 eee 58, 042. 28
Court and grounds maintenance fund__________ 10, 311. 88
COUR G Teoma ee Ee ee oe Bee 27, 984. 66
Residuanrys estate undeetee se eee 57, 367. 52

SS POESH TD Tee Ch STATS TNT 64 CG UU TN pee
WM Cea HR TOG POU h RMR Cot ae 8 ee es A
VAGUE TH VaLG ELD eta VECO UM ey es
Miscellaneous cash accounts held by the Institution for the most

PATS POT SP COTE Cs TAS Cs se EE

$5, 884, 443. 47
1, 000, 000. 00

36, 527. 11

216, 994. 28

7, 137, 964. 86

$5, 236, 054. 02
557, 056. 95
30, 000. 00

11, 520. 00

49, 812. 50

1, 000, 000. 00

153, 706. 34
849. 93

1, 365. 00
217. 50

97, 382. 62

7, 137, 964. 86

All payments are made by check, signed by the secretary of the

Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and

all revenues

are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

150

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 151

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven satisfactory. During the year the interest derived from
this source, together with similar items, has resulted in a total of
$5,631.82.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Smith-
sonian Institution. The following is a statement of the congres-
sional appropriations for the past 10 years, for the support of the
several governmental branches under the administrative control of
the Institution and of appropriations for other special purposes
during that period.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

152

*“Ainseel], 894819 peziugQ Aq posingsip spuny pue 4oe,1yoIy BuIstAsodng Aq ouop HOA t
*sostodxo PUB SoliB[es 10J UOIWeIIdoidde Ul papNypoUt st W194T SITY ZBI IOV +

“spiiq Joy SaIppNg ¢
“purl [PUONIPPY ¢
“dOrnynsuy

UvITOSY}IMIS 94} JOspuny 9yvAlId Aq poqyioddns useq peyoun STU} 0} dn yor ‘W01e4s UBoTIYO 94] JO Sosuadxo 91} JO aRd SUIUINSSY JUIUIUIIAOH 0} ONp uOIyeIIdoidde Ul eseerdUy 1

ey 00 009 ‘Z8$ — |-------=-----~| 00 000 ‘¢6 00 ‘89 ‘TE 00 ‘000 ‘08 « 00 ‘020 ‘281 ODNOOONOBS ign CEES 8 ie Go ae ae Sees Tan pee ees Soa aren eee OCT
oe eae a ek > Spee = 00 008 ‘2 + 00 ‘000 ‘06 00 998 ‘08 00 000 ‘G2 ¢ OOROODE SLT: 2 Freee a Po Sa gene nee re OC OT
ast a | oe ee 00 ‘000 ‘9 00 ‘000 ‘06 COSI R ENG, <= eo os ts eae ROU RAOIEBLT a [222 <3. pal asescr oe opts se Sasa ne oes See eee eee CT
een ee || ae 00 000 ‘9 00 000 ‘06 00 “820 ‘IZ Pees 00 “000 ‘LT aie Sees EOE CR nae Mire ae OER” sooo Se ee 9261
OOT009 Sosa. |" an as ae 00 000 ‘9$ 00 ‘000 06 OORSSTMOZ) ba |e orc tes OOSASPEIGI> Vir e. 2S as aro arnt a or cage ae a pee ee S261
Sear rae il > eee Ie ae. 00 ‘00F ‘22 DONOOD; ODS = Hie Se NOODOOISE: PSST ge eae a es a ee eT
oe eee i oe abou BS 00 00% ‘22$ 00 000 ‘ST Reni oe TLOOROOOL IGE [ao = ecco 5 ae Sep as ge ag pee a oe ROTH T
emia aemees = akan pec leehe  P e 00 000 ‘ST 00 ‘008 Z ¢ QONDOOSGGE: - S\F 52 Sie Pa eee ee ee Sr ee ae COAT
~  Le oelt a Se Seas [ie pa (een 00 ‘000 ‘ST$ 00 000 ‘08$ z 00 000 ‘¢21 ne Sosa a eel ee SU wn ke Peet eT a eI
SE ES Sn ee a | en ae ce a QOFO0O STS: oe ae a ae ep a ee ge ae ak or eee OCT
| _suIpring
Areqo1 yieg yiedg eres .
m01400401d e1y} sasuedxe 90 SuIpulq 41V JO Als] AIOYSIFT [BAN
-09G JUBISISSY E ;| [B0Is0[00Z 103) [vorsojooz | - Iva

[BUolIpPpy | pue solreleg [euonIppy pues suyjUTIg [BH [vUOIeN [euOlIppy [euoneN aapeneie
i ne ore 00 "928 ‘989 ieee tae een | OOKO0T CE 00 09% ‘2 00 000 ‘oz$ 00 ‘008 ‘09 00 ‘802 ‘8% [ae oe ee es, Wee eee a Se eS Le See A!
SOS Se aegee: 00 096 ‘909 --"--" "=" -=77"| 00 090 ‘ze 00 092 ‘2 Eamneenae mann | O0LOCLESo OO;S9S0P- iene See sec ae ae eae ee ae se See seer mm COT
o- quae oe COKOCS 909 = mentees cn censa| OONOST “Te 00 ‘009 ‘2 oe | GNU Bs 00 092 ‘9F ee ae eS es darts ea eee ae ee COL
ee ee 00 268 “FSS = | ---7 7777777] 00 O8T ‘Tet 00 000 ‘8 Riise ae aes OU OS TELS 00 092 ‘9F eae es ee ee a so ee eee ee OOP
ee ee ee 00 "262 ‘LS Raat So 00 ‘08S ‘1 99 ‘198 ‘8 pce tamee ncn LOONODTELS: 00 ‘099 ‘6F Se ae Se Se ann E 6 pn sy ae Pe ee ERC COT
RS 00 ‘000 STF 00 “FOL ZIT 00 009 ST 00 ‘009 2 Ellen: Seo ues HOOMO00REY. 00 000 ‘¢F eee EN eee ee el ee oe eee LOL
2 bee aoe ee 00 ‘0¢I SIF 00 40 ‘601$ | 00 009 ‘ST 00 ‘008 2 be sass |NOOKO00RFY, 00 000 $F feo ae ee ee ee Oe i ee ee eS cee ma |S
See ee OSSD Grae ia Peano na 00 ‘00S ‘ST 00 ‘008 2 ie wie eee | ROOKOOOSOF, 00 ‘000 0g pee ay A a ee em ee oe CLOD
Nine mere aa OO; OGL G1i a | Sate ae oe 00 000 &T OONO0SE LE fe 3 | (Gri 2a eee 00 000 ‘FF OO; 000) 09 Sail ee a ae ee ee ee eee 1261
00 ‘000 FI$ OO {009 Z88Se a ses ae +00 ‘000 ‘ET$ QOKOO S25) |e asim 00 000 ‘ZF QONOOONS§S | See Sige ea eS a eee ee eee 0261

suIpiing 91Nje194T

4yelolly mmmesnyy jwonesmedur0d) A10jzBAIESqO | OYIQUAI0g ee ee AsojouyyW | sasuvyoxgq 1e0

surddinbs [BUoyeN JO osverDUT |[voIsAydosy| Jo enZojeyeO p AT? Senet URdIJOULY | [BUOTJVUIOJUT A

pure survey [euo1yeuI070T 4 0

UOLNIYSUT UDIUOSYPIWY ay) fo 2409 aY} 07 pajsn4qur ‘sivah OT 18D] ay} Bursnp ssasbuoy fq apow suoynrsdosddn ay} Burmoys 2190,
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 153

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed

below.
OcTOBER 2, 1929.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: We have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1929, and certify the balance of cash
on hand June 30, 1929, to be $216,994.28.

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during
the year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary or, in his absence,
of the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged
were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in con-
nection with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

Respectfully submitted.

Capital AvupIT Co.,
WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.
Frepertc A. DELANo,
R. Watton Moore,
J. C. Merriam,
Executive Committee.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
ENDED JUNE: (3071929

ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 13, 1928

Present: Chief Justice Wiliam H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair;
Vice President Charles G. Dawes, Senator Joseph T. Robinson,
Representative Albert Johnson, Representative R. Walton Moore,
Representative Walter H. Newton, Mr. Frederic A. Delano, Hon.
Irwin B. Laughlin, Hon. Dwight W. Morrow, Hon. Charles E.
Hughes, Dr. John C. Merriam, and the secretary, Dr. C. G. Abbot.
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, was also present.

Mr. Delano offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1930, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended
by the secretary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full dis-
cretion on the part of the secretary as to items.

The secretary presented his printed annual report, and then
touched briefly upon a number of important matters that he con-
sidered worthy of the board’s attention.

The annual report of the National Gallery of Art Commission was
presented, and the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby
approves the recommendation of the National Gallery of Art Commission that
Daniel Chester French, John EB. Lodge, James Parmelee, and Edward W. Red-
field be reelected as members of the commission for the ensuing term of four
years, their present terms having expired.

Mr. Delano presented a statement regarding the lands occupied
by the Institution and regarding its financial needs.

After a full discussion of the matter of an insecticide patent pre
sented to the Institution, the board referred it to the permanent
committee for consideration.

The Secretary announced the receipt of $3,500 from Mrs. E. H.
Harriman, to be applied to the purchase of the William Healey Dall
library for presentation to the Institution under the title “ The
Harriman Alaskan Library,” and the following resolution was
adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution be conveyed to Mrs. E. H. Harriman for her generous gift of $3,500

for the purchase of the library of the late Dr. William Healey Dall and its
presentation to the Institution under the title ‘‘ The Harriman Alaskan Library.”

154
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 155

MEETING OF FEBRUARY 14, 1929

Present: Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair;
Vice President Charles G. Dawes, Senator Reed Smoot, Senator
Joseph T. Robinson, Senator Claude A. Swanson, Representative
R. Walton Moore, Mr. Frederic A. Delano, Mr. Irwin B. Laughlin,
and the secretary, Dr. C. G. Abbot. Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assist-
ant secretary, was also present.

The Secretary announced that the President had approved the
joint resolution of Congress reappointing Mr. Delano and Mr.
Laughlin as citizen regents for the ensuing statutory term of six
years from January 22, 1929.

The Secretary submitted a list of gifts made to the Institution
since the last meeting.

Mr. Delano brought up the matter of the proposed contract
transferring to the Research Corporation the promotion of the in-
secticide patent presented to the Institution. Under the terms of the
contract, the Research Corporation assumes complete responsibility
for the commercial development of the patent, the Institution re-
ceiving a fixed percentage of the returns as royalty. After a full dis-
cussion the board voted to approve the contract.

Assistant Secretary Wetmore presented a tentative program for
necessary additional buildings for the Smithsonian Institution.

SPECIAL MEETING OF MAY 7, 1929

Present: Chief Justice William H. Taft, chancellor, in the chair;
Senator Reed Smoot, Senator Joseph T. Robinson, Representative
R. Walton Moore, Mr. Robert S. Brookings, Mr. Frederic <A.
Delano, Mr. Irwin B. Laughlin, Dr. John C. Merriam, and the
secretary, Dr. C. G. Abbot. Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant
secretary, was also present.

The secretary announced that on March 4 last Mr. Dawes auto-
matically ceased to be a regent by the expiration of his term as
Vice President, and that upon his inauguration, Vice President
Charles Curtis became a regent ex officio. The secretary added that
on April 26 the Vice President had appointed Senator Claude A.
Swanson as a regent to succeed himself.

The secretary reported on the progress made in issuing the vol-
umes of the Smithsonian Scientific Series, exhibiting copies of the
first four volumes of the James Smithson Memorial Edition, and
stating that the publishers were presenting a complete set of this
edition to the Institution.

The secretary brought up the offer of the art collection of Mr. John
Gellatly, which had been made through Mr. Gari Melchers, chair-
man of the National Gallery of Art Commission, and which had
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

been favorably considered both by the permanent committee and
by the commission.
After discussion the following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, That on the basis of the recommendation of the National Gallery
of Art Commission expressed through the resolution adopted April 18, 1929, the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have examined the offer of Mr.
John Gellatly relating to the proposed gift of his art collection as expressed in
letters to Mr. Gari Melchers, chairman of the National Gallery of Art Commis-
sion, under dates of March 27 and March 30, 1929, and the board approves
in principle the acceptance of this offer. The secretary is hereby requested to
convey to Mr. Gellatly the sense of appreciation with which the board learns
of this generous offer.

Resolved, That the board hereby refers the furtherance of the matter to the
permanent committee with full power to act.

Senator Robinson, on behalf of the legal committee on the Freer
will and gift, submitted its report on the interpretation of the terms
of the Freer will.

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1929

157
ap Fctocy cievey an eeu bai &
syn i ch a ASN
ron), Sento datin iE eal BE ghey ayer

Aoietialye: the, adcentnrete ni thle often. boul mba

eae dy aie tes, MATE: CMe Bate
tit thin Wendeuew ey

avis, Bias ks hward hensiy ania ie
PRERMALINAe poamON Te es ELL ipeerre ale wh

‘iecatee Bubignan, wo ——

Pi we caret win Sywes mr wtnwe a yes ay CAs Seem.

te ae ‘
oe eer ee

ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the GrnERAL APPENDIX to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol-
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology,
and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not alto-
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report

for 1929.
159
| xdobear eaoiteyitzevat to whoqer ;aqoltoeth taliviizay ni y8¥O

1 1
a he
hoe ; ye Ur ae A an if
i } / Wis i yl y (ae i)
TAME EY Ok i “a

eld Yo, troqadl Laud, al! of xsavianahs ere ts) oilt Yo roi ol i
-8ib, sitittreing to etaioones tohid, dai? of ak noitutient usinoedtiee@

roivaiids Laney 2 Jo ation baw smobadivaal ods le eotstodalas ©
atrornnisio ont oF sitlay 1 deisial To ove ted? estat fsiooqa a6 mene
 .webndéteal od alaabaogenra
edi to ehieysH Yo bisoll edt to dnajdo Yassimong @ geod ead HI)
lusamn of} doisce of otuh vies yey « mort mololbedt avivoad sian
arom od} geilanenlli cinnamon diy wal yd ciadd to. bosiipet Homet
fnoigolnid bas lacisedg ai aimomqoloveh tadtrogmt bia oldestanet
amoitaraqo od! lo tatowtarig loseneg odt gaiwords ey Mow aa eT OTR
Bi? yeroteid wi io neq medaery od? eeiioh Ube ;noltuditant edt to?
argquq dove to notasildug adt yd vlagzal juro berrian aesd aad SL: a
odatgorg sfitueior yd batosssia lla ot dearsiat 18 eeseeog bldow ae
“me lesions oa lo songunitadoail odt yd ttaq av hoodbat 08eh ate
vd boveet naed hart qeuoivetq esioy O8 tod doitw aertgorq to yma
40 eshies & bed yrateioee od .2rri yoideildog stevive oe .
ad} yloztonos guiwore oisodsios tanegmaos yd Boxagqeng etoatieda
‘loo Yitonover ai resnyyiq oiiiaehse doyost lo asides) bitsaionE
rtgoloos ~ynetod .vsolewnint .yaimads aieadq ‘aolantate Tae
‘-Oila. dor ee bounitaoy 2aw valq r9ttal eilT sedloqotdine baal
8881 xe9¢ od paibuloni has of meob “uinotewiaine sod og

to Seiison qilrag act of shart saw muerte 0881 wi diogat odt BL
“fgito tod to anxoz) eisqaq to coltosles evoonalieaaim » git apasrey
bie noiiayitesr at viliiaetoe to agaer sldarebieioo » gaiderdaie (fan)

drogert tasesrg oft si bevnitaoe nood ead bodteat sidT sian
REOT wok”

sg

ea!
THE PHYSICS OF THE UNIVERSE’

By Sir JamMes JEAns, Sec. R. S.

The ancients were for the most part content to regard the universe
as a theatre which had been specially constructed for the drama of
human life. Men, and even the gods that man had created in his
own image, came, lived, and disappeared after strutting their tiny
hour upon a stage to which the eternal hills and the unchanging
heavens formed a permanent background. While some thought
was given to the birth of the universe, and its creation or emergence
from chaos, very few thought of it as living its life and passing from
birth to death in the same way as a man or a tree passes from birth to
death.

In modern times the idea of secular change crept into the picture.
Geologists began to study the earth as a changing structure, and
astronomers to give thought to the evolution of the stars, recognizing
them as bodies which are born, live their lives of gradual change, and
finally die. But the ultimate constituents of the universe, the atoms,
were still supposed to be immune from change. The hypothesis
that all matter consisted of permanent, indivisible, and unchangeable
atoms, which had been advanced so far back as the fifth century
B. C. by Leucippus and Democritus, remained practically unshaken
until the end of the nineteenth century. The ageing of the universe
was supposed to amount to nothing more than a rearrangement of
indestructible units which were themselves incapable of any sort of
change or decay. Like a child’s box of wooden bricks, the atoms
made many buildings in turn.

ATOMIC CHANGES

Then Crookes, Lenard, and, above all, Sir J. J. Thomson, began
to break up the atom. The bricks of the universe which had been
deemed unbreakable for more than 2,000 years were suddenly shown
to be very susceptible to having fragments chipped off; a milestone
was reached in 1895, when Sir. J. J. Thomson showed that these

1 The first Henry Herbert Wills Memorial Lecture of the University of Bristol, delivered at the University
on Oct. 30. Reprinted by permission from Supplement to Nature, Nov. 3, 1928.

161
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

fragments were identical, no matter what type of atom they came
from; they were of equal mass, and they carried equal negative charges
of electricity, and so were called electrons. Two years later, Lorentz’s
explanation of the newly discovered Zeeman effect provided evidence
that the moving parts in atomic interiors were precisely similar
electrons.

The series of researches so initiated were, after a few years, coordi-
nated in the Rutherford view of atomic structure, which supposed the
chemical properties and nature of the atom to reside in an excessively
minute central nucleus carrying a positive charge of electricity,
about which the negatively charged electrons described wide orbits.
By clearing a space around the central nucleus, and so preventing other
atoms from coming too near, these electronic orbits gave size to the
atom. The volume of space kept clear by the electrons is enormously
greater than the total volume of the electrons; roughly, the ratio of
volumes is that of the battlefield to the bullets. The atom, with a
radius of about 2 107° cm., has about 100,000 times the dimensions,
and so about 10 times the volume, of a single electron, of which the
radius is about 2107 cm. In all probability the nucleus is even
smaller than the electrons. The number of orbital electrons in an
atom is called the atomic number of the atom; it ranges from unity in
hydrogen, the lightest and simplest of atoms, to 92 in uranium, which
is the most massive and complex atom known.

Simultaneously with this, physical science was discovering that
the nuclei themselves were neither permanent nor indestructible.
In 1896, Becquerel had found that uranium salts had the remark-
able property, as it then appeared, of spontaneously affecting pho-
tographic plates in their vicinity. This observation led to the dis-
covery of a new property of matter, namely, radioactivity, and all
the results obtained in the next few years were coordinated in the
hypothesis of spontaneous disintegration advanced by Rutherford
and Soddy in 1903, according to which radioactivity indicates a
spontaneous break-up of the atomic nuclei. So far from the atoms
being permanent and indestructible, their very nuclei were now seen
to crumble away with the mere lapse of time, so that what was once
the nucleus of a uranium atom was transformed, after sufficient time,
into the nucleus of a lead atom, and eight a-particles, which are the
nuclei of helium atoms. Radiation is given off in the process, the
radiation that affected Becquerel’s photographic plates, and so led
to the detection of the radioactive property of matter.

With the unimportant exceptions of potassium and rubidium, the
property of radioactivity occurs only in the most complex and mas-
sive of atoms, being indeed limited to those of atomic numbers above
83. Yet, although the lighter atoms are not liable to spontaneous
PHYSICS OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 163

disintegration in the same way as the heavy radioactive atoms, the
nuclei of these also are of composite structure, and can be broken up
by artificial means. In 1920, Rutherford succeeded in breaking up
the nuclei of atoms of oxygen and nitrogen by bombarding them with
swiftly moving a-particles.

The success of this experiment led to the hypothesis, which has
not yet been established beyond all possibility of doubt, that the
whole universe is built up of only two kinds of ultimate bricks, namely,
electrons and protons. Each proton carries a positive charge which
is exactly equal in amount to the negative charge carried by an
electron. The protons are supposed to be identical with the nucleus
of the hydrogen atom; all other nuclei are supposed to consist of
closely packed structures of protons and electrons.

In addition to containing material electrons and protons, the atom
contains yet a third ingredient, namely, electromagnetic energy.
Modern electromagnetic theory shows that all radiation carries mass
about with it, one gram of mass being associated with 9 x 10” ergs or
2.15 X10 calories of radiation. As a*necessary consequence, any
substance which is emitting radiation must also be losing mass; the
spontaneous disintegration of any radioactive substance involves a
spontaneous decrease of weight. The ultimate fate of a gram of
uranium may be expressed by the equation:

0.8653 gm. lead.
1 gram uranium =j0.1345 gm. helium.
0.0002 gm. radiation.

Stated in a very general form, the phenomenon of radioactivity
may be described as a transformation of material mass into radiation
or, to put it slightly differently, as the liberation of radiation by the
destruction of material mass. Where 4,000 gm. of matter originally
existed, only 3,999 gm. now remain, the remaining gram having
gone off in the form of radiation.

Yet, the 3,999 gm. of lead and helium contain precisely the same
protons and electrons as the original 4,000 gm. of uranium; we may
then. say that the 4,000 gm. of uranium ‘consisted of these electrons
and protons together with 1 gm. of bottled-up electromagnetic
energy which has since escaped in the form of radiation.

So far as terrestrial experience goes, this dissolution of mass into
radiation is entirely a one-way process. Terrestrial rocks provide
abundant evidence of uranium having continuously broken up into
lead, helium, and radiation for the past thousand million years or more,
but there is no evidence of the converse process ever having occurred.
We must suppose that there is less uranium on earth to-day than there
was yesterday, and that by to-morrow there will be still less. As a
consequence, the earth each day radiates away a little more heat than

82322—30——12
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

it receives from the sun, and its mass continually diminishes. Accord-
ing to Jeffreys ? the outward flow of radiation just inside the earth’s
surface is about 1.9 X 10-° calorie per sq. cm. per second, all but about
13 per cent of which arises from radioactive disintegration of the sub- -
stance of the earth. We can calculate from this that radioactive dis-
integration causes the earth’s mass to diminish at the rate of rather
less than an ounce a minute; at this rate, terrestrial atoms are unbot-
tling their energy and pouring it into space in the form of radiation.
On earth at least the stream flows ever in the same direction; complex
atoms giving place to simple, and mass changing into radiation. It
is natural to ask whether a study of the physics of the universe reveals
these processes as part only of a closed cycle, so that the wastage
which we see in progress on earth is made good elsewhere. We stand
on the banks of a river and watch its current ever carrying water out
to sea, but we know that this water is in due course transformed into
clouds and rain which replenish the river. Is the physical universe a
similar cyclic system, or ought we rather to compare it to a stream
which, having no source of replenishment, must cease flowing after it
has spent itself? To answer these questions we must attempt first to
trace our terrestrial stream back to its source.

THE ORIGIN OF TERRESTRIAL RADIUM AND URANIUM

Radioactive atoms are of many kinds, but all have in common the
property of spontaneous disintegration. The period of time required
for this disintegration to occur varies enormously, some types of atoms
having long lives of thousands of millions of years, while others have
short lives of years, days, hours, or seconds, the most ephemeral of all
being actinium-A, with an average life of only 0.002 second. Let us
take uranium and radium as being typical of the two classes.

Spontaneous disintegration reduces any store of radium to half in
1,580 years, so that if a whole earth were built of pure radium only
a single atom would be left after a quarter of a million years. Since
the earth is many millions of years old, we may be confident that every
atom of radium now on earth was born on earth. Soddy, Boltwood,
and others have investigated the ancestry of radium. Its direct par-
ent is found to be ionium, and it traces its descent back through uran-
ium-X to uranium itself.

On the other hand, it takes 5,000,000,000 years for a store of
uranium to diminish to half. As the earth was born out of the sun some
2,000,000,000 years ago, the greater part of any uranium it may have
brought with it out of the sun would still be in existence. As we have
no evidence of any uranium being born on earth, and as no parent
substance is known out of which uranium could be born, it is reason-

2“ The Earth,” p. 83.
PHYSICS OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 165

able to regard the earth’s present store of uranium as the remains of
a supply it originally brought out of the sun. An initial store of about
10° gm. would suffice.

This uranium can not have existed from all time for the average life
of a uranium atom is only about 7,000,000,000 years. How, then, did
it come into being? Was it created in the sun, or did the sun, like the
earth, start life with a supply which has continually diminished, and
is destined ultimately to vanish entirely?

The answer to this question must of course depend on the age we
assign to the sun, and an attempt to fix this takes us rather far afield.

THE AGES OF THE SUN AND STARS

In a classical paper published in 1878, Clerk Maxwell studied the
behavior of a gas whose molecules were supposed to be massive points
repelling one another with a force which varied inversely as the fifth
power of the distance. There was no possibility of direct collision,
since the molecules were supposed to be of infinitesimal size, but as
each molecule threaded its way through its fellows, pairs occasionally
approached so close as to influence one another’s motion much as a
direct collision would have done. At each such encounter a transfer
of energy took place, the general tendency being towards equalizing
energies: the molecule with the greater energy of motion was ever
being slowed down, and that with the lesser energy speeded up. If
the molecules were of different weights, their continued encounters
tended to bring about a state in which heavy and light molecules all
moved with the same energy, the lighter molecules making up for the
smallness of their mass by the rapidity of their motion.

It was no new discovery that the molecules of a gas tended to assume
such a state. This had been known for some years, but Maxwell’s
investigation gave a means of calculating the time required to bring
about this final state of equipartition of energy. Maxwell calculated
a time, which he called the time of relaxation, such that all deviations
from the final state of equipartition of energy were reduced to 1/e
(37 per cent) of their original value in this time. For ordinary air it is

found to be about a second.

10?

Maxwell’s massive points, repelling according to the inverse fifth
power of the distance, do not form a particularly good model of a gas,
but on changing the law of a force to an attraction varying as the
inverse square of the distance (the law of gravitation), we obtain an
absolutely realistic model of the stars, the diameter of the stars being
so small in comparison with their mean distances apart that the possi-
bility of direct collisions may be ignored entirely. Just as Maxwell
calculated the time of relaxation for his ideal gas, we can calculate it
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

for a collection of massive points, having the masses and mean dis-
tances of the stars and attracting according to the law of gravitation.
It proves to be of the order of millions of millions of years. After inter-
acting on one another for a certain number, then, of millions of millions
of years, the stars must attain to a final state of equipartition of energy
in which the average energy of all types of stars is the same, regardless
of their mass.

So far back as 1911, Halm had suspected an approximation to equal-
ity in the energies of massive and light stars, and suggested that the
velocities of the stars, like those of the molecules of a gas, might con-
form to the law of equipartition of energy. A more exhaustive inves-
tigation by Seares in 1922 showed the supposed approximation to be
real. Table I shows the average total velocity (C) obtained for stars
of different types having different mean masses.

Everywhere, except in its first two lines, the table reveals a marked
approximation to equality of energy of motion. The last 10 lines
show a range of 10 to 1 in mass, but the average deviation of energy
from the mean is only 9 percent. This equality of energy can only be
attributed to the gravitational interaction of the stars. For if it were
produced by any physical agency, such as pressure of radiation,
bombardment by molecules, atoms or high-speed electrons, this agency,
as the last column of the table shows, would have to be in thermody-
namical equilibrium with matter at a temperature of the order of
2x10” degrees. Since no such temperatures are known in nature,
we must conclude that the observed equality of energy is the result of
gravitational interactions extending over millions of millions of years.
The stars must, then, have an age of this order of magnitude.

Other lines of astronomical investigation lead to the same conclusion;
I will limit myself toone. A number of stars are ‘‘binary,”’ consisting
of two distinct masses which travel through space in double harness,
describing closed orbits about one another because neither can escape
from the gravitational hold of its companion. The single stars we
have just discussed may appropriately be compared to monatomic
molecules, but these binary stars must be compared to diatomic
molecules. Energy can reside in their orbital motion as well as in
their motion through space. Again we find that endless gravita-
tional encounters must result in equipartition of energy, both from
star to star and also between the different motions of which each
binary system is capable. Further, when this final state is reached,
the eccentricities of the elliptic orbits must be distributed over all
values from e=0 to e=1 in such a way that all values of e’ are equally
probable.
PHYSICS OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 167

TaBLE I.—Equipartition of energy in stellar motions

M M Mean fone
ean mass, ean ve- sponding
Type of star M locity, C 1 MC? tempera-
ay ture

Spectral type: | °

Per IIe YWCAIR COs INRA ATTATe: | 19.8108 | 14.8X105| 1.9510] 1.0108

Ja iis Se ee ee Se as eee aero | 12.9 15.8 1. 62 0.8

EA ISS) BAS eRe EAS eS Ee eS 2. S332 12.1 24.5 3. 63 1.8

JAGR OSS LP See ee ee | 10.0 202 3. 72 1.8

PA eee ee een an Oe ees LEAS SRA ES OY ek 8.0 29.9 3.55 ey,

JON SOS WE Sa SF AEE OREO eee er eyes aan TOE 5.0 35.9 3. 24 1.6

NG OL fees Sales OPE 9 2 ae a a NS SL ei 3 eae aa 47.9 3. 65 Mey/

(CINE 3 Se ea es 2S 5 eS Ee eee ees. 1 20 64. 6 4.07 2.0

GBR Ee ee ee re eee oe ee eee ee ee AS 1.5 77.6 4. 57 Dae

LRG) eas SN Ee a eee ere ee ae 1.4 79.4 4. 27 2.1

SAG iy 3 Medan 2 RR dee wins Meee ee Tee DO BE Eo Ye 1.2 74.1 3.39 IE Ye

AG Vt REISS hoe ry as Oh See ae eee 1.2 77.6 3. 55 Lesh

This final law of distribution of eccentricity of orbit is independent
of the size of the orbit, but the time of relaxation which measures the
rate of approach to this final state is not. For the eccentricity of
orbit is a differential effect, arising from the difference of the gravita-
tional pulls of a passing star on the two components of the binary, and
when these components are close together the passing star can get no
erip on the orbit. For visual binaries, in which the components are
usually hundreds of millions of miles apart, the “time of relaxation’’ is
again millions of millions of years, but it is a hundred times as great as
this for the far more compact spectroscopic binaries.

The following table, compiled from material given by Aitken,
shows the observed distribution of eccentricities:

TasLe II].—The approach to equipartition of energy in binary orbits

Siam, | Obemret ec
aan F number o umber in
Eccentricity of orbit ai visual bi- | final state
aries naries
4
(1) 0) 01d eee DEC Se Bien 9 5 SN ge See a ee eee 78 U 6
COP HSNO sc ts ee eee 18 18 18
PASC OO: Gore nn eee eee ee eee eee ee oe 16 28 30
IWS RO Us eee eee Sete ee a ee eee ae 6 11 42
OS io i OLESE Ere. O08 8 ee be eee ee epee ne) Shes. seer oe 1 4 54

As we should anticipate, the spectroscopic binaries show no
approach to the final state; most of them retain the low eccentricity
of orbit with which they start life. The visual binaries show a good
approach up to an eccentricity of about 0.6, but not beyond. The
deficiency of orbits of high eccentricity may mean that gravitational
forces have not had sufficient time to produce the highest eccentricities
of all, but part, and perhaps all, of the deficiency must be ascribed to
the observational difficulty of detecting orbits of high eccentricity.

Clearly, however, the study both of orbital motions and of motions
through space points to gravitational action extending over millions
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

of millions of years. In each case there is an exception to “ prove the
rule’. Inthe former case, it is provided by the spectroscopic binaries
which are so compact that their constituents can defy the pulling-
apart action of gravitation; in the latter case it is provided by the
B-type stars which are so massive, possibly also so young, that the
gravitational forces from lesser stars have not greatly affected their
motion.

This and other lines of evidence, when discussed in detail, agree in
suggesting that the general age of the stars is probably between five
and ten million million years. It may even be possible to fix the age
of the sun within the narrower limits of seven and eight million
million years.

THE ORIGIN OF SOLAR URANIUM ‘

We now have all the data for discussing the origin of the radioactive
atoms in the sun and stars. Thorium, the longest-lived of all radio-
active substances, is reduced to half its original amount after 15,000,-
000,000 years of spontaneous disintegration. A mass of pure thorium
equal to the sun (2 X 10** gm.) would be reduced to a single atom within
three million million years. For uranium, with a half-value period of
5,000,000,000 years, the corresponding time is less than a million
million years. When the earth was born the sun’s age was greater
than either of these times, so that the earth’s portion of radioactive
matter must have been generated during the sun’s life in the sun
itself.

The only possible escape from this conclusion would seem to lie in
the supposition that the lives of atoms of uranium and thorium are in
some way enormously prolonged by intense heat and fierce bombard-
ment such as occur in the sun’s interior. We can not absolutely rule
such a possibility out, but it is difficult to see any single consideration
which could be adduced in its favor from the side either of experi-
mental or of theoretical physics, and, in the present state of our
knowledge, it would seem reasonable to disregard it.

Assuming that these atoms were born in the sun, the problem of
the manner of their birth takes us to the very heart of present-day
theoretical physics.

Let us consider, in some detail, two processes which occur on
earth: The change of atomic make-up through a readjustment of
electrons, and the change of nuclear make-up through spontaneous
disintegration.

At first sight the two processes seem very dissimilar. The radio-
active transformation of the nucleus is spontaneous, in the sense
that nothing that we can do either expedites or hinders it. Each
atom of uranium carries its own future history written inside it. It
PHYSICS OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 169

lives its appointed life serenely undisturbed by external accidents of
heat or pressure; when its hour strikes it will cease to exist as
uranium and will proceed to disintegrate into lead, helium, and
radiation. Its nucleus slips back to a state of lower energy, the lost
energy being put in evidence as emitted radiation. On the other hand
the change produced in ordinary atoms by electronic rearrangement
is extremely susceptible to external physical conditions. Every
spectroscopist knows how to chip off one, two, or even three electrons
from the atom at will. Nevertheless, as was first made clear in a
remarkable paper which Einstein published in 1917,° the difference
is merely one of degree and not of kind.

The electrons in an atom are free to move from one orbit to another,
and as the various possible orbits have different energies, the atom
constitutes, to some extent, a reservoir of energy. For example,
the hydrogen atom consists of a single proton as central nucleus,
and a single electron revolving round it. According to Bohr’s
theory, the electron can revolve in orbits whose diameters (or major
axes) are proportional to the squares of the natural numbers, 1, 4,
9, 16, 25, ... The differences of energy between the various
orbits are easily calculated; for example, the smallest two orbits
differ in energy by 16107" erg. If we add 16X10-” erg of energy
to an atom in which the electron is describing the smallest orbit of
all, it crosses over to the next orbit, absorbing the 16 x 10~” erg in the
process and so becoming temporarily a reservoir of energy holding
16x10-" erg. If the atom is disturbed, it may of course discharge
the energy at any time, or it may absorb still more energy and so
increase its store. But if it is left entirely undisturbed, the electron
must, after a certain time, lapse back spontaneously to its original
smaller orbit. If it were not so, Planck’s well-established law of
black-body radiation could not be true. In this process the atom
ejects 16X10-” erg of energy in the form of radiation and, as a
consequence, experiences a diminution of mass to the extent of
1.8<X10-” gm. Thus a collection of hydrogen atoms in which the
electrons describe orbits larger than the smallest possible is similar
to a collection of uranium atoms in that the atoms spontaneously
lapse back to their states of lower energy as a result merely of the
passage of time, losing mass and emitting radiation in the process.

We have spoken of adding 16 10-” erg of energy to a hydrogen
atom in its state of lowest energy. We can not of course do this
simply by pouring miscellaneous energy on the atom, and expecting
it to drink it up. The hydrogen atom only accepts energy which is
offered it in the form of radiation of precisely the right wave length;
it treats all other radiation with complete indifference. Every atom

3 Phys. Zeitsch., vol. 48, p. 122, 1917.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

is selective in the sense in which a penny-in-the-slot machine is selec-
tive; if we pour radiation of the wrong frequency on to an atom we may
reproduce the comedy of the millionaire whose total wealth will not
procure him a box of matches because he has not a loose penny, or we
may reproduce the tragedy of the child who can not obtain a slab of
chocolate because its hoarded wealth consists of farthings and half-
pence, but we shall not disturb the hydrogen atom.

This selective action of the atom on radiation is put in evidence in
a variety of ways, but is perhups most simply shown in the spectra of
the stars. Light of all wave lengths streams out from the hot interior
of a star and bombards the atoms which form its atmosphere. These
atoms drink up that radiation which is of precisely the right wave
length, but have no interaction of any kind with the rest, with the
result that the radiation which is finally emitted from the star is
deficient in just these particular wave lengths. This is shown by the
star showing an absorption spectrum of fine lines. As the atoms in the
star’s atmosphere absorb this radiation they move to orbits of higher
energy, but in course of time they lapse back to their old orbits, and
in doing so emit energy in the form of radiation of precisely these same
wave lengths. This does not, as might at first be thought, exactly
neutralize the absorption of radiation, because the absorbed radiation
was all traveling outwards, whereas the emitted radiation travels in
all directions at random. Thus, if we view the atmosphere tangen-
tially, as we can do with the sun’s atmosphere at a total eclipse, we
observe the same spectrum, no longer as an absorption but as an
emission spectrum; it no longer consists of dark, but of bright lines—
the ‘‘flash”’ spectrum.

Any atom, or indeed any other electrical structure, will select the
radiation of suitable wave length from all the radiation which falls on
it, and use the energy of this radiation in rearranging its electron
orbits. The amount of energy e that the atom absorbs is connected
with the wave length \ of the radiation by the quantum relation
e\=hC, where h is Planck’s constant (6.55 X 10-* erg sec.), and C
is the velocity of light. The quantity ¢ of energy given by this relation
is called the “quantum” of light of wave length \, and the wave lengths
of the radiation which any electrical structure selects are determined
by the condition that the corresponding quantum of energy shall
just suffice to shift its electrons from one orbit to another. Radiation
will also be absorbed if its quantum provide sufficient energy to tear
the electron out of the atom altogether, and set it traveling through
space as a tree electron. All radiation of which the wave length is
less than a certain critical limit fulfils this latter condition.

The more compact an electrical structure is, the greater the energy
necessary to disturb it; and the greater the quantum of energy e,
PHYSICS OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 171

the shorter the wave length of the corresponding radiation. It follows
that a very compact structure can only be disturbed by radiation of
very short wave length.

As a rough working guide we may say that any structure will only
be disturbed by radiation whose wave length is less than 860 times the
dimensions of the structure. The energy needed to separate two
electric charges +¢ and —e, at a distance r apart, is e?/r, and, in general,
the energy needed to rearrange or break up a structure of electrons
and protons of linear dimensions 7 will be comparable with this.
If \ is the wave length of the requisite radiation, the energy made
available by the absorption of this radiation is the quantum AC/X.
Combining this with the circumstance that the value of h is very
approximately 860 ¢?/C, we find that the requisite wave length of
radiation is about 860 times the dimensions of the structure to be
broken up. In brief, the reason why blue light affects photographic
plates, while red light does not, is that the wave length of blue light is
less, and that of red light is greater, than 860 times the diameter of
the molecule of silver nitrate; we must get below the 860-limit before
anything begins to happen.

The wave length of the light emitted by an atom when it dis-
charges its reservoir of energy is precisely the same as that of the
light absorbed when it originally stored up this energy, for as the
two quanta of energy are the same, the corresponding wave lengths
are the same. It follows that the light emitted by any electrical
structure will have a wave length of about 860 times the dimensions
of the structure. For example, ordinary visible light has a wave
length equal to about 860 atomic diameters.

Atomic nuclei, like the atoms themselves, are structures of positive
and negative electrical charges, and so ought to behave similarly
with respect to the radiation falling uponthem. The radiation which
the atomic nuclei emit, and consequently also that which they are
prepared to absorb, is, however, of far shorter wave length than
that emitted or absorbed by complete atoms. Ellis and others have
found, for example, that the radiation which is emitted during the
disintegration of radium-B has wave lengths of 3.52, 4.20, 4.80,
5.13, and 23 X 10-"cm. These wave lengths are only about a hun-
dred-thousandth part of those of visible light. The reason is, of
course, that the nucleus has only about a hundred-thousandth part
the dimensions of the atom.

Since the wave length of the radiation absorbed or emitted by an
atom is inversely proportional to the quantum of energy, it follows
that the quantum of energy needed to work the atomic nucleus is
about 100,000 times as great as that needed to work the atom. If
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

we compare the hydrogen atom to a penny-in-the-slot machine, nothing
less than 500-pound notes will work the radioactive nuclei.

Yet radiation of the wave lengths just mentioned ought to be just
as effective in rearranging the nucleus of radium-B as that of the
longer wave length is effective in rearranging the hydrogen atom.
At least such radiation ought to precipitate the disintegration of
radium-B. Whether it could ever be effective in forming radium-B
out of radium-C and atoms of helium (or a- and @-particles) is a
somewhat different question; possibly other conditions of which
nothing is known must be fulfilled in addition to the presence of
radiation of the appropriate wave length.

Probably also the radioactive nuclei, like those of nitrogen and
oxygen, could be broken up by a sufficiently intense bombardment,
although the experimental evidence on this point is not very definite.
If so, each bombarding particle would have to bring to the attack
energy equal at least to that of one quantum of the radiation in
question, and this requires it to move with an enormously high
velocity.

In passing, we may notice that processes of the general type we
have just been discussing form the hope of those modern alchemists
who aspire to obtain gold by the transmutation of other metals. In
its widest form, their ambition is to combine the electrons and protons
of base metals with the third atomic ingredient, namely, electromag-
netic energy, so as to form atoms of gold. Any success they may
achieve will probably result in a gain of knowledge to abstract science
rather than of wealth to themselves, since one of the ingredients they
must necessarily use, namely, energy or radiation, is so expensive as
to render the final product excessively costly. It would need at least
an appreciable fraction of an ounce of energy to produce an ounce of
gold, and with electric power at even a farthing per unit, energy
and radiation cost 11,000,000 pounds per ounce. Whatever the
gold standard may have to fear on the political side, it would appear
to be thoroughly impregnable on the side of physics and chem-
istry.

Every wave length of radiation has a definite temperature associated
with it, namely, the temperature at which radiation of this particular
wave length is most abundant. We recognize this when we speak of
a red heat or a white heat, and, although we do not do so, we might
quite legitimately speak in the same way of an ultra-violet heat or an
X-ray heat. The wave length and the associated temperature are
connected through the well-known relation:

AT =0.2885 cm. degree
PHYSICS OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 173

When this particular temperature begins to be approached, but not
before, radiation of the wave length in question becomes abundant;
at temperatures well below this it is quite inappreciable.

We have seen that radiation of short wave length is needed to break
up an electric structure of small dimensions, and as we now see that
short wave lengths are associated with high temperatures, it appears
that the smaller a structure is, the greater the heat needed to break it
up. Oncombining the relation just given between 7 and ) with that
implied in the rough law of the ‘‘860 limit,” it appears that a structure
of dimensions 7 cm. will begin to be broken up by temperature radia-
tion when the temperature first approaches 1/3000r. Atoms, for
example, whose general dimensions are of the order of 10~§ cm., begin
to be broken up when the temperature approaches 30,000°; nuclei,
whose general dimensions are of the order of 10~' em., must remain
unaffected until the temperature approaches 3,000,000,000°.

To take a more precise instance, yellow light of wave length 6000A
is specially associated with the temperature 4,800°. At temperatures
well below this there is no yellow light except such as is artificially
created. Stars, and all other bodies, at a temperature of about
4,800°, are of a yellowish color and show lines in the yellow region of
their spectrum. These lines occur because yellow light removes the
outermost electron from the atoms of calcium and similar elements.
When a temperature of 4,800° begins to be approached, but not before,
rearrangements of the electrons in the calcium atom begin to occur.
This temperature is not approached on earth (except in the electric
are and other artificial conditions) so that terrestrial calcium atoms in
general are at rest in their states of lowest energy. Einstein’s paper
of 1917 showed it to be a necessary deduction from Planck’s law of
black-body radiation that a collection of calcium atoms in other states
would behave precisely like atoms of radioactive substances to the
extent of spontaneously slipping back to states of lower energy.

Just as calcium atoms in the cool temperatures of the earth simulate
the behavior of radioactive atoms, so radioactive nuclei, if raised to a
sufficiently high temperature, would simulate the behavior of calcium
atoms in the hot atmosphere of a star. The shortest wave length of
radiation emitted in the transformation of uranium is about 0.5 X
10- cm., and this corresponds to a temperature of 5,800,000,000°.
When some such temperaiure begins to be approached, but not before,
the constituents of the radioactive nuclei begin to rearrange themselves
just as the constituents of the calcium atom do when a temperature of
4,800° is approached.

We must probably suppose that rearrangements can also be effected
by bombarding the electric structure with material particles. If so,
174

; 4
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1929

the temperature at which bombardment by electrons, nuclei, or mole-
cules would first begin to be effective is precisely the same as that at
which radiation of the effective wave length would first begin to be
appreciable; the two processes begin at the same temperature.

TasLE III.—The mechanical effects of radiation

Wave lengths (cm.)

7,500 X 10-8 to 3,75010-3_
250X10-8 to 10-82_______-
ty GOUT fo) Kt UR eee ee
B10 7 10n es eee ae
OPO Olle. iets 52
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

ARO ea eee A pl IS
4-5 X10R Be ese

Where found

Nature of Temperature (degrees
radiation Effect on atom abs.)
V.siblelight_| Disturbs outermost | 3,850 to 7,700_____-----_-
electrons.
> ON Ree Disturbs inner elec- | 115,000 to 29,000,000_-_----
trons.
Soft y rays_.| Strip off allor nearly | 58,000,000 to 290,000,000__
all electrons.
y rays of ra-| Disturbs nuclear ar- | 720,000,000_________-_____
dium-B. rangement.
FR ardesti cy || ecm ee as ea ae he 5,800; 000:000225 2 ees
rays.
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________
atom out of hydro-
gen.
ae aes Disintegrates nuclei_} 150.000,000,000____-----_-
(eee ee Building of helium | 64,000,000,000____________

atom out of hydro-
1 gen:

Stellar
pheres.
Stellar interiors.

atmos-

Central regions
of dense stars.
(2):
