pe, far Se eee tee es
Se a

—

— an.

net

= = x
reese eae

Te,

fe
My

Ta

vA as “e¥E A -

y

. af _
ee

7 &
g

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION
SHOWING THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES

AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1910

2a THSO
ay wae

<= iC:
wi IF
Ont Coes
TONS

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1911
Wee eu, 7
ey: aa ae

Paar

7 Ae ‘

LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1910.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, May 29, 1911.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1910. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Cuartes D. Watcort, Secretary.
IIr
OAM TIMA

42192

aT.

arroer
HAY

acomeie res q
fey’ HONE, ale pH

*: se

P
Letter from the secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to
Congress. - -

CONTENTS.

Contents of the report: - 52 --.)..-- 5-6 == er ee he no) eee Se

List of plates

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ihhe Smuithsoman Instititiqne. . ecm bases eet . ses ee Fo lope
The: Pstablishmenteessassi) - feces. ee ee is tn Se 0 Se
The, Baantiot Reventes sferrs watten) tendtoad base eeniceece S ieeeban:
Gener FCONSIGETAIONS 62 525.55 95 sae ee ta es oo 8

Explorations and researches—
Snvithsenian -A fican, Expedition s. 223 seen St ee sensed sails Yee betes
Studies in Cambrian geology and paleontology ...................-.-.
Geological investigations in the Far East and in Newfoundland..-.....
Stud yrof Amer tan mammals seco! 2 atese. ode dew sslideshl ed wee
Biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone......................-..
Antiquity of man in,South Americas sf i942. hessen oe Lue ad eeu:
Besearches undes Hodekiis fund) Sg sate fe As Se es Sete Sores
Smithsonian table at Naples Zoological Station...................---
Publicapions....-..serett aepesadablc. SocH A 2b 0101 ASA! zivered pele
Advisory committee on ae and. publieaiioniem=<)h ot ae shui. !
Mee Melody st yen reseed le wef ol cise pe oot ee Ny Reh cet yee perl see ooh y Oey yon, fant thes
‘Rheseneley medals isos s2 spree ohh Gu ghee Stel teks es jl gant sl Peeps
The bangley menionial tablep 25232535 2[edee HA) le eee ceted btm be
Commission on Zoological Nomenclature..................2....-.-------
International congresses and celebrations.....................-..---.---
Misee Man oues<a-tanss<54.5 oases oe ee OS ee. cas Seton neegey

National Museum

Netignal Gallery pt ATE. <W.5.c 4. 4. SO oe ts SOE OPER et rn tth
iBarcauiol American Ethnology... =... 5. rasa ee eats sed. ewtiet Tt fe Bek
Intermainona lvlixchhnges 4! Ai iessos tot ie HOR AY Sh Ses Ue det noe dstee Ne-: 4:
igual Aanltaetenl (hank. 0. tae jas ey A ie doo te
Astrophysical Observatdryssew. a. ft _ sheet Bee Sly 48s dcsassillawh so:
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature...............-.......-------

Appendix I.
IL.

III.

RV:

Report on the United States National Museum.................
Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology...........-------
Report on the International Exchanges..........-......--------
Report on the National Zoolosical Park. ....: ... <2. 22-2 2.2.<%

. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory............-......-----
suRenoriemtherbibitryes we gUees eh as oe Sot ove hE eheeb ees
. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature - - -
pe eponbion (he ta lick hlolises: 24. 2ccl eee acon oe oe age ewes
VI CONTENTS.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND BOARD OF REGENTS.

Page.

Report of executive commuttee.: .2--.2-- 222.3 = 2. se 91

Proceedings of Board of Regents.....- Javan s De ae sas Ae Oe 2 eee 96

GENERAL APPENDIX.

Melville Weston Fuller, 1833-1910, by Charles D. Walcott.............-..-.... 113

Ornamentation of rugs and carpets, by Alan 8: Cole... ..-.-::-2..-.25-5425- 125

Recent progress in aviation, by Octave Chanute........--.------------------ 145
Progress in reclamation of arid lands in the western United States, by F. H.

Teele AS Bea eee eu Ener ne amr O MOOS MeMcmm ac aticcaimNia oe). 169

Electric power from the Mississippi River, by Chester M. Clark. ...........-- 199

Safety provisions in the United States Steel Corporation, by David 8. Beyer... 211
The isolation of an ion, a precision measurement of its charge, and the correction

onetokes’s laws by JR. Ac Millan 5 ols) ye once cetera aren ae eee 2a
The telegraphy of photographs, wireless and by wire, by T. Thorne Baker.... 257
Modern ideas on the constitution of matter, by Jean Becquerel..............- 275
Some modern developments in methods of testing explosives, by Charles E.

MTT OG asin 5 ont apse crerleveretena nh nfara et ra dtc ia ter a taholatoet a Sis & Sera eee oe 291
Sir William: Huggins, by W» WsCampbell (hese. Sees 22. Se eee eee 307
The solar constant of radiation,. by: C.-G. Abbot... 222 592---eeros = +e eee 319
Astronomical problems of the southern hemisphere, by Heber D. Curtis... -- 329
The progressive disclosure of the entire atmosphere of the sun, by Dr. H.

Deslandres. os... Suche. SORE a Se 341
Recent progress in astrophysics in the United States, by J. Bosler...........-.- 357
The future habitability of the earth, by Thomas Chrowder Chamberlin. . -.--- 371
What is terra firma? <A review of current research in isostasy, by Bailey Willis.. 391
Transpiration and the ascent of sap, by Henry H. Dixon...............-..---- 407
The sacred ear-flower of the Aztecs, by William Edwin Safford. ......-.....-- 427
Porest, preservation, by Henry’ S. Graivesses: 25: S25. 9. Oe ee 433
Alexander Agassiz, 1835-1910, by Alfred Goldsborough Mayer. ........--.-.--- 447
Recent work on the determination of sex, by Leonard Doncaster. .........--- 473

The significance of the pulse rate in vertebrate animals, by Florence Buchanan. 487
The natural history of the solitary wasps of the genus Synagris, by E. Roubaud. 507

A contribution to the ecology of the adult Hoatzin, by C. William Beebe......- 527
Migration of the Pacific plover to and from the Hawaiian Islands, by Henry W.

RGM Na a Fo a win sees ccc siorcte reins wine Soe x ee ee ee 545
The plumages of the ostrich, ae Prof. Jj. BE. Duerden. 22252 <<25- 58 See 561
Manifested life of tissues arin of the organism, by Alexis Carrel and Montrose

AEs PRUNEOWD > <oecotocbi ne aie be oratape ecler are crater aca VNTR AI 573
The origin of Druidism, by Julius Pokorny................--- 583
Geographical and statistical view of the contemporary Slav peoplés, By Lubor

NaS erle ss o.oo cer on cl ora-arw a orand le plncrcn ev ee ee 599
The cave dwellings of the old and new worlds, by J. Walter Fewkes-........-- 613
The origin of west African crossbows, by Henry Balfour........-..-.--------- 635

Sanitation on farms, by Allen W. Freeman
Epidemiology of tuberculosis, by Robert Koch..............-..--------- BE oi: 659
LIST OF PLATES.

SECRETARY’S REporT:
Plated esas act os vans ter
MELVILLE W. FULLER (Walcott):
Plate oh ee eos 2
Gniurenwedlaton OF meee (Cole):
Plates 2 ese Ae eyecare =
lates aaee ses eee cence
latest om Ooss seats leanne

Proeress IN AvIATION (Chanute):
Pla test 2hemeee eee tt ct
PASSO. ceaieas see seed aks «

Plates 35 oc co 'scne.cec
el aieul Oe ho ays Sele oe

RECLAMATION OF ARID LANDS
(Newell):
biuedalh Deana ins bn soe el
lateston der sashes «obese
Plaiteapo Oe erste ome cin stepson
JREIKESh7/Nisteaee ae Cae meaner

Evecrric PowER FROM MissIs-
sippr River (Clark):
Blntesving ey: sa. o8 Woo ic
IBigtes Ate one eee. Sete cm
1 Sg a Rae Eo a
| EES 7 acs peal die i ep
Sarety Provistons (Beyer):
Plates 1, 2

Pinte i. Saas
ements | OF P prgnenaene
(Baker):
IRistenisstss 2.5 aeons
Pinte ae oats eae
Testinc Expiostves (Munroe):
|g OY os Ea ee
Plates 5, 6...-

Page.

118

130
134
138

146
148
150
152
154
156
158

182
184
186
190
194
196

Continued.
Pinted FaNOe os hec esc. ode
Plattes icine aew «oe teem al aes
Srr Wiii1am Huaarns (Campbell):
Geese tae A emo
ATMOSPHERE OF THE Sun (Des-
landres):
Biahesg l= Ay seo Ral ee
ASTROPHYSICS IN THE UNITED
Srates (Bosler):
LAC eR 2c esc er us ieee
Ip Letest3 Anat ee one eee eee
lates bs Od uae cen ee 2 ava
Pa teaies Seen eee sarsee eee
Wuat Is TerRA Firma (Willis):
Plates 1, 2.. EA Fe ene
Piste Boece avsius
EAR-FLOWER OF ee gatiord).
Plate 1.. wey
Forest eee ere (Gea
Pistes T-2:.peeesile
BlatestB dens ed: Sie Sey AY ea
Plates i346 oss5-e acy oe ae
Blgte (oss ove samre ce ie Later
ALEXANDER AGassiz (Mayer):
| el ee ed lac alti a a at
Soumirary Wasps (Roubaud):
Plates 1+4.. :
EcoLoay OF Bae (Bees
Plates 1-7.. oe
PLUMAGES OF ones (Duerden):
Plates 1-8..
THE Siavs uieiesioy2
Plate 1 (colored map) BoEtGne ae
Cave Dwe unas (Fewkes):
Pelee a4 Fo i
Plates ON Osco. o. Baceacs ac see
PIR GESHi SM see roe ea aes oe
Plates 9, 10..
Plate 11.. :
West Apecan Gye nen (Bal-
four):
Plate 1

| TestING ExpLostves (Munroe)— Page.
104

302
304
ae senna i
A ) Bee

1uahe it) amas
caheny)

K ee
Sas ee Se Nee Fae

1 oe ¢
en

he y :
Sue
ee

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,
1910,

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1910, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithsonian
fund, and receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30,
1910.

3. Procedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem-
ber 14, 1909, and February 10, 1910.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. ‘These

memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1910.
il
97578°—sm 1910——1
‘ - rs Wa =
* . i
we a ee oe
> * bg a
_ ~~ ¢
¥ t ¥
1b
q

ee re

BeAr a" desiocis*inn ‘enti peeinenn
oe “shay, edt 10% noiswdisend: EN

; are Sniomsi ya. ag Qotbuion . oe + 1%

8 eA,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

JUNE 30, 1910.

Presiding officer ex officio — WILLIAM H. Tart, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—MELVILLE W. FULLER, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:

WittiaAmM H. Tart, President of the United States.

James S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States.

MELVILLE W. FuLier, Chief Justice of the United States.

PHILANDER C. KNox, Secretary of State.

FRANKLIN MAcVEAGH, Secretary of the Treasury.

Jacop M. Dickinson, Secretary of War.

Grorce W. WICKERSHAM, Attorney General.

FRANK H. HitcHcockK, Postmaster General.

GEORGE VON L. Mryer, Secretary of the Navy.

RicHarpD A. BALLINGER, Secretary of the Interior.

JAMES WixLson, Secretary of Agriculture.

CHARLES NAGEL, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.
Regents of the Institution:

MELVILLE W. Furies, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.

JAMES S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States.

SHELBY M. CuLtom, Member of the Senate.

Henry Casor Lopcr, Member of the Senate.

Avcaus7us O. Bacon, Member of the Senate.

JOHN DauzeLL, Member of the House of Representatives.

JAMES R. Mann, Member of the House of Representatives.

WiLLiAM M. Howarp, Member of the House of Representatives.

JAMES B. ANGELL, citizen of Michigan.

ANDREW D. WHITE, citizen of New York.

JOHN B. HENDERSON, citizen of Washington, D. C.

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.

GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.

CHARLES I’. CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee—J. B. HENDERSON, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, JOHN

DALZELL,

Secretary of the Institution.—CHARLES D. WALCOTT.
Assistant Secretary.—RICHARD RATHBUN.
Chief Clerk.—Harry W. DorRSsEY.
Accountant and Disbursing Agent.—W. I. ADAMS.
Editor.—A. HowarpD CLARK.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Assistant Secretary in charge.—RIcHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative Assistant.—W. DE C. RAYENEL.

Head Curators.—WILLIAM H. Houimes, F. W. Trus, G. P. MERRILL.

Curators.—R. S. BASSLER, A. Howarp CLARK, F. W. CLARKE, F. V. COvILLE,
W. H. Dat, B. W. Evermann, J. M. Fuint, U. S. N. (retired), W. H.
HoLtMES, WALTER HoucH, L. O. Howarp, ALES HRDLICGKA, GERRIT 8.
MiItter, Jr., RICHARD RATHBUN, ROBERT RIDGWAY, LEON HARD STEJNEGER,
CHARLES D. WALCOTT.

Associate Curators.—J. N. Rost, DAvID WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H,. HoLMgEs.

Chief of Correspondence and Documents.—RANDOLPH I. GEARE.

Superintendent of Construction and Labor.—J. 8S. GOLDSMITH.

Editor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Photographer.—T. W. SMILLIE£.

Registrar._S. C. Brown.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Hthnologist in charge-—F. W. Hoper.

Ethnologists.—J. WALTER FrwkKes, J. N. B. Hewitt, Francis LA FLESCHE,
TRUMAN MICHELSON, JAMES MooNEY, PAUL RADIN, MATILDA CoxkE STEVEN-
SON, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Philologist—FRaNz Boas.

Editer.— JOSEPH G. GURLEY.

Jilustratoy.— Dr LANCEY W. GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.
Chief Clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent. FRANK BAKER.
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. Baker.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F. E. Fow.r, Jr.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in Charge.—L. C. GUNNELL,
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1910,

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the
operations of the Institution during the year ending June 30, 1910,
including the work placed under its direction by Congress in the
United States National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology.
the International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the
Astrophysical Observatory, and the regional bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

In the body of this report there is given a general account of the
affairs of the Institution, while the appendix presents more detailed
statements by those in direct charge of the different branches of the
work. Independently of this the operations of the National Museum
and of the Bureau of American Ethnology are fully treated in
separate volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

THE ESTABLISHMENT.

By act of Congress approved August 10, 1846, the Smithsonian
Institution was created an establishment. Its statutory members are
“the President, the Vice-President, the Chief Justice, and the heads
of the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice-President and the Chief
Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three members of
the Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives, and six
citizens, “ two of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington,
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two
of them of the same State.”

5
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

There has been no change in the personnel of the Board since my
last report, Representatives John Dalzell, James R. Mann, and Wil-
liam M. Howard; and Hon. John B. Henderson, and Dr, Alexander
Graham Bell, whose terms of office expired during the year, having
been reappointed as Regents.

Meetings of the Regents were held on December 14, 1909, and on
February 10, 1910, the proceedings of which will be printed as
customary in the annual report of the Board to Congress.

Although occurring a few days after the close of the fiscal year,
I may properly record here the death on July 4, 1910, of the Chancel-
lor of the Institution, Melville W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the
United States. Adequate reference to this sad event will be made
in my next report to the Board.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

T have called attention heretofore to the influence that the Smithso-
nian Institution has had in the development of science in this country.
That its usefulness is not restricted to this country is constantly
evidenced in many ways. But the achievements that the Institution
might accomplish, and that the scientific world expects of it, and the
general good that it might do in the promotion of the welfare of the
human race, continues to be greatly limited by the lack of ample funds
to carry forward worthy lines of exploration and research that are
constantly being presented for consideration.

During the past year the Institution’s activities have been increased
to some degree by gifts for the promotion of certain special lines of
study, particularly in biological research.

Among the important works that might be undertaken I would
especially call attention to the great advantage to this country and
to the world that would result from the establishment of a national
seismological laboratory under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution.

IMPORTANCE OF A NATIONAL SEISMOLOGICAL LABORATORY.

NEED.

The immense destruction of life and property by certain large
earthquakes emphasizes the importance of investigations which may
lead to a reduction of the damage of future earthquakes. The science
of seismology is in its infancy and it is not always evident what lines
of investigation will yield the most important results, hence the im-
portance of developing larger knowledge of seismology in all direc-
tions. As an example: It was not at all realized that the accurate
surveys of the Coast and Geodetic Survey in California would dem-
onstrate that the great earthquake there in 1906 was due to forces
set up by slow movements of the land which have probably been going
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. F(

on for a hundred years. We have learned that slow movements of
the land must precede many large earthquakes, and monuments are
now being set up in California to enable us to discover future move-
ments of the land and thus to anticipate future earthquakes. This, I
think, is the most important step so far taken toward the prediction
of earthquakes.

COOPERATION.

Seismological work is too large to be prosecuted successfully by the
universities, but requires some central office under government super-
vision to encourage theoretical and observational studies and to col-
lect and study information from all available sources. The various
departments of the Government could offer material help. The
Weather Bureau could furnish information regarding felt shocks
and could maintain seismographs at some of their stations. Post-
masters throughout the country could also report felt earthquakes.
The Coast and Geodetic Survey could maintain instruments and
adapt their surveys and tidal observations to the detection of slow
earth movements. The army could give information regarding
earthquakes felt at their outlying posts, the navy regarding
earthquakes felt at sea. The Geological Survey could furnish infor-
mation regarding the geological structure of earthquake regions.

SEISMOLOGICAL CLEARING HOUSE AND FOREIGN COOPERATION.

The seismological laboratory would collect and study all this infor-
mation. It would serve as a clearing house for the whole country.
It would also be the link to connect seismological work in this country
with the work done in other parts of the world. Its director should
represent the United States in the International Seismological Asso-
ciation which this country has joined through the Department of
State.

GOVERNMENT WORK IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

Germany, Italy, Hungary, Roumania, Bulgaria, and Japan have
maintained for some years offices for the collection and study of earth-
quake material. Chile and Mexico have recently established them.
The work in England is under the direction of the Royal Society.
Many other countries maintain stations for seismological observa-
tions. This is the only important country subject to destructive
earthquakes whose government does not support the study of earth-

quakes.
WORK OF THE LABORATORY.

1. Collection and study of all information regarding earthquakes
in the United States and its possessions. The preparation of maps
showing the distribution of earthquakes and their relation to geo-
logical structure.
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

9. The study of special regions which are subject to frequent earth-
quakes to determine as far as possible where future earthquakes are
likely to occur.

3. The study of the origins of earthauakes occurring under the
neighboring oceans.

4, An organization of commissions to study in the field the effects
produced by large earthquakes.

5. The study of proper methods of building in regions subject to
earthquakes. This will require experiment.

6. The improvement of instruments for recording earthquakes.

7. Other theoretical studies.

8. The dissemination of information regarding earthquakes by

bulletins or otherwise.
EQUIPMENT.

There will be required an office, a laboratory, a photographic room,
a work shop, and a special instrument house. The building of
this latter house and the general equipment would cost about $6,000.

ORGANIZATION AND ANNUAL EXPENSES.

Tn the beginning there would be required a director, an assistant, a
mechanic, a stenographer, and it would be necessary to purchase books,
instruments, and material for the laboratory, ete. It is estimated that
$20,000 would equip the laboratory and meet all the expenses for the
first year. After that the work will probably expand and the amount
applied to equipment for the first year would meet the requirements
for extension for some time after.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

CUTIES EMO] STL LINS OLN, oA oe ee ee ea $515, 169. 00
Residuary, legacy,of Smithson, 61 86%= acess | eee wes eeee es ees 26, 210. 63
Deposit tromyusavings| of incomex 186 t= ee ee 108, 620. 87
Bequest of James Eamilton,tsije = ee ee $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895__________ 1, 000. 00
— 2, 000. 00
Bequest of Simeon) Habel,elS80_ i242 324s vere eee Sa 500. 00
Deposit from) proceeds of ‘salevof bonds, 188i. 2222 ee ee 51, 500. 00
CittiotPhomas:G: Hodekins:.1 80 lie a See 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894____________ 8, 000. 00
DEPOSIT AOMy Savings Of aMCOMe 1 OO pe ee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins________________________ 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury________ 944, 918. 69
Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Com-
pany (par value), part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins________ 42, 000. 00
———————

Total-permanent fund: = =e ee ee ee eae 986, 918. 69
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

The sum of $251.95 was received during the year as the first pay-
ment of a bequest of $500 made by the will of Mr. William Jones
Rhees, for many years an officer of the Institution. This fund has not
been invested.

In addition to the above there are four pieces of real estate
bequeathed to the Institution by the late R. S. Avery, some of which
yield a nominal rental and all are free from taxation.

That part cf the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$107,483.68, was derived as follows:

Interest on the permanent Foundation, $58,375.12; contributions
from various sources for specific purposes, $43,230.95, and from other
miscellaneous sources, $5,877.61; all of which was deposited in the
Treasury of the United States to the credit of the current account of
the Institution.

With the balance of $32,176.70, on July 1, 1909, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $139,660.38. The disbursements,
which are given in detail in the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, amounted to $104,295.50, leaving a balance of $35,364.88 on
deposit June 30, i910, in the United States Treasury.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement of
the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1910:

Internation aleshixchan gest ie 2. eS se Pee i Se oe eee eee $32, 000
PRIN ETICAT ADAGE OL O Sayy oe eee ee ns Sy ERE BE eS eer ee 48, 000
ASTLOD HY SICH ODSEEV AOI ya te es Se Se ee ee 13, 000
National Museum: z
AFR e UD TSN TiES TEE SED GL ENE UTS ee tn acre eee Se 200, 000
ERA ery Gl eel eta ee ee ee ee ee eee 60, 000
PreESeEvatlonsolsCOleChiOn sete sot seen se ee ee 250, 000
1 BOO) RS ee tp Breen or ut tae cg a maa NPAT se ipa ERR Sy tno ONE A EN Is ya 2, 000
TGS CaS Cee eee mee ere a a onal ae ane ae ee 500
GES Ups] CULT) Soe T TD ST TG Se ead ea a ee ne a de eee 15, 000
Moving collections to new building___-__-_______ SETAE OSS, cee RTT 4, 000
NAL OnE ZO O10 SI Callens aikeress Ser CTS ae eee bela bie Se ee 95, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__________-____________ 6, 000
Tota ees S28 See ee ee 1 ee ERE SMM Spopeee Reet IER Bee BOs 720, 500

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

As far as the resources of the Institution and contributions from
individuals has permitted, various scientific explorations and re-
searches have been carried on during the past year, and it is gratify-
ing to report that the Institution’s activities in these lines have been
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

somewhat more extended than in previous years. Were ample funds
available to be administered under the Smithsonian Institution, the
scientific work of the Government might often be supplemented by
original researches of a character that could hardly be undertaken by
the Government, and which would be of great service to humanity and
to science.

Besides operations undertaken by the Institution itself, important
biological, ethnological, and astrophysical researches have been car-
ried on under its direction through the National Museum, the Bureau
of American Ethnology, and the Astrophysical Observatory, which
are discussed elsewhere in this report.

SMITHSONIAN AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

In my last report there was given an account of the setting out of the
expedition to Africa in charge of Col. Theodore Roosevelt and of the
results accomplished prior to June 30, 1909. This expedition, which
was entirely financed from private sources through contributions by
friends of the Smithsonian Institution, landed at Mombasa on April
21, 1909, and arrived at Khartoum on March 14, 1910. The collec-
tions made by it reached Washington in excellent condition and are
now deposited in the National Museum. The series of large and
small mammals from East Africa is, collectively, probably more
valuable than is to be found in any other museum of the world. The
series of birds, reptiles, and plants are also of great importance, and
the study of the material representing other groups will furnish
interesting results.

Colonel Roosevelt’s report on the work of the expedition is as
follows:

KHARTOUM, March 15, 1910.

Sir: I have the honor to report that the Smithsonian African expedition,
which was intrusted to my charge, has now completed its work. Full reports
will be made later by the three naturalists, Messrs. Mearns, Heller, and Loring.
I send this preliminary statement to summarize what has been done; the figures
given are substantially accurate, but they may have to be changed slightly in
the final reports.

We landed in Mombasa on April 21, 1909, and reached Khartoum on March 14,
1910. On landing, we were joined by Messrs. R. J. Cuninghame and Leslie J.
Tarlton; the former was with us throughout our entire trip, the latter until we
left Hast Africa, and both worked as zealously and efficiently for the success of
the expedition as any other member thereof.

We spent eight months in British East Africa. We collected earefully in
various portions of the Athi and Kapiti plains, in the Sotik and around Lake
Naivasha. Messrs. Mearns and Loring made a thorough biological survey of
Mount Kenia, while the rest of the party skirted its western base, went to and up
the Guaso Nyero and later visited the Uasin Gisbu region and both sides of the
Rift Valley. Messrs. Kermit Roosevelt and Tarlton went to the Leikipia
Plateau and Lake Hannington, and Doctor Mearns and Kermit Roosevelt made
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

separate trips to the coast region near Mombasa. On December 19 the expedi-
tion left East Africa, crossed Uganda and went down the White Nile.

North of Wadelai we stopped and spent over three weeks in the Lado, and
from Gondokoro Kermit Roosevelt and I again crossed into the Lado, spending
eight or ten days in the neighborhood of Rejaf. In Gondokoro we were met by
the steamer which the Sirdar, with great courtesy, had put at our disposal. On
the way to Khartoum we made collections in Lake No, and on the Bahr-el-
Ghazal and Barel-Zeraf. We owe our warmest thanks for the generous courtesy.
shown us and the aid freely given us, not only by the Sirdar, but by all the
British officials in Hast Africa, Uganda, and the Sudan, and by the Belgian
officials in the Lado; and this, of course, means that we are also indebted to the
home governments of Egypt and Belgium.

On the trip Mr. Heller has prepared 1,020 specimens of mammals, the majority
of large sizes; Mr. Loring has prepared 3,163, and Doctor Mearns, 714, a total
of 4,897 mammals. Of birds, Doctor Mearns has prepared nearly 3,100; Mr.
Loring, 899; and Mr. Heller about 50, a total of about 4,000 birds.

Of reptiles and batrachians, Messrs. Mearns, Loring, and Heller collected
about 2,000.

Of fishes, about 500 were collected. Doctor Mearns collected marine fishes
near Mombasa and fresh-water fishes elsewhere in British East Africa, and he
and Cuninghame collected fishes in the White Nile. This makes in all of verte-
brates: Mammals, 4,897; birds, about 4,000; reptiles and batrachians, about
2,000; fishes, about 500; total 11,397.

The invertebrates were collected carefully by Doctor Mearns, with some
assistance from Messrs. Cuninghame and Kermit Roosevelt. A few marine shells
were collected near Mombasa, and land and fresh-water shells throughout the
regions visited, as well as crabs, beetles, millipeda, and other invertebrates.

Several thousand plants were collected throughout the regions visited by
Doctor Mearns, who employed and trained for the work a Wunyamvezi named
Makangarri, who soon learned how to make very good specimens and turned out
an excellent man in every way.

Anthropological materials were gathered by Doctor Mearns, with some assist-
ance from others. A collection was contributed by Major Ross, an American in
the government service at Nairobi.

I have the honor to be, very truly, yours,
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Hon. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

STUDIES IN CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY.

During the field season of 1909 I continued my investigations in the
geology of the Cambrian and pre-Cambrian rocks of the Bow River
Valley, Alberta, Canada, and on the west side of the Continental
Divide north of the Canadian Pacific Railway in British Columbia.

The first camp was made on the shores of Lake Louise, southwest of
Laggan. From this point work was carried forward on the high
mountains east, northeast, and southwest of the lake, and side trips
made to the valley of the Ten Peaks and across the Bow Valley in
the vicinity of Ptarmigan Lake. Many fine photographs were se-
cured, both of the beantiful scenery and the geological sections, which
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

are wonderfully well shown above timber line on the higher ridges
and peaks.

The measurements of the Cambrian section were carried down to a
massive conglomerate which forms the base of the Cambrian system
in this portion of the Rocky Mountains. This discovery led to the
study of the pre-Cambrian rocks of the Bow River Valley. These
were found to form a series of sandstones and shales some 4,000 feet
in thickness, that appear to have been deposited in fresh-water lakes
prior to the incursion of the marine waters in which the great bed of
conglomerate and the Cambrian rocks above were deposited.

Completing the reconnoissance survey of the Bow River area, camp
was moved to the Yoho River Canyon. In the Yoho River Canyon,
one of the most picturesque and instructive areas in the great Yoho
National Park of Canada, a study was made of the north side of the
President Range and numerous pictures taken in that vicinity, also
from Burgess Pass, north of Field.

A most interesting discovery of unique Cambrian fossils was made
near Burgess Pass. Quite a number of specimens were collected be-
fore snow drove the party back to Field. Three days were spent on
Mount Stephen at the famous trilobite beds before breaking up camp
on September 8.

As opportunity offered during the fall and winter, field notes were
written up and studies made of the sections obtained during the sum-
mer. As the results of these studies two papers are in press in the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 53: No. 6, “ Olenellus
and other Genera of the Mesonacide,” and No. 7, “ Pre-Cambrian
Rocks of the Bow River Valley, Alberta, Canada.” Preliminary
studies were also made of the unique crustacean fauna found in the
middle Cambrian rocks of Burgess Pass.

GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS IN THE FAR EAST AND IN NEWFOUNDLAND.

In my last report mention was made of a grant to Prof. Joseph P.
Iddings for carrying on geological investigations in the Far Kast.
As one of the results of his work the Institution has received an
interesting collection of Manchurian Cambrian fossils, as well as
collections of fossils from Japan and Java.

The Institution made a small grant to Prof. Charles Schuchert, of
Yale University, to enable him to carry on certain geological studies
and to obtain a collection of Cambrian fossils from the west coast
of Newfoundland, the south shore of Labrador, and the Strait of
Belle Isle; also collections to illustrate tie transition fauna between
the Cambrian and Ordovician.

STUDY OF AMERICAN MAMMALS.

Through the generosity of a friend of the Institution, Mrs. EK. H.
Harriman, there has been provided a trust fund yielding an income of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1s)

$12,000 a year, which is placed under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution for the specific purpose of carrying on scientific studies,
particularly of American mammals and other animals, the donor
specifying Dr. C. Hart Merriam as the investigator to carry on the
work during his lifetime.

BIOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

The Institution has had in contemplation for some time several
important scientific explorations, and it is gratifying to state that it
now seems possible that one of them—an exhaustive biological sur-
vey of the Panama Canal Zone—will be undertaken in the winter of
1910-11. Definite plans for this survey have not been decided
upon at present, but these are now under consideration and it is
hoped that all the arrangements may be completed and the work
put in hand in a few months.

It is particularly important to science that a biological survey of
the Canal Zone be made at this time, as it appears without question
that it would yield important scientific results, both as regards ad-
ditions to knowledge and to the collections of the United States
National Museum and other museums. While the Isthmus is not
so well endowed with large forms as the great continental areas, such
as Africa, southern Asia, and some other regions, yet its fauna and
flora are rich and diversified. The collecting which has been carried
on there has been on such a rather limited scale, and chiefly along
trade routes, that an extensive and thorough survey would surely
produce new scientific information of great value.

A part of the fresh-water streams of the Isthmus of Panama empty
into the Atlantic Ocean and others into the Pacific Ocean. It is
knewn that a certain number of animals and plants in the streams on
the Atlantic side are different from those of the Pacific side, but as
no exact biological survey has ever been undertaken the extent and
magnitude of these differences have yet to be learned. It is also of
the utmost scientific importance to determine exactly the geograph-
ical distribution of the various organisms inhabiting those waters,
as the Isthmus is one of the routes by which the animals and plants
of South America have entered North America and vice versa.
When the canal is completed the organisms of the various watersheds
will be offered a ready means of mingling together, the natural dis-
tinctions now existing will be obliterated, and the data for a true un-
derstanding of the fauna and flora placed forever out of reach.

By the construction of the Gatun dam a vast fresh-water lake will
be created, which will drive away or drown the majority of the
animals and plants now inhabiting the locality, and quite possibly
exterminate some species before they become known to science.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

The National Museum at present has practically no Panama mam-
mals. The birds now in the collection are chiefly from along the line
of the railroad and from Chiriqui. It has comparatively few rep-
tiles. The fresh-water fishes are poorly represented in the collections
and are of special importance for comparison with South American
forms. Land and fresh-water mollusks are much needed. The
National Herbarium is poorly supplied with Panama plants; in fact,
they are at present practically “a negligible quantity,” and the
American herbariums taken together do not contain a sufficient
amount of material to form the basis of a general flora of Panama,
which is a work much needed.

ANTIQUITY OF MAN IN SOUTH AMERICA.

In March, 1910, the Institution directed Dr. Ale’ Hrdli¢ka, Cura-
tor of the Division of Physical Anthropology, United States National
Museum, to proceed to South America and Panama Canal Zone for
the purpose of making anthropological researches, and particularly
to undertake investigation into the question of man’s antiquity in
Argentina. A grant was also made to enable Mr. Bailey Willis, of
the United States Geological Survey, proceeding on his way to South
America in the interest of the world’s topographical map, to cooper-
ate with Doctor Hrdli¢ka in his researches in Argentina, for it was
appreciated that the problems to be met with were to an important
degree of a geological nature.

The undertaking of the investigation was especially due to Mr.
W. H. Holmes, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, whose
observations during a visit to Argentina in 1908 made apparent the
. far-reaching importance of the data being collected bearing on human
antiquity in South America.

The subject of man’s antiquity in South America dates from the
meager reports concerning the scattered remains in the Lagoa Santa
caves in Brazil, the casual Seguin finds in the province of Santa Fe,
Argentina, and the Moreno collection of old Patagonian material in
the valley of Rio Negro, and it has assumed a special importance
during the last decade through a relatively large number of reports
by Argentinian scientists, but particularly by Prof. F. Ameghino, of
new finds of the remains of ancient man and of traces of his activities.
Some of these more recent finds were so interpreted that, if corrobo-
rated, they would have a most important bearing not merely on man’s
early presence in the South American Continent, but on the evolution
and the spread of mankind in general.

Under these conditions, and in view of the fact that some of the
reports were not fully satisfactory as to their anatomical or geologi-
cal details, it was deemed necssary to send down competent men
who might subject the whole matter to critical revision.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

It is gratifying to state that on arriving at Argentina and explain-
ing their mission the Smithsonian representatives were afforded by
the Argentinian Government, as well as by the Argentinian men of
science, all facilities needed for the examination of the specimens pre-
served in various institutions, as well as for the prosecution of their
field work. Professor Ameghino and his brother, Carlos, gave par-
ticular aid, accompanying Doctor Hrdlitka and Mr. Willis person-
ally for over three weeks along the coast from place to place where
the supposedly ancient remains were discovered.

The researches occupied nearly two months. Every specimen re-
lating to ancient man that could still be found was examined, and
every locality of importance where the finds were made was visited
and investigated. The evidence gathered, unfortunately, does not
sustain a large part of the claims that have been made. The human
bones and the archeological specimens which should represent geolog-
ically ancient man agree in all important characteristics with the
bones and work of the American Indian; and the finds, while often
in close relation with early Quaternary or Tertiary deposits, bear, so
far as observed, only intrusive relations to these deposits. Further-
more, there are specimens the original sources of which are not so
well established that scientific deductions of great consequence can be
safely drawn therefrom, even though they present some morphological
peculiarities.

The expedition secured numerous geological, paleontological, and
anthropological specimens, some of which throw much light on the
question of the antiquity of the finds to which they relate. These
specimens are being identified and described in the National Mu-
seum. Doctor Hrdli¢ka and Mr. Willis will present in due time a
detailed report on their investigations.

Following the researches in Argentina, Doctor Hrdlitka visited
several of the anthropologically important localities on the coast of
Peru and made large collections of skeletal material, which will help
to settle definitely the racial problems of these regions, and will have
an important bearing on the anthropology of the western part of
South America.

Further explorations and collections, necessarily limited, were
made by Doctor Hrdli¢ka in Panama and Mexico. In the latter coun-
try the principal results of the visit were the opening, at the invitation
of the Mexican authorities, of a highly interesting sepulcher in the
ancient ruins of San Juan Teotihuacan, and the making of a series of
casts from the remaining pure bloods among the Aztec descendants
in Xochimilco.

The Argentina, as well as the Peruvian and Mexican, collections
have been transferred to the U. 8. National Museum.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.
RESEARCHES UNDER HODGKINS FUND.

Flying organs of insects and birds.—Under the direction of Pro-
fessor von Lendenfeld, of Prague University, aided by a grant from
the Hodgkins Fund, there has been carried on for the past ten years
investigations on the flying organs of various insects and birds. Some
of the results of these studies have been published in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections in papers by Dr. E. Mascha on “ The struc-
ture of wing feathers,’ Dr. Leo Walter on “The clasping organs at-
taching the hind to the fore wings in hymenoptera,” and Dr. Bruno
Miiller on “ The air sacs of the pigeons.”

There was received during the past year and prepared for press a
fourth paper on “ The flying apparatus of the blow-fly.”

These investigations were fostered by the late Secretary Langley
with the hope that they would yield information useful to engineers
and others interested in the problem of flight. It was the opinion of
the investigator that of all the forms of insects, and indeed of all
flying animals, the Diptera, such as the blow-fly, furnish the most
promising pattern for a flying machine and that a working model
should be built according to this pattern and experimented with.

Mount Whitney Observatory.—The construction on Mount Whit-
ney, California, of a small steel and stone house to serve as a shelter
for observers and investigators during the prosecution of researches
on atmospheric air and other cognate subjects was authorized Octo-
ber 30, 1908, by an allotment from the Hodgkins Fund.

This spot had been selected as an observation point by the late
Secretary Langley as far back as 1881, and had been visited later
by other scientific investigators, including Professor Campbell, of
the Lick Observatory, and Director Abbot, of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, each of whom realized the unusual advantages
offered by this mountain as a site for a meteorological and at-
mospheric observatory.

Before erecting the shelter it was necessary to build a trail to the
top of the peak, 14,502 feet above sea level, in order to transport the
building material, supplies, and instruments. Many dangers and
hardships were undergone by the men who accomplished this work,
but finally the trail was completed and the equipment packed up the
mountain.?

The actual work of construction of the shelter was begun July 28,
1909, when the first pack train reached the summit, and was quite
completed by August 27, 1909, when summer observations were
begun by Director Abbot, of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observ-

“A more detailed account of the work, “A shelter for observers on Mount
Whitney,” by C. G. Abbot, was published January 12, 1910, in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 52, pp. 499-506.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

atory, and Director Campbell, of the Lick Observatory, who was
engaged in a study of the spectrum of Mars.

The erection of the shelter has already proved a most beneficial!
undertaking, and it will undoubtedly serve for many years as such
for observation parties not only of the Smithsonian Institution but
of other institutions desiring to benefit by the conditions and ad-
vantages offered to scientists by this exceptional location. Applica-
tions for permission to use this shelter by scientific research parties
should be made to the Secretary.

Relation of atmospheric air to tuberculosis—In February, 1908,
the Institution offered a prize of $1,500 for the best treatise on
“The relation of atmospheric air to tuberculosis,” to be awarded in
connection with the International Congress on Tuberculosis held in
Washington in September of that year, but owing to the great work
of translating, reading, and classifying the 81 papers submitted, the
committee on award has not, as yet, made a final report; although
much progress is reported and the final announcement is excepted
shortly.

Publications under Hodgkins Fund.—tThere was published during
the year as a Hodgkins Fund publication a volume on “ Mechanics of
the Earth’s Atmosphere,” consisting of a series of 25 papers translated
from the French and German by Professor Abbe, and forming a con-
nected treatise on that subject.

Another volume issued at the cost of the Hodgkins Fund was an
exhaustive bibliography of aeronautical literature compiled by Mr.
Paul Brockett, and containing titles of 13,500 papers on aviation in
all languages published previous to July 1, 1909.

THE SMITHSONIAN TABLE AT THE NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

For over seventeen years the Institution has maintained at the
Naples Zoological Station a table for the use of American biologists,
and the lease has been renewed for a period of three years from
January 1, 1910, at an annual rental of 2,500 francs.

The founder and director of the station, Dr. Anton Dohrn, always
showed a most cordial spirit of helpfulness toward the Institution in
arranging for its appointees, and it is with particular regret that I
report his death, which occurred on September 29, 1909. At the re-
quest of the Institution, the Department of State designated the
American consul at Naples to represent the Institution officially at the
funeral.

Doctor Dohrn has been succeeded by his son, Dr. Reinhard Dohrn,
who has expressed his earnest adherence to the policies adopted by
his father, and assures the Institution of his hearty cooperation dur-
ing his administration.

97578°—sm 1910——2
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

During the year the following American biologists were appointed
to the Smithsonian Table:

Prof. H. D. Senior, of the College of Medicine of the Syracuse
University, who continued his researches in the angioblast of the
trunk in Teleosts through studies of the origin of the circulation in
Amphioxus.

Dr. R. M. Strong, of the University of Chicago, whose work was
confined to some general studies of chromatophores, which occur in
two species of Cephalopods and in three species of Crustacea.

Dr. W. D. Hoyt, formerly of Johns Hopkins University, but now
of Rutgers College, whose studies comprehended the periodicity in
the fruiting and cultural experiments in alternations of generations
of marine alge.

Prof. Charles L. Edwards, of Trinity College, who continued his
investigations in the variations in Synapta inhoerens and other holo-
thurians.

Prof. Charles W. Greene, of the University of Missouri, who
worked on the comparative physiology of fishes.

Applications for future occupancy of the Table have been received
during the year from Dr. S. R. Williams, of the Miami University,
and from Dr. Sergius Morgulis, of Harvard University.

The advisory committee on the Smithsonian Table has, as always,
rendered invaluable aid in the examination of the credentials of ap-
plicants, and it is desired to here record the Institution’s apprecia-
tion of their assistance.

During the year an important change in the personnel of the com-
mittee took place. Dr. John §. Billings, who served for many years
as its chairman, tendered his resignation, and it is much regretted
that a relationship so helpful and agreeable has been thus terminated.
The Institution is fortunate, however, in securing the cooperation of
Dr. Carl H. Eigenmann, professor of zoology at the Indiana Univer-
sity and director of the biological station maintained in connection
with that establishment. The present organization of the committee
is as follows:

Dr. Theodore Gill, of the Smithsonian Institution, chairman; Dr.
C. Wardell Stiles, of the Bureau of Public Health and Marine-Hos-
pital Service, secretary; Dr. E. B. Wilson, of the Columbia Univer-
sity, New York; Dr. Carl H. Eigenmann, of the Indiana University.

PUBLICATIONS.

The principal medium for carrying out one of the fundamental
functions of the Institution, “the diffusion of knowledge,” is through
its publications. The Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, and the Smithsonian annual -
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

reports now comprise a library of about 150 quarto and octavo vol-
umes covering practically every branch of scientific knowledge, and
if to these be added the publications issued under its direction by the
National Museum, the Bureau of Ethnology, and the Astrophysical
Observatory, the scientific literature produced through the Institu-
tion aggregates about 350 volumes, made up of several thousand
memoirs and papers.

The works issued at the expense of the Institution proper aré neces-
sarily in limited editions, but they are so distributed to the principal
libraries throughout the world as to be available for general reference
by all who need them. The annual reports, the general appendix
of which is made up of selected papers reviewing progress in scien-
tific work in all its branches, is a public document, and through the
liberality of Congress is published in larger numbers than the other
Smithsonian series, although the editions of this more popular work
are each exhausted soon after publication.

In the series of Contributions, reserved for original additions to
knowledge, no memoir was issued during the year.

Langley memoir on mechanical flight——Two memoirs by the late
Secretary Langley, entitled “ Experiments in Aerodynamics” and
“The Internal Work of the Wind,” were printed in 1891 and 1893,
respectively, as parts of volume 27 of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge, and several editions of each have since been published.
A third memoir, dealing with later experiments to December 8,
1903, to be entitled “‘ Langley Memoir on Mechanical Flight,” was to
complete that volume. This work was in preparation at the time of
Mr. Langley’s death in 1906, and the manuscript of the first part cov-
ering his experiments down to November, 1896, had been written by
him and partially revised for press. The further editorial revision
of that part and the completion of part 2 to bring the work down to
the close of the experiments on December 8, 1903, was placed in the
hands of Mr. Charles M. Manly, who had for several years been Mr.
Langley’s chief assistant in his experiments. The completed manu-
script is now nearly ready for the press and it will probably be pub-
lished within a few months.

It is hoped that later it may be practicable to have tabulated and
published the extensive technical data of observations of the work-
ing of the model aerodromes and various types of engines, propellers,
planes, and other apparatus with the use of the pendulum and whirl-
ing-arm.

It is of interest here to note that on August 6, 1907, a French
aviator made a flight of nearly 500 feet with a machine of the Lang-
ley type.*

@Recent Progress in Aviation. By Octave Chanute. In Journal Western
Society of Engineers, vol. 15, No. 2, April, 1910. See also various French and
Italian aeronautical periodicals giving some details of these experiments.

20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.—Thirty papers were added
to the Miscellaneous Collections, including a number of biological
and anthropological articles, and four volumes of considerable size
on The Mechanics of the Earth’s Atmosphere, Landmarks of Botan-
ical History, Bibliography of Aeronautics, and Recalculation of
Atomic Weights, all of which are enumerated in detail in the appen-
dix to this report.

Among the papers published just at the close of the year was one
by Dr. F. W. Clarke on “ Chemical denudation” and one by Dr.
George F. Becker on the “ Age of the earth.”

The Smithsonian Physical Tables have been revised and extended
to bring the work within the range of recent advances in the science
of physics, and the new edition has been put to press. The several
series of Smithsonian meteorological, geographical, physical, and
mathematical tables continue to be in demand by students, and new
editions are required at comparatively frequent intervals.

As mentioned on another page, three papers have been added to the
series descriptive of my researches in Cambrian Geology and Pa-
leontology.

Harriman Alaska Expedition—Arrangements are being made by
which the publication of the series of volumes on the results of the
Harriman scientific expedition to Alaska in 1899 will be transferred
to the Smithsonian Institution and the work will hereafter be known
as the Harriman Alaska series of the Smithsonian Institution. The
remainder of the edition of the 11 volumes privately printed, as
well as volumes in preparation, will bear special Smithsonian title
pages, and all will be distributed under the auspices of the Institution.

National Museum publications—The National Museum publica-
tions during the year included the annual report on its operations,
about 50 papers, chiefly biological, in the proceedings, 8 bulletins, and
7 botanical papers in the series of Contributions from the National
Herbarium. The most elaborate of these works is Bulletin No. 70,
devoted to the National Gallery of Art, by Assistant Secretary
Richard Rathbun. ‘This book reviews the history of the Art Gallery
and gives a catalogue of the collections with illustrations of some of
the most important paintings.

Bureau of Ethnology.—The Bureau of American Ethnology issued
five bulletins during the year, including works on the unwritten liter-
ature of Hawaii, by Doctor Emerson, and “Antiquities of the Mesa
Verde National Park,’ by Doctor Fewkes.

Society publications—The annual reports of the American His-
torical Association and of the National Society of the Daughters of
the American Revolution were received from those organizations and
communicated to Congress in accordance with their national charters.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ot

Allotments for printing —The allotments to the Institution and its
branches, under the head of public printing and binding, during the
past fiscal year, aggregating $72,700, were, as far as practicable, ex-
pended prior to June 30. The allotments for the year ending June
30, 1911, are as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution for printing and binding annual reports
of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes______-___________ $10, 000
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-
dixes, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins and
proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not
exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not more
expensive, scientific books and pamplets presented to or acquired by
chem Nationale Museum Hbrary 22s: 2 2 ee oe eae ie ee 34, 000
For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau,
including the binding in half turkey, or in material not more expensive,

scientific books and pamphlets acquired by the bureau library________ 21, 000

For miscellaneous printing and binding:
Internationals mxchangesia eer Bis TRE ree 2 see eat Ti ee 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__________________ 100
Nationals Zcologicall Rar kee 2-8) nee Pg a hie, Ee es 200
ZAStrophysicaliOb servator yas s<- 2 ye eek ee 200
For the annual report of the American Historical Association_________ 7, 000
PROGR Eee oe iis Wo ep OTE ae Ek eR tee ee es LT EE 72, 700

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION.

The committee on printing and publication has continued to ex-
amine manuscripts proposed for publication by the branches of the
Institution and has considered various questions concerning public
printing and binding. Twenty-five meetings of the committee were
held during the year and 106 manuscripts were passed upon. The
personnel of the committee is as follows: Dr. Frederick W. True, head
curator of biology, United States National Museum, chairman; Mr.
C. G. Abbot, director of the Astrophysical Observatory; Mr. W. I.
Adams, of the International Exchanges; Dr. Frank Baker, superin-
tendent of the National Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark,
editor of the Smithsonian Institution; Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist,
the Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. George P. Merrill, head
curator of geology, United States National Museum; and Dr. Leon-
hard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians, United States

National Museum.
THE LIBRARY.

The Smithsonian Library as at present organized includes (1) the
Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, (2) the Smithsonian
office library, (3) the library of the National Museum, (4) the library
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, (5) the library of the Astro-
29 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

physical Observatory, and (6) the library of the National Zoological
Park. The Bureau of Ethnology Library, together with the business
offices of the Bureau, was during the past year transferred to the
Smithsonian building, where it is more accessible than heretofore for
reference.

The total additions to these several libraries during the year aggre-
gated more than 23,000 volumes, pamphlets, and serial publications.

The library of the National Museum, which is subdivided into 31
sectional libraries for the convenience of the several departments and
divisions, now numbers 38,300 volumes, 61,858 unbound papers, and
110 manuscripts, and the Bureau of Ethnology lbrary contains 16,050
volumes, 11,600 pamphlets, several thousand periodicals, and a large
collection of manuscripts.

The Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress was increased
by the addition of 2,653 volumes, 2,879 parts of volumes, 1,896 pam-
phlets, and 623 charts, the total accession entries now having reached
the half-million mark. This library is becoming more and more val-
uable as the sets of transactions and memoirs of the learned institu-
tions of the world and of scientific periodicals are each year made
more complete.

There was published during the year a bibliography of aeronautics,
prepared by the assistant librarian. This work contains references to
about 18,500 books or papers on that subject, most of which are avail-
able for reference in Washington, the collection of aeronautical litera-
ture in the Smithsonian office library having been greatly increased in
recent years.

THE LANGLEY MEDAL.

In memory of the late Secretary Samuel Pierpont Langley and his
contributions to the science of aerodromics, the Board of Regents on
December 15, 1908, established the Langley medal, “to be awarded
for specially meritorious investigations in connection with the science
of aerodromics and its application to aviation.”

As stated in my last report, the first award of the medal was voted
by the Board of Regents to Wilbur and Orville Wright, “ for advanc-
ing the science of aerodromics in its application to aviation by their
successful investigations and by their successful demonstrations of the
practicability of mechanical flight by man.”

The brothers Wright were immediately communicated with in
France and accepted an invitation to be present at the Board meeting
of February 10, 1910, to receive the medals in person. On the date
mentioned they were introduced to the Board and the formal presen-
tation was made. Dr. Alexander Graham Bell reviewed the progress
made in the science of aviation by the investigations and experiments
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 98

of Professor Langley, culminating on May 6, 1896, in the demonstra-
tion that a model aerodrome heavier than air could support itself
and fly under its own power. Professor Langley thus became “ the
great pioneer of aerial flight.” ¢

Senator Lodge made the formal presentation speech, in which he
said:

It is peculiarly the characteristic of Americans to be pioneers; pio-
neers across the great continent on which we live, pioneers by sea,
and now pioneers by air; and to Wilbur and Orville Wright, pioneers
of what Doctor Langley called “the great universal highway
overhead,” who by their achievements have added honor to the
American name and nation, we now present the first Langley medal
that the institution has conferred.

After receiving the medals from the hands of the Chancellor the
recipients expressed their great pleasure in being considered worthy
of such distinction. Mr. Wilbur Wright called attention to the valu-
able scientific researches by Professor Langley in matters relating to
the physical properties of the air and to the great importance of ex-
tending these researches, particularly to determine the coefficient of
air pressure; that is, the pressure of wind at a certain speed on a
plane of a certain size.

As an indication of their early confidence in the successful solution
of the problem of aerial navigation, the Wright brothers said:

The knowledge that the head of the most prominent scientific institution of
America believed in the possibility of human flight was one of the influences
that led us to undertake the preliminary investigations that preceded our active
work. He recommended to us the books which enabled us to form sane ideas

at the outset. It was a helping hand at a critical time, and we shall always be
grateful.

LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

In accordance with a resolution adopted by the Board of Regents
on December 15, 1908, designs have been prepared, and are under
consideration by a special committee, for “ the erection in the Insti-
tution building of a tablet to the memory of Secretary Langley, set-
ting forth his services in connection with the subject of aerial naviga-
tion.” The committee’s recommendations are that the tablet be mod-
eled in bronze in low relief along the lines of the work of St. Gaudens,
to contain a bas-relief of the bust of Mr. Langley, and that in the
background there be represented a model of the Langley aerodrome
in full flight, with the date of its first flight. The tablet is also to
bear the lettering “ Samuel Pierpont Langley, 1834-1906, Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, 1887-1906,” and to bear also the text

27The full addresses by Doctor Bell and others on this occasion will be
printed in the report of the Board to Congress.
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

of what is known as Langley’s Law as to relation of speed to power
in aerial motion, as follows:

These new experiments (and theory also when viewed in their light) show that
if in such aerial motion, there be given a plane of fixed size and weight, inclined
at such an angle, and moved forward at such a speed, that it shall be sustained
in horizontal flight, then the more rapid the motion is, the less will be the power
required to support and advance it.

COMMISSION ON ZOOLOGICAL NOMENCLATURE.

An International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature, con-
sisting of five members, was appointed in 1895 by the Third Interna-
tional Zoological Congress, held at Leyden, Holland, for the purpose
of studying the various codes of nomenclature and to report upon the
same at a later congress. At the congress at Cambridge, England,
in 1898, the commission was made permanent and increased to fif-
teen members. At the Berne Congress, in 1904, the commissioners
were divided into three classes of five, each class to serve for nine
years.

Committees on nomenclature, to cooperate with the International
Commission, have been organized in the United States by the Ento-
mological Society of America, the Association of Economic Ento-
mologists, the American Ornithologists’ Union, and the Society of
American Zoologists.

A code of nomenclature was adopted at the Berlin congress in 1901
and was amended at the Boston congress in 1907. Prior to the Boston
congress a desire had developed among zoologists that the commission
should serve as a court of interpretation of the code, and in accord-
ance therewith the commission presented to the Boston congress five
opinions, which were ratified by the congress.

Since the Boston meeting a number of questions on nomenclature
have been submitted to the commission for opinion. Owing to the
amount of time consumed in communicating with the fifteen commis-
sioners it was impossible to act promptly upon these cases, but in
December, 1909, the Smithsonian Institution gave a grant to provide
for the clerical work for a period of three years, and since that time
it has been possible to render the opinions more promptly.

The commission has no legislative power. Its powers are restricted
to studying questions of nomenclature, to reporting upon such ques-
tions to the international congress, and to rendering opinions upon
cases submitted to it.

The Smithsonian Institution has also undertaken the publication of
the opinions of the commission for a limited period and their distribu-
tion to important libraries and to zoological specialists throughout
the world. ‘The first issue of these opinions was in press at the close
of the fiscal year and included opinions 1 to 25, covering several
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

important questions, making a pamphlet of 61 pages. In connection
with the summary of each opinion there is given a statement of the
case and the discussion thereon by the members of the commission.

The commission has issued the following rules to be followed in
submitting cases for opinion:

(1) The commission does not undertake to act as a bibliographic or nomencla-
tural bureau, but rather as an adviser in connection with the more difficult and
disputed cases of nomenclature.

(2) All cases submitted should be accompanied by (a@) a concise statement of
the point at issue, (0) the full arguments on both sides in case a disputed point
is involved, and (c) complete and exact bibliographic references to every book
or article bearing on the point at issue.

The more complete the data when the case is submitted, the more promptly
can it be acted upon.

(3) Of necessity, cases submitted with incomplete bibliographic references
can not be studied, and must be returned by the commission to the sender.

(4) Cases upon which an opinion is desired may be sent to any member of the
commission, but—

(5) In order that the work of the commission may be confined as much as
possible to the more difficult and the disputed cases it is urged that zoologists
study the code and settle for themselves as many cases as possible.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES AND CELEBRATIONS.

Congress of Americanists—The Institution was represented at
the Seventeenth International Congress of Americanists held at
Buenos Aires, May 16 to 21, 1910, by three delegates, Dr. Ales
Hrdli¢ka, of the United States National Museum; Mr. Bailey Willis,
of the United States Geological Survey; and Rev. Charles Warren
Currier, of the Catholic University of America. Doctor Hrdli¢ka
reports that the meeting was very well attended, particularly by
delegates from the various republics of South America. There were
read nearly fifty papers, many of them of considerable interest, and
related chiefly to the natives of South America. Mr. Bailey Willis
presented a communication on “ Changes in the geological environ-
ment during the Quaternary period,” and Doctor Hrdlicka gave a
résumé of the present knowledge on “Artificial deformation of the
human skull, with special reference to America.”

The Institution also appointed Dr. Ale’ Hrdlicka its representa-
tive at the second meeting of the above congress to be held in the City
of Mexico, September 7 to 14, 1910.

Upon the suggestion of the Smithsonian Institution, the Depart-
ment of State designated Doctor Hrdlicka, Mr, Willis, and Doctor
Currier as representatives of the United States at the above con-
gress at Buenos Aires.

Geological Congress.—Dr. George F. Becker, of the United States
Geological Survey, was designated as the representative of the Smith-
sonian Institution at the Eleventh International Geological Con-
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

egress at Stockholm, Sweden, in August, 1910. A paper expressing
my view on “The abrupt appearance of the Cambrian fauna” was
prepared to be read at this congress.

International American Scientific Congress.—Mr. Bailey Willis,
of the United States Geological Survey, was appointed a delegate in
behalf of the Smithsonian Institution to the International American
Scientific Congress to be held at Buenos Aires, July 10 to 25, 1910,
on the occasion of the Argentina centennial.

Congress on Ornithology—Mr. William Dutcher, president of the
National Association of Audubon Societies, was designated as the
representative on the part of the Smithsonian Institution and United
States National Museum at the Fifth International Congress on
Ornithology held at Berlin from May 30 to June 4, 1910, and upon
the nomination of the Institution Mr. Dutcher was also accredited
by the Department of State as a delegate on the part of the United
States to that congress.

Zoological congress.—The following gentlemen were designated as
delegates to represent the Smithsonian Institution and United States
National Museum at the Eighth International Zoological Congress
to be held at Graz, Austria, from August 15 to 20, 1910, and the De-
partment of State designated them as delegates on the part of the
United States: Dr. Charles Wardell Stiles, of the Public Health
and Marine-Hospital Service, and custodian of Helminthological
Collections in the National Museum; Dr. Henry Haviland Field, an
American naturalist and director of the Concilium Bibliographicum ;
Dr. William E. Kellicott, professor of biology in Goucher College,
Baltimore; and Mr. Austin H. Clark, Assistant Curator of the Divi-
sion of Marine Invertebrates, United States National Museum.

Congress of Botany.—Dr. Frederick V. Coville, of the United
States National Museum, and Dr. Joseph C. Arthur, of Purdue Uni-
versity, were designated as representatives of the-Smithsonian Insti-
tution to the Third International Congress of Botany held at Brus-
sels May 14 to 22, 1910.

Aeronautical Exposition—The Institution was invited to exhibit
some models of the Langley flying machines at an aeronautical ex-
position at Frankfort-on-the-Main July 10 to October 10, 1909, but
it was impracticable to do more than send a series of photographs of
the model machines in flight on May 6, 1896, and August 8, 1903, and
some views of the full-size aerodrome on the launching ways near
Widewater, Virginia.

Inauguration of President Lowell—The President and Fellows
of Harvard College invited the Smithsonian Institution to be repre-
sented by a delegate at the inauguration on October 6 and 7, 1909,
of Abbott Lawrence Lowell, LL. D., as the twenty-fourth president
of Harvard University. It was my pleasure to attend the ceremonies
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

at Cambridge as such delegate and to present in engrossed form the
greetings. and congratulations of the Institution.

University of Oviedo—tThe Institution received from the Univer-
sity of Oviedo, Spain, a copy of an address and a medal commemora-
tive of the third centenary of that university.

Russian Entomological Society—The Institution found it to be im-
practicable to send a delegate to the fiftieth anniversary of the found-
ing of the Entomological Society of Russia at St. Petersburg March
11, 1910, but forwarded its formal congratulations and good wishes.

Conference of librarians—Mr. Paul Brockett, assistant librarian
of the Institution, was authorized to accept the invitation of the
secretary of the Institut International de Bibliographie to take part
in and become a member of the Congrés International de Biblio-
graphie et de Documentation to be held at Brussels, Belgium, August
25 to 27, 1910, and he was also designated to represent the Institution
in the Congrés International des Archivistes et des Bibliothécaires
at the same place on August 29 to 31, 1910.

MISCELLANEOUS.

George Washington Memorial Building.—At the February meeting
of the Board of Regents I spoke of the movement of the George
Washington Memorial Association to erect in Washington a memorial
building, which would be used as a center for the scientific, literary,
patriotic, and educational associations of the country. It is believed
that such a building would afford a much-needed relief to the present
crowded condition of the Smithsonian building, resulting in part by
the accommodations offered to the National Academy of Sciences, the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American
Historical Association, and others.

The proposed building would be erected by popular subscription.

Preservation of American antiquities —Under the requirements of
law (act of June 8, 1906), the Institution has continued its considera-
tion of applications for permits to make archeological excavations or
collections on the public domain of the United States, including
requests for researches in the Aleutian Islands, Arizona, New Mexico,
Utah, and California.

Gifts—Among the gifts to the Institution during the year special
mention may be made of the C. Hart Merriam collection of 5,800
specimens of skins of mammals and about 6,000 skulls, including 100
full skulls of mammals and 235 skulls of seals presented by Mrs.
Edward H. Harriman.

Additional gifts by Mr. Freer and others are referred to in con-
nection with the National Gallery of Art.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

A summary of the operations of the National Museum is given as
usual in the appendix to this report and full details are set forth by
the Assistant Secretary in a separate volume, and need not therefore
be fully treated here.

New building—At the close of the year the exterior of the new
Museum building had been practically completed. Several months’
work, however, remained to be done to, finish the south pavilion or
rotunda. Provision has been made for the improvement of the
grounds immediately about the building, including granolithic roads
and walks, grading, and readjustment of roadways.

The transfer of collections, laboratories, and workshops to the new
building has progressed as rapidly as practicable considering that the
floor area to be provided with furniture and other new equipment is
about 10 acres.

The collections of the National Gallery of Art, as mentioned below,
were transferred to the middle hall of the new building and opened
to the public in March, and in connection therewith some of the
more interesting ethnological groups and historical exhibits were
installed in the surrounding hall and adjacent ranges. It was not
practicable to open any other portions of the building to the public,
although more than half of the natural history collections, both re-
serve and exhibition, had been transferred to their new quarters.

Art textiles—The removal of the paintings from the old building
has afforded more ample space for the display of the art textiles and
fabrics, consisting of laces, embroideries, tapestries, brocades, and
velvets; also fans, enamels, porcelains, jewelry, etc. As mentioned
in my last report, these objects were brought together at the sugges-
tion of Mrs. James W. Pinchot, who has given personal attention
to their collection and arrangement.

Accessions—The additions to the Museum during the year aggre-
gated 970,698 specimens, as compared with 250,000 in the year pre-
ceding. The most noteworthy collection of the year was several
thousand specimens of mammals, birds, reptiles, batrachians, and
other animals, besides several thousand plants, received from the
Smithsonian African Expedition under the direction of Col. Theodore
Roosevelt, more fully referred to on another page. Other important
accessions in the several departments of the Museum are enumerated
by the Assistant Secretary in the appendix to the present report.
About 800,000 entomological specimens, received from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, were varieties of beetles and other insects injuri-
ous to forest trees, which had been accumulated during investigations
by the Bureau of Entomology.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

Distribution of spectmens.—The Museum has taken a special inter-
est for many years, to as great an extent as appropriations would
permit, in the preparation and distribution to educational establish-
ments throughout the country of series of duplicate specimens per-
taining chiefly to natural history. During the past year about 6,000
such specimens were distributed.

National Herbarium.—The removal of the archeological collections
from the large upper hall of the Smithsonian building has afforded
an opportunity for furnishing adequate quarters for the National
Herbarium, which for many years has occupied crowded and unsuit-
able space in the galleries of the National Museum.

Growth of Museum.—The national collections have so increased in
size and value as to make them comparable with the similar collections
of the greater European countries, and with the occupation of the
new building they may now be housed and arranged in an appropriate
and convenient manner. This expansion, however, involves a much
greater annual expenditure than heretofore, the larger portion of
which is called for in connection with the exhibition halls, maintained
for the benefit of the public. The extent of these halls has been
about trebled, thus offering an opportunity for the preparation and
mounting for display of many additional specimens, a work that will
be pushed as rapidly as available funds will permit in order that the
operations of the Museum may be commensurate with their impor-
tance to the public interests and to science.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

As stated in my last report the collections of the National Gallery
of Art had then so increased that they could no longer all be accommo-
dated in the old National Museum building, and Congress having
failed to authorize the adaptation of the large hall of the Smithsonian
building for their proper exhibition, it had become necessary to make
preparations for their display temporarily in one of the halls in the
new Museum building. The space selected was the central part of
the middle hal!, 50 feet wide and about 130 feet long, with a central
skylight. Screen walls were constructed, divided into seven rooms.
An informal opening of the gallery was held on March 17, 1910, which
was largely attended.

The collections were increased during the year by the further gift
from Mr. William T. Evans of 32 paintings and 1 fire etching on
wood, and by a considerable number of loans from various indi-
viduals. It became necessary at the close of the year to make prepara-
tion for extending the limits of the gallery so as to include the entire
space below the skylight in the middle hall.

The history of the gallery and a catalogue of the collections was
published during the year in a volume of 140 pages as Bulletin No.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

70 of the National Museum. This was prepared by the Assistant
Secretary, Dr. Richard Rathbun, who has been most arduous in his
efforts to promote the gallery’s growth.

On the occasion of the first annual convention of the American
Federation of Art, held in Washington May 17-19, 1910, I had the
pleasure of presenting a brief account of the National Gallery, and a
private view of the collections was extended to the members of the
convention and friends on the afternoon of May 17.

The subject is of such importance that it seems proper here to recall
in a general way the origin of the gallery and its present condition and
needs.

In 1840, while the question of what should be done with the Smith-
son bequest was under consideration in Congress, a few gentlemen
organized the National Institute, which was in 1842 incorporated by
Congress for a term of twenty years, at the expiration of which its
collections were to be transferred to the Government. This institute
collected a few works of art, which were subsequently transferred to
the Smithsonian Institution.

The act of 1846 creating the Smithsonian Institution provides
that all objects of art belonging to the United States which may be
in the city of Washington shall be delivered to such persons as may
be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them and that they
shall be arranged and classified in the building erected for the Insti-
tution.

In 1849, under the authority of the Regents, Secretary Henry pur-
chased the Marsh collection of engravings and works of art.

In 1858 the collections in the Patent Office Museum were turned
over to the Smithsonian Institution, and in 1862 the collections of
the National Institute were transferred, on the expiration of its
charter. These collections included a few paintings of merit and
sundry art objects.

In 1879 the Catlin collection of Indian paintings was presented
to the Institution by Mrs. Joseph Harrison, of Philadelphia.

A few additions were made from time to time up to 1906, but they
were relatively of little importance, and, with the collections already
in hand, were scattered about in the Smithsonian building and the
National Museum building erected in 1879.

In 1903, when the will of Harriet Lane Johnston was presented
for probate, it was found that she had bequeathed her entire collec-
tion of paintings and art objects to the Corcoran Gallery of Art,
under certain specific conditions and subject to the provision that
in the event of a national art gallery being established in the city
of Washington they should be transferred to the said National Art
Gallery and become the absolute property of that gallery. The Cor-
coran Gallery declined the bequest under the conditions, and the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Syl

executors of the Johnston estate asked the courts for a construction
of the clause in the testament providing that the collection be given
to a national art gallery. This suit was filed on February 7, 1905,
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and by an order of
the court dated July 18, 1906, the collections were delivered to the
Smithsonian Institution on August 3, 1906, the court deciding that
there had been established by the United States of America in the
city of Washington a national art gallery within the meaning of
Harriet Lane Johnston’s will.

In 1904, Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, offered his art collection
to the Smithsonian Institution, under certain specified conditions,
and also offered to furnish the means for erecting, after his death, a
suitable building to receive the collection. This collection was for-
mally accepted by the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution in
1906. It includes more than 2,250 objects, including paintings in oil,
water color, and pastel, drawings and sketches, etchings and dry
points, lithographs, oriental pottery, and other objects.

The action of Harriet Lane Johnston and Mr. Charles L. Freer
called the attention of all interested in art, to the fact that there was a
national gallery, and that under the care of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion it was making conservative and satisfactory progress.

In March, 1907, Mr. Wilham T. Evans, of Montclair, New Jersey,
announced to the Institution his desire to contribute to the National
Gallery a number of paintings by contemporary American artists of
established reputation. In transmitting the first installment of
paintings, he wrote:

I have every reason to believe that you will like my selections, but should
any of the examples not hold well, others can be substituted, as it is my desire
to have every artist represented at his best. As already intimated, I intend
that the present gift may not be considered as final. Additions may be made
from time to time as opportunities occur to secure exceptional works.

Fifty paintings were enumerated in the list which accompanied
this letter. Up to June 30, 1910, Mr. Evans had presented 114
selected paintings, representing 80 artists. These, with the paintings
already in the possession of the Institution, bring the exhibit now
installed in the large hall of the new Museum building to more
than 160.

The world-wide interest in the National Gallery has been increas-
ing rapidly during the past three years, and we believe, without ques-
tion, that the collections will grow quite as rapidly as facilities can
be provided for their proper installation and exhibition. The col-
lection, including the Freer collection, is particularly strong in pic-
tures by American artists, and it is well that it should be so, in order
that it may have a strong national tone. The Harriet Lane Johnston
collection has given the Gallery fine examples of several of the mas-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

ters of European art, and we hope that this feature will be strength-
ened from time to time as the years go on.

The Charles L. Freer collection contains many beautiful paintings
by Tryon, Dewing, Thayer, and the unexcelled series of Whistler
paintings, pastels, drawings, and sketches; also the beautiful Pea-
cock room. In oriental art the collection representing Japanese and
Chinese paintings from the tenth to the nineteenth century can not be
duplicated in any single gallery in the world, and the bronzes and
pottery are beautiful, and to a large extent unique and of great histor-
ical and artistic value.

The question of a suitable building for the great Freer collection
has been happily settled by Mr. Freer, but we still have to consider
the problem of properly housing and exhibiting the collections now
in the new natural history museum building, as their present instal-
lation is of a temporary character.

I have hope that some of our strong men or women who have the
means will see the great opportunity that is now offered to present to
the nation a suitable building that will be an epoch-making incident
in the development of national art and a monument to the culture
and patriotism of the one so wise as to take advantage of the oppor-
tunity.

The American people, as represented by Congress, have just pro-
vided a large and beautiful building for the collections of natural
history, and in due time it is expected that sufficient interest will be
taken in the art collections of the Government to provide a suitable
home for them. This, however, is not to be anticipated in the imme-
diate future, although the collections now in hand and what will be
inevitably received if accommodations are provided for them will
make a most creditable showing.

I have been frequently asked what effect the development of a
national art gallery would have upon the Corcoran Gallery of Art at
Washington, and in response I have quoted the effect of the estab-
lishment of the Leland Stanford University, in California, upon the
State University of California. Prior to the establishment of the
Leland Stanford University the State University was a relatively
small affair. Its friends, realizing that they must approach the
standard set by the proposed new university, at once cast about for
strong leaders and strong men for their faculty, and the result in a
few years was that California had one of the great research universi-
ties of the country in the Leland Stanford and one of the great state
universities, with thousands of students. The Corcoran Gallery,
with its splendid history, fine building, and beautiful collection of
paintings and statuary, has an international fame, and will grow
stronger and more rapidly under the stimulus of a greater art inter-
est, caused by the development of the national gallery. One will
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 338

supplement the other, and anyone visiting Washington at all inter-
ested in art will be obliged to visit both.

The most sincere and hearty cooperation has existed in the past
between the two institutions, and it will continue in the future, the
only rivalry being that each will endeavor to hold to a higher standard
and uplift the art ideals in America.

In order to insure the maintenance of the gallery at a proper stand-
ard there has been organized a permanent honorary committee of men
competent to pass judgment on the quality of such works of art as
might be presented for acceptance by the gallery and who are also
so identified with the art interests of the country as to assure to the
public and especially to the lovers and patrons of art the wholly
worthy purpose of this movement on behalf of the nation. This
advisory committee is constituted as follows:

Mr. Francis D. Millett, president; Mr. Frederick Crowninshield,
representing the Fine Arts Federation, of which he is president; Mr.
Edwin H. Blashfield, representing the National Academy of Design;
Mr. Herbert Adams, representing the National Sculpture Society, of
which he is president; and Mr. William H. Holmes, of the Smith-
sonian Institution, secretary of the committee.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Bureau of American Ethnology has in the past accomplhshed
much in its study of the habits, customs, and beliefs of the American
aborigines. The results of these researches have in considerable
measure been permanently recorded in annual reports and bulletins
that contain a mass of valuable information on aboriginal arts and
industries, forms of government, religious and social customs, lan-
guages, and mental and physical characteristics. Although a large
body of material still awaits final study and arrangement and much
remains to be done both in field and office work, yet the investigations
of the Bureau have reached such a stage as to render it possible to
summarize some of the results in the form of handbooks designed
especially for the use of schools and nonprofessional students. The
demand for the handbooks already issued or in preparation has been
very large.

The Indians form one of the great races of mankind, and the
world looks to the Government for all possible knowledge that is
still available concerning this race before it shall have vanished by
assimilation in the great body of the American people.

The Bureau has likewise done much in the exploration and pres-
ervation of antiquities, especially the prehistoric ruins in the south-
ern Rocky Mountain region, and will continue work in this direction
and press it more rapidly while there is still opportunity to save them

97578°—sm 1910

2
o

34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

from vandalism and to preserve them for the benefit of future gen-
erations.

There is present need of ethnological researches among the tribal
remnants of the Mississippi basin, since the opportunities for making
and preserving a permanent record of the aborigines which played
such an important part in the early history of the Middle West are
rapidly passing.

Ethnological researches should also be made in the Hawaiian
Islands and in Samoa. Little reliable information regarding the
ethnology of these insular possessions has been recorded, and it is
hoped that Congress may soon provide the means for initiating among
their natives researches of the same general character as those now
being conducted among the American Indian tribes.

The various lines of ethnological studies carried on by the Bureau
during the past year are presented in detail in the appendix to the
present report.

The removal of some divisions of the National Museum to the new
Museum building afforded an opportunity for the transfer in Decem-
ber last of the offices and library of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology from rented quarters to the Smithsonian building. It was
found desirable at the same time to reorganize the office force, Mr.
Holmes, Chief of the Bureau for several years, having resumed the
office of head curator of the Department of Anthropology in the
National Museum.

With a view to economy in the transaction of the routine business
of the Bureau, much of the clerical and all the laboring work was
concentrated by placing the routine correspondence and files, the ac-
counts, the shipment of publications, and the care of supplies and
other property in immediate charge of the office of the Smithsonian
Institution. It was thus found possible to render a larger proportion
of the annual appropriation available for research work.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Several additional governments have entered into the immediate
exchange of their parliamentary records during the past year, 26
countries now taking part in this exchange with the United States.
A list of the countries to which the daily issue of the Congressional
Record is sent will be found in the appended report on the exchanges.
The Institution is still in correspondence with other governments re-
garding this immediate exchange, and from time to time additions
will no doubt be made to the list of those countries participating. It
may be stated, in this connection, that the exchange here alluded to is
separate and distinct from the exchange of official documents which
has existed between the United States and other countries for a num-
ber of years.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

While the number of packages handled during the past year was
7,250 less than during the preceding twelve months, there was a gain in
weight of 8,515 pounds. The number of packages passing through
the service was 221,625, and the total weight 484,684 pounds.

The total available resources for carrying on the system of ex-
changes during 1910 amounted to $36,646.74—$32,200 of which were
appropriated by the Congress and $4,446.74 were derived from ex-
change repayments to the Institution.

His Imperial Japanese Majesty’s residency-general at Seoul having
consented to act as the exchange intermediary between Korea and the
United States, the interrupted exchange relations with that country
have been resumed.

Under the exchange arrangements entered into in 1898, through
the Imperial Academy of Sciences, in Vienna, with the Statistical
Central Commission, it has been necessary for the Smithsonian Insti-
tution to bear all the expenses for freight on consignments both to
and from Vienna. The government of Austria has now signified its
willingness to assume its share of the cost of conducting the exchanges
between the two countries, and in the future the Institution will,
therefore, be relieved of this extra burden upon its resources. In
bringing this matter to the attention of the Austrian Government,
the Institution has had the assistance of the presidents of the Imperial
Academy of Sciences and of the Statistical Central Commission, to
both of whom thanks are due for their kind cooperation.

During the past year the Institution discontinued sending ex-
change packages to correspondents by registered mail. This step was
taken with a view to reducing the work in the exchange office and also
to relieving the Post-Office Department of the extra expense involved
in handling the large amount of registered matter sent out by the
exchanges.

There were 975 more correspondents on the records of the exchange
office than at the close of last year, the total now being 63,605.

The circular containing the exchange rules has been revised during
the year and a new edition printed. For the information of those
who may wish to make use of the facilities of the service, the circular
is given in full in the report on the exchanges.

German bureau of eachanges.—As has been mentioned in previous
reports, the German Government has never undertaken the distribu-
tion of exchanges between Germany and the United States, and, in
order to conduct the very large interchange of publications between
the two countries, it has been necessary for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion to maintain a paid agency in Leipzig. During the year 1907,
Germany was again approached, through the Department of State,
on the subject of the establishment of a governmental bureau of ex-
changes in that country. It is gratifying to note here that the repre-
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

sentations of the department through the American ambassador at
Berlin, have been given favorable consideration on the part of the
German authorities, in connection with the establishment, under the
direction of that Government, of the America Institute in Berlin—
an institution for the fostering of cultural relations between Germany
and the United States. While the Smithsonian Institution has not
thus far received definite information of the actual establishment of
this institute, it is learned through Dr. Hugo Miinsterberg—Harvard
exchange professor to the University of Berlin, who is to be the first ~
director of this America institute, and who has taken a very active
interest in the whole matter—that it is intended to have the institute
assume, as one of is functions, the interchange of publications between
Germany and the United States.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The National Zoological Park was established in 1890 “ for the ad-
vancement of science and the instruction and recreation of the peo-
ple.” The area covered by the park is 167 acres along the Rock
Creek Valley, about 2 miles north of the center of Washington, in a
region well adapted by nature for the purpose for which it is used.
During the past twenty years improvements have gradually been
made as appropriations have permitted by the laying out of drive-
ways and walks and the construction of bridges to render access
easy for visitors through connections with the city thoroughfares and
with the roadways of Rock Creek Park to the north of the Zoological
Park. From year to year likewise the comfort and care of the col-
lections have been improved by the laying out of ponds and yards
and the construction of bird cages, bear dens, and buildings suited
to the habits of the various animals. Among the improvements of the
past year I may mention that six new large cages were built for the
lions and other large cats; the antelope house was enlarged by an
extension 50 by 50 feet, furnishing 10 additional stalls with com-
modious yards, and a new entrance to the building; and a suitable
pool 47 by 96 feet was made for the sea lions and seals.

There remains, however, much to be done to provide adequate
accommodations for the collections that are gradually increasing in
number and in value, as well as improved facilities for the great
and increasing number of visitors to the park.

To a large extent the animals still have to be kept in temporary
quarters, which are insufficient and unsuitable, and are costly to
maintain because of the repairs that are constantly required. This is
especially true of the temporary building used for birds. The park
has a fine series of birds, some of them of great rarity and interest,
and they would make a most valuable exhibit if properly housed.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 837

Only a part of the collection can now be shown for lack of room, and
it is practically impossible to maintain the birds in a healthy condi-
tion when kept in such unsuitable quarters.

The collections in the park were enriched during the year by the
addition of a number of East African animals, including five lions,
two cheetahs, a leopard, a Grant’s gazelle, a wart hog, and several
smaller mammals and birds, which were the gift of Mr, W. N. Mc-
Millan, of Nairobi; also a pair each of eland and Coke’s hartebeest,
a Grant’s zebra, a water buck, and a Lophiomys, which were secured
in the same region. These animals were of such interest and value
as to render it desirable to send the assistant superintendent of the
park to Africa to arrange for their safe transfer to Washington.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory during the year has
brought two important results:

(1) The first result is the establishment of an absolute scale of
pyrheliometry within three parts in one thousand as the result of a
long series of experiments with various pyrhelometers. The estab-
lishment of this scale through Mr. Abbot’s standard pyrheliometer
has been supplemented by the distribution abroad and at home of
several secondary pyrheliometers constructed through a grant from
the Hodgkins Fund. The constancy of the scale of these secondary
pyrheliometers has been established and it is desirable to compare
this scale with those in use elsewhere. It is hoped that finally all
pyrhelometric observations will be made on the same scale as that
used here.

(2) The second result of the year’s work is the agreement within
1 per cent of the “solar-constant” observations obtained by Mr.
Abbot at the Smithsonian Mount Whitney station in California at
an elevation of 14,500 feet with those obtained simultaneously at the
Mount Wilson station in California at an elevation of only 6,000
feet. This determination, in combination with the above-mentioned
establishment of an absolute scale of pyrheliometry, gives 1.925 calo-
ries per square centimeter per minute as a mean value, for the period
1905-1909, of the rate at which the earth receives heat from the sun
when at its mean distance. Determinations made with various forms
of apparatus show no systematic difference in this value of the “ solar
constant.” In 1905 this “ constant,” according to various authorities,
was stated at values ranging between 1.75 and 4 calories.

It is improbable that observations would have been continued since
1902 on “ solar-constant ” work but for a suspected variability of the
radiation sent to us from the sun. The laws governing this varia-
bility are of extreme importance for utilitarian purposes apart from
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

their interest to astronomers. While confident of the existence of
variations of this value extending over somewhat long periods and of
the probability of short-period variations as shown by the observa-
tions obtained on Mount Wilson, yet, in order to establish full confi-
dence in the minds of others of this variability of the sun’s heat, there
is a very pressing need of observations made simultaneously at some
other place where they could be made over a longer period than is
possible at Mount Whitney. This new station should be so situated
that observations could be continued there while the winter rainy
season prevents them at Mount Wilson. A station in Mexico would
best fulfill such conditions.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

The purpose of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature
is to collect and publish in 17 annual volumes a classified index of the
current scientific publications of the world. This is accomplished
through the cooperation of 32 of the principal countries of the world,
which by means of regional bureaus, one in each country, prepare the
data necessary to index all scientific publications issued within their
domains. The material thus prepared is forwarded to a central
bureau in London for publication in the annual volumes.

The various subscribers throughout the world bear the entire cost
of the actual printing and publication by the central bureau, but each
country taking part in the enterprise bears the expense of indexing
and classifying its own publications.

The 17 annual volumes combined contain from 10,000 to 12,000
printed pages. The regional bureau for the United States furnishes
yearly about 30,000 citations to American scientific literature, which
is between 11 and 12 per cent of the total for the world. The bureau
for this country was for several years maintained from the funds of
the Smithsonian Institution, but is now supported through annual
congressional appropriations.

Millions of dollars are being spent each year in scientific investiga-
tions, and many of the foremost men of the day are devoting their
entire time to such work. The results of their labors find publicity
through some scientific journal, of which there are over 5,000 that
are regularly indexed by the various regional bureaus, over 500 of
these journals being published in the United States. The titles of
hundreds of books and pamphlets are likewise cited in this Inter-
national Catalogue. There is thus furnished in condensed, accurate,
and permanent form a minutely classified index to practically all the
scientific literature of the world, for the method of classification
actually furnishes a digest of the contents, as well as the usual bibli-
ographical data, for each publication.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

Tt is interesting to mention that a plan for a work of this character
was proposed by the Smithsonian Institution as early as 1855, when
Secretary Henry, of the Smithsonian Institution, called the attention
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science to the
great need of an international catalogue of scientific works. In
1867 the Royal Society published its well-known “ Catalogue of
Scientific Papers,” and the Smithsonian Institution from time to
time has issued catalogues of the literature of special branches of
science. In 1894 the Royal Society invited the governments of the
world to send delegates to a conference to be held in London in 1896.
At this and the following conferences in 1898 and 1900 a plan was
formulated to start the work with a classified subject and author °
catalogue of all original scientific literature, beginning with January
1, 1901.

Respectfully submitted.

Cuartes D, Watcort, Secretary.
Apprnpix I.

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
United States National Museum for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1910:

CONSTRUCTION AND OCCUPATION OF THE NEW BUILDING,

The subjects of greatest concern during the past year have been those con-
’ nected with the erection and occupation of the new building. By the end of the
year essentially all of the building except the interior of the south pavilion and
the granite approaches had been structurally finished. The last stones in the
approaches, however, were laid toward the end of July, 1910, leaving, at the
time of writing this report, only the pavilion, or rotunda, which will require
several months more for its completion on account of certain decorative
features, though these are neither elaborate nor expensive. The auditorium,
which occupies most of the ground floor of the pavilion, is expected to be in
readiness by October. :

In the general deficiency act passed near the close of the last session of
Congress provision was made for the improvement of the grounds immediately
about the building. This work includes granolithic roads and walks to the
north entrance and along both sides of the building to the east and west en-
trances, where coal, collections, and supplies are delivered; the grading of the
embankment just south of the building and the construction of a narrow service
road in the intervening area; the sodding or seeding of all surfaces intended to
be kept as lawns; and the readjustment of one of the main roads of the Mall
so as to cause it to pass directly in front of the south approaches. These im-
portant matters will be attended to by the officer in charge of public buildings
and grounds, in whose province they belong.

The pressure for additional space on account of the emptying of the rented
buildings and the rapid growth of collections made it imperative to begin the
occupation of the new building before its completion. During May and June,
1909, the contents of the rented buildings were carried over and stored on some
of the finished floors in the exhibition halls and in one of the open courts. Two
months later possession of the third story was obtained from the superintendent
of construction, although at that time none of the rooms were provided with
doors and temporary expedients had to be resorted to for the protection of such
material as was first moved. On November 9, 1909, the Museum accepted con-
trol of all parts of the building aside from the south pavilion, and while there
was still much work of a minor character in progress, operations were not mate-
rially interfered with on that account. The transfer of the collections, labora-
tories, and workshops has proceeded rapidly, but not as satisfactorily as was
hoped for, owing mainly to delays in obtaining furniture, an undertaking of
great magnitude, considering that the floor area to be provided for is in the
neighborhood of 10 acres.

It may be explained that the first and second floors of the building are
designed wholly for exhibition purposes. There is one large exhibition hall

40
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

on the ground floor, which also contains the heating and power plant, and
the wood and metal work shops. Otherwise, this floor, and the third floor and
attic, are allotted to the immense reserve collections in all branches of natural
history, the laboratories, preparators’ rooms and administrative offices. It is
planned with reference to these three floors to use only metal furniture as
far as possible, especially for the storage of specimens, since the fire risk is
greater in the relatively small closed rooms than in the large exhibition halls,
through which a clear view can be had at all times. The danger of fire or of
its spread has, however, been reduced to a minimum, first through the use of
metal doors supplementing the otherwise fireproof construction, and, second,
through a system of alarms, fire plugs and fire extinguishers. While the metal
as well as wooden storage cases are made in several styles to meet the re-
quirements of different classes of specimens, the rule of construction along
unit lines continues to be followed. The large demand created by the needs
of the new building has given rise to a keen competition among manufacturers
of steel furniture, and resulted in a quality of workmanship which is highly
gratifying.

A certain amount of fireproof storage furniture had been constructed during
the year 1908-9, but it was not until the beginning of last year that the
larger orders could be placed, and a considerable amount of work was also
done in the Museum shops. As it was deemed most important to first com-
plete the furnishing of the working quarters, very little has been done in the
matter of exhibition cases, but the requirements of the public halls will be
given active consideration during the current year.

Considerably more than half of the natural history collections, both reserve
and exhibition, were transferred during the year, and it is expected that the
entire moving will be completed before winter. 'The only exhibition series
opened to the public were those referred to below in connection with the
National Gallery of Art, but the arrangement of other halls was in progress
when the year closed. For the division of plants, the second story of the main
part of the Smithsonian building is being fitted up.

From what has been said it will be noted that with the readjustments now
in progress all of the collections relating to natural history, including anthro-
pology, but excluding the herbarium, will soon be segregated in the new building,
which was specially planned for that branch of the Museum. The installation
of the paintings of the National Gallery of Art in the middle wing of the build-
ing, as described below, is virtually an intrusion, and it is expected that in due
time more appropriate accommodations will be found for this important and
rapidly growing department.

The great difference in the amount of space required by each of the respective
departments and their branches, dependent upon the size of their collections,
has rendered impossible any exact division between them of the floor area of the
building, and the claims of each has been decided according to the actual needs.
In a general way anthropology has been given the middle part of the building,
biology the western side, and geology the eastern side. This division of space
extends essentially from the ground floor to the attic, and, in view of the many
elevators and stairways provided, the arrangement is not inconvenient. It
gives to each of the departments one of the large halls, and, as all of these halls
open on the rotunda, a visitor entering by the main doorway may proceed
directly to whichever department he desires.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

Mr. William T. Evans contributed 32 paintings and 1 fire etching to his collec-
tidbn of the works of contemporaneous American artists, which now numbers 17/
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

well-selected examples by 80 painters. This important gift, which is attracting
wide attention and receiving the highest commendation, has already done much
toward advancing the interests of American art, and it is worthy of mention
that one of its canvases was exhibited abroad in the early spring. It should
also be stated that during a trip to the Orient Mr. Charles L. Freer secured
many choice additions to his collection, still remaining in his custody in Detroit,
the formal transfer of which, as the third supplement to the original gift, was
made to the Institution in July, 1910.

Early in July, 1909, it became necessary to move the Evans collection from
the Corcoran Gallery of Art to the improvised picture gallery in the older
Museum building, and this in turn required the temporary retirement from
public view of many of the paintings which had previously been installed there.
The importance of having the entire collection kept together and on exhibition,
however, led to an arrangement for its maintenance in the new building, pend-
ing the time when a more appropriate home can be found for the department of
the fine arts. The location selected was the central skylighted part of the
middle hall, which is 50 feet wide and has been utilized to a length of about
130 feet. This area was inclosed with screen walls of a suitable character for
hanging paintings and was divided into 7 rooms of varying size. Here all of the
paintings belonging to the gallery, together with many loans, were assembled in
time to have an informal opening on the 17th of March, 1910, which was largely
attended. Some of the more interesting ethnological groups and historical ex-
hibits were also installed for the same occasion in the surrounding parts of the
hall and adjacent ranges, and the first visitors to the new building were, there-
fore, given the opportunity to judge of its advantages for exhibition purposes.
At the close of the year preparations had been made for extending the limits of
the gallery so as to include the entire space below the skylight.

ART TEXTILES.

With the removal of the paintings from the gallery in the older Museum
building and of the large screens except the one at the east end, this entire hall
became available for the collection of art objects commenced two years ago at
the suggestion of Mrs. James W. Pinchot, who has continued to give her personal
attention to its growth and arrangement. Consisting fundamentally of laces, it
comprises other art textiles and fabrics such as embroideries, tapestries, bro-
cades, and velvets; and also fans, enamels, porcelains, silver work, ivory carv-
ings, jewelry, etc. Besides many loans there were two important donations
during the year. One was from Mrs. Pinchot and consisted of 61 pieces of lace,
purchased abroad expressly for the collection and with a view to its needs. The
other was from Miss Anna R. Fairchild, and comprised 12 pieces of lace and 7
fans, formerly belonging to the late Miss Julia 8. Bryant, in whose memory they
were presented. The laces are of several varieties, mostly of large size, dating
back to the seventeenth century, and are of great beauty and value. Just be
fore the close of the year additional cases were provided and the entire collec-
tion was rearranged. It iS now one of the most attractive features in the
Museum.

COMMEMORATIVE TABLET.

It is especially pleasing to note the acquisition of a large bronze tablet, inter-
esting both historically and artistically, executed by the sculptor, Isidore Konti,
for the Hon. Truxton Beale, who has recognized the National Museum as a
fitting place for its installation. It symbolizes an act of heroism during the war
with Mexico, by which the two participants, whose figures appear in relief on the
tablet, namely, Passed Midshipman (afterwards General) Edward F. Beale
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

and Kit Carson, obtained succor for a band of American soldiers surrounded by
the enemy. ‘This tablet, which measures 11 feet high by 7 feet wide, was erected
in the north entrance hall of the new building, and unveiled, with simple cere-
monies, on May 31, 1910.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS,

The total number of specimens received during the year was approximately
970,698, of which 933,998 were zoological and botanical, 17,979 were geological
and paleontological, and 18,721 belonged to the several divisions comprised in
the department of anthropology. The unprecedented record for biology resulted
from the transfer of a special large collection from one of the government depart-
ments, aS explained below. While North America was, as usual, most exten-
sively represented in the additions, the accessions from abroad were exception-
ally numerous and valuable, and in a notable degree furnished material for
important contributions to science,

The most noteworthy accession was that received from the Smithsonian
African Expedition under the direction of Col. Theodore Roosevelt, who was
accompanied by his son, Mr. Kermit Roosevelf, and, on the part of the Institution,
by Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. Army, Mr. Edmund Heller, and Mr. J. Alden
Loring. This expedition, which was entirely financed from private sources,
reached Mombasa on April 21, 1909, spent eight months in British East Africa,
and thence proceeded through Uganda and down the White Nile to Khartum,
where it arrived on March 14, 1910. Field work was energetically prosecuted
in all parts of the region visited and ample notes were made. The resultant
collection, sent in several installments, reached Washington in excellent condi-
tion, and constitutes the largest and most important single gift of natural history
objects ever received by the Museum. A preliminary census indicates that it
comprises about 4,897 mammals, 4,000 birds, 2,000 reptiles and batrachians, and
500 fishes, besides large numbers of mollusks, insects, crustaceans, and other
invertebrates, and several thousand plants. The series of large and small mam-
mals from East Africa is, collectively, probably more valuable than is to be found
in any other museum in the world, its importance depending not so much on the
number of new forms as on the fact that it affords an adequate basis for a critical
study of the mammal fauna of Hast Africa and the establishment or rejection of
the large number of forms which have been described, especially in recent years,
from insufficient material. The series of birds, reptiles, and plants are also
exceedingly valuable, and the material representing other groups is certain to
furnish interesting results when studied.

An exploration of certain parts of Java by and at the expense of Mr. Owen
Bryant, of Cohasset, Massachusetts, assisted by Mr. William Palmer, of the
Museum staff, resulted in the acquisition of a large and valuable collection, in
which mammals and birds figure most prominently, though reptiles, insects, and
marine invertebrates are extensively represented. Dr. William L. Abbott pre-
sented an important collection of ethnological objects, together with interesting
specimens of mammals, birds, and reptiles, obtained by him in Borneo. Nearly
400 specimens, representing 85 species of birds from the Polynesian Islands,
were received as a gift from Mr. Charles H. Townsend, of New York, by whom
they were collected several years ago.

The transfers made by the United States Bureau of Fisheries, consisting
mainly of material which had been studied and described, and containing a
large number of types, were of great value. Of fishes there were about 30,000
specimens, of marine invertebrates about 8,000 specimens, and of reptiles and
batrachians about 600 specimens. Except for many fishes from the fresh
waters of the United States, the collections were derived almost wholly from
the explorations of the steamer Albatross in different parts of the Pacific Ocean.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

An extensive and very valuable series of crustaceans from the expedition of
the British ship Sealark to the western Indian Ocean in 1905, and smaller series
from the explorations of the French ship Travailleur and the German ship Talis-
man in the eastern Atlantic Ocean, were presented to the Museum in return for
services in working up the respective collections for publication.

The Bureau of Entomology of the Department of Agriculture transferred
to the Museum a most extensive and noteworthy collection, which has been in
course of building up for a number of years in connection with investigations
on insects injurious to forest trees. It comprises not less than 800,000 speci-
mens, mainly beetles of the family Scotytidz, and remains in charge of Dr. A.
D. Hopkins, of the Bureau, who has been designated as its custodian in the
Musuem.

The division of plants received over 33,000 specimens, including about 10,000
obtained during an expedition under the associate curator, Dr. J. N. Rose, to
the southwestern United States and western Mexico; the material collected by
the Smithsonian African Expedition; exchanges from the Philippine Islands,
and transfers from the Department of Agriculture.

In geology and mineralogy some interesting specimens from different parts
of the world were secured. The accessions in invertebrate paleontology were
not only extensive but also of special importance, having been mainly the re-
sults of field work conducted during the year under the auspices of the Institu-
tion, the Museum, and the Geological Survey, accompanied by stratigraphic
observations, and furnishing material for investigations of exceptional value.
The largest and most noteworthy collections consisted of Cambrian fossils ob-
tained in Alberta, Canada, by the Secretary, and in Utah and Manchuria,
China, by others under his direction. Next should be mentioned Ordovician
and Silurian fossils from the Ohio Valley, Utah, and the island of Anticosti,
Canada, in part collected by the curator of the division and in part secured by
transfer and exchange. Interesting contributions were series of Tertiary fossils
from North Carolina and the State of Washington.

A number of remains of rare fossil vertebrates, some in excellent condition
for mounting for exhibition, and valuable additions to the collection of mamma-
lian remains from the Fort Union beds of Sweet Grass County, Montana, were
obtained in connection with explorations by the Geological Survey and the Mu-
seum. The types and figured specimens of Cretaceous plants from New York
and New England recently described and published by the Geological Survey
constituted the principal acquisition in paleobotany.

Prominent among the accessions in ethnology was a large collection of objects
illustrative of the Kanakas of Hawaii, gathered during a long period of years
by Dr. N. B. Emerson, of Honolulu, and purchased by the Government for exhi-
bition at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition. The most notable of many ad-
ditions in prehistoric archeology were two collections from North America and
one from South America. The former resulted from excavations by Dr. J. W.
Fewkes, first at the “ Cliff Palace,’ Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, for
the Department of the Interior, and subsequently at the ruins of the Marsh
Pass region, Arizona, for the Bureau of American Ethnology. The latter repre-
sents the ancient peoples of Argentina and was obtained by exchange.

Through the courtesy and generosity of the officials of the Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art in New York Dr. AleS Hrdlitka was enabled to visit the excava-
tions which that museum has for some time been conducting in Egypt and to
secure from the tombs as they were uncovered several hundred remains of
ancient Egyptians, which were carefully labeled and prepared for shipment
under his personal supervision. The value of this collection, which is still to
be worked up, is greatly enhanced by the fact that every specimen is well iden-
tified chronologically.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

The technological collections were increased along many lines, the most impor-
tant additions having been of firearms, including a number of historically
interesting pieces, for which the Museum was chiefly indebted to the War De-
partment. Also worthy of mention were series of sun dials and of watch and
chronometer movements and the original machine, long in use, by which com-
plete pins were first manufactured automatically.

The division of history was greatly enriched. The bequest of Prof. Simon
Newcomb to the nation for deposit in the Museum of many personal memorials
comprised, besides his uniform and sword as a rear-admiral in the navy, gold
and bronze medals, vases, including a large and fine example in jasper presented
by the Emperor of Russia, and 118 diplomas and announcements of honors con-
ferred on this distinguished astronomer by universities and other learned bodies
for eminence in science. Among the gifts and loans were personal relics of
Admiral Farragut and Rear-Admiral Charles Wilkes, and a number of pieces
of china bearing the insignia of the Society of the Cincinnati, made in China
in 1790 for David Townsend, of Massachusetts.

MISCELLANEOUS,

Of duplicate specimens from the collections of the various divisions, about
6,000 were distributed to educational establishments in different parts of the
country, while about 24,000 were used in making exchanges with other institu-
tions and with individuals, whereby much valuable new material was acquired.
The number of specimens sent to specialists for study in behalf of the Museum
or of work in progress for other purposes was about 16,000.

The record of visitors to the public halls showed an average attendance, the
total number of persons who entered the older Museum building during the
year having been about 229,000. It is to be expected that the attendance at the
new building when its exhibition collections have been fully arranged will be
much greater than this, but not until Sunday opening has been effected, a step
anticipated in the near future, can the Museum hope to meet its manifest obli-
gations in popular education.

The publications of the year, all but one of which were descriptive of material
in the collections, comprised the annual or administrative report for 1909, one
volume of Proceedings, one of Contributions from the National Herbarium, 8
bulletins, and 55 separate papers belonging to three uncompleted volumes.

Because of the insufficient funds provided for the purchase of books the
library of the Museum still serves very inadequately the purposes for which it
is maintained, the classification of the collections, and important work is often
much hindered on this account. At the close of the year it contained 38,300
volumes and 61,858 unbound papers.

Mr. William H. Holmes, who has served as Chief of the Bureau of American
Ethnology since 1902, returned to the Museum in January to again take up
the duties of head curator of the department of anthropology. It is with deep
regret that I announce the deaths, at advanced ages, of two of the honorary
associates of the Museum, Dr. Charles A. White and Dr. Robert E. C. Stearns,
once active members of its staff, both of whom became widely known through
their important contributions to science during many. years, the former especially
in paleontology, the latter in zoology.

Respectfully submitted.
RICHARD RATHBUN,

Assistant Secretary, in Charge of U. S. National Museum.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

AUGUST 27, 1910.
AppEenpix II. .
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report of the operations of the
Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1910, con-
ducted in accordance with the act of Congress approved March 4, 1909, authoriz-
ing the continuation of ethnological researches among the American Indians and
the natives of Hawaii, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, aud
in accordance with the plans of operations approved by the Secretary on June 1,
1909, and January 7, 1910.

During the first half of the fiscal year the administration of the Bureau was
under the immediate charge of Mr. William H. Holmes, who, on January 1, 1910,
severed his official connection with the Bureau in order to resume his place as
head curator of anthropology in the United States National Museum and to
become curator of the National Gallery of Art, as well as to enable him to take
advantage of the facilities afforded by the change for publishing the results of
his various archeological researches. Mr. F. W. Hodge was designated on
the same date to assume the administration of the Bureau under the title
“ethnologist in charge.”

In view of the approaching change and of the necessity for devoting much of
his time to affairs connected with the Department of Anthropology of the
National Museum and the National Gallery of Art and the administration of the
Bureau, Mr. Holmes found it impracticable to give attention to field research
during the remainder of 1909. Good progress was made in the preparation of
the Handbook of American Archeology, to which he had devoted much attention
during the year and to which reference has been made in previous reports.

The systematic ethnological researches of the Bureau were continued as in
previous years with the regular force of the Bureau, consisting of eight eth-
nologists, increased to ten toward the close of the year by the appointment of
two additional members of the staff, and finally decreased by the death of one
member. In addition, the services of several specialists in their respective
fields were enlisted for special work, as follows:

Prof. Franz Boas, honorary philologist, with several assistants, for research
in the languages of the American aborigines, particularly with the view of
incorporating the results in the Handbook of American Indian Languages.

Miss Alice C. Fletcher and Mr. Francis La Flesche, for continuing the revision
of the proofs of their monograph on the Omaha Indians, to be published as the
“accolnpanying paper” of the Twenty-seventh Annual Report.

Miss Frances Densmore, for researches in Indian music.

Mr. J. P. Dunn, for studies of the tribes of the Algonquian family residing or
formerly resident in the Middle West.

Rey. Dr. George P. Donehoo, for investigations in the history, geography, and
ethnology of the tribes formerly living in western Pennsylvania and south-
western New York, for incorporation in the Handbook of American Indians.

Mr. William R. Gerard, for studies of the etymology of Algonquian place and
tribal names and of terms that have found their way into the English language,
for incorporation in the same work.

46
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

Prof. H. M. Ballou, in conjunction with Dr. Cyrus Thomas, for bibliographic
research in connection with the List of Works Relating to Hawaii, in course of
preparation for publication.

The systematic ethnological researches by members of the regular staff of the
bureau are summarized as follows:

Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge, when administrative work permitted
devoted his attention almost exculsively to the editing of the Handbook of
American Indians (pt. 2), which was so far advanced toward completion at
the close of the fiscal year that it seemed very probable the volume would be
ready for distribution within about six months. As the work on part 2 was in
progress, advantage was taken of the opportunity afforded by the necessary
literary research in connection therewith to procure new data for incorporation
in a revised edition of the entire work, which it is proposed to issue as soon as
the first edition of part 2 has appeared. The demand for the handbook is
still very great, many thousands of requests having been received which could
not be supplied owing to the limited edition.

With the exception of a brief trip, Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, remained
in the office throughout the entire fiscal year, occupied chiefly in the elaboration
of his study of Indian population, with frequent attention to work on the Hand-
book of American Indians, and to various routine duties, especially those con-
nected with supplying information to correspondents. The investigation of the
former and present population covers the entire territory north of Mexico, from
the discovery to the present time, and involves the close examination of a great
body of literature, particularly documentary records of the various colonies and
of the official reports of French and Spanish explorers and commanders, to-
gether with such special collections as the Jesuit Relations and the annual Indian
reports of the United States and Canadian governments from the beginning.
It is also necessary, first, to fix and differentiate the tribe, and then to follow
the wasting fortunes of each tribe and tribal remnant under change of name and
habitat, further subdivision, or new combination, to the end. For better han-
dling, the whole territory has been mapped into fifteen sections, each of which
has its own geographic and historical unity, and can thus be studied separately.
The investigation includes a summary of the Indian wars, and notable epidemics
within the same region from the discovery. No similar investigation has ever
before been attempted, even the official Indian reports being incomplete as to
identity of tribes and number of Indians not directly connected with agencies.

In January, 1910, by request of those organizations, Mr. Mooney was desig-
nated to represent the Bureau of American Ethnology at the joint meeting of the
Mississippi Valley Historical Association and the Nebraska State Historical
Society, held at Lincoln, Nebraska, and delivered several addresses, with par-
ticular reference to the utilization of the methods and results of the Bureau in
local ethnologie and historical research.

At the request of the Secretary of the Interior, Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnol-
ogist, continued the excavation and repair of the prehistoric ruins in the Mesa
Verde National Park, in southern Colorado, begun in the previous year.
Doctor Fewkes commenced work on Cliff Palace in May, 1909, and completed the
excavation and repair of this celebrated ruin in August. He then proceeded to
northwestern Arizona, and made a reconnoissance of the Nayaho National
Monument, visiting and studying the extensive cliff and other ruins of that
section, knowledge of the existence of which he had gained many years ago
during his ethnological researches among the Hopi Indians. At the close of
this investigation Doctor Fewkes returned to Washington and prepared for the
Secretary of the Interior a report on the excavation and repair of Cliff Palace,
which was published by the Department of the Interior in November. A more
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

comprehensive illustrative report on the same ruins, giving the scientific results
of Doctor Fewkes’s studies during the progress of the excavation of Cliff Palace,
was prepared for publication as Bulletin 51 of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology and is now in press, forming a companion publication to his descrip-
tion of Spruce-tree House, published earlier in the fiscal year as Bulletin 41.
Doctor Fewkes prepared also a report on his preliminary researches in the
Navaho National Monument, which is in type and will be published as Bulletin
50. During the remainder of the winter and spring, Doctor Fewkes was oc-
cupied in the preparation of a monograph on Casa Grande, an extensive ruin in
Arizona, excavated and repaired by him during previous years. He gave some
time also to the elaboration of an account of antiquities of the Little Colorado
Valley, a subject to which he has devoted considerable study. This work was
interrupted in May, 1910, when he again departed for the Navaho National
Monument for the purpose of continuing the archelogical studies commenced
during the previous field season. At the close of the year Doctor Fewkes was
still at work in this region.

Owing to the large amount of material in process of publication as a result
of his own researches or assigned to him by reason of his special knowledge
of the subjects involved, Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, devoted the year
entirely to office work. Much of this time was spent in proof reading (1)
Bulletin 48, Indian Tribes of the Lower Mississippi Valley and Adjacent Coast
of the Gulf of Mexico, the result of personal field investigations and historical
study; as well as in proof reading (2) Bulletin 46, a Choctaw Dictionary, by
the late Cyrus Byington; and (3) Bulletin 47, on the Biloxi Language, by the
late J. Owen Dorsey, arranged and edited by Doctor Swanton, who incor-
porated therein the related Ofo material collected by him in 1908 and added a
brief historical account of the Ofo tribe. In connection with his researches on
the Southern tribes or tribal remnants, Doctor Swanton has revised and rear-
ranged the Attacapa, Chitimacha, and Tunica linguistic material collected by
the late Dr. Albert S. Gatschet and has put it almost in final form for the
press. With the aid of several texts recorded in 1908, Doctor Swanton has
spent some time in studying the Natchez language, preparatory to further in-
vestigations among the survivors of this formerly important group, now in
Oklahoma. The remainder of his energies has been devoted chiefly to re-
searches pertaining to the Creek Confederacy, with the aid of books and docu-
ments in the library of the Bureau and in the Library of Congress, in anticipa-
tion of field investigation among the Creek tribes to be undertaken, it is
expected, later in 1910.

Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, continued her researches among the
Pueblo tribes of the Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico, giving special attention
to the Tewa group. As during the previous year her studies were devoted
chiefly to the pueblo of San Ildefonso, which offers better facilities for eth-
nologie investigation than the other Tewa villages, although her inquiries were
extended also to Santa Clara and Nambe. Owing to the extreme conservatism
of the Tewa people, Mrs. Stevenson found great difficulty in overcoming their
prejudices against the study of the esoteric side of their life, but with patience
she succeeded finally in gaining the warm friendship of many of the more in-
fluential headmen, and by this means was enabled to pursue a systematic
study of the Tewa religion, sociology, and philosophy. Like most Indians, the
Tewa are so secretive in everything that pertains to their worship that one
not familiar with their religious life is readily misled into believing that the
ceremonies held in the public plazas of their villages which, with few excep-
tions, are more Mexican than Indian in outward character, constitute the sole
rites of these people, whereas it has been found that the Tewa adhere as strictly
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49.

to many of their ancient customs as before white men came among them,
although some of their ceremonies are now less elaborate than they were in
former times.

While the creation myth of the San Ildefonso Indians differs somewhat
from that of the Zuni and of other Pueblo tribes, it is the same in all essentials.
According to their belief they were created in an undermost world, and passed
through three other worlds before reaching this one. The tribe is divided into
the Sun or Summer, and the Ice or Winter people, the former having preceded
the latter in their advent into this world, and their final home was reached on
the western bank of the Rio Grande almost opposite the present pueblo. This
place is marked by an extensive ruin.

Every mountain peak, near and far, within sight of San Ildefonso is sacred
to the Tewa people, and they make pilgrimages at prescribed intervals to lofty
heights far beyond the range of their home. The names of these sacred
mountains, with a full description of each, were procured.

The philosophy of all the Pueblos is closely related in a general way, yet
there are marked differences in detail. Although Mrs. Stevenson has pene-
trated the depths of the Tewa philosophy, she has not been able to discover
any distinctive features, it being a composite of Zuni, Sia, and Taos beliefs.
The great desire of all these people, and the burden of their songs and prayers,
is that rain, which in their belief is produced by departed ancestors working
behind the cloud-masks in the sky, should come to fructify the earth, and that
they may so live as to merit the beneficence of their deities. The entrance to
this world is believed to be through a body of water, which the Tewa of San
Ildefonso declare existed near their village until certain Zunis came and spirited
the water away to their own country. Further studies, no doubt, will shed more
light on these interesting beliefs, and render clearer the origin and relations of
Tewa and Zuni concepts.

There are but two rain priests among the Tewa of San Ildefonso: one per-
taining to the Sun people, the other to the Ice people, the former taking ©
precedence in the general management of tribal affairs. ‘The rain priest of
the Sun is the keeper of the tribal calendar and is the supreme head of the
Sun people. The governor of San Ildefonso, who is chosen virtually by the
rain priest of the Sun people, is elected annually, and has greater power than
that accorded a Zui governor. The war chief, whose religious superior is the
war priest, who holds the office during life, is also elected annually, and also
is a person of great power. There are three kivas, or ceremonial chambers,
at San Ildefonso, one belonging to the Sun people, another to the Ice people,
and one used jointly for certain civic gatherings, for rehearsal of dances, and for
other purposes. The religion of the Tewa of San Ildefonso consists in worship
of a supreme bisexual power and of gods anthropic (embracing celestial and
ancestral) and zoic, the latter especially associated with the sacred fraternities.
The fundamental rites and ceremonies of these fraternities are essentially
alike among all the Pueblos. Their theurgists are the great doctors, whose
function is to expel disease inflicted by witchcraft, and those of San Ildefonso
have as extensive a pharmacopeia as the Zuni theurgists. The belief of the
Tewa in witchcraft is intense, and is a source of great anxiety among them.
Accused wizards or witches are tried by the war chief.

Many of the San Ildefonso ceremonies associated with anthropic worship are
identical with those of Taos, while others are the same as those observed by the
Zui, although neither the ritual nor the paraphernalia is so elaborate. Some
of the songs used in connection with the dances at San Ildefonso are in the Zuni
tongue. It is to be hoped that further comparative study among these people
will reveal to what extent the ceremonies have been borrowed, like that of the

97578°—sm 1910——4
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Koh’-kok-shi of the Zuni, which is asserted to have been introduced by way of
Santo Domingo generations ago by a Laguna Indian who had visited Zuii.

Mrs. Stevenson devoted much attention to a study of Tewa games, finding
that those regarded as of the greatest importance to the Zufi in bringing rain
have been abandoned by the San Ildefonso people. The foot race of the latter
is identical with that of Taos, and is performed annually after the planting
season. As complete a collection and study of the Tewa medicinal plants were
made as time permitted.

The material culture of the Tewa also received special attention. Weay-
ing is not an industry at San Ildefonso, the only weaver in the tribe being a
man who learned at Laguna to make women’s belts. Basketry of various forms
is made of willow. The San Ildefonso people, like other Pueblos, have deterio-
rated in the ceramic art, and they have now little or no understanding of the
symbols employed in pottery, except the common form of cloud and rain. Their
method of irrigation is the same as that observed by the neighboring Mexicans,
who, having acquired extensive tracts of land from the San Ildefonso land
grant, work with the Indians on the irrigating ditches for mutual benefit. The
San Ildefonso people raise a few cattle and horses, but no sheep. Much of their
land is owned in severalty, and their chief products are corn, wheat, and alfalfa.
The women raise melons, squashes, and chile.

While marriages, baptisms, and burials are attended with the rites of the
Catholic Chureh, a native ceremony is always performed before the arrival of
the priest. While their popular dances of foreign admixture are sometimes
almost depleted by reason of intoxication, no such thing happens when a purely
Indian ceremony is performed, for the dread of offending their gods prevents
them from placing themselves in such condition as not to be able to fulfill their
duty to the higher powers.

Mrs. Stevenson not only prepared the way for a close study of the Tewa of
Nambe by making a warm friend of the rain priest of that pueblo, but found
much of interest at the Tigua pueblos of Taos and Picuris, especially in the
kivas of the latter village. It was in an inner chamber of one of the Picuris
kivas that the priests are said to have observed their rites during the presence
of the Spaniards. Another interesting feature observed at Picuris was the
hanging of scalps to a rafter in an upper chamber of a house, the eastern side
of which was open in order to expose the scalps to view. At Picuris the rain
priests, like those of Zuni and San Ildefonso, employ paddle-shaped bone imple-
ments (identical with specimens, hitherto undetermined, found in ruins in the
Jemez Mountains and now in the National Museum) for lifting the sacred meal
during their rain ceremonies. '

During a visit to Taos Mrs. Stevenson obtained a full description of an elab-
orate ceremony performed immediately after an eclipse of the sun.

After her return to Washington, in February, Mrs. Stevenson devoted atten-
tion to the preparation of a paper on the textile fabrics and dress of the Pueblo
Indians. For comparative studies it was necessary to review a large number of
works on the general subject and to examine collections pertaining thereto.
Mrs. Stevenson also prosecuted her studies of medicinal and edible plants.

During the entire fiscal year Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, was engaged in
office work devoted chiefly to studies connected with the Handbook of American
Indians, especially part 2. A number of articles designed for this work had
been prepared by other collaborators, but were recast by Mr. Hewitt in order
to embody in them the latest views regarding their subject-matter. Mr. Hewitt
‘also conducted extensive researches into the history of the Indians of the
Susquehanna River during the seventeenth century, and their relations with
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

neighboring peoples, resulting in the discovery that a number of important tribes
were designated by the names Susquehanna, Conestoga or Andastes, Massa-
womek, Erie, Black Minquas, Tehotitachsae, and Atrakwayeronon (Akhrak-
wayeronon). It is proposed to incorporate this material into a bulletin, with
several early maps, in order to make it available to students of the history of
the Indians of Pennsylvania and New York, and their relations with white
people. Mr. Hewitt also devoted about two months to the translation of Onon-
daga native texts relating to the New Year ceremony, and began work on the
classification of the late Jeremiah Curtin’s Seneca legends, with a view of pre-
paring them for publication by the Bureau.

As custodian of the linguistic manuscripts in the Bureau archives, Mr. Hewitt
spent considerable time in installing this material, comprising 1,704 items, on
its removal from the former quarters of the Bureau to the Smithsonian building.
He was frequently occupied also in receiving manuscripts and in searching
and charging those required by collaborators either for temporary or for pro-
longed use. Much time and labor were also devoted by Mr. Hewitt to the collec-
tion and preparation of data of an ethnological character for replies to corre-
spondents.

Dr. Cyrus Thomas, ethnologist, while not engaged in revising the proofs of
Bulletin 44, Indian Languages of Mexico and Central America and their Geo-
graphical Distribution, prepared by him with the assistance of Doctor Swanton,
devoted his attention to the elaboration of the List of Works Relating to Hawaii,
with the collaboration of Prof. H. M. Ballou. Toward the close of the fiscal
year, this work having been practically finished, Doctor Thomas undertook an
investigation of the relations of the Hawaiians to other Polynesian peoples,
but unfortunately this work was interrupted in May by illness which terminated
in his death on June 26. Doctor Thomas had been a member of the Bureau’s
staff since 1882 and, as his memoirs published by the Bureau attest, one of its
most industrious and prolific investigators.

As the result of a special civil-service examination held March 3, 1910, the
staff of the Bureau was increased by the appointment, as ethnologists, of
Dr. Truman Michelson on June 1 and of Dr. Paul Radin on June 38.

Doctor Radin immediately made preparations to resume his researches among
the Winnebago Indians in Nebraska and Wisconsin, commenced under personal
auspices three years before, and by the close of the fiscal year was making excel-
lent progress toward completing his studies of this important Siouan group.

About the same time Doctor Michelson departed for Montana with the purpose
of studying the Blackfeet, Northern Cheyenne, and Northern Arapaho, Algon-
quian tribes, whose relations to the other members of the stock are not
definitely known. It is the intention that Doctor Michelson obtain a view of
the relations of the Algonquian tribes generally, in order that he may become
equipped for an exhaustive study of the Delaware and Shawnee tribes, so impor-
tant in the colonial and later history of the United States. Doctor Michelson
reached the Blackfoot country on June 16, and within a few days had recorded
a considerable body of ethnological, mythological, and linguistic material relat-
ing to the Piegan division.

The special researches of the Bureau in the linguistic field were conducted,
as in the past, by Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist, whose work during the
fiscal year resulted in bringing nearly to completion the first volume of the
Handbook of American Indian Languages. The whole matter is in type, 735
pages were in practically final form at the close of the fiscal year, and the sketches
of only three languages remained to be revised before paging. Besides the purely
technical work of revising and proof reading, the most important work on the
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

first volume was a thorough revision of the Algonquian sketch by Dr. William
Jones, who had planned to make certain additions to the manuscript, but whose
unfortunate death in the Philippine Islands left his researches on the Algonquian
languages incomplete. The revision was assigned to Dr. Truman Michelson,
who made a careful comparison between Doctor Jones’s description of the lan-
guage and his published collection of texts.

Considerable progress was made on the preparation of the second volume
of the Handbook of American Indian Languages. Owing to the increase in size
of a number of the original sketches, which was due to the lapse of time since
they were first recorded, the first volume had increased so much in size that it
became necessary to relegate the Takelma to the second volume.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg carried on investi-
gations under the direction of Doctor Boas among the Coos Indians of Oregon.
He succeeded in collecting a considerable body of texts from the survivors, and
at the same time revised the material collected several years ago by Mr. H. H.
St. Clair, 2d. Doctor Frachtenberg completed his studies of the grammar of the
language, and the manuscript of this sketch for the second volume was deliv-
ered and is partly in type. Toward the end of the year Doctor Frachten-
berg made preparatory studies on the Alsea language of Oregon, based on man-
uscript texts collected a number of years ago by Prof. Livingston Farrand on
an expedition due to the generosity of the late Mr. Henry Villard. The comple-
tion of the ethnological research work among the Alsea has been provided for
by a contribution of funds by Mrs. Villard, which will make it possible to com-
plete also the linguistic investigation of the tribe during the field season of 1910.
In June Doctor Frachtenberg visited two survivors of the Willopah tribe who
were said to remember the language, but unfortunately only about 300 words
eould be obtained, and practically no grammatical forms.

Further preparatory work on the second volume of the Handbook of American
Indian Languages was carried on by Mr. James Teit, who elucidated the
details of the distribution of the Salish dialects of the State of Washington.
Part of this work was supported by the generosity of Mr. Homer E. Sargent,
of Chicago.

The special researches in Indian music were continued in behalf of the
Bureau by Miss Frances Densmore, who has done so much toward preserving
the vanishing songs of the Indians. The principal new phase that has arisen
in Miss Densmore’s work is the importance of the rhythmic unit in Chippewa
songs. Her observations indicate that the rhythmic phrase is the essential ele-
ment of the song; indeed Miss Densmore is inclined to think that the first idea
of the song may be a mental rhythm assuming the form of a short unit, and that
its expression follows the overtones of a fundamental which exists somewhere
in the subconsciousness of the singer. The tabulated analyses show that 99
out of 180 songs to appear in Bulletin 45 (in press) begin on the twelfth or
fifth, and 34 begin on the octave—a total of 183 out of 180 beginning on the
principal overtones. Of 180 songs, 120 end on the tonic, and yet the tonic
does not usually appear until near the close of the song.

Melodic phrases are seldom recurrent. In the oldest songs the words are
sung between repetitions of the rhythmic unit, and have a slight rhythm and
small melody progressions. Rhythm varies less often than earlier words or
melody in repetition, especially when the rhythm is comprised in a definite unit.
All these facts emphasize the importance of the rhythm, and also have a bearing
on the problem of the development of primitive music, which it is designed to
treat in a practical rather than in a theoretical way.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

The independence of voice and drum noted by Miss Densmore in previous
studies was further shown by the data collected during the year; also the
prominence of the descending interval of the minor third, and the marked use
of overtones in the choice of melodic material.

The songs collected comprise a group of 40 secured at Ponima, a remote
village on the Red Lake Reservation, Minnesota, and the series of war songs
which Miss Densmore is now completing and which she expects to finish before
the close of the calendar year. It is the intention to combine the analyses of
these with the analyses contained in Bulletin 45 of the Bureau, always bringing
forward previous work, in order that the results may be cumulative. It is Miss
Densmore’s desire, before leaving the Chippewa work, to analyze about 500
songs collected from a representative number of localities, as the data derived
from systematic analyses of that number of songs should be a safe basis for
what might be termed a scientific musical study of primitive song.

Miss Alice C. Fletcher and Mr. Francis La Flesche have continued the proof
revision of their monograph of the Omaha Indians to accompany the Twenty-
seventh Annual Report, a part of which was in page form at the close of the
fiscal year.

Mr. J. P. Dunn pursued his studies of the Algonquian tribes of the Middle
West under a small] allotment of funds by the Bureau, but comparatively little
progress was made, as it was found advisable to hold the investigations some-
what in abeyance until two important manuscript dictionaries—one of the
Peoria, the other of the Miami language—known to exist, could be carefully
examined, with a view of avoiding repetition of effort. Mr. Dunn was enabled,
however, to revise and annotate completely a text in the Miami and Peoria
dialects recorded by the late Doctor Gatschet.

PUBLICATIONS.

The editorial work of the Bureau was conducted by Mr. J. G. Gurley,
who from time to time, as pressure required, had the benefit of the aid of Mr.
Stanley Searles. All the publications of the Bureau have passed under Mr.
Gurley’s editorial supervision, with the exception of part 2 of Bulletin 30 (Hand-
book of American Indians), which has been in special charge of Mr. F. W.
Hodge, editor of the work, assisted by Mrs. F. S. Nichols. In order to facilitate
progress in the publication of the Handbook of American Indian Languages, the
editor thereof, Dr. Franz Boas, assumed entire charge of the proof reading in
January, thus enabling Mr. Gurley to devote more time to the numerous other
publications passing through press.

In all, the manuscripts of seven publications—Bulletins 37, 44, 45, 48, 49, 50,
and 51—were prepared for the Government Printing Office, while proof reading
was continued on nine publications—the Twenty-seventh Annual Report and
Bulletins 30 (part 2), 88, 39, 40 (part 1), 41, 48, 46, and 47, which were in
hand in various stages of progress at the beginning of the fiscal year. The
number of publications issued was five—Bulletins 38, 39, 41, 48, and 49. The
Twenty-seventh Annual Report is in tyne and a substantial beginning was made
toward putting it into page form. The proof of the “accompanying paper” on
the Omaha Indians, by Miss Fletcher and Mr. La Flesche, was critically read by
the authors and is in condition to be completed in a few months. Bulletins 37
and 43 are practically ready for the bindery, and Bulletins 40 (part 1) and 45
are nearly as far advanced. Bulletin 44 had the benefit of revision by the prin-
cipal author, Dr. Cyrus Thomas, shortly before his death, and a second galley
proof was received. The first galley proof of Bulletins 50 and 51 was placed
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

in the hands of the author, Doctor Fewkes, for revision. Owing to the con-
dition of the Bureau’s allotment for printing and binding, as reported by the
Public Printer, and on his suggestion that the work for the fiscal year be cur-
tailed, Bulletins 46 and 47 were not carried beyond the first galley stage. Ap-
pended is a list of the publications above mentioned, with their respective titles
and authors:

Twenty-seventh Annual Report (1905-6), containing accompanying paper
entitled ‘‘ The Omaha Tribe,” by Alice C. Fletcher and Francis La Flesche.

Bulletin 37. Antiquities of Central and Southeastern Missouri, by Gerard
Fowke.

Bulletin 38. Unwritten Literature of Hawaii, by Nathaniel B. Emerson, A. M.,
M. D.

Bulletin 39. Tlingit Myths and Texts, by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 40. Handbook of American Indian Languages (Part 1), by Franz
Boas.

Bulletin 41. Antiquities of the Mesa Verde National Park: Spruce-tree House,
by J. Walter Fewkes.

Bulletin 48. Indian Tribes of the Lower Mississippi Valley and Adjacent Coast
of the Gulf of Mexico, by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 44. Indian Languages of Mexico and Central America, and their
Geographical Distribution, by Cyrus Thomas, assisted by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 45. Chippewa Music, by Frances Densmore.

Bulletin 46. Choctaw Dictionary, by Cyrus Byington, edited by John R.
Swanton.

Bulletin 47. A Dictionary of the Biloxi Language, accompanied by thirty-one
texts and numerous phrases, by James Owen Dorsey; arranged and edited by
Jobn R. Swanton.

Bulletin 48. The Choctaw of Bayou Lacomb, St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana,
by David I. Bushnell, jr.

Bulletin 49. List of the Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

Bulletin 50. Preliminary Report on a Visit to the Navaho National Monu-
ment, Arizona, by Jesse Walter Fewkes.

Bulletin 51. Antiquities of the Mesa Verde National Park: Cliff Palace, by
Jesse Walter Fewkes.

The preparation of the illustrations for the publications of the Bureau and
of photographs of Indian types continued in charge of Mr. DeLancey Gill,
illustrator, assisted by Mr. Henry Walther. This material consists of 97 Indian
portraits from life, 121 negatives and 29 drawings for the Bureau publications,
15 copies of negatives, and 676 photographic prints. As in the past, special
attention was devoted to the photographing of the members of visiting deputa-
tions of Indians, since by this means favorable opportunity is afforded for per-
manently portraying the features of many of the most prominent Indians be-
longing to the various tribes.

LIBRARY,

The library of the Bureau continued in immediate charge of Miss Ella
Leary, librarian. During the year about 1,500 volumes and about 600 pamphlets
were received and catalogued; and about 2,000 serials, chiefly the publications
of learned societies, were received and recorded. One thousand five hundred
volumes were sent to the bindery, and of these all but 600 had been bound
before the close of the fiscal year. In addition to the use of its own library, it
was found necessary to draw on the Library of Congress from time to time for
the loan of about 800 volumes. The library of the Bureau now contains 16,050
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

volumes, about 11,600 pamphlets, and several thousand unbound periodicals.
Although maintained primarily as a reference library for the Bureau’s staff,
its value is becoming more and more known to students not connected with the
Smithsonian Institution, who make constant use of it. During the year the
library was used also by officers of the executive departments and the Library of
Congress.

MANUSCRIPTS.

During the first half of the fiscal year the manuscripts were under the custo-
dianship of Mr. J. B. Clayton, and on his indefinite furlough at the close of
1909 they were placed in charge of Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, as previously noted.
Nineteen important manuscripts were acquired during the year, of which seven
are deyoted to Chippewa music and are accompanied with the original grapho-
phone records, five relate to the history of the Indians, and seven pertain to
Indian linguistics. This enumeration does not include the manuscript contri-
butions to the Handbook of American Indians and the Handbook of American
Indian Languages, nor the manuscripts submitted for publication by the members
of the Bureau’s regular staff.

REMOVAL OF OFFICES,

Quarters in the Smithsonian building having been assigned by the Secretary
for the use of the Bureau, and funds having been provided by the sundry civil
act for the removal of the Bureau’s property, the work of transfer was com-
menced on December 10, 1909, by removing the library from the third floor of
the Adams Building, 1833 F street NW., to the eastern gallery of the bird hall
on the main floor of the Smithsonian building. The task was made difficult
owing to the necessity of removing the old stacks and the books at the same
time, but order was fairly established in about a fortnight and the library again
put in service. Not only is more space for the growing library afforded by the
new quarters, but increased light and facilities for research make the new
library far superior to the old. The northern half of the gallery was made more
attractive by painting and by carpeting with linoleum. It is yet lacking in neces-
Sary Space, but this difficulty will be overcome when that part of the south-
eastern gallery still occupied by the National Museum is vacated.

The offices and photographic laboratory of the Bureau were removed between
December 20 and 31, the former to the second, third, and fourth floors of the
north tower of the Smithsonian building and one room (that occupied by the
ethnologist-in-charge) on the third floor of the northeastern range; the labo-
ratory to one of the galleries of the old National Museum building, while the
stock of publications was given space on the fourth floor of the south tower.
Although the quarters of the Bureau are now somewhat scattered, the facilities
for work are far superior to those with which the Bureau in its rented offices
was obliged to contend, and there is less danger of loss by fire. The cost of the
removal, including the taking down and rebuilding of the library bookcases,
necessary painting of walls and woodwork, linoleum floor covering, and electric
wiring and fixtures, aggregated $1,000, the sum appropriated for the purpose.

PROPERTY.

In addition to the books and manuscripts already referred to, the property of
the Bureau consists of a moderate amount of inexpensive office furniture,
chiefly desks, chairs, filing cases, and tables, as well as photographic negatives,
apparatus, and supplies, typewriters, phonographs, stationery, and the undis-
tributed stock of its publications. The removal of the Bureau and the assign-
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

ment of its members to less crowded quarters made it necessary to supply a few
additional articles of furniture, especially for the library. ‘The entire cost of
the furniture acquired during the fiscal year was $248.17.

ADMINISTRATION.

Pursuant to the plans of the secretary the clerical and laboring work of the
Bureau was concentrated after the removal to the Smithsonian building by
placing the routine correspondence and files, the accounts, the shipment of pub-
lications, the care of supplies and other property, and all cleaning and repairs,
in immediate charge of the office of the Smithsonian Institution. This plan
has served to simplify the administration of the affairs of the Bureau, has pre-
vented duplication of effort, and has resulted in a saving of time and funds.

Respectfully submitted.
EF. W. Hope,

Ethnologist-in-Charge.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprenpix ITT.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit a report on the operations of the International
Exchange Service during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1910.

There was given in the last report a list of the countries to which copies of the
daily issue of the Congressional Record were forwarded direct by mail in accord-
ance with the resolution of the Congress approved March 4, 1909, setting aside a
certain number of copies of the Record for exchange, through the agency of the
Smithsonian Institution, with the legislative chambers of such foreign govern-
ments as might agree to send to the United States, in return, current copies of
their parliamentary record or like publication. The governments of Baden, Cape
of Good Hope, New Zealand, Transvaal, and Western Australia have since en-
tered into this exchange. A complete list of the countries to which the Record
is now forwarded is given below.

Australia. Greece. Roumania.
Austria. Guatemala. Russia.

Baden. Honduras. Servia.

Belgium. Hungary. Spain.

Brazil. Italy. Switzerland.
Canada. New South Wales. Transvaal.

Cape of Good Hope. New Zealand. Uruguay.

Cuba. Portugal. Western Australia.
France. Prussia.

There are therefore at present 26 countries with which the immediate exchange
is conducted. To some of these countries, however, two copies of the Congres-
sional Record are sent—one to the upper and one to the lower house of parlia-
ment—the total number transmitted being 31. The number of copies of the
daily issue of the Congressional Record provided for this purpose is 100, the
same as the number of copies of official documents set apart for international
exchange. The Institution is still in correspondence with other governments
regarding this immediate exchange, and the list of those countries participating
will no doubt be added to from time to time.

The number of packages handled during the past year was 221,625—a decrease
from the number for the preceding year of 7,250. The total weight of these
packages was 484,684 pounds—a gain of 8,515 pounds. Regarding the falling
off in the number of packages handled, attention should be called to the fact that
the increase in 1909 was the largest in the history of the service. Had the
increase for that year been normal, the total number of packages for 1910 would
have shown a gradual increase over the preceding year. The gain in weight may,
to a great extent, be taken as an indication that consignments containing more
than one publication were more numerous than during the preceding year. This
circumstance is especially true in. the case of consignments for the Library of
Congress, 38 boxes having been received during the past year for that library
and counted as single packages.

57
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

The appropriation by Congress for the support of the service was $32,200
(the same amount as was granted for the fiscal years 1908 and 1909), and the
sum collected on account of repayments was $4,446.74, making the total ayail-
able resources for carrying on the system of international exchanges $36,646.74.

The exchange office continues to render assistance to the Library of Con-
gress in obtaining foreign government documents needed to complete its sets,

It is gratifying to state that the exchange relations with Korea, which were
interrupted during the late Russo-Japanese war, have been renewed, His Im-
perial Japanese Majesty’s residency-general at Seoul having consented to act as
the exchange intermediary between the two countries. The number of publi-
cations exchanged between Korea and the United States was never very large,
and it is hoped that the establishment of an official medium through which con-
signments may be forwarded will result in a fuller interchange.

While the K. K. Statistische Central-Commission in Vienna has been acting
as the exchange intermediary between Austria and the United States since
1898, it has been necessary for the Smithsonian Institution, under the arrange-
ments entered into through the Imperial Academy of Sciences with the com-
mission, to bear all the expenses for freight on consignments both to and from
Vienna. The Government of Austria has now signified its willingness to assume
its share of the cost of conducting the exchanges between the two countries,
and in the future the Institution will therefore be relieved of this extra burden
upon its resources. The exchange work on the part of Austria will continue to
be carried on by the Statistical Commission. The thanks of the Institution are
due to the president of the Imperial Academy of Sciences and to the president
of the Statistical Commission for assistance in this matter.

I am very glad to be able to report that it now seems assured that the Insti-
tution will shortly be relieved of the expense of conducting the paid agency
which it has maintained for many years in Leipsic to attend to the transmission
and distribution of exchanges between Germany and the United States.

It is expected that in a few months there will be established in Berlin, under
the auspices of the German Government, an institution to further the cultural
relations between the two countries. This establishment will be known as the
America Institute, and it will assume as one of its functions the transmission
and distribution of German exchanges.

While the America Institute has not yet begun active operations, it is expected
that it will be organized at an early day, and that it will be prepared to take
over the work of the exchange agency by the end of the calendar year.

Dr. Hugo Munsterberg will be the first director of the America Institute.

It has been the practice of the Institution to forward by registered mail
packages received from abroad for distribution in the United States. With a
view to reducing the work in the Exchange Office and also to relieving the
Post-Office Department of the extra expense entailed in handling this regis-
tered matter—numbering annually about 21,000 packages, aggregating a total
weight of over 120,000 pounds—the custom of registering exchanges was dis-
continued on October 17, 1909, consignments now being forwarded by ordinary
mail. It should be added in this connection, that the Institution is informed
by the Post-Office Department that in the ordinary mail there is an average loss
of only 1 package in 15,000.

Exchange consignments form part of the cargo of almost every fast steam-
ship which leaves New York for a foreign port. It is therefore not surprising
that occasionally a case is lost through the wrecking of a steamer. During the
year a case containing exchanges for miscellaneous addresses in the Transvaal
was destroyed while en route to Pretoria, the steamship Norse Prince, by which
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

59

it was transmitted, having been burned while off the coast of South Africa.
The loss at sea during the latter part of 1908 of a case of exchanges for dis-

tribution in Egypt should also be noted here.

This consignment was forwarded

in care of the Egyptian Survey Department under date of October 22, 1908, but
definite information concerning its loss has only recently been received. The
senders of the packages contained in the consignments referred to were com-
municated with, and it is gratifying to state that, except in one or two instances,

it was possible for them to supply copies of the lost publications.

It may be

of interest to add here that, so far as reported to the Institution, these are
the only instances during the past five years in which the entire contents of

exchange consignments have been lost.

INTERCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER COUNTRIES.

The statement which follows shows in detail the number of packages received
for transmission through the International Exchange Service during the year

ending June 30, 1910:

Packages. Packages.
Country. Country.
For. From. For. From.
ADYSSUN Vee cae en saeec an acee es i eae DBnMAnke 3. Seas owe ee cere Mee 2, 082 377
JAS ie ei ale ae 156 257 Dominica so.2 I). Pees eee eae SHEER oe
AT OO ARIE RUNS tival UF reek ar tues TGs ccuses Dutch Giese) eos eee 35h | aes tees
ATPIOU Ae asa eee soe eee seas AON nee ee CHA OTe een soiree ence mere DAS le se eee
Ara Diemedas saath ce nascar Zi Neisweks. § PVD betel eSoe ec el ATA Ie 464 3, 806
PREP OMEIND a = Meee aS Sete fee ease 3, 500 BUA |e Di a te este ey ae aia ee ermeeeiae 5 oak 1 ih Ree SE
Austria-Hungary .............- 8, 522 5,265 || Falkland Islands.............. Ph eee
IOTES soc aae ron Sacecl lone see AM Sera cae Wijiislandse oso 2 cease dse es. By Se eeae ones
(Bahamas teen see nase crete eee G (jl | aga ps PATI CO nese meee teh wearer ree 12, 850 4, 802
IBALDEM OS: see sacra rine accisee IDO AE ae French Cochin China....._.... G52 pe eee
Ora ee see ere scence eck oescee file Se ee ee Bronchi@wianas sass. sence: et eee SS
Belelum: sees e es «sees 4,377 3,572 || German East Africa........... RPP Peers bee
IBArmudgsserre= +. See ee eee ART ewes Lose Germsnye eee nee 24, 057 | 8, 032
Bismarck Archipelago......... ie eer Gibraltany 22 oes 5 se a 1 eee
PB Olivia eens s.r, ce 8 178 O24 eGoldi Coast «39 sa 4: Ae es ee ctl eee aes
IBOINGO- a1 Sa ago one och oe (| ee Grensd ates. thor see eee Gileaseceees
ayes Valles ee ee Se ee eee 2, 692 385 || Great Britain and Ireland... 22,197 6, 896
Bris AUMen Casaae cea sees © 7, 847 SAS nT GReeCe tae o. ea cota ae ree 1, 649 4
BritiShiBueminernceccite se cecee 20 649 |@Greenland*s oes sce. sacee ee a Pees
British Central Africa.......... lp ae ie Guadeloupe ses sans ee soe ee LON Pete oe
British East Africa...........- D2) lactone oars (Gli reat Pie eee ein Sa eee py See
BriiShiGuians sess ee aes (a2) pe eaeseeee te 1B EN ie ple i a so ih a eh et aT I: Ir fees eee
British Honduras.............. Co ie sae Hawaiian Islands.............. Ss el len eal tein
British New Guinea__......... Su aes ak Ton durasysey 2. esa 2ee ene SSO. Fate
Bil arias onaeeea rates eee 206 OU | Elongikone= ase sseeses aR ee ae th aS y/R [eee Ue SS
Canary, Tslands=---- 5-2 52-5525 1S Seestce Tealand ee ewes see Mea see 52 | 325
Capei@olony~ 22. 5...02c= aeaaeee 1, 830 2A} 5|| 1 dee bE asf eg Se td oo Sea 2,793 633
@eylone os. 2. es case = Aesee ese = ZAOT eee Lisl y Sees see ee ee 7, 282 2, 253
Chilove 2%... 2 a 2,251 BO2h| (PaaMaica as. fre cet Aah | k 253 2
China: {200% al | eee 1, 720 ATA Fea SRE RULED AD” EY 3, 462 63
Colombia SAS oie has 198 leer ye ei ee EASE RI OT SSP Rieu tag arn A ihNy 274 85
GCosiapRicny 2 22. pee edule 2c 1, 463 3 || Kongo Free State.............- Bi eso sere
Cubase. eel sos 1, 825 TO By PRON D8 See tare A WE ek 71 15
Curscaot.2 2 nae ee ates ya use O27 ae ee TR POSAIES Chee cy as RNR A) nie Gi gee seccos
Cy DrUses =a. 2 eeece cess aaeceoe Galera eee PADGTI AG ye eis Na such ee el 162 1
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Packages. Packages.
Country. oT Country. :
For. From. For. From.

Loureng¢o Marquez.......-.--- LOD) ees secre slip OE AS Sees Seaseasoscees LS ee oe es
TEXeMDUTD Aas c meses eee a O70 saemseae Sto Martinis oot soos ceccccce se 1G Ae ee
Mad acascanneee meee ee eee 3 te ie oa St. Pierre and Miquelon......-. 16) Sco seeee
IMadeirate seete ceca e seeceaoe LP eee eee Ste DHOmas seen Heer eae 1AM eee aoc
Matta bees ee keh See ee OO) |PEseecee St Vincente 2ee: othe ates On ES H tees
Martinique ete ccths 428 o2c55.% 1 aS Salvadorsi.c5 2 oe es ee 169 5
Mains =s252 ee = ass sees TB se aes. Samoaaseee [esse sass essere LSs) soos
Me xi Cos saan ass cetaceans 1, 783 255 |!) SantosDomingoess.s sen. == 2 -c 19))| ee eee
Montenegro...... ate ee Seal Be a 79 123 \Sarawakies Ae PNA eseee Ay sueeses
IMontsermate coc seecancueceenes Suey ee Senegal. toe eects os Bi Ae eee
IMOrOCCORy- Semmes ietete as Benctser 203): Fees sey Serviasrs: eee coe atau 1, 429 12
IN eb ale oe a ae ooh A hala iayeeatnere = 203 “6 51 Siam oh ts 2 ee. cei ee oe P Aly fal esate ee
Netherlandse voc sesceccice ss 3, 276 1488" || Sierra Weone.---5-..2 224s. === PAWS eis 5 ones
ING VIS See metine eoced enn ectins LB El escort Society Wslands ee scs-2-- se sas: 1 | see
INewioundland2s:-22.2-2<- 2222. 152 i MSsoutheAustraliaess eos. seen oe 2,021 39
New South Wales...........-- 2, 896 734i Spaineseweee aia: frat. Weostell 2, 853 26S
New: Zealand ae. << sja= <<isienise =r 2, 507 110 || Straits Settlements. -........... 230i) |e Bese
INL CECE a0 EASES sores Ga oeamare PPA lie eee rae Budantcic. ese bee eee 43 1
Norfolkeislandys. 55sec eeeeene 15a eee Sweden fees ee coe ao: eee 3, 255 106
Northern Nigeria............-.- (58) ee Se Switzerland= noes. a8o: esasaser 4,029 1,304
INOVWSY =e ancecn sets see one Sa 2,190 B14. abit gcmee acne see's sos cine TSH eek eee
Orange River Colony.......... ola Use as MPASMAN Geese nsec ease 1, 285 2
PAN SINGeP ee ee eee eect e TO RM Skee RTANS Vaal yess eee eee eins 1, 594 24
Para mlayesaae ss nseeses cose ee 156 |e Trimidagse. see ceceseaes sence 1268 |e 2 enews
Borsa ences tesecce sec sae Abies Jaca Aripoliee Sse ce cnn caewececlcin te 2. aeons se
Renee Date Ae ee ee 1, 547 Oil (CT Isssehat eee ee serene 44 6
Philippine Islands...........-. 203 | epee TMUPKe Yah aaace ssewes a ceeeeise 1, 580 1
PortouRicon + -.- ERS nT ee DAS se ae eek Murksiislandsscriccceatesse ae 7 ea ee
Ponuugal een ase ee este sie 1, 889 O92! Ugandaciuiun ao tee oe esate Wise te torcioene
Queensland ees sensee seeceee 1, 494 76; | United! States: = 2.2. -- -sse---- 48,989 | 173,951
FRGUMIOM se Sopa eens ee iciere S(O eee (WN PU ye eee oo oes asem ates 1,971 62.
UB OGeSIA beeen seen e ee sees Gaulesauantes Venazitelaa steeme tice concer 1, 283 10
Roumarniqeecern sen een nee 747 33:)|| WICLOTIG eee nee ne = Socaee ee oee 3,618 248
rss ee sae meee = Woe cece 5, 836 2,019 |) Western Australia...........-- 1, 564 248
DTH OROU eee Ue Cais aia eee Bea Sere Zanzibar sisseess estan cee ses 1S: || oe ee ee
Bioeliolonas 2 0225 Sete se aaee Ct Se eoriaet a
(Feel CG Kee a Geer ir Ser PA ee, Motel ess: Faas. ssteser 221,625 | 221,625

During the year there were sent abroad 2,033 boxes (an increase over 1909 of
70 boxes), of which 220 contained complete sets of United States Government
documents for authorized depositories and 1,813 were filled with departmental
and other publications for depositories of partial sets and for distribution to
miscellaneous correspondents.

EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

The number of packages sent abroad through the International Exchange
Service by United States Government establishments during the year was
138,152, an increase over the number forwarded during the preceding twelve
months of 15,812; while 18,017 packages were received in exchange, a decrease
of 2,199. This disparity between the number of packages received and those
sent may be accounted for largely by the fact that many returns for the publi-
cations sent abroad are not made through the Exchange Service, but are for-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

warded to their destinations direct by mail. This difference is further due to
the practice of sending consignments to the Library of Congress intact, in many
cases a whole box of publications being entered on the records of this office as
one package.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of the con-
gressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901, setting apart a cer-
tain number of documents for exchange with foreign countries, there are now
sent regularly to depositories abroad 55 full sets of United States official publi-
eations and 838 partial sets.

While the Statutes at Large have for some years formed part of the sets of
government documents provided for international exchange purposes, the Ses-
sion Laws have only been added during the past year. This addition was made
through the efforts of the Library of Congress, a request for the laws having
been received from one of the depositories.

The recipients of full and partial sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

Argentina: Ministerio de Relaciones: Exteriores, Buenos Aires.
Argentina: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata.
Australia: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.
Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.
Baden: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg.
Bavaria: Konigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.
Belgium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels. ~
Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.
Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.
Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.
China: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.
Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.
Cuba: Department of State, Habana.
Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
England: British Museum, London.
England: London School of Economics and Political Science, London.
France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
France: Préfecture de la Seine, Paris.
Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.
Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.
' Haiti: Secrétairerie @’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.
Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
India: Home Department, Government of India, Calcutta.
Ireland: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.
Japan: Department of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo.
Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.
Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague.
New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Sydney.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: Koénigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Quebec: Legislative Library, Quebec.

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia : Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.

Saxony: K6nigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

Servia: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

Sweden: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholn.

Switzerland: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Turkey: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Uruguay: Oficina de Depésito, Reparto y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Wiirttemberg: Kénigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart. ;

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

Alberta: Legislative Library, Edmonton.

Alsace-Lorraine: K. Ministerium fiir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.
Bolivia: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.

British Columbia: Legislative Library, Victoria.

Bremen: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.
Bulgaria: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

Ceylon: United States Consul, Colombo.

Eeuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Egypt: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

Guatemala: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Hamburg: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswartigen Angelegenheiten.
Hesse: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honduras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Malta: Lieutenant-Governor, Valetta.

Montenegro: Ministére Princier des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.
Natal: Colonial Governor, Pietermaritzburg.

Newfoundland : Colonial Secretary, St. Johns.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, St. John.

Nicaragua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.
Northwest Territories: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

Orange River Colony: Government Library, Bloemfontein.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Prince Edward Island: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

Paraguay : Oficina General de Informaciones y Canjes y Commisaria General de
Inmigracion, Asuncion.

Roumania: Academia Romana, Bucarest.

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Straits Settlements: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Vienna: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

CORRESPONDENTS.

The names of new correspondents in every part of the world are constantly
being added to the exchange list, so that they now reach a total of 63,605, an
increase of 975 over those of the preceding year. These correspondents are
subdivided as follows:

Horeign gin Shitubioney 2) 22 Se Seales ee ee 3, 925
ROR E RT, Tm GG aa Se a ge es 8, 300
IDOMESHE SIN SERUEETON Somes seer. Soe ee ae ea Sy Te 16, TOO
DD Yas sys) Cee ba VG Nhs RECS FS er Rael SR oe SE ny oa A ey ea Se 34, TSO

A table showing the number of correspondents in each country at the close
of 1907 will be found in the report for that year.

RULES GOVERNING THE TRANSMISSION OF EXCHANGES.

The circular containing the rules governing the transmission of exchanges
has been revised during the year, and under date of June 30, 1910, a new edition
was published. The circular is here reproduced for the information of those
who may wish to make use of the facilities of the service in the forwarding of
exchanges:

In effecting the distribution of its first publications abroad the Smithsonian
Institution established relations with certain foreign scientific societies and
libraries by means of which it was enabled to materially assist institutions and
individuals of this country in the transmission of their publications abroad
and also foreign societies and individuals in distributing their publications in the
United States.

In recent years the Smithsonian Institution has been charged with the duty
of conducting the official exchange bureau of the United States Government,
through which the publications authorized by Congress are exchanged for those
of other governments; and by a formal treaty it acts as intermediary between
the learned bodies and literary and scientific societies of the contracting states
for the reception and transmission of their publications.

Attention is called to the fact that this is an international and not a domestic
exchange service, and that it is used to facilitate exchanges between the United
States and other countries only. As exchanges from domestic sources for
addresses in Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, and other territory
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States do not come within the desig-
nation “ international,” they are not accepted for transmission.

Packages prepared in accordance with the rules enumerated below will be
received by the Smithsonian Institution from persons or institutions of learning
in the United States and forwarded to their destinations through its own agents
or through the various exchange bureaus in other countries. The Smithsonian
agents and these bureaus will likewise receive from correspondents in their
eountries such publications for addresses in the United States and territory
subject to its jurisdiction as may be delivered to them under rules similar to
those prescribed herein, and will forward them to Washington, after which the
Institution will undertake their distribution.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

On the receipt of a consignment from a domestic source it is assigned a
“record number,” this number being placed on each package contained in the
consignment. A record is then made of the entire list of packages under the
sender’s name, and the separate packages are entered under the name of the
person or office addressed. An account is thus established with every corre-
spondent of the Institution, which shows readily what packages each one has
sent or received through the Exchange Service. The books are then packed in
boxes with contributions from other senders for the same country, and are for-
warded by fast freight to the bureau or agency abroad which has undertaken to
distribute exchanges in that country. To Great Britain and Germany, where
paid agencies of the Institution are maintained, shipments are made weekly;
to all other countries transmissions are made at intervals not exceeding one
month.

Consignments from abroad for correspondents in the United States and its
possessions are distributed by mail under frank, a record having first been made
of the name of the sender and of the address of each package.

The Institution assumes no responsibility in the transmission of packages, but
at all times uses its best endeavors to forward promptly to destination exchanges
intrusted to its care.

The rules governing the Smithsonian International Exchange Service are as
follows:

1. Consignments from correspondents in the United States containing packages
for transmission abroad should be addressed “ Smithsonian Institution, Inter-
national Hxchanges, Washington, D. C.”

2. In forwarding a consignment the sender should address a letter to the
Institution, stating by what route it is being shipped, and the number of boxes
or parcels of which it is composed.

3. Packages should be legibly addressed, using, when practicable, the language
of the country to which they are to be forwarded. In order to avoid any possible
dispute as to ownership, names of individuals should be omitted from packages
intended for societies and other establishments.

4. Packages should be securely wrapped in stout paper and, when necessary,
tied with strong twine.

5. No package to a single address should exceed about one-half of one cubic
foot.

6. Letters are not permitted in exchange puckages.

7. If donors desire acknowledgments, packages may contain receipt forms to
be signed and returned by the establishment or individual addressed; and,
should publications be desired in exchange, a request to that effect may be
printed on the receipt form or on the package.

8. Exchanges must be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agents
with all charges paid.

9. The Institution and its agents will not knowingly receive for any address
purchased books; apparatus or instruments of any description, whether pur-
chased or presented; nor specimens of any nature except when permission from
the Institution has been obtained, and then only under the following conditions:

(ad) Specimens in fluid will not be accepted for transmission.

(b) Botanical specimens will be transmitted at the rate of 8 cents per pound.

(c) All other specimens will be transmitted at the rate of 5 cents per pound.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARE TRANSMITTED,

Following is a list of bureaus or agencies through which the distribution of
exchanges is effected. Those in the larger and many in the smaller countries
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

forward to the Smithsonian Institution in return contributions for distribution
in the United States:

Algeria, via France.

Angola, via Portugal.

Argentina: Comision Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Peru No. 655,
Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Azores, via Portugal.

Barbados: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridgetown.

Belgium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue du Musée 5, Brus-
sels.

Bermuda. (Sent by mail.)

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazil: Servico de Permutagcdoes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.?

British Guiana: Royal Agricultural ang Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Bulgaria: Institutions Scientifiques de 8. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

Canada. (Sent by mail.)

Canary Islands, via Spain.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

China: Zi-ka-wei Observatory, Shanghai.

Colombia: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota. :

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.

Cuba. (Sent by mail.)

Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Egypt: Director-General, Survey Department, Giza (Mudiria).

France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

Friendly Islands. (Sent by mail.)

Germany: Karl W. Hiersemann, Konigsstrasse 29, Leipzig.

Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Hssex street,
Strand, London.

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Greenland, via Denmark.

Guadeloupe, via France.

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Guinea, via Portugal.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, City Hall, Budapest.

Iceland, via Denmark.

India: India Store Department, India Office, London.

*This method is employed for communicating with several of the British
colonies with which no medium is available for forwarding exchanges direct.

97578°—sm 1910——5
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Eman-
uele, Rome.

Jamaica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Department of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo.

Java, via Netherlands.

Korea: His Imperial Japanese Majesty’s Residency-General, Seoul.

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library. Lourenco Marquez.

Luxemburg, via Germany.

Madagascar, via France.

Madeira, via Portugal.

Mexico. (Sent by mail.)

Montenegro: Ministére Princier des Affaires Htrangéres, Cetinje.

Mozambique, via Portugal.

Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais. Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

Newfoundland. (Sent by mail.)

New Guinea, via Netherlands.

New Hebrides. (Sent by mail.)

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Public Library, Sydney.

New Zealand: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto. Depdsitc y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Portugal: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Board of Hxchanges of International Publications, Parliament
House, Brisbane.

Roumania, via Germany.

Russia: Commission Russe des HEchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Im-
périale Publique, St. Petersburg.

Saint Christopher. (Sent by mail.)

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Santo Domingo. (Sent by mail.)

Servia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale Cen-
trale, Bern.

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Trinidad: Victoria Institute, Port of Spain.

Tunis, via France.

Turkey : American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

Uruguay: Oficina de Depdsito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, Montevideo.
Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Zanzibar. (Sent by mail.)

In conclusion, it is my sad duty to record here the death, on January 27, 1910,
of Ferdinand V. Berry, Chief Clerk of the International Exchange Service. Mr.
Berry was appointed as clerk January 9, 1884, and became chief clerk of the
exchanges on July 1, 1907. During the twenty-six years that Mr. Berry served
the Institution his work was faithfully and efficiently performed, and his loss
is deeply regretted.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHOEMAKER,
Chief Clerk, International Hxchange Service.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprnpix LV.

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Sir: I have the honor to present herewith a report of the operations of the
National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1910.

The appropriation for that year was $95,000, and the estimated amount for
current maintenance was $83,706.92, leaving but $11,293.08 from which to make
necessary repairs and extensions of buildings, improvements of roads and
grounds, and additions to the collection.

The largest sum expended for any one object was that of $5,291, for the trans-
portation of animals from Africa, a detailed account of which is appended
hereto. For the accommodation of these animals alterations and additions were
made to the buildings already in use. In the extension to the lion house a
number of small and comparatively slight cages were removed and six new and
larger ones, strong enough to hold lions and other large cats, were built in.
The antelope house was enlarged by an extension 50 by 50 feet, thus furnishing
ten additional stalls and a much needed new entrance. The building, although
very simple in construction, is now admirably adapted for accommodating visit-
ors, having three entrances with convenient approaches. The new stalls or
cages are provided with commodious yards, which were nearly completed at the
close of the fiscal year.

The first work of the year was the construction of a suitable pool for sea
lions and seals, which was established in the wooded valley occupied by the
beaver. This pool is 47 by 96 feet, with a depth of 6 feet 3 inches. It has a
shelter house of stone, ample banks, and a level border, the whole inclosed with
an iron fence.

Two watchman’s houses were placed at the park entrance and a flag pole
was erected on the hill south of the lion house.

This was all the new work that it was possible to execute from the limited
amount available.

Minor improvements and repairs were made as follows: Concrete steps and
walk to the bird house; connecting the culvert in the beaver valley with Rock
Creek sewer; painting flying cage; surfacing gravel and cinder walks; making
a serviceable road to the coal vault of the central heating plant.

Much of this work it has been possible to carry on economically by the use of
stone from a quarry in the park and of sand and gravel from the creek.

The following is a tabular statement of the cost of this work:

PATER ELONMS LOMO MON OVS Cee a Me ee Rye eae ieee ie ne oe $1, 100. 00
Addition) tovantelope house; with approach 222222 eee 2, 500. 00
Sea-lion pond, including stonework, concrete construction, fencing,

Sradine: planting. angiwalk=-..=— 2 =e se ee 2, 025. 00
LEW ORV ELEC LM OTISES (pile Oe CE1) 5 See i eR a er ye ee 250. 00
TMG of0) (c¥y Se eee eee ee OR RCE a Oe eu ee 100. 00
SlepsyaAn cd awa kctOuDInd wnOUSCS 2 =. see Ee a ee ee ee 110. 00
CWHlVerEsanG VCONMECCHTOME SS 2 ik Be ee Se 600. 00
1225 afc H aN tao Fe-a 6 yal nksah (chs Megs Mbe gaa mee erga Eee en LAN a) ee ee ee 425. 00
PS TAS ee UMN py eld Ic Spe eB ha i ee ee 600. 00
Road.to coalsvaultss..- SSS ee a a ee ee eee 125. 00

68
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

AFRICAN ANIMALS.

While the Smithsonian Expedition was in British East Africa Mr. W. N.
MeMillan, of Nairobi, presented to the park a collection of East African animals
which he had gathered at his place, Juja farm, about 25 miles from Nairobi.
The collection included 5 lions, 2 cheetahs, a leopard, a Grant’s gazelle, a wart-
hog, and several smaller mammals and birds. It was thought advisable to send
the assistant superintendent of the park to Nairobi to attend to the shipping
and come through with the animals, on account of the importance and value of
this collection, and the fact, stated by the Smithsonian party, that other desir-
able specimens, already in captivity, could be obtained in the region about
Nairobi, and also because of the special precautions which the Agricultural De-
partment required to be taken in order to prevent the introduction of con-
tagious diseases, either through the animals themselves or by means of food
or other supplies obtained for them. He left Washington toward the end of
July, 1909, and returned with the animals December 17. Shipment from Mom-
basa was made October 28 by a steamer of the Compagnie des Messageries
Maritimes. At Port Said the animals were transferred to a lighter and kept
there, without landing, for thirteen days, awaiting the arrival of a steamer going
directly to Philadelphia. The voyage from Port Said, by a German freight
steamer, occupied twenty-six days, but the weather was unusually favorable.
With the exception of a few animals, very recently captured or very young,
there was no loss between Nairobi and Philadelphia. The ruminants and wart-
hog were held in quarantine at Philadelphia for about six weeks to allow
thorough inspection and inoculation tests to be made to determine whether they
carried any communicable disease. It is gratifying that all proved to be free
from disease, since the region from which they came can furnish many im-
portant animals which are as yet but little represented in zoological collections.
Through the kindness of the Philadelphia Zoological Society the animals were
kept at their gardens during the time of quarantine. The two cheetahs had
died before shipment was made and the male Grant’s gazelle had been killed by
accident. With these exceptions all of the animals presented by Mr. McMillan
reached Washington safely and are still at the park. A pair of eland, a pair of
Coke’s hartebeest, a waterbuck, a Grant’s zebra, and a bateleur eagle, which
were purchased, reached Philadelphia in apparently good condition, but the male
eland died of impaction of the intestine while in quarantine. A young male
eland was presented by Lord Delamere, but, being in poor condition when
received, lived only a few days. A pair of Thomson’s gazelle and an impala,
all very young, and a pair of white-bearded gnu, caught just before shipping, also
died very soon.

Mr. G. H. Goldfinch, assistant game ranger of British East Africa, presented
a hyrax and two specimens of Lophiomys, a rare and little-known rodent.

The 21 animals which reached the United States included 15 species, of
which 13 were species or subspecies not at any time before represented in the
collection of the park. The lions are of the subspecies known as ‘“‘ Kilimanjaro
lion” (Felis leo sabakiensis).

In arranging for transportation it was necessary to go to London and Ham-
burg, and, taking advantage:of the opportunity, brief visits were made to 14
zoological gardens in Hurope, and the Giza Garden, near Cairo, was visited on
the return.

The expenditures in connection with these animals were:

Freight, hauling, and expenses of transshipping_______________________ 2, SDD
Buren asevo tram imal Ss eS ee ee LUE SOAS LoCo ee A 728
@areshiora shipping = newts ore hal Se beer ed a a ee OE MOINES eS 450
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

OO Gl | LOT yee TN Aa Ses ae ke Sl a wae ei ee ee ed $520
Transportationsandysubsistencevor An Bi Baker eee ee 730

Help with animals, including services of attendants, gratuities to ship’s
OMICOLS KETC Se Se rene, OE AE VA SE, Set eRe a es, Ae ea ee IR aes ewe aL a 190
Melesraphyanu cable messages 02 kr) SUR ie cans AE eee EEA 43
Miscellameo isis 5s eee fe ve See ee Sane eee eee ee ee 75
4 oy 31 be Sees aeay ey se eae gm ee Ap Oe Ey dee ee SE Ey OU kL Pee See eigen Bree ee 5, 291

Thirty-four species or subspecies new to the collection were exhibited during
the year, including:

Kilimanjaro lion. Defassa waterbuck. Cape hyrax.
Clouded leopard. Grant’s gazelle. Short-tailed eagle.
Indian tapir. Muntjac. Warlike crested eagle.
East African eland. Grant’s zebra.
Coke’s hartebeest. Northern warthog.
The most important losses were:
Indian tapir. Dromedary. 2 jabirus.
East African eland. 2 lamas. Whooping crane.
2 Rocky Mountain sheep. 2 jaguars. North African ostrich.
3 mule deer. 2 Tasmanian wolves.
Reindeer. 2 leopards.

One hundred and sixty-two dead animals were sent to the National Museum.
Autopsies were made by pathologists of the Bureau of Animal Industry on 99
animals, showing causes of death as follows:

ME WTIMOIIE ese aca ee Dal melt CROP LOS 1S cease ee 2
MHEG WOSIS ya eee es ee ies AOL EU SO ACO STS) eens oe ee il
Pulmonary congestion —---__---_- 2 | Porocephalus infestation _________ 1
ANS OY Suid sath COPS fs a anaes a we ae Hol; Sep cicemia, sau aa! eee eee th
G@astro-enteriticn 2s... 22 ee S| Lokestinal’ parasites. eee see 1
IFT STN) See ees 2 eC ale a EMT e COLO RSI [ese es eee ee a ceeess ft
Sk ET Cre ne ee ee eee eee (A BSOnOptiComan ges ae ee eft
Hemorrhagic enteritis ___-______-_ ZA PEVEESTON Ob yreCb Unies sees anaes 1
HNC EY 0 dia See a ee eS Sis REPEL AGS, coe ee Nena sae 1
Fatty degeneration of liver_______ 1 | Malnutrition from faulty teeth___ 1
GRO mii S eee ties et eee Pi ees OCA tO Me sean cae ee ed 1
INHe pasts Seer a a ea fe DAN Heat HG Upset ee yh on deep ar Dace Sie 2
Intestinal coOCccigiosis, = See ae es ml NOp CaSO eO UEC eee ee gre ee hee ra
@encomonilasi Spee ee ee 5
VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year was 721,555, a daily average
of 1,977. This number is an increase over the previous year of 156,816, and an
increase in the daily average of 430. The largest number in any month was
156,482, in March, 1910, a daily average for the month of 5,046. :

During the year there visited the park 155 schools, Sunday schools, classes,
ete., with 8,888 pupils, a monthly average of 824 pupils. While most of them
were from the city and immediate vicinity, 34 of the schools were from neigh-
boring States, and classes came from Falmouth and Haverhill, Massachusetts;
Stafford Springs, Connecticut; Rochester, Dover, Exeter, and Newport, New
Hampshire; Bellows Falls, Vermont; and Sanford, Maine.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Statement of the collection.

Accessions during the year:
Presented ireees 2 so ie eee a et I Ae ee AE 2 vei rhea a)
RECO yee Mein EXCL 11S Cy See Ss ears ea ee ee
APSR TINTS TM EL SC Gl pee eae Ae Sa as a ees Tat eee op Re ae
IDXEYOVOVSU CEO IS ea ee ee es eee BO BSEN Tey hehe, Seen Oe toe gee A
Bornvand natchedsinyNa tional )Zoologicalibarke shay 22h) ek Sais Bie:
Captured in National Zoological Park________ Spay ies ayes & toa Barat

PRESENTED.

Rhesus monkey, Miss Justine Ingersoll, Boston, Mass_____-- -§-§ =
Common macaque:
\AVAUU Naa, Iho \Wevatexeh is MAYS oMayERKoyOL, 1D) (Opes eel i A
GAR LOM pins Warrenton’ Withee =e emer | eee ereet DANI Came Ore eee
Bonner MACHQUe Gelb LLOmMplcn Ss Wiettrentore Vicia a te nee en eye aul eee
Baboons We Ne MeMillan. Nairobi, British MastvAtrricaeceoo 22.2). eens
White-throated capuchin, Roland Davis, Washington, D. C_______________
iON WeeN ee weMallan Nairobi, British hast each cas ese eee ey eee noe
Leopard, W. N. McMillan, Nairobi, British Wast Africa___-—
latshy hyde JW FaONss 1Dp-qoitesi (Clow, \eeusbbayeanoay JD bs Oia ies ee ee
MGC hprd<, ISKony Rol IOVMayHEy \yveeu abbots wordy IDS (Ces see a
CoVvOre wha bsNeUIMan. | Bne] SWOOGs INaIIS eee: see ee ee ee Oe eee eee
(Gaasiny SKOne Ase JS iraekene Aa lheg waa is atm otk wrap ated Dp CD pee Seattle ty
American ofter, Hrederic B. Hyde, Washington, (Clas oe see
Kinkajou, Surg. W. H. Bell, U. S. Navy, Cristobal, Canal Zone_________*___
Common skunk, HC; Duehrine. Washine tons Di C28 2 eee
Cinnamon bear, E. S. Bruce, U. S. Forest Service____________ ecaereatne Site Th) §
Virginia deer, Thos. Blagden, Washington, D. C_____ ees) ee ee ee eee
Commontcoat, John Rs Nictean’ Weshime bom. Wy (ee eee
Grant’s gazelle, W. N. McMillan, Nairobi, British Hast Africa... __- --___~_ =
Northern warthog, W. N. McMillan, Nairobi, British Hast Africa___________
Lophiomys, G. H. Goldfinch, Asst. Game Ranger, Nairobi, British Hast
ACTER 8 EOS eee
English rabbit:
Mrs: Birdsalle Washington 1s (Caisse Eee es ee ee
Mirss Street. "Washington Dy Gee 22 ee a ee ee ea
Common opossum:
Charles Mediley,-Victoria, Mo 2 4 Vaan Wee Beeeeave 9 ss 6 wh
E. Droop, Washington, D. C__________-_ SEEN dT aha EARL s a 2 VE)
MHESELeESIG ent Wiest OM. el) Cee ee renee eee eee le a Pee ee ee ee ee
Dei Coon Wi slume Lon) 1) oe Cs sete = sen en ee meee ee eS Moe Ais Ree
INI] Ouray a). Oy OOF SyoUAM, co VovaKGNe, HUGO AN ee eS a ee ee
Sparrow hawk, Mrs. 'C. W. McAndrie, Washington, D. ©__-_-__--_-
Sharp-shinned-hawk,. He Db. Burritt Washineton, Ds C23 eee
Red-shouldered hawk, “Es Elanlon, Washington; I): C222 2 eee
Bald eagle, Col. R. L. Montague, Washington, D. C_____-_- -__- $e
Warlike crested eagle, W. N. McMillan, Nairobi, British East Africa______
Hawk: We N. MeMillan Nairobi, Britishebast Africa. 2222002. aes
EKgyptian vulture, W. N. McMillan, Nairobi, British Hast Africa__._________
Pileated vulture, W. N. McMillan, Nairobi, British East Africa_____________
Great horned owl:
JOHMMRTCKEEESS CHT TOM: We atm een eee eee EL SEER tome Oe Pe ee eS
DOM Pag O Wiles aoe eee eee ee ek SL ee A Se See ee

Bee oe ee ee

ft as et pe

bo

Nw

ae ss te

py en
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Barn owl:

Rae. Chappells Washington, Dy Cites aaa ee ee 1
DEC Ne wenmansawashine tons lO a2e eee eee ee ee 1
Screech owl:
RaymonceCampbellwWashington Dy Caan eS aaa 1
INO JNM OIDHe IDES AVC Mybol rego ID) (Ope ee Ses ee es il
Red and yellow and blue macaw, D. S. Sheahan, Washington, D. C_________ 1
Red-shouldered Amazon, Mrs. Bicknell, Washington, D. C_________________ afi
Wellow-tronted Amazon. Be Munoz selon auras = ee ee ee ee al
Parrakeet :
Mrewceich: Hunt; Bethesda... Miceeeeet 2 eee ee ee 2
MOBS Tubman; Washington, sCsi.2 20 ee ee ee eee il
Common canary :
We 1B Ou bh aaves ee Yes I) au ake We} diel DH Oeste elke, Noah See hee ee aL
MrserieCs Steuart, Washington Che te) Se eee if
Cutler Vickery..WashingtonwD: Cole ae eee 1
Tava sparrow, Viss Me Britton awWashine ton. Ds iC sis eee 4
Jungle fowl, Dr. C. B. Davenport, Cold Spring Harbor, N. Y_____-— ft is So Re 2
Wood Mibiss Aq Ne Nicholson Orlando ila a eee eee P3
Whistling swan, Mrs. Kitzgerald, Washington, D. C.---=-2- ~~ == == 1
Bee IOI ISL by Croriitaves VS cmb aver, IDE (OR So es ee ee il
Alligator :
INTERNS (SIO pe Daerah YcTes) oth aeqrcoy oli) Da Gye as area ae es ag Rn Se eee 1
MASS CO rEbarm don. Waist cme Oye se ee ee ee al
TOS Wes Sto SEW el ove woes, hye us Oi alee wr oy alg Dil © ae sis a) a se er Dae ee i
Dek tharner, -Washinetony Ws es eater wee ee ee ee eee 1
Hdgare Shreve Washinton: hy eee eee eae ee ae eens eee eee il
IMG ESE I Gears 1 Bes ete) CSy ery NAV CTT uy UG ONG Ly Aye \Vifsy ea 2
Gila monster; Gustav Eriebus) Washington, DiC S02 22! eee 1
aublesnalkes: (Gavilan Wihite:s Wasiine ton) mi) 5G ue oes Been we nee eee afl
Black snake:
Wie Vac Cox; Washing tontel) Cir: = Pay. sie ee ee ee ee ae 1
Thos. Cs Johnson; Deanwoods Wii CLe =] Aelia ree eee ee es ee il
House snake, Dhos: Cy Johnson} Deanwood) Di@22 bas ee i
Ganrtenjsnalkes Eon Carl Washington Ds O22 ne ee eee eee il
SUMMARY.
ANTUNES SON ey Mliy” LS a OO 9 See ee eke ee ee ee ee 1, 416
Accessions Guring the sears 222 oes sk eee Se eee Nee 3807
SO ta 88s oe A OE ee ee in ee Pe PS}
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and returning of animals)_____________ 299
On hands TuME SOs VOLO eI ae he Ae pe mee See 1, 424
Species. nea
VE ATITH SIS 2 Ses erseain Sa clare ois Me aiaia alot sla atone Ce Oe ee ae cS Eee ene ae ee 153 625
SIO sae a btele eters wislcainieisis;Semiscrelec eae ase Sa Sete aee Pee ae ee eee ee eee 184 692
PREDtes sone oa eens 8d bai es ge ee ee ee ee eee 35 107
J eee a REC ARCA Tuo um awe Fuels 372 | 1,424

Respectfully submitted.
FRANK BAKER,
Superintendent.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCcorTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
APPENDIX Y.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Srr: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the year ending June 30, 1910:

EQUIPMENT,

The equipment of the observatory is as follows:

(a) At Washington, in an inclosure of about 16,000 square feet, are contained
five small frame buildings used for observing and computing purposes, three
movable frame shelters covering several out-of-door pieces of apparatus, and
also one small brick building containing a storage battery and electrical dis-
tribution apparatus. ’

(0) At Mount Wilson, California, upon a leased plot of ground 100 feet square
in horizontal projection, are located a one-story cement observing structure,
designed especially for solar constant measurements, and also a little frame
cottage, 21 feet by 25 feet, built and furnished last September for observer’s
quarters. It is highly satisfactory to note from the decrease in probable error
of the observations secured in 1909 on Mount Wilson, compared with those of
previous years, that the new cement observatory there, located as it is far from
the dust, smoke, and disturbances of the other parts of the mountain, is excel-
lently adapted for securing the most exact results.

WORK OF THE YEAR.

The present year’s results are of uncommon interest, for they appear to fix
within narrow limits the value of the solar constant of radiation. When in 1902
the first attempts were made here to measure it, that first-rank constant of
nature, the intensity of the solar radiation at the earth’s mean distance from the
sun, was unknown within the wide range between 1.75 and 4 calories per square
centimeter per minute. This range of values is given, with a preference for
Langley’s value (8 calories), by Hann in his standard work on meteorology,
published in 1905.

It is improbable that this observatory would have continued since 1902 in
solar-constant work had it not been that the results of 1908 gave strong indica-
tions of considerable variability of the sun in short intervals and that later
work also strongly supported this presumption. The late director. Secretary
Langley, shared, with many others of the most competent judges on the subject,
the impression that to determine the solar constant of radiation with any con-
siderable degree of accuracy or certainty was, if not impossible, yet a thing
which would probably be long deferred and would involve spectro-bolometric
measurements at the highest possible altitudes at which men may exist. He
did not at all believe that our results of 1908 approximated to the true value
of the solar constant, but only that they might be so far independent of ordinary
atmospheric changes as to be used in determining the probability of solar vari-
ability. Hence, in 1905, he instructed the present writer to bear in mind, in
going to Mount Wilson for the first time, that it was not the solar constant but

73
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

the possibility of solar variability which was the result to be determined by the
expedition. This inquiry has, indeed, been the primary one in all the subse-
quent work, but not to the exclusion of attempts to fix the value of the solar
constant itself.

There were at that time two principal and seemingly formidable difficulties
hindering the determination of the solar constant of radiation. First, there
was no instrument capable of absorbing fully and adapted for measuring com-
pletely the energy received at the earth’s surface, excepting, perhaps, the little-
known and rarely used instrument invented by W. A. Michelson, of Russia, about
1894. Second, there was grave doubt if a true estimate of the loss of radiation
in traversing the air could be made. Langley has somewhere described the first
obstacle as “ formidable,’ the second as ‘ perhaps insurmountable.”

As stated in previous reports, much attention was given from 1903 onward to
devising a standard pyrheliometer, and thus establishing the absolute scale of
radiation measurements. A considerable degree of success seemed to be attained
in 1906, but the results obtained in that year were found, by comparison with
instruments of the United States Weather Bureau, to differ so much from the
generally adopted scale of Angstrém that further work, involving finally the
construction of two additional water-flow pyrheliometers, was done. The last
of these instruments, and by far the most perfect of them all, was completed
and tried at Mount Wilson in October, 1909. <A fairly close agreement seemed
to hold between it and its immediate predecessor, but when the electrical con-
stants of both instruments were determined with extreme care in February, at
Washington, by Mr. Aldrich, the gap widened. A source of error, till then
little regarded, was reconsidered, and painstaking comparisons of pyrheliometers
were carried through at Washington by Messrs. Aldrich, Abbot, and Fowle.
These were finished in June, 1910, and the two standard pyrheliometers were
found to agree together well within the probable error of the highly accurate
experiments. Not only so, but each instrument was found to take up and
measure between 99 and 100 per cent of such various quantities of electrically
introduced heat as were used as tests. Finally these definite measurements
indicated that while the results published at page 46 in volume 2 of the Annals,
made with standard pyrheliometer No. 1, are 4 or 5 per cent above the true
scale, yet when all the experiments made with that instrument, at Washington
as well as Mount Wilson, are collected their mean result is almost in exact
agreement with the results obtained in 1910 with standard pyrheliometers
Nos. 2 and 3.

It may now be accepted that the absolute scale of radiation is established
within three parts in 1,000, and that we may express all our measurements of
solar radiation made since 1902 with this degree of accuracy in absolute calories
per square centimeter per minute. ’

Three secondary pyrheliometers, the cost of whose construction after my
designs has been defrayed from the Hodgkins Fund, have been standardized and
sent to Russia, France, and Italy. Two others have been sold by the Institution
to the United States Agricultural Department. Thus steps are being taken to
diffuse the standard scale of pyrbeliometry. The new scale is about 5.2 per cent
above that of new Angstrém pyrbeliometers.

The second obstacle mentioned above seems now less serious than the first.
It was found in 1905 and 1906 that practically identical values of the solar
constant resulted from good series of spectro-bolometrie observations of the
same day taken at Washington (sea level) and Mount Wilson (6,000 feet eleva-
tion). But in August, 1909, Mr. Abbot ascended Mount Whitney (14,500 feet)
with a complete spectro-bolometric outfit, and, notwithstanding many days of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75

unpromising weather, succeeded on September 3, under the most perfect sky and
in exceptionally dry air, in making a complete and satisfactory series of solar
constant measurements. A prism of quartz and two mirrors of magnalium were
the only optical parts to affect the rays, so that it was possible to observe from
wave length 0.29 » to wave length 3.0 wu. This extended region includes not only
all the visible but the ultra-violet and infra-red spectra, with sufficient com-
pleteness to include in the discussion apparently within 1 per cent of all the
rays which the sun sends the earth and to make the allowance for rays not
observed practically sure. During the same day Mr. Ingersoll observed witb
the usual complete spectro-bolometric outfit on Mount Wilson, and his results
were in accord with what would be expected from his preceding and following
day’s work there and agreed within 1 per cent with those obtained simultaneously
on Mount Whitney.

In view of the agreement of results on the solar constant of radiation obtained
at sea level, 1 mile, and 2? miles elevation, it now seems highly probable that we
can really by Langley’s method of homogeneous rays allow for losses in the air
and get the same values that we would observe directly if we could take our
instruments above the air altogether.

The reduction of spectro-bolographic work to the absolute scale of pyrhelio-
metry enables us to give as the average value of the.solar constant of radiation
for the epoch 1995 to 1909, 1.924 calories per square centimeter per minute. It
is probable that observations at sun-spot minimum will tend to raise this value
by rather more than 1 per cent, so that we may suppose the mean value of the
solar constant for a complete sun-spot cycle will be about 1.95 calories.

Experiments made in 1909 at Mount Wilson with various optical systems
agree within their probable error with one another, and with the results obtained
on Mount Whitney in fixing the distribution of energy in the spectrum of the
sun outside the atmosphere. In the Mount Whitney work the curve of energy
distribution was followed to a wave-length estimated (not very accurately) as
0.29u and it there practically reached zero intensity, although the quartz and
magnalium apparatus would have been capable of transmitting the rays, had
they existed, of much shorter wave-lengths. In the spectrum of the ‘“ perfect
radiator,’ corresponding to the apparent temperature of the sun, the intensity
of the ultra-violet rays would be of some importance for a considerably farther
stretch of wave-lengths beyond this. It therefore appears that either the earth’s
atmosphere, even above Mount Whitney, or else the sun’s envelope, effectuaily
hinders the solar rays. If it is the former, then it may be that the above-men-
tioned value of the solar constant should still be raised a few per cent. But the
known powerful selective absorption of vapors in the sun’s envelope seems quite
reasonably competent alone to produce the observed weakness of the solar
spectrum in the ultra-violet. This view is confirmed by experiments of Miethe
and Lehmann, who found no extension of the solar spectrum with increasing
elevation, although they shifted their observing station from Berlin (50 meters)
to Monte Rosa (3,500 meters), thus greatly diminishing the layer of air
traversed. Their shortest wave-length was 0.2911y, closely agreeing with ours.
- From our experiments of 1909 the apparent average solar temperature is
6480°, 5840°, or 6200°of the absolute, according as we follow Wien’s displace-
ment law, Stefan’s law, or Planck’s law as the method of computation. But the
temperature of the sun, apart from the uncertainty of terms when dealing with
such high values, is probably a quantity which has very various values, from
the center to the limb of the sun’s disk, depending on the depth within the sun
at which the radiation originates.

At Washington Messrs. Fowle and Aldrich have continued experiments on
the transmission by moist columns of air for long-wave radiation, though with
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

many interruptions due to the difficulty of the research. The work has been
carried to wave-length beyond 15y in the infra-red, and for columns of air 800
feet long. It is not yet possible to summarize the results.

Messrs. Fowle and Aldrich and Miss Graves have made rapid progress with
the reduction of solar-constant work of 1909.

Experiments have been begun for the purpose of devising economical means
of utilizing solar energy for domestic purposes.

PERSONNEL,

Dr. L. R. Ingersoll served as temporary bolometric assistant on Mount Wilson
to September 6, 1909.

Mr. L. B. Aldrich was given a temporary appointment as bolometric assistant
at Washington beginning September 1, 1909. He passed a competitive exami-
nation and was reappointed provisionally on January 10, 1910. His appoint-
ment was made permanent, to begin July 1, 1910.

SUMMARY,

The work of the year is notable for the determination of the absolute scale
of pyrheliometry and for the success of spectrobolometric observations of the
solar constant of radiation on Mount Whitney. These agree with simultaneous
observations of the same kind on Mount Wilson. Reducing these and other
results to the absolute scale of pyrheliometry, we may fix the average value of
the solar constant of radiation at 1.925 calories per square centimeter per minute
for the epoch 1905-1909. Making allowance for the higher values which must
prevail at sun-spot minimum, the solar constant may be estimated at 1.95 cal-
ories aS an average value for a sun-spot cycle. No reason has been found
for departing from the view heretofore held that short-interval variations
of 5 per cent or more from this value occur. The energy distribution in
the solar spectrum outside the atmosphere has been determined with the
bolometer on Mount Whitney between wave lengths 0.294 in the ultra violet
and 3.0u in the infra red. This region appears to contain full 99 per cent of all
the solar energy outside the atmosphere. The apparent temperature of the sun
as computed by three different methods comes out 6430°, 5840°, and 6200° of
the absolute scale. Researches on the transmission of moist columns of air for
long-wave rays, Such as the earth emits, have been continued to wave lengths
beyond 154, and for columns of air -800 feet in length. Secondary pyrhelio-
meters, standardized to the absolute scale, have been sent to Russia, France,
and Italy, and also furnished to the United States Weather Bureau and Depart-
ment of Agriculture.

Respectfully submitted.

Cc. G. Agsot, Director.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprnpix VI.
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of the
library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1910:

The accessions recorded for the Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress,
numbered 2,653 volumes, 2,879 parts of volumes, 1,596 pamphlets, and 623 charts,
making a total of 7,551 publications. The accession numbers run from 495,195
to 500,000. These publications were forwarded to the Library of Congress
immediately upon their receipt and entry. In their transmission 270 boxes
were required, containing approximately the equivalent of 10,800 volumes. The
actual number of pieces sent, including parts of periodicals, pamphlets, and
yolumes, numbered 86,526. This statement does not, however, include about
2,948 parts of serial publications secured in exchange to complete sets and trans-
mitted separately.

The Institution has continued the policy of sending public documents presented
to it to the Library of Congress without stamping or entering. The number of
publications given above does not include these, nor does it include other publi-
cations for the Library of Congress received through the International Exchange
Service.

The libraries of the Smithsonian office, of the Astrophysical Observatory, and
the National Zoological Park have received 473 volumes and pamphlets and 253
parts of volumes and charts, making a total of 626 publications, and a grand
total, including the publications for the Smithsonian deposit, of 8,177. The
actual decrease in the number of publications entered for the Smithsonian
library is not as great as would at first appear, owing to the fact that in the
present report a statement has been made of the number, of completed volumes
accessioned, rather than, as was formerly the custom, of the number of parts
constituting a volume. Special attention has been given to the checking up and
completing of the Smithsonian deposit sets of publications of scientific societies
and learned institutions of the world, together with the series of scientific
periodicals contained in the library.

-The parts of serial publications entered on the card catalogue numbered
26,772, and 1,605 slips for completed volumes were made; 277 cards for new
periodicals and annuals, together with 418 donor cards and 1,114 catalogue cards
for separate publications were made and filed.

Inaugural dissertations and academic publications were received and acces-
sioned from universities at the following places:

Basel. Halle an der Saale. St. Petersburg.
Berkeley. Leipzig. Utrecht.
Berlin. Liege. Vienna.
Breslau. Lund. Wiirzburg.
Graz. Paris.

The establishing of new exchanges and the securing of missing parts to com-
plete sets of publications in the Smithsonian library required the writing of

77
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

3,251 letters, resulting in the addition of about 277 periodicals and in the
receipt of about 2,948 missing parts.

The library has again cooperated with the International Exchanges in sending
to foreign countries lists of government documents and serial publications of
that class needed to complete the sets in the Library of Congress. In addition
to the countries already enumerated in previous reports, lists have been sent to
Natal, New Zealand, Spain, and Venezuela.

The publications in the reading room being in the main of a class not to be
found elsewhere, a yearly increase is to be noted in the number of persons
consulting them. The readers include scientific workers not only from Wash-
ington, but from other American and foreign cities. The staff has withdrawn
for office use 52 bound volumes of periodicals and 3,336 parts of scientific
periodicals and popular magazines. In addition, the various bureaus of the
Government continue to avail themselves of the opportunity to use these pub-
lications as well as those in the sectional libraries of the institution.

The mail receipts numbered 48,222 packages, and 7,117 packages were received
through the International Exchange Service. The publications contained therein
were stamped and distributed for entry from the mail desk. About 5,111 ac-
knowledgments were made on the regular forms in addition to the letters which
were written in acknowledgment of publications received in response to the
requests of the institution for exchange.

The employees’ library.—The books added to this library by purchase num-
bered 30, and by binding 800 volumes of periodicalS were made available for
circulation. The total number of books borrowed was 2,092. The sending of a
selected number of books from this library to the National Zoological Park has
been continued, but the sending of books to the Bureau of American Hthnology
was discontinued when the Bureau moved into the Smithsonian building in
January, 1910.

Bibliography of aeronautics—The manuscript for the Bibliography of Aero-
nautical Literature to July 1, 1909, was completed during the summer of that
year, and the work, forming volume 55 of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections, was published during the month of April, 1910. Numerous accessions
have been made to the collection of aeronautical literature in the office library.
The volumes have been bound and are now available for reference.

At the request of -the American committee on cooperation with the Inter-
national Congress of Archivists and Librarians, the assistant librarian prepared
an answer to the question “Dans quel sens y a-t-il lieu de: réorganiser et
détendre le service des échanges internationaux?’ ‘The reply was sent in the
latter part of January for presentation to the congress convening in Brussels
August 27 to 31.

American Historical Association—The arranging of new exchanges of the
annual reports of the American Historical Association from the allotment agreed
upon for that purpose has resulted in a number of publications of historical
societies throughout the world being added to the Smithsonian deposit at the
Library of Congress.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The library of the Museum has suffered from congestion and is handicapped
in its work by lack of space. While it has continued to grow during the last ten
years, no additional room has been available owing to the overcrowded condition
of the Museum building. As the new building is now ready for the collections
it will be possible in the near future for the library to have all the room neces-
sary for expansion and proper classification. Many gifts of importance have
been received, those deserving special mention being the publications presented
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

by Dr. Theodore N. Gill, Dr. Charles W. Richmond, Dr. Charles A. White, Dr.
BE. A. Schwartz, Dr. O. P. Hay, and Dr. Marcus Benjamin. The publications
are scientific and of value in completing sets and filling in of the series of authors’
separates.

In the death of Dr. Charies A. White the Museum library has lost one of its
valued benefactors. Doctor White was at all times ready to forward the
interests of the Museum library and gave material assistance in the work of
completing its series of authors’ separates and its sets of periodical publications.
His gifts have been numerous and are of special value along the lines of the
work upon which he was engaged.

Lists of the publications in the sectional libraries of the Museum have been
made, and an experienced cataloguer has been checking them up with the
publications on the shelves in the sections. The work of checking is uncompleted
at the close of the fiscal year, but will be continued.

In the Museum library there are now 38,300 volumes, 61,858 unbound papers,
and 110 manuscripts. The accessions during the year consisted of 2,056 books,
5,041 pamphlets, and 3807 parts of volumes; 1,001 books, 1,055 complete volumes
of periodicals, and 6,294 pamphlets were catalogued.

Attention has been given to the preparation of volumes for binding, with the
result that 435 books were sent to the government bindery.

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from the general
library amounted to 238,272, including 4,148 from the collections which were
assigned to the sectional libraries.

The sectional libraries established in the Museum have remained unchanged,
the complete list now standing as follows:

Administration. Geology. Mollusks.
Administrative assistant. History. Oriental archeology.
Anthropology. Insects. Paleobotany.

Biology. Invertebrate paleontol- Parasites.

Birds. ogy. Physical anthropology.
Botany. Mammals. Prehistoric archeology.
Comparative anatomy. Marine invertebrates. Reptiles.

Editor. Materia medica. Superintendent.
Ethnology. Mesozoic fossils. Taxidermy.

Fishes. Mineralogy. Technology.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The following table summarizes all the accessions during the year except for
the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is separately administered :

Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, including parts to

Completeusetignes Sie Senbu le et MIN Al ae) ia Ag Mere ee Es) 10, 499

Office, Astrophysical Observatory, National Zoological Park, and Inter-
NatOna EK CHANCES ame ne ene eR RO Ee ee ee 626
United’ States! Nationale Marseuminibrany 2 ee ee eee 7, 904
OTN (reli ee eeeeiorees eNOS ee ee Babee Se Se ey go a 19, 029

Respectfully submitted.
PAUL BROCKETT, Assistant Librarian.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprenpix VII.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature
for the year ending June 30, 1910.

The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature is an international co-
operative enterprise having at present 32 regional bureaus scattered through-
out the world, supported by the countries taking part in the work. The duties
of these regional bureaus are to collect, index, and classify all contributions to
pure science published within the several countries they represent. The mate-
rial thus prepared is forwarded to the Central Bureau in London, there to be
assembled and published.

The catalogue consists of 17 annual volumes, one for each of the follow-
ing sciences: Mathematics, mechanics, physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteor-
ology, mineralogy, geology, geography, paleontology, general biology, botany,
zoology, anatomy, anthropology, physiology, and bacteriology.

The Central Bureau is maintained entirely by the funds received from the
subscribers to the catalogue. The regional bureaus are in every case sup-
ported by the countries taking part in the enterprise, in the great majority
of cases by direct govermental grants. =

Since the beginning of the undertaking in 1901 the annual volumes have in-
creased in size to such an extent that the cost of publication at one time
exceeded the sum received from subscriptions, and it was necessary to cur-
tail somewhat not only the methods of classifying the various subjects, but
also the citation methods used in the subject catalogues. This is now being
done without detracting in any way from the value of the catalogue as a work
of reference, although the labor of preparation is in most cases much greater. ‘

The allotment for the present fiscal year was $6,000. Five persons are regu-
larly engaged in the Bureau, and occasionally, when funds permit, the assistance
of a specialist in some one of the sciences is temporarily employed.

There were 25,082 cards sent from this Bureau during the year as follows:

Witera TUTE HOT MG O Meta ct ub wale Sat! Sas eae ee ee ee ge 72
TTR A TUT Ot OO Bei SSNs gues, CO CAE AU Pane Oe AUN) ee eo CD 1738
MIteratures Of, LOD GS. Bees 6e fot er a ee eee ee 248
VCETALUTe OR OO Aas sae ee Ree ere ee ee er 465
WiterabuneOL D90He 222 te es Be eee ee 1, 163
eter AGUre VOL OOG ake ian 2S has I Saal Ne i na ae ga 1, 502
ACST ATS TOL yal DOT ese SA ee 2 rl ed oe pag plas Cae ee ee 3, 160
Muiterabure: Of A90S8s 222-22 eee oS es 6, 805
MItEra TUPe tOLFLO OO as See eee ee ee 11, 994

PURO Tei Secs a as 8 2) 5 Desi La 25, 082

This number does not represent the actual number of citations sent, for on
account of a new ruling of the Central Bureau some of the biological cards
contained a number of citations each. However, the actual number of cita-

80
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81

tions has been reduced to approximately 28,000 for the year, which is about
6,000 less than was sent in for the previous year. This decrease is not entirely
due to the new methods of classifying, for as the work is each year being
brought more nearly up to date fewer old papers are indexed, consequently
fewer citations are required. It is estimated that when the work is entirely
up to date only about 25,000 citations will be needed to completely index the
yearly scientific literature of the United States.

The following-named volumes of the catalogue were received and delivered
to the subscribers in this country :

Seventh annual issue: Meteorology, General Biology, Botany, Anatomy,
Anthropology, and Bacteriology.

Highth annual issue: Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy, Mineralogy, and
Zoology.

For a number of years it has been the aim to eventually prepare this cata-
logue not only through the cooperation of the various countries, but through
direct cooperation of authors and publishers of the papers indexed. This method
was actually tried during the present year in the preparation of the volume
on zoology, and though it required writing about 517 letters, the result was so
satisfactory that it is proposed to gradually extend the method to other sciences.

As has been pointed out before, the London Central Bureau is maintained
solely by means of the funds obtained from subscriptions to the catalogue, and
the necessary cost of editing and printing is so great that $85 per year has to be
charged for the complete set of 17 volumes. This large figure places the work
beyond the reach of many who would undoubtedly purchase individual volumes,
if not the complete sets. The cost of doubling the edition of the catalogue would
be comparatively small, the outlay representing only the cost of press work and
paper, and it is felt that if the edition could be doubled and the price reduced
one-half, the work could be placed at once within the reach of many small
libraries and scientific workers who need such works of reference.

At present the available funds prevent any such course being adopted, but a
comparatively small endowment would not only render this move possible, but
would enable the present restricted scope of the catalogue to be extended to
inelude at first the applied sciences and then gradually the other records of
human progress. <A yearly income of $5,000 or $6,000 from a permanent endow-
ment would enable the central bureau to take the necessary steps to first in-
crease the circulation and then broaden the scope of the catalogue, and it is
earnestly hoped that in the near future such an endowment may be obtained.

There have been no losses of property during the year, excepting those caused
by ordinary wear and deterioration.

In the sundry civil bill approved June 25, 1910, $7,500 was appropriated to
earry on the work for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911. This sum is an
increase of $1,500 over the appropriation of the present year.

Respectfully submitted.

LEONARD C. GUNNELL,
Chief Assistant.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

97578°—sm 1910——6
Apprenpix VIII.

REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I haye the honor to submit the following report on the publications of
the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1910:

There was distributed a total of 801 volumes and separates in the series
of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 17,560 in the series of Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 28,879 in the series of Smithsonian Annual
Reports, and 2,179 in the series of Special Publications. In addition, there
were 959 publications not included in the Smithsonian series distributed by
the Institution, and 5,274 publications of the Bureau of American Hthnology
sent out during the six months from January 1 to June 30, 1910. This makes a
grand total of 55,652, an increase of 11,489 over the previous year.

I. SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE,

No memoirs of the series of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge were
issued during the year, although progress was made in preparing for press the
Langley Memoir on Mechanical Flight which was begun by the late Secretary
Langley in 1904 and continued by Mr. Charles M. Manly, assistant in charge
of experiments.

II. SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS,

In the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections there were published
during the year (1) fifteen papers in the Quarterly Issue, which was discon-
tinued December 31, 1909, completing volume 52 of the regular series; (2)
one paper in volume 51; (8) seven papers in volume 54, completing that
volume; (4) volume 55, Bibliography of Aeronautics; (5) and seven papers
in volume 56. The Quarterly Issue papers were as follows:

T872. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Volume 52, part 4 (Quarterly
Issue, vol. 5, part 4) containing Publications, 1873 to 1887. Published Janu-
ary 20, 1910. Octavo. Pages vir, 408-514, with plates 38 to 66. (The
Quarterly Issue ends with this volume.)

1873. Prehistoric Ruins of the Gila Valley. By J. Walter Fewkes. Published
August 4, 1909. Octavo. Pages 403 to 486, with Plates 38 to 42.

1874. Description of a New Frog from the Philippine Islands. By Leonhard
Stejneger, Curator, Division of Reptiles and Batrachians, U. S. National
Museum. Published August 4, 1909. Octavo. Pages 487-439.

1875. A New Genus of Fossil Cetaceans from Santa Cruz Territory, Patagonia ;
and Description of a Mandible and Vertebre of Prosqualodon. By Frederick
W. True, Head Curator of Biology, U. S. National Museum. Published
August 7, 1909. Octavo. Pages 441-456, with Plates 43 to 45.

1876. Notes on Certain Features of the Life of the Alaskan Freshwater Sculpin.
By Barton A. Bean and Alfred C. Weed, of the Division of Fishes, U. S. Na-
tional Museum. Published August 19, 1909. Octavo. Pages 457-460.

82
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

1877. The Geologic Work of Mangroves in Southern Florida. By T. Wayland
Vaughan, Custodian of Madreporarian Corals, U. S. National Museum; Super-
vising Geologist in Charge of Coastal Plain Investigations, U. S. Geological
Survey. Published September 15, 1909. Octavo. Pages 461-464, with
Plates 46 to 52.

1878. Crystallographic Notes on Calcite. By J. E. Pogue, Assistant Curator,
Division of Mineralogy, U. S. National Museum. Published September 24,
1909. Octavo. Pages 465-468, with Plates 53 and 54.

1879. A New Rodent of the Genus Georychus. By Edmund Heller, Field
Naturalist, Smithsonian African Expedition. Published September 24, 1909.
Octavo. Pages 469-470, with Plate 55.

1880. [Two New Rodents from British East Africa. By Hdmund Heller, Field
Naturalist, Smithsonian African Expedition. Published November 13, 1909.
Pages 471-472, with Plate 56.

1881. A Heretofore Undescribed Stony Meteorite from Thomson, McDuffie
County, Georgia. By George P. Merrill, Head Curator, Department of Geol-
ogy, U. 8S. National Museum. Published December 2, 1909. Octavo. Pages
473476.. Plates 57 and 58.

i882. On a Remarkable Cube of Pyrite Carrying Crystallized Gold and Galena
of Unusual Habit. By Joseph E. Pogue, Assistant Curator, Division of
Mineralogy, U. S. National Museum. Published December 22, 1909. Octavo.
Pages 477-484, with Plate 59.

1883. A New Carnivore of British East Africa. By Gerrit 8. Miller, jr., Curator,
Division of Mammals, U.S. National Museum. Published December 18, 1909.
Octayo. Pages 485-487, with Plates 60 to 62.

1884. Description of Fossil Plants from the Mesozoic and Cenozoic of North
America. I. By F. H. Knowlton. Published January 11, 1910. Octavo.
Pages 489-496, with Plates 63 and 64.

1885. Two New Genera of Murine Rodents. By Gerrit §. Miller, jr., Curator,
Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum. Published January 12, 1910.
Octavo. Pages 497-498.

1886. A Shelter for Observers on Mount Whitney. By C. G. Abbot, Director of
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Published January 12, 1910.
Octavo. Pages 499-506, with Plates 65 and 66.

1887. List of Publications, continued from list in Quarterly Issue, volume 5,
part 3. Published January 21, 1910. Octavo. Pages 507-509.

In the regular series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections the following
were published, during the year: :

1869. The Mechanics of the Earth’s Atmosphere (a collection of translations).
Third Collection. By Cleveland Abbe. Hodgkins Fund. Published 1909.
Octavo. Pages iv, 617. Volume 51, Number 4.

1870. Landmarks of Botanical History, Part I, Prior to 1562 A. D. By Edward
L. Greene. Published 1909. Octavo. Pages 329. Part of volume 54.

1920. Bibliography of Aeronautics. By Paul Brockett. Hodgkins Fund. Pub-
lished 1910. Octavo. Pages xiv, 940. Yolume 55.

1922. Development of the Brain of the American Alligator; The Paraphysis and
Hypophysis. By Albert M. Reese. Published March 1, 1910. Octavo. Pages
20, with 5 plates. Volume 54, Number 2.

1923. Constants of Nature. Part 5, A Recalculation of Atomic Weights. Third
edition. By Frank Wigglesworth Clarke. Published May 6, 1910. Octavo.
Pages Iv, 548. Volume 54, Number 3.

1924. Five New Rodents from British East Africa. By Edmund Heller. Pub-
lished February 28, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+4, with 2 plates. Volume 54,
Number 4.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

1925. A New Rodent of the Genus Saccostomus from British Hast Africa. By
Gerrit S. Miller, jr. Published February 28, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+2, with
1 plate. Volume 54, Number 5.

1926. A New Sable Antelope from British East Africa. By Edmund Heller.
Published March 38, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+2. Volume 54, Number 6.

1927. Description of a New Species of Hippopotamus. By Gerrit 8. Miller, jr.
Published March 28, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+3, with 4 plates. Volume 54,
Number 7

1929. The Seales of the African Characinid Fishes. By T. D. A. Cockerell.
Published May 7, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+10, with 2 plates. Volume 56,
Number 1.

1980. Mammals Collected by John J. White in British East Africa. By N. Hol-
lister. Published March 31, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+12, with 2 plates. Vol-
ume 56, Number 2.

1931. The Scales of the Mormyrid Fishes, with Remarks on Albula and Hlops.
By T. D. A. Cockerell. Published May 7, 1910. Pages 2+4. Volume 56,
Number 3.

1933. Upper Yukon Native Customs and Folk-Lore. By Ferdinand Schmitter.
Published May 26, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+30. Volume 56, Number 4.

1935. A Preliminary Study of Chemical Denudation. By Frank Wigglesworth
Clarke. Published June 29, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2+19. Volume 56. Num-
ber 5.

1986. The Age of the Harth. By George F. Becker. Published June 29, 1910.
Octayo. Pages 2+28. Volume 56, Number 6.

1937. Description of a New Subspecies of African Monkey of the Genus Cercopi-
thecus. By D. G. Elliot. Publishd June 11, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2-1.

=

Voiume 56, Number T.

Of the regular series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections in press at the
ciose of the year, there were:

1934. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. Number 6: Olenellus and other
Genera of the Mesonacide. By Charles D. Walcett. Volume 53, Number 6.

1939. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. Number 7: Pre-Cambrian Rocks
of the Bow River Valley, Alberta, Canada. By Charles D. Walcott. Volume
538, Number 7.

1940. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. II. Abrupt Appearance of the Cam-
brian Fauna on the North American Continent. By Charles D. Walcott.
Volume 57, Number 1. ;

1941. Notes on a Horn-feeding Lepidopterous Larva from Africa. By August
Buseck. Volume 56, Number 8,

Ill, SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

The Annual Report for 1908, though partly in type at the beginning of the
fiscal year, was not published until late in the fall.

1917. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, showing Operations, Expenditures, and Conditions of the Institution
for the year ending June 380, 1908. Octavo. Pages x, 801, with 101 plates.
Containing publications 1855, 1856, and 1888 to 1914.

The following papers, forming the General Appendix of the Annual Report
of the Board of Regents for 1908, were issued in pamphlet form:
1888. The Present Status of Military Aeronautics. By Maj. George O. Squier,
U. S. Army. Pages 117-144, with 23 plates.
1889. Aviation in France in 1908. By Pierre-Roger Jourdain. Pages 145-159,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

1890. Wireless Telephony. By R. A. Fessenden. Pages 161-195, with 20 plates.

1891. Phototelegraphy. By Henri Armagnat. Pages 197-207.

1892. The Gramophone and the Mechanical Recording and Reproduction of
Musical Sounds. By Lovell W. Reddie. Pages 209 to 231, with 2 plates.

1893. On the Light Thrown by Recent Investigation on Electricity on the Rela-
tion between Matter and Ether. By J. J. Thomson. Pages 233-244.

1894. Development of General and Physical Chemistry During the Last Forty
Years. By W. Nernst. Pages 245-2538.

1895. Development of Technological Chemistry During the Last Forty Years.
By O. H. Witt. Pages 255-262.

1896. Twenty Years’ Progress in Explosives. By Oscar Guttmann. Pages 263-—
300, with 9 plates.

1897. Recent Research in the Structure of the Universe. By J. C. Kapteyn.
Pages 301-3819.

1898. Solar Vortices and Magnetism in Sun Spots. By C. G. Abbot. Pages 321—
338, with 5 plates.

1899. Climatic Variations: Their Extent and Causes. By J. W. Gregory. Pages
339-3854.

1900. Uranium and Geology. By Prof. John Joly. Pages 355-884, with 1 plate.

1901. An Outline Review of the Geology of Peru. By George I. Adams. Pages
385-430, with 5 plates.

1902. Our Present Knowledge of the Earth. By E. Wiechert. Pages 431-449.

1908. The Antarctic Question—Voyages to the South Pole since 1898. By J.
Machat. Pages 451-480, with 1 plate.

1904. Some Geographical Aspects of the Nile. By Capt. H. G. Lyons. Pages
481-5038, with 5 plates.

1905. Heredity, and the Origin of Species. By Daniel Trembly MacDougal.
Pages 505-5238, with 1 plate.

1906. Cactacez of Northeastern and Central Mexico, together with a Synopsis
of the Principal Mexican Genera. By William Edwin Safford. Pages 525-
563, with 15 plates. (A separate edition with index was also published.)

1907. Angler Fishes: Their Kinds and Ways. By Theodore Gill. Pages 565-
615.

1908. The Birds of India. By Douglas Dewar. Pages 617-639.

1909. The Evolution of the Elephant. By Richard S. Lull. Pages 641-675, with
2 plates.

1910. Excavations at Boghaz-Keui in the Summer of 1907. By Hugo Winckler
and O. Puchstein. Pages 677-696, with 10 plates.

1911. Malaria in Greece. By Ronald Ross. Pages 697-710.

1912. Carl von Linné as a Geologist. By A. G. Nathorst. Pages 711-743.

1918. Life and Work of Lord Kelvin. The Kelvin Lecture. By Sylvanus P.
Thompson. Pages 745-768, with 1 plate.

1914. The Work of Henri Becquerel. By André Broca. Pages 769-785, with 1
plate.

The report of the executive committee and Proceedings of the Board of
Regents of the Institution, as well as the report of the Secretary, for the fiscal
year ending June 380, 1909, both forming part of the annual report of the Board
of Regents to Congress, was printed in pamphlet form and published at the
December meeting of the Board of Regents, as follows:

1915. Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 80, 1909. Pages iii, 95.

1916. Report of the Executive Committee and Proceedings of the Board of
Regents for the year ending June 30, 1909. Pages 19.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910. .

The Smithsonian Report for 1909 was partly in type at the close of the fiscal
year. In the General Appendix are the following papers:

The Future of Mathematics, by Henri Poincaré.

What Constitutes Superiority in an Airship, by Paul Renard.

Researches in Radiotelegraphy, by J. A. Fleming.

Recent Progress in Physics, by Sir J. J. Thomson.

Production of Low Temperatures, and Refrigeration, by L. Marchis.

The Nitrogen Question from the Military Standpoint, by Charles E. Munroe.

Simon Newcomb, by Ormond Stone.

Solar-radiation Researches by Jules César Janssen, by H. de la Baume
Pluvinel.

The Return of Halley’s Comet, by W. W. Campbell.

The Upper Air, by E. Gold and W. A. Harwood.

The Formation, Growth, and Habit of Crystals, by Paul Gaubert.

The Distribution of Elements in Igneous Rocks, by Henry S. Washington.

The Mechanism of Voleanic Action, by H. J. Johnston-Lavis.

Conservation of Natural Resources, by James Douglas.

The Antarctic Land of Victoria, by Maurice Zimmermann.

Some Results of the British Antarctic Expedition, 1907-9, by EH. H. Shackleton.

The Oceanography of the Sea of Greenland, by D. Damas.

From the Niger, by Lake Chad, to the Nile, by Lieut. Boyd Alexander.

Mesopotamia: Past, Present, and Future, by Sir William Willcocks.

Albert Gaudry and the Evolution of the Animal Kingdom, by Ph. Glangeaud.

Charles Darwin, by August Weismann.

Present Problems in Plant Ecology: Problems of Local Distribution in Arid
Regions, by Volney M. Spalding.

The Instinct of Self-concealment and the Choice of Colors in the Crustacea,
by Romuald Minkiewicz.

The Origin and Development of Parasitical Habits in the Cuculide, by C. LL.
Barrett.

Some Remarks on the Protective Resemblance of South African Birds, by
Alwin Haagner.

An Inquiry into the History of the Current English Names of North American
Land Birds, by Spencer Trotter.

Condition of Wild Life in Alaska, by Madison Grant.

Recent Discoveries Bearing on the Antiquity of Man in Europe, by George
Grant MacCurdy.

European Population of the United States, by W. Z. Ripley.

The Republic of Panama and its People, by Eleanor Yorke Bell.

Ceramic Decoration: Its Evolution and Applications, by Louis Franchet.

Some Notes on Roman Architecture, by F. T. Baggallay.

The Relation of Science to Human Life, by Adam Sedgwick.

Intellectual Work among the Blind, by Pierre Villey.

The Relation of Mosquitoes, Flies, Ticks, Fleas, and other Arthropods to
Pathology, by G. Marotel.

Natural Resistance to Infectious Disease and its Reinforcement, by Simon
Flexner.

IV. SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

a

Only one special publication, in the form of a small pamphlet, was issued
during the year:

The Smithsonian Institution, at Washington, for the Increase and Diffusion of
Knowledge among Men.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

There were two special publications nearly ready at the close of the year:

1932. Classified List of Smithsonian Publications available for distribution
May, 1910.

1988. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological Nomen-
elature, Opinions 1 to 25. ;

VY. PUPLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (@) The annual report, form-
ing a separate volume of the report to Congress by the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution; (6) the Proceedings of the United States National
Museum; (c) the Bulletin of the United States National Museum; and (d) the
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium. The editorship of
these publications is in charge of Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

“The publications issued during the year are enumerated in the report on the
National Museum. “These included volume 387 of the Proceedings, containing
Museum papers numbered 1695 to 1724, and volume 388, papers numbered 1725-
1749.

Hight Bulletins were issued, as follows:

No. 65. Dendroid Graptolites of the Niagaran Dolomites at Hamilton, Ontario.
By Ray S. Bassler.

No. 66. A Monographic Revision of the Twisted Winged Insects comprising the
Order Strepsiptera Kirby. By W. Dwight Pierce. &

No. 67. Directions for Collection and Preserving Insects. By Nathan Banks.

No. 68. A Monograph of West American Pyramidellid Mollusks. By William
Healy Dall and Paul Bartsch.

No. 69. The Teenioid Cestodes of North American Birds. By Brayton Howard
Ransom.

No. 70. The National Gallery of Art, Department of Fine Arts of the National
Museum. By Richard Rathbun.

No. 71. A Monograph of the Foraminifera of the North Pacific Ocean. Part J,
Astrorhizidse and Lituolide. By Joseph Augustine Cushman.

No. 72. Catalogue of Nearctic Spiders. By Nathan Banks.

In the series of Contributions from the National Herbarium there appeared:

Volume 12, Part 10. Miscellaneous papers, by J. N. Rose, N. L. Britton, John M.
Coulter, and G. N. Collins.

Volume 13, Part 2. Three New Species of Echeveria, by J. N. Rose and J. A.
Purpus.

Volume 13, Part 8. The Grasses of Alaska, by F. Lamson-Scribner and Elmer D.
Merrill.

Volume 18, Part 4. New or Noteworthy Plants from Colombia and Central
America—2, by Henry Pittier.

Volume 13, Part 5. Relationships of the Ivory Palms, by O. F. Cook.

Volume 14, Part 1. The Lichens of Minnesota, by Bruce Fink.

Preliminary pages and index of volume 12, Systematic Investigations and Bib-
liography.

VI. PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the Bureau are discussed in detail in another appendix
of the Secretary’s report. The editorial work is in charge of Mr. J. G. Gurley.
The following five bulletins were published by the Bureau during the year:
Bulletin 38. Unwritten Literature of Hawaii. The sacred songs of the Hula,

compiled and translated, with notes and an account of the Hula, by Nathaniel

B. Emerson, A. M., M.D. 1909. Octavo. Pages 288, with 24 plates, 3 figures,

and 14 musical pieces.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Bulletin 39. Tlingit Myths and Texts, by John R. Swanton. 1909. Octavo.
Pages VIII, 451.

Bulletin 41. Antiquities of the Mesa Verde National Park: Spruce-Tree House,
by J. Walter Fewkes. 1909. Octavo. Pages VIII, 57, with 21 plates and 387
figures.

Bulletin 48. The Choctaw of Bayou Lacombe, St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana, by
David I. Bushnell, jr. 1909. Octavo. Pages 37, with 22 plates and 1 figure.

Bulletin 49. List of the publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, with
index to authors and titles. 1910. Octavo. Pages 32.

VII. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY,

There were no new publications issued by the Astrophysical Observatory
during the year.
VIII. AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The manuscript of Volumes I and II of the Annual Report of the American
Historical Association for 1907 was sent to the Public Printer on September 10,
1908, and the volumes were published in July, 1909.

Volume I contained the following papers:

Report of the Proceedings of the Twenty-third Annual Meeting of the American
Historical Association, by Charles H. Haskins, corresponding secretary.

Report of the Proceedings of the Pacific Coast Branch, by Clyde A. Duniway.

Report of Conference on the Relation of Geography and History, by Frederick J.
Turner.

Report of Conference on the Work of State and Local Historical Societies, by
Hvarts B. Greene,

Reports on special conferences on Medizval European History, on Modern Huro-
pean History, on Oriental History and Politics, on American Constitutional
History, and on United States History since 1865, by the respective chairmen
of the conferences.

Proposals for an Indian State, 1778-1878, by Annie H. Abel.

The Pacific Railroads and the Disappearance of the Frontier in America, by
Frederic L. Paxson.

The Sentiment of the People of California with Respect to the Civil War, by
John J. Earle.

The Relation of the U. S. to Latin America, by Bernard Moses;

Legazpi and Philippine Colonization, by James A. Robertson;

Report of the Public Archives Commission ;

Francisco de Miranda and the Revolutionizing of Spanish America, by William
S. Robertson.

Volume 2 contained the report of the Historical Manuscripts Commission,
comprising Diplomatic Archives of the Republic of Texas, I, edited by George
P. Garrison.

The manuscript of Volume I of the report for 1908 was sent to the printer
on June 17, 1909, and the manuscript of Volume II was received from the secre-
tary of the association and sent to the Public Printer in April, 1910, but neither
yolume had been completed at the close of the fiscal year.

IX. DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the annual report of the National Society of the Daughters
of the American Revolution for the year ending October 11, 1909, was received
on April 18, 1910, and communicated to Congress in accordance with the act of
incorporation of that society.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

X. SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian advisory
committee on printing and publication. To this committee have been referred
the manuscripts proposed for publication by the various branches of the Institu-
tion as well as those offered for printing in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections. The committee also considered forms of routine blanks and various
matters pertaining to printing and publication, including the qualities of paper
suitable for text and plates. Twenty-five meetings were held and 106 manu-
scripts were acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.
A. HowarpD CLARK, Hditor.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
baba oso hen E
oy ape. aa seek 1 nach ee fi

baie prbit a ah <p 7

mentee

Plier pitty ad Vou pant Gate atone Fines: Biter , thi: aot: om

lt Ae fog SMOF: eek weed, ee th Pee Peltor inns ts bia
Sy Be  vRonle= Marto pea ree ribag an ie
ee cata brett. Ty Tey ky HALOS, PD 2: En Tee i a a
els Drciaicroew ch Tye Pate JS atse eariat § id lato ee i tar. seogitabe Pe:
enti Vth ata, Oy Sending, (Siavhs aq tints fag: TREES oe

pet en ee oo eileen F! taba iba ees Cieot Tiree es

he . “a a AERA aa aetna oh nsots ea a

‘Cae

f ‘sa
a RRR te te Rei ee CREE Big chan TENE St, Ae ny ae
se ; * bes % . - A ° ¥ . : - : . 2 \ iy ;
‘a ane Daa T= Ape oy. © hey Wak ied a2 ate 24 erry yi a ‘Vitel pt
{ ; 4 ’ eae <M
P A ¥ Pade var : | Zt | ay
Bae ee Tepe, aaa Saab are eee aie ND a i Re eee, i i erate! ace us

yn Ae fT Sibu! Wines Ae PATIEN, am hance at 4 ee
ORCS. vd ia olted pas: Pion ial to si Veeeiiy Se
eee er Ne PASI, a cial od re os 20 et wa
a sais a ee ate: eee ae Rtyed a. yay, oe ieee ay Anila: 96 nen a Balt oa i
ace: tr VTS eee Ee Fae eee we tie ca pee Dy Lares ra bce, bi
Vetgen J : ‘ ,

nn ”

Noupay ce este: ane Syhll, Rei, 3, Ris Bik Han ee

ra

NVA Fo a bak cst ii frees: aly My inate Sent <4 gt : = fe
PIG hie OO, SAC NA A ROR
, beta: Se 7, e tt des B Tee: ;
: Aen een: wos The Be neti hy oteltay af hasty

idee es 25 et ae the: ossign ont i oma,
ieee ae Tae chat cia mais a Say SN ae
. Ueno

Bs Pe

See sale: tt} tar a aft — ae
) Marnie ved > Galina EE ai
nike ei? Ve ie. robin Praag
ot oes F cio al ay asad Be fa

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

For THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1910.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following
report in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature for the year ending June 30, 1910, together with balances
of previous appropriations.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1910.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

BSqHIVent Ol SMilb Moony Lea ee tet re At nt Ret Oey eee ve nes $515, 169. 00
Residuacylesiey di Smitsons 1867220200. dee ects 26, 210. 63
Deposit irom savines.ol mcome” 1867. 5. .o22 ss. coos de we = = eo 108, 620. 37
Bequest, of James Hamilton, 1875....2-..2.-22 2.22022. 22-2: $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895............... 1, 009. 00
sa 2, 000. 00
iBequesiol Simeon Habel Vest. isis oe esas es. oo nse cae eee 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881.....................-.+-- 51, 500. 00
Gittor EhomasG- Plodp kis slGi acc tees oe wes oe Seen ee ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894................- 8, 000. 00
Depositadrom. savangs of smcomes 1903.2 79a Pe ER 25, 000. 00
Residuany, lesacy of Thomas G. Hodgking?: 0... sb ee 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury............. 944, 918. 69

91
92 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Company,

part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value)...............--.-- $42, 000. 00
otal permanent Mung =o. 542 soo eee eee eee os See = at 986, 918. 69

Also four small pieces of real estate bequeathed by Robert Stanton Avery, of Wash-
ington, D. C.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United States
bears interest at 6 per cent per annum under the provisions of the
act of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution, and act of Congress
approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore
Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum. The real estate received
from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation and yields only
a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1909, to June 30, 1910.

RECEIPTS.
Wash om deposit July 1 19092 ors. sees ore ee ere eee es eee oe oes lame
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury, due
Jalal: 1909. and January Jy Vols crass pyrgset eek ees. SEE $56, 695. 12
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds to January 1, 1910... ... 1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, etc............---------- 5, 877. 61
Contributions from various sources for specific purposes....-..- - 43, 230. 95
—_—_——— 107, 483. 68
139, 660. 38
DISBURSEMENTS.
paildings:“eare and! Tepaltss s..2s5— cen ee = ee ee eo caine tea $4, 701. 28
Puinadhire and: fxtubes: she he <p ee we ee eee hain reer 420. 75
General expenses:
ISLEY EN 115) «Cae oe rEg, REE OE Per RATE CSOREN FOE Tree Sha aha $14, 125. 86
VIC CHR OE meyer tees ace A Ne eye eae ue Pu Re I 237. 00
“SELL ELTA 1 Pe Rey: et ARN TE aT art NIL dees heap $n 745. 60
Postage, telegraph, and telephone............----...---- 459. 96
REGION) eee ee ee 8 SRE Sea eee SereRace eas 29: 97
Hineidenitalls 9 ceevasn sero oa yatsa con mee Rn Pes reece ye oy ee 1, 066. 93
(GATE Coa esac Oi ars Casi Oe CEOS Cee te eee 1, 899. 75
VeHDKe! Mita UT ial nese Geeta ia Ae en 2 iy ia as Sele tO eee 180. 03
Sh UT TAS 0
EPPI CY gE Tas ope so ps Seth A al te Sipe beh bey Sen Ney a Pi SP a aor Ct 2, 055. 50
Publications and their distribution:
Miscellancotts:collectionssce---— pase sooe ee eee ee 5, 262. 61
IVE OnU eters eis see eA cee eee as a eee eee 544, 07
Sorcial PubUCAWOOR sm. occ. cehecen ee (ae eee 26. 75
nnplication supplied. 2. feo. . alae crea ee ee 214. 50
TSE TTBS ST Sa a a IGN iy BIE ee SP AS 6, 092. 34
———_———_ 12, 140. 27
Hxolorations, researches, and ‘collections. 5.222 2c eee eee aoe ee 54, 004. 03
Hodgkins specific fund, researches and publications..........-----..----- 6, 301. 08
IMbeMn among leh XKCHAN OOS ak i. f So he 2) ee ee ee 4,761. 74

Tepal expenses. oc... 0-22 cece. 5 Gis ye hal dom gg ee ee 100. 00
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 93

Kralleryt obsAnGempe te tes se rete tae cere? eee bs Sto, oe eee $215. 75
Ad vanices'inmieidbempenges: hess. 2 2: {ios l beet 228. aes SRL 850. 00
104, 295. 50

Balance June 30, 1910, deposited with the Treasurer of the United States.. 35, 364. 88
139, 660. 38

By authority, your executive committee again employed Mr.
William L. Yaeger, a public accountant of this city, to audit the
receipts and disbursements of the Smithsonian Institution during the
period covered by this report. The following certificate of examina-
tion supports the foregoing statement, and is hereby approved:

402 Westory Butpina,
Washington, D. C., August 15, 1910.
Executive ComMMITTEE, BoArD oF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution.

Srrs: I have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian Institution
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1910, and certify the following to be a correct state-
ment:

ANG UTA GRELE SS I 0) b= a Ie nee ee aR eg NSC cae ae OS me Ne ey ee eee $107, 483. 68
otal disbursemenitsee © = 2322.5 sce 22 osc e cei + aioe ae ee eRe meee 104, 295. 50
Receipts exceed, disbursements. .22-22 5 cee 5 ht <cw ee ote eetiee 3, 188. 18
OMI COMM ye. WOOO, Seca sa ct ate as eae ee a ee RN 32, 176. 70
ipalanee-on hand June: oO) JOlO.. 68s ore eh. cee ge tar ee Ae a 35, 364. 88
Balance shown by Treasury statement June 30, 1910.................... 39, 016. 94
WMersvemistandine CHOCkBe uy Se UA Nae e ee sto Ce sc chs ante Seon Tae 3, 652. 06
True ibalance:. June:30, 1910 ss2seaz ws Sec sess eats theses eee tee 35, 364. 88

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the year,
each of which bears the approval of the Secretary, or, in his absence, of the Acting
Secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services were applied to the purposes
of the Institution, have been examined in connection with the books of the Institution
and agree with them.

WituiaAmM L. YAEGER,
Public Accountant and Auditor.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of
the Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
secretary.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and other Departments are
reported in detail to Congress, and will be found in the printed
document.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1910, intrusted by Congress to the care
of the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations
94 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

at the beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on
June 30, 1910:

Available
Balance June
after July 1
1909.” 30, 1910.

Appropriations committed by Congress to care of the Institution:
Inpermatonalexchanges, L908 jr. . Ay foe eee ae. See SER See : $1.17 a$1.17
Imberational hxchanges, 1909). .-2 2. eee oe eee ete eee 2, 232.17 .34
iniermanonuale xchances MOT Qse se ye co eae eee nee ae ee eee eee nee Eee 32, 000. 00 5, 506. 23
Americar Nthnolopys LI08Ss.2* Seaee eee ees sate nie ce eee eee eee ase e cee 1.78 a1.78
Amenica ee thnolopy, 190022229. -S>. 489m. tata ee ee seer aeere 1,175. 47 1.15
ATHETICR TE LOMOLO RY, AQLO Mes ace enn cece oe oe semen ee eRe een eer 43, 000. 00 3, 890. 50
IASTTOPHY SICH ODSERVALOIY? NOUS scec 222s none rosa ee yee eee an cee eae 81.19 a81.19
‘Astrophysical Obbsenvatorny:,, LQ0SS Rte Sees 282 EL cee: = onan. sees osseee 1,571.01 314. 50
Asiropliysicali Observatory, 19) 0k ssa- oe eee aeee eae ae eae eee eee eeie 13, 000. 00 699. 01
International Catalogue, 1908: o.- seeps eee; Pee aee ese So 6. 44 a6. 44
International Catalogue, 19094. 4.2 S285 se ae Poe: Scheer oes ne 75.11 2.97
Intemational Catalogue, i910 sae ae ate Pen et cee ere eee 6, 000. 00 212.51
Riainvof CasaiGrande:W9082e 225 5 see on2 5 eee inc seco esceee 7.98 a7. 98
National Museum—
BArniGUreend tiexouTes OOS 55-6 sen ea a eee eee eee ee 30. 98 a 30. 98
Murnitureand fix-hures, W909 2+ - eens ae eee = ae eee eee 22,397.16 66. 61
I}ibonahnbegeirnove Beb.qnbi ge spe ilOh NS at ee ko eer Ae Msc se SMES ene AEC O 200, 000. 00 87, 885. 97
Jee ynuatcarenate bea ey ust MLO) pe ea a crease abode asus sea acee 43. 89 a 43. 80
Heating andiligh ting 909: se sess ea sey ee oem aap actec cen 2, 967. 48 137.16
eating and wdiehtine yl QlOs sce sce. eee ae eo = Seeman eee eer cine, ee 60, 000. 00 14,526. 90
IPTeSeLVe MODONCOMEE MOUS wlGU Ser sate -er sete i eee ete ee ete ee 496. 78 @ 446.17
Preservation oncollections 9092 see eer = geeaeeene ee oe eee ee eae 4,869. 31 322. 30
Preservationot collections 1910 peas sees sone nae ee ea eee sere 250, 000. 00 23, 790. 15
BOOKS 1908 3st cate moc matastek See se oniece eee berm anclk ast eeeeemeee seme 92. 21 258.77
HS OOKSs 1OOD te te ee eee ale Ba ae Rr eRe eos weg Me 1, 083. 34 77.05
BOOKS 1OLO Sete ee aes eek en et saosin 2 Beles uae. Geen peace 2,000. 00 1,302. 08
ROstageiOliOc sere le. SEES Ba Le SS ET Ss Se Se SOOLOO)} EL HSUTE Sets ek
Building repairs 1908 sz tf. os. 9e ae ee ise ees Sek See 5. 83 a5. 83
Building repairs, 1909ssA-e¢ ecto aetee Js eS pee estes he eee 6, 028. 68 26. 62
Building mepains Ol. 4.8 ese pA Ao: oer ges eceyas Mats eee 15, 000. 00 6, 486. 30
en tiOlawOnkShoOps: i908. ese pees meas ements ee em eee Sere - 08 a.08
Rent of warkshops, 900 see cess incinee eee cite eee ee ene aes .09 . 09
Transfer of Greenough statue of Washington.................---...- 409. 74 409. 74
Temporary occupancy of government buildings for tuberculosis con-
PT OSS aren iceicmaie = tle Cae ae Stk ee ee tre Silos eee 15, 678. 92 15, 678.92 -
Moving collections, etc., to new building >........................-.. 4, 000. 00 24.73
National Zooldrical Bark 19084 pe 55. Sere ee ee 11. 41 | @11.18
National Zoological Park 1900s 38: 4225 eS = Sakae Me. oo ee ee 2, 443. 69 13.25
National Zoolopicalve anki) Oia aso ee Nae) ee ane a) ees Dek 95, 000. 00 5,276. 60

a Carried to credit of surplus fund.
b Act of March 4, 1909, immediately available.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 95

Statement of income from the Smithsonian fund and other revenues, accrued and pros-
pective, available during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911.

Balanced Samer se woe). sew nee ss. 4 eee Soe est ses sis Jey eh sl ELE $35, 364. 88
Interest on fund deposited in U. 8. Treasury, due July 1, 1910,
SmOuimmperny Me TON 8 pr S22 ok Fos = salsa eee eis <523 5s $56, 695. 00
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1910, and
JS) EAS OLN Tp Sa oe A 2 2 ae eee ee ke ee ee ae 1, 680. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, rentals, ete... .-- 5, 600. 00
Heposits for'specifie purposes. 2252.0 2525.25.22 At. Sle 8, 000. 00
ee 75-00
Total available for year ending June 30, 1911........-....-.... -.-- 107, 339. 88

Respectfully submitted.
J. B. HENDERSON,

JOHN DALZzELL,
Executive Committee.
WasuineTon, D. C., November 25, 1910. ;
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,
110:

At a meeting of the Board of Regents held February 10, 1909, the
following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution shall
hold their annual meeting on the Tuesday after the second Monday in December,
and another meeting on the second Thursday in February.

In accordance with this resolution the board met at 10 o’clock a. m.
on December 14, 1909, and on February 10, 1910.

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 14, 1909.

Present: Hon. Melville W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United
States (chancellor) in the chair; Hon. James S. Sherman, Vice-Presi-
dent of the United States; Senator Shelby M. Cullom; Senator Henry
Cabot Lodge; Senator Augustus O. Bacon; Representative John
Dalzell; Representative James R. Mann; Dr. James B. Angell;
Dr. Andrew D. White; Dr. Alexander Graham Bell; Mr. Charles F.
Choate, jr., and the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Doctor Bell offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911,
be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the secretary,
with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion on the part of the
secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Doctor Bell presented the report ot the executive committee for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1909, which, on motion, was adopted.

PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

In behalf of the permanent committee Doctor Bell reported con-
cerning the Andrews estate that since the last annual meeting a writ
of error had been allowed by Mr. Justice Peckham, of the Supreme
Court of the United States, to the supreme court of the State of New

96
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 97

York, on the ground that the court of appeals did not give full faith
and credit to the constitution of Ohio, in respect to prohibiting the
general assembly of that State from passing such acts conferring cor-
porate powers. The Supreme Court of the United States decided
against the contention of the Smithsonian counsel, under date of
May 17, 1909.

Doctor Bell also reported that no change had occurred in the con-
ditions existing in connection with the Avery estate and the Sprague
and Reid bequests at the time of the last report.

On motion the report was accepted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary submitted his report for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1909, explaining that it had been transmitted to the members of
the board prior to this meeting.

On motion the report was accepted.

THE LANGLEY MEDAL.

The secretary stated that at the meeting of the board held February
10, 1909, the Langley medal had been awarded to Messrs. Wilbur and
Orville Wright. Notification of this action was transmitted to them
in France through the American ambassador, and the following
acknowledgment was received:

Pau, March 15, 1909.

Dear Sir: We have received through the American ambassador, Mr. White, your
letter of February 18, 1909, informing us of the action of the Board of Regents awarding
to us the Langley medal. The honor of such recognition at the hands of an institution
of such high standing and unique character is one which we naturally appreciate most
highly.

We beg that you will communicate to the board our very sincere thanks and remain,

Yours truly,
WiLBuR WRIGHT.

ORVILLE WRIGHT.
Mr. Cxas. D. Watcortt,

Washington, D. C.

The secretary added that the Wright brothers had accepted an
invitation to be present at the board meeting of February 10, 1910,
and receive these medals in person.

THE LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

The secretary said that at a previous meeting Senator Bacon
suggested that a tablet in memory of Secretary Langley be erected
in a suitable portion of the Smithsonian building, and the board had
requested a report upon the subject.

He presented a report which contained a reppemignd ations that a
committee be appointed with power to select the tablet and assign a

97578°—sm 1910——7
98 PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS,

position for it. On motion, the recommendation was adopted, and
the chancellor appointed as the committee Senator Lodge, Senator
Bacon, and Secretary Walcott.

B STREET MARKET PLACE.

The secretary said: ‘The board adopted a resolution in relation to
the objectionable features incident to the use of B street north of
the National Museum as a market place. The wishes of the board
to have this condition remedied were conveyed to the Board of
Commissioners of the District of Columbia, and I have to report that
they have acted favorably, and that the sidewalk immediately north
of the new building is now free from hucksters, who have been moved
over to the north side of B street in front of the vacant lot known
as “‘Haymarket Square.”

DARWIN CELEBRATION.

The secretary said: “By resolution of the board I attended the
ceremonies in commemoration of the centenary of Charles Darwin’s
birth, which were held at the University of Cambridge from June 22
to 24, when f presented the Institution’s greetings in a formal address.
I was honored by having conferred upon me the title of doctor of
science.”

CHANGE OF DATE FOR ANNUAL MEETING.

The secretary brought up the matter of a suitable date for the
annual meeting, stating that difficulty was experienced in selecting
a day of the week that would be most convenient for all the members
of the board.

After discussion Senator Cullom offered the following resolution,
which was adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution shall
hold their annual meeting on the second Thursday in December and a supplementary
meeting on the second Thursday in February.

THE SECRETARY'S STATEMENT.

Progress on the new building for the National Museum.—The failure
on the part of several contractors to properly fulfill their agreements
has not only greatly delayed the completion of the building, but has
so increased the cost of construction that it has been necessary to
proceed with extreme caution in the effort to keep within the limits
of the appropriation.

The entire exterior of the building has been finished, except the
aying of the main approaches, for which, however, the granite has
been cut and delivered. Of the interior practically all the halls and
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 99

ranges for the exhibition and storage of collections and for the labo-
ratories and workshops are now in use. The moving of the col-
lections was begun last summer, and the occupation of the ground
floor and third story should be completed by the end of the winter.
The fitting up of the two great exhibition floors will require a much
greater length of time, but it is expected that some parts of the
exhibition collections can be made accessible to the public before
the year is ended.

The heating and electrical plant already installed has developed
sufficient capacity to also meet the requirements of the two older
buildings. The economy thus effected will be very appreciable.
Congress failed to supply means for adapting the upper hall of the
Smithsonian building to the purposes of the National Gallery of Art,
and a portion of one of the skylighted halls in the new building will
be temporarily assigned to the paintings.

Art collection.—After discussion Senator Lodge offered the follow-
ing resolutions, which were adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby author-
ize the Secretary of the Institution to issue in their name invitations for a private
view of the paintings of the National Gallery of Art upon the completion of their
temporary installation in the new building for the National Museum.

Resolved, further, That the expenses connected with this reception be charged
against the funds of the Institution.

Mount Whitney and Mount Wilson operations.—Under an allot-
ment from the Hodgkins fund for the building of a stone and steel
hut or shelter on Mount Whitney, California, at an elevation of
14,502 feet, the structure has been completed for the use of scientific
observers who desire to avail themselves of the unusually favorable
atmospheric conditions on that summit. On September 3 Mr. Abbot,
director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, made suc-
cessful observations there for the determination of the solar constant
of radiation. A small cottage has also been erected on Mount
Wilson, close to the Smithsonian observatory shelter on that moun-
tain, to be used as quarters for the observers.

Inauguration of president of Harvard University.—Iin connection
with the inauguration of Dr. Abbott Lawrence Lowell as president
of Harvard University on October 6 I visited Cambridge as the
representative of the Smithsonian Institution and presented its
formal greetings.

International Congress on Hygiene and Demography.—The secretary
stated that the International Congress on Hygiene and Demography
would be held in Washington from September 26 to October 1, 1910,
and he had received a communication from the secretary-general of the
congress, Dr. John S. Fulton, stating that a committee of three had
100 PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS.

been appointed for the purpose of arranging for the housing of the
congress, of which committee the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution had been designated chairman.

This brought up the question of a suitable building for such pur-
poses. There was no place now convenient, and it had become nec-
essary, if the United States Government were to continue inviting
foreign bodies to hold their conventions in Washington, that provi-
sion be made for their reception in suitable quarters of a permanent
character. In accordance with the policy announced in the secre-
tary’s report of June 30, 1907, the Smithsonian Institution was doing
what it could to help in this manner.

Senator Cullom remarked that if the Government were not willing
to provide suitable accommodations for its guests it ought not to
invite them.

Representative Mann agreed with this view and said that the Gov-
ernment was saved from disgrace at the time of the tuberculosis con-
gress only by the fact that the new building for the National Museum
was sufficiently far advanced in construction to permit its use for
meetings and exhibits. He asked if the Government should provide
for the erection of such a building as was being discussed and placed
it under the control of the Smithsonian Institution, would it be possi-
ble to prevent it from being used permanently by the various organi-
zations.

The secretary replied that that would depend entirely upon the
policy of the Board of Regents; that if they decided against such
permanent occupation the secretary would undoubtedly see that
their wishes were regarded.

Death of Dr. Anton Dohrn.—For over sixteen years, as detailed in
the annual reports of the secretary to the board, the Institution has
supported a table at the Naples Zoological Station for the use of
American biologists. ‘The founder and director of the station, Dr.
Anton Dohrn, has extended many courtesies to the Institution in this
connection and has always shown entire sympanthy with the wishes
of the Institution in arranging for the convenience of its appointees.

It has seemed fitting, therefore, to announce to the board the death
of this gentleman, which occurred on September 29 last. At the
request of the Institution the Department of State designated the
American consul at Naples to represent the Institution officially at
the funeral.

[have already communicated the Institution’s sympathy to the son
of Doctor Dohrn, and have received from him a letter announcing his
appointment to succeed his father and his hope to continue the rela-
tions which have existed between the Institution and the station for
so many years.
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 101
SMITHSONIAN AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

The secretary said that he was glad to report that the Smithsonian
African expedition in charge of Colonel Roosevelt was proceeding on
the plan originally adopted, and that it would continue until the expe-
dition reached Khartoum, probably about May, 1910. He said that
funds had been secured from 25 subscribers to the amount of $40,500
and that he expected to obtain about $10,000 more.

The total number of skins of large and small mammals and birds
taken up to December 10, was 6,663. In addition, there were many
skulls and skeletons, and about 2,500 sheets of plants.

Up to the present time four shipments of specimens had been
received from the expedition, numbering over 3,000. The material
yet to come comprised rather more than half of the collections made
to date and included about 6 elephants, 2 Somali giraffes, a complete
group of ostriches (young and eggs, as well as adults), and also many
antelopes and other animals not previously taken.

Inve anvmals for the National Zoological Park.—As a result of the
expedition, Mr. W. N. McMillan, of Juja farm, near Nairobi, had
presented the National Zoological Park with a collection of living
lions and other African animals. <A representative of the park was
sent to Nairobi to receive this gift, and to arrange for the transfer
and care of these valuable animals.

RESEARCH FUNDS FOR THE INSTITUTION.

The secretary stated that he was making earnest efforts to increase
the researth funds of the Institution; that there were various lines of
work which the Government would hardly feel justified in taking up,
but which would come within the scope of the Institution’s activi-
ties, and which it would assume, provided funds could be had for
them.

REGULAR MEETING, FEBRUARY 10, 1910.

Present: Hon. Melville W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United
States (chancellor), in the chair; Hon. James S. Sherman, Vice-Pres-
ident of the United States; Senator Shelby M. Cullom; Senator Henry
Cabot Lodge; Senator Augustus O. Bacon; Representative James R.
Mann; Representative William M. Howard; Hon. George Gray; Hon.
John B. Henderson; Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, and the secretary,
Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

REAPPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The chancellor announced that on December 14, 1909, the Speaker
of the House of Representatives had reappointed Representatives
John Dalzell, James R. Mann, and William M. Howard as Regents.
102 PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS.

He also stated that Hon. John B. Henderson and Dr. Alexander
Graham Bell had been reappointed Regents by joint resolution of
Congress.

LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

The secretary, on behalf of the committee on a memorial tablet
to commemorate the work of Samuel Pierpont Langley in connection
with aeronautical science, reported that the committee recommends
that there be modeled in low relief a tablet along the lines of Saint-
Gauden’s work, cast in bronze, in general rectangular shape, to con-
tain a bas relief of the bust of Mr. Langley, and that the last model of
the Langley aerodrome, in full flight, be suggested in the background;
the tablet to bear the lettering:

SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY
1834-1906

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1887-1906

and to bear also the text of what is known as Langley’s Law as to
relation of speed to power in aerial motion, as follows:

These new experiments (and theory also when viewed in their hght) show that if
in such aerial motion, there be given a plane of fixed size and weight, inclined at such
an angle, and moved forward at such a speed, that it shall be sustained in horizontal
flight, then the more rapid the motion is, the less will be the power required to support
and advance it.

The committee further recommends that the tablet be placed in the
vestibule of the Smithsonian Institution, at the left of the entrance.

A suggestion was made that the tablet also carry the date of the
first successful flight of the Langley model. After discussion, Judge
Gray offered the following resolution which was adopted:

Resolved, That the report of the committee be accepted; that the committee be
increased by the addition of Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, and that the report be
referred back to the committee with power to act, with the request that the tablet

contain an inscription showing the date of the first flight of the Langley aerodrome
model.

SMITHSONIAN AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

The secretary read the following letter:

Narrosi, December 15,°1909.
To the SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Srr: I have to report that the Smithsonian expedition under my charge has now
finished its work in British East Africa and is about to leave for Uganda. The collec-
tions made in British East Africa include:

WEEE AOE ANT RSE os fe aio i ep Re oes eA ee Be ree 550
Mammals emails. "22. RAPER Cad Na A SERA pee a meen em ee ole oa Ul a 3, 379
SSO lhe tea Mi yeh cere eee Sale RDI er ING: eo oh Avo A hetboet fede OF Ls oe 2, 784
Repiles:and batrackianarabout 2 i2.225 2.42." SA eee Oe one eee 1, 500
Présh=watemandimarmne thish Maboute!. 08... eh eee eee 2 ae 250

UN OUMIEVERLEDYAUCRE frit cyan cha cs kbc ot eee era eee ee pen 8, 463
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 1038

In addition the collections include a large number of mollusks and other inverte-
brates, several thousand plants; in the neighborhood of two thousand photos; anthro-
pological maieriais, etc.

Very respectfully, THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

The secretary stated further that the Associated Press dispatches
indicate that the expedition had secured five specimens of the white
rhinoceros, a very rare animal. This had been accomplished through
the concession of the King of Uganda who had given permission for
the party to hunt in his domain. The collections included many
duplicates which would be useful for comparative study.

SECRETARY'S STATEMENT.

National Museum.—The secretary stated that it was hoped to
open a portion of the new building to the public by March 1, but that
the opening of the entire building would probably not take place
until the close of the year. The question of opening the Museum
at night and on Sundays was discussed, and after a full interchange
of views, the Vice-President offered the following resolution, which
was adopted:

Resolved, That the secretary be authorized and directed to prepare proper regula-
tions for the opening, on Sundays, for a period not longer than five hours, of such
portions of the National Museum as he may deem expedient, provided that the appro-
priations for the maintenance of the Museum will permit.

George Washington memorial building.—The secretary spoke of the
proposed movement of the George Washington Memorial Association
to erect in Washington a memorial building, which would be used
as a center for the scientific, literary, and other educational associa-
tions. He mentioned the meeting to be held in this connection at
the Hall of the Daughters of the American Revolution on February
19, and said that among the speakers would be President Taft,
Senator Lodge, and Senator Burton.

The secretary said that his purpose in bringing the matter before
the board was merely to show that there was a prospect of securing
such a building as would afford a much needed relief to the present
crowded condition of the Smithsonian building, brought about in
part by the accommodations which the Institution had offered to the
National Academy of Sciences, the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, the American Historical Association, and
others.

The secretary added that there was great need of a butlding of the
kind referred to; for instance, at the International Congress on
Hygiene and Demography there would be 3,000 persons, and it would
be necessary to scatter them through possibly eight or ten buildings.
In answer to an inquiry, he said that the George Washington memorial
building would be erected by popular subscription, and that it
would be entirely independent of the Gecrge Washington University.
104 PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS.

Death of Ferdinand V. Berry.—The secretary announced with regret
the death, on January 27, 1910, of Mr. Ferdinand V. Berry, chief
clerk of the International Exchanges of the Institution. Mr. Berry
entered the service of the Institution in January, 1884, as a clerk,
and was advanced from grade to grade to the position he held at the
time of his death. He was a capable and valuable employee.

Oldroyd collection.—The secretary said that at various times bills
had been introduced in Congress providing for the purchase of what
was known as ‘‘The Oldroyd collection of Lincoln relics,’”’ now located
in the building No. 516 Tenth street, NW., the house in which
Lincoln died; his object in bringing the matter before the board was
to call attention to the proposal to organize what might be described
as a ‘‘ National”? museum for this collection; he thought that the estab-
lishment of such independent ‘‘National’”’ museums should be
discouraged by the board which had under its charge the legal
National Museum; he was not asking for any definite action as he
thought that his object could very well be accomplished if he could
enlist the interest of the congressional Regents when matters of this
kind were brought before Congress.

Andrews will case.—Senator Henderson said that he had requested
Mr. Frank W. Hackett to make a personal statement to the board
in relation to the present condition of the Andrews will case, par-
ticularly with regard to a proposed action for testing the validity of
the Andrews bequest in Ohio.

Mr. Hackett submitted his statement, and, after discussion, the
Vice-President offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That in view of the statement made by Mr. Frank W. Hackett to the Board

of Regents, the entire matter of the Andrews will case be referred back to the executive
committee with full power to act.

PRESENTATION OF LANGLEY MEDAL TO MESSRS. WILBUR AND ORVILLE
WRIGHT.

The chancellor said that the next business before the meeting was
the presentation of the Langley medals to the Wright brothers.
Accordingly, these gentlemen were escorted to the Regents room
and introduced to the board.

HISTORICAL ADDRESS BY DR. ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL.

Doctor Bell said:

Mr. Chancellor, the award of the Langley medal to the Brothers
Wilbur and Orville Wright emphasizes the fact that we are living in
an age of great achievements.

The twentieth century had hardly dawned when the world was
startled by the discovery of radium, which has opened up an entirely
“IOS ASTONV] BHL

"| aLvid

"spUadey JO SdUIPs8D014—'Q 16 ‘HWodey ue|UOSYyIWS
/
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 105

new field to science, and which has led us to modify profoundly our
conceptions regarding the constitution of matter.

Another new field has been revealed to us through the development
of wireless telegraphy and telephony; and we now utilize the vibra-
tions of the etherial medium of space for the transmission of thought.

Then again we may note the most revolutionary changes going on
before our eyes relating to methods of transportation.

The appearance of the hydroplane boat probably foreshadows a
revolution in marine architecture and propulsion. On land we see
motor cycles, automobiles, and electric cars displacing the horse.
Petroleum and electricity have become powerful rivals of steam, and
we seem to be on the eve of a revolution in our methods of railroad
transportation, through the application of the gyroscope to a monorail
system. And now aerial transport has come, dispensing with rails
and roads altogether. The air itself has become a highway, and
dirigible balloons and flying machines are now realities.

How well the predictions of Langley have been fulfilled. We now
recognize that he was right when he said a few years ago (1897) that—

The world indeed will be supine if it does not realize that a new possibility has come
to it and that the great universal highway overhead is now soon to be opened.

It has been opened, and who can foretell the consequences to man?

One thing is certain: That the physical obstacles to travel have
been overcome, and that there is no place on the surface of the globe
that is inaccessible to civilized man, through the air.

Does this not point to the spread of civilization all over the world
and the bringing of light to the dark continents of the earth?

THE PIONEERS OF AERIAL FLIGHT.

Who are responsible for the great developments in aerodromics of
the last few years? Not simply the men of the present, but also the
men of the past.

To one man especially is honor due: Our own Dr. S. P. Langley, late
Sesretary of the Smithsonian Institution. When we trace backward
the course of history we come unfailingly to him as the great pioneer
of aerial flight.

We have honored his name by the establishment of the Langley
medal; and it may not be out of place on this, the first occasion for
the presentation of the medal, to say a few words concerning Langley’s

work.
LANGLEY’S WORK.

Langley devoted his attention to aerodromics at a time when the
idea of a flying machine was a subject for ridicule and scorn. It was
as much as a man’s reputation was worth to be known to be at work
upon the subject. He bravely faced the issue, and gave to the
world his celebrated memoir entitled ‘‘ Experimentsin Aerodynamics.”
106 PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS.

In this work he laid the foundations for a science and art of aero-
dromics, and raised the whole subject of aerial flicht to a scientific
plane.

The knowledge that this eminent man of science believed in the
practicability of human flight gave a great stimulus to the activities
of others and started the modern movement in favor of aviation that -
is such a marked feature of to-day.

Everyone now recognizes the influence exerted by Langley on the
development of this art. The Wright brothers, too, have laid their
tribute at his feet.

“The knowledge,” they say, ‘‘that the head of the most prominent
scientific institution of America believed in the possibility of human
flight wasone of the influences that led us to undertake the preliminary
investigations that preceded our active work. [He recommended to
us the books which enabled us to form sane ideas at the outset. It
was a helping hand at a critical time, and we shall always be grateful.”’

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SCIENCE OF AERODROMICS.

Langley’s experiments in aerodynamics gave to physicists, perhaps
for the first time, firm ground on which to stand as to the long dis-
puted questions of air resistances and reactions. Chanute says:

(a) They established a more reliable coefficient for rectangular pressures than that
of Smeaton.

(b) They proved that upon inclined planes the air pressures were really normal to
the surface.

(c) They disproved the ‘‘Newtonian law’’ that the normal pressure varied as the
square of the angle of incidence on inclined planes.

(d) They showed that the empirical formula of Duchemin, proposed in 1836 and
ignored for fifty years, was approximately correct.

(e) That the position of the center of pressure varied with the angle of inclination, -
and that on planes its movements approximately followed the law formulated by
Jéessel.

(f) That oblong planes, presented with their longest dimension to the line of motion,
were more effective for support than when presented with their narrower side.

(g) That planes might be superposed without loss of supporting power if spaced
apart certain distances which varied with the speed.

(hk) That thin planes consumed less power for support at high speeds than at low
speeds.

The paradoxical result obtained by Langley that it takes less power
to support a plane at high speed than at low, opens up enormous pos-
sibilities for the aerodrome of the future. It results, as Chanute has
pointed out, from the fact that the higher the speed, the less need be
the angle of inclination to sustain a given weight, and the less there-
fore the horizontal component of the air pressure.

It is true only, however, of the plane itself, and not of the struts
and framework that go to make up the rest of a flying machine. In
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 10?

order, therefore, to take full advantage of Langley’s law, those por-
tions of the machine that offer head resistance alone without con-
tributing anything to the support of the machine in the air, should
be reduced to a minimum.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ART OF AERODROMICS.

After laying the foundations of a science of aerodromics, Langley
proceeded to reduce his theories to practice.

Between 1891 and 1895 he built four aerodrome models—one driven
by carbonic acid gas, and three by steam engines.

On the 6th of May, 1896, his Aerodrome No. 5 was tried upon the
Potomac River near Quantico. I was myself a witness of this cele-
brated experiment, and secured photographs of the machine in the
air, which have been widely published.¢

This aerodrome carried a steam engine and had a spread of wing
of from 12 to 14 feet. It was shot into the air from the top of a
house boat anchored in a quiet bay near Quantico.

It made a beautiful flight of about 3,000 feet, considerably over
half a mile. It was indeed @ most inspiring spectacle to see a steam
engine in the air flying with wings like a bird. The equilibrium
seemed to be perfect, although no man was on board to control and
guide the machine.

I witnessed two flights of this aerodrome on the same day and
came to the conclusion that the possibility of aerial flight by heavier-
than-air machines had been fully demonstrated. The world took the
same view and the progress of practical aerodromics was immensely
stimulated by the experiments.

Langley afterwards constructed a number of other aerodrome
models which were flown with equal success, and he then felt that he
had brought his researches to a conclusion, and desired to leave to
others the task of bringing the experiments to the man-carrying stage.

Later, however, encouraged by the appreciation of the War Depart-
ment, which recognized in the Langley aerodrome a possible new
engine of war, and stimulated by an allotment of $50,000 from the
Department, he constructed a full-sized aerodrome to carry a man.

Two attempts were made, with Mr. Charles M. Manly on board as
aviator, to shoot the machine into the air from the top of a house
boat, but on each occasion the machine caught on the launching
ways and was precipitated into the water.

The public, not knowing the nature of the defect which prevented
the aerodrome from taking the air, received the impression that the
machine itself was a failure and could not fly.

@ A photograph of this flight was here shown.
108 PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS.

This conclusion was not warranted by the facts; and to me and to
others who have examined the apparatus, it seems to be a perfectly
good flying machine—excellently constructed and the fruit of years
of labor. It was simply never launched into the air, and so has never
had the opportunity of showing what it could do. Who can say
what a third trial might have demonstrated? The general ridicule,
however, with which the first two failures were received prevented
any further allotment of money to give it another trial.

CONCLUSION.

Langley never recovered from his disappointment. He was humil-
iated by the ridicule with which his efforts had been received, and
had, shortly afterwards, a stroke of paralysis. Within a few months
a second stroke came and deprived him of life.

He had some consolation, however, at the end. Upon his death-
bed he received the resolution of the newly formed ‘‘ Aero Club of
America,’ conveying the sympathy of the members and their high
appreciation of his work.

Langley’s faith never wavered, but he never saw a man-carrying
aerodrome in the air.

His greatest achievements in practical aerodromics consisted in the
successful construction of power-driven models which actually flew.
With their construction he thought that he had finished his work;
and, in 1901, in announcing the supposed conclusion of his labors he
sald:

I have brought to a close the portion of the work which seemed to be specially
mine—the demonstration of the practicability of mechanical flight—and for the next
stage, which is the commercial and practical development of the idea, it is probable
that the world may look to others.

He was right, and the others have appeared. The aerodrome has ~
reached the commercial and practical stage; and chief among those
who are developing this field are the brothers Wilbur and Orville
Wright. They are eminently deserving of the highest honor from
us for their great achievements.

I wish to express my admiration for their work and believe that
they have justly merited the award of the Langley medal by their
magnificent demonstrations of mechanical flight.

PRESENTATION ADDRESS BY SENATOR HENRY CABOT LODGE.

Senator Lodge said:

Mr. Chancellor, founded for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men, the Smithsonian Institution has always considered that
one way in which it could most appropriately fulfill the purposes of
its founder was by the recognition of great achievements in science.
PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 109

Identified with the science of aerodromics through the work of its
eminent secretary, Doctor Langley, it has had a peculiar interest in
what has been done in that field.

We have just heard of the results achieved by Professor Langley,
and I think it is not too much to say that his life in a measure was
sacrificed to the work which he did in the establishment of the scien-
tific principles of aerial flight, to which he gave so much of his life
work and for which recognition is now given throughout the entire
world. Nothing, therefore, could have given Mr. Langley more
pleasure than to recognize the men who have successfully demon-
strated the soundness of his principles by their application to actual
flight in machines heavier than the air. I repeat that nothing could
be more appropriate than that such a demonstration should receive
the recognition of the Smithsonian Institution. We are glad to do
this in the case of the Wright brothers, not only on account of their
courage, their energy, and the ability they have shown, but also
because we feel, I think I may say, a not unreasonable pride in the
fact that they are Americans. It is peculiarly characteristic of
Americans to be pioneers; pioneers across the great continent on
which we live; pioneers by sea, and now pioneers by air; and to
Wilbur and Orville Wright, pioneers of what Doctor Langley calls
‘‘the great universal highway overhead,” who by their achievements
have added honor to the American name and nation, we now present
the first Langley medal that the Institution has conferred.

REMARKS BY WILBUR WRIGHT.

The chancellor then presented the medals to Messrs. Wilbur and
Orville Wright, saying that it gave him particular pleasure to do so.

Mr. Wilbur Wright addressed the board as follows:

Mr. Chancellor, at different times my brother and myself have re-
ceived recognition for the work which we have attempted to do in the
line of aerial research, but in no instance has such recognition given
us greater pleasure than that which we now receive from the Smith-
sonian Institution. This is particularly the case because the Insti-
tution, through the studies and work of Professor Langley, has always
taken especial interest in scientific research in matters relating to the
physical properties of the air, and this interest has extended to prac-
tical attempts to fly. We are very much gratified, therefore, that the
Institution has thought our work worthy of this honor, for which we
desire to express our sincere thanks. A subject of research which
has not yet been completed, and one to which Doctor Bell has called
attention in the work of Professor Langley, is the coefficient of air
pressure; that is, the pressure of wind at a certain speed on a plane
of a certain size. A great many investigations have been made by
110 PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS.

Professor Langley, and other people have also experimented in this
art, but for the most part the results have not yet been brought into
shape to be presented to the public. Our own work in this particular
investigation we have been obliged to set aside for a while on account
of the press of business matters, but it is our intention, as soon as these
business details are arranged, to take it up again and present the
results to the world. There is a great deal of work to do in this line,
and a great many other researches to be taken up, which will keep a
large number of investigators busy for a lifetime, and I venture to
express the hope that the Smithsonian Institution will continue to
encourage the labors of those engaged in these fields.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1910

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the Grnerat Appenprix to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents a the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and _
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and dis-
cussion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1910.

112
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Walcott. PEATE e

MELVILLE WESTON FULLER. 1833-1910.

Chancellor of Smithsonian Institution, 1889-1910.
MELVILLE WESTON FULLER—1833-1910.

[With 1 plate.]

By CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Melville Weston Fuller, doctor of laws, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution, was born at Au-
gusta, Me., February 11, 1833, and died at his summer home, Sorrento,
Me., on the morning of July 4, 1910. He became a statutory member
of the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution, and also a mem-
ber of the Board of Regents on October 8, 1888, by virtue of his
appointment as the Chief Justice of the United States. He was
elected chancellor of the Institution by the Board of Regents at its
annual meeting January 9, 1889.

The chancellors who preceded Chief Justice Fuller were: Vice
President George Mifflin Dallas, 1846-1849; Vice President Millard
Fillmore, 1849-1850; Chief Justice Roger Brooke Taney, 1850-1864;
Chief Justice Samuel Portland Chase, 1864-1873; and Chief Justice
Morrison Remick Waite, 1874-1888.

For 22 years, until his death in 1910, Chief Justice Fuller was most
deeply interested in the general welfare of the Institution. He pre-
sided over the meetings of the Board of Regents most wisely and
judiciously. With one exception, there was not a meeting of the
regents during that entire period when he failed to be present.

The Regents of the Institution expressed their sorrow in the fol-
lowing words of tribute to his memory, adopted at the annual meet-
ing of the board on December 8, 1910:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have
received the sad intelligence of the death, on July 4, 1910, of Melville
Weston Fuller, Chief Justice of the United States, and for twenty-
two years chancellor of the Institution; therefore be it

Resolved, That we desire here to record our profound sorrow at the

severing of the tie that has bound us to him for so long a period of
honored service ; that we feel keenly the loss of a wise presiding officer,

97578°—sm 1910——-8 113
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

whose vast store of learning and gracious dignity have proved so in-
valuable in the deliberations of this board, and whose loyal interest
in the Smithsonian Institution has been a source of inspiration to his
colleagues.

Resolved, That we share in the grief of the nation at the passing
away of one who was at once a distinguished leader of the greatest
legal tribunal of our land, an eminent jurist, a patriotic citizen, a
shining example of Christian gentleness, and who also possessed so
charming a personality as a man and as a friend.

Resolved, That we respectfully tender to the members of the family
of our late. associate, our sincerest sympathy in their great bereave-
ment.

Resolved, That an engrossed copy of these resolutions be trans-
mitted to the family of the late chancellor.

An adequate review of the life of that eminent jurist would re-
quire more space than can be devoted to the subject in the present
report of the board to Congress. Numerous eulogies in his memory
have been delivered by members of the bar of the Supreme Court
and by jurists throughout the land. It is fitting that selections from
some of these tributes should here be recorded.

At a meeting of the bar of the Supreme Court and of its officers on
December 10, 1910, Mr. Richard Olney, chairman of the meeting, and
formerly an associate of Chief Justice Fuller on the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution said :1

“Gentlemen of the bar: The death of the Chief Justice of the
United States is an event of the first importance. Undoubtedly it
does not impress the general public as does the demise of a President
in office. It does not elicit the same manifestations of general sor-
row, it is not marked by the same profusion of funeral pageantry
and funeral oratory. It is nevertheless an occurrence of much
greater moment by reason both of the longer tenure of the Chief
Justice’s office and of the unique character of its functions. No
single Presidency, probably no number of Presidencies combined,
has ever influenced the destinies of this country so vitally and so
largely as did the single Chief Justiceship of John Marshall. In
adding Melville W. Fuller to the roll of the country’s Chief Justices,
therefore, one of our great Presidents exercised his highest preroga-
tive and performed the act of his official life most far-reaching and
enduring in its consequences. That President Cleveland’s choice
was fortunate has long been generally conceded. It put at the head
of the national judiciary a well-educated scholar and a well-trained
lawyer; a man who had won distinction at the bar on his merits and
by his own efforts; who was not the lawyer of but one client or in but
one field, but was expert in all varieties of professional work; who,

1The extracts herein are from ‘“ Proceedings of the bar and officers of the Supreme
Court of the United States in memory of Melville Weston Fuller, December 10, 1910.’
Washington: 1911, pp. 1-108.
MELVILLE WESTON FULLER—WALCOTT. 115

starting in the extreme northeastern corner of the Union where
he indulged himself in such various activities as being president of
the city council, city solicitor, and newspaper editor, soon took
Horace Greeley’s advice to young men, and three years after his
admission to the bar established himself in the metropolis of the
West; who from the beginning and as long as he remained at the
bar took the good citizen’s interest in politics, and thus put himself
in touch with the currents of popular thought and sentiment; and
who from the outset of his career was in thorough sympathy with
the democratic principles which underlie our political institutions.
Once inducted into his great office, he from the beginning acquitted
himself so judiciously and ably and yet so modestly as both to increase
the esteem of friends and to forestall the cavils of would-be critics.
The limits of this occasion do not permit any adequate analysis of
his merits as a judge or any satisfactory estimate of those labors on
the Supreme Bench which occupied nearly 23 years of his life and
are only partially shown in over 90 volumes of United States Su-
preme Court Reports. It is, however, only just and proper to say
that, large and novel and momentous in their aspects and conse-
quences as are many of the legal issues constantly presented to the
Supreme Court of the United States, Chief Justice Fuller never
failed to rise to the height of the occasion, and, whether as one of
a minority or a majority of the court, to worthily deal with them.
Many of his opinions are models of lucid statement, of exhaustive
research, of close and conclusive reasoning. * * *

“Besides doing his share of the legal work of the Supreme Court,
the Chief Justice is its executive and presiding officer. His qualities
in both capacities have always received unstinted commendation.
He was anxious to keep the docket moving, to prevent any conges-
tion of the business of the court, and to avoid all delays in the dis-
position of causes not absolutely essential to the due administration
of justice. That he accomplished those purposes with great success
was due largely to his native tact and his invariable good temper.
Over the public deliberations of the court he presided with a dignity
and grace all his own. He was a patient and attentive listener and
was content that counsel should have full opportunity to develop
his. case in his own way without interruption. He was specially
considerate of the debutant, whether young or old, and many a
first appearance at the bar of the court at Washington has been saved
from wreck by the encouraging nod and smile of the Chief Justice.
For those of us to whom the zest of life is largely in memories, few
things can be more gratefully recalled than the spectacle of the
Chief Justice sitting with his colleagues to listen to the opening of
some newcomer, and by every word and tone and gesture expressing
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

the assurance that, whether his case or his presentation of it was
good, bad, or indifferent, he had a well-wisher at the head of the
court. It must not be understood that these occasions elicited any-
thing unusual or exceptional in the bearing of the Chief Justice.
On the contrary, the same considerate and gracious demeanor marked
his entire administration of his duties as chief of his court. No one
was snubbed, no one left the court with a right to feel that for some
occult reason he was not persona grata. During his Chief Justice-
ship the court at Washington has been universally acclaimed as the
most agreeable tribunal in the country to appear before. Members
of the bar found there a forum in which the height of dignity was
combined with the height of simplicity, in which ceremony did not
degenerate into fussiness, and in which form was not exalted over
substance. All can not fail to miss the central figure, in whom perfect
kindliness of manner was joined to equal inflexibility in all essentials.
They who knew him more intimately, and as the man as well as the
magistrate, can not but grieve for the passing of a friend and comrade
whose unique and personal charm mere words are inadequate to ex-
press. Fortunate in his life and in the opportunities of a great career
clearly apprehended and worthily utilized, the Chief Justice was
also fortunate in the circumstances of his death, which found him
still in harness and still charged with the responsibilities of his
great office. ‘ When,’ says Lord Bacon, ‘a man hath obtained worthy
ends and expectations, the sweetest canticle is “ Vune Dimittis.”’”

At the meeting referred to above the following resolutions were
adopted :

Resolved, That the members of the bar of the Supreme Court
desire to express their profound regret at the death of Melville
Weston Fuller, eighth Chief Justice of the United States, and to
record their high appreciation of his life and character and of his
conspicuous and faithful service to his country.

Born in the State of Maine, he went to Chicago at the age of 23,
when that great city was in its infancy, and there entered upon his
long and distinguished professional career, which culminated in his
elevation to the most exalted judicial station in our Government.

He secured the advantages of an academic and classical education
at Bowdoin College, and always retained the habits and tastes of the
student and scholar.

He was a man of the most extensive and varied reading in the pro-
tession, in governmental and political discussion and in general
literature.

He rapidly achieved a commanding position at the then exception-
ally brilliant bar of the city of his adoption, and for 32 years carried
on an extended and diversified practice in the courts of his State; nor
did he infrequently appear before the great tribunal over which he
afterwards, and for 22 years, presided with such marked ability and
distinction.

He was a man of singular beauty and purity of character.
MELVILLE WESTON FULLER—WALCOTT. ERT

While he was at the bar no one harbored a suspicion that the
exigency of forensic controversy, in which he was almost constantly
engaged, could ever tempt him to aught that was unfair or unworthy
of the highest ideals of a noble and honorable profession.

As Chief Justice, it is enough to say that with conspicuous fidelity
he fully and consistently maintained the best traditions of that high
office. He took a deep interest in the efforts to secure peace between
nations by international arbitration, and was appointed by our
Government to membership in the permanent court established in
1899 by the first peace conference, and served in that capacity.

His character was marked by a gentle courtesy and consideration
which constantly illuminated and attended upon the discharge of his
important public duties, always marked his relations with the bar,
and earned that popular confidence which goes out to him whom the
people believe to be a merciful and considerate, as well as a just and
impartial judge.

All this he was; and, endowed by nature with talents not inferior
to those of his predecessors, possessed of attainments, training, and
experience adequate to the exacting requirements of his great office,
he filled it at all times in such a manner as to command the admira-
tion and respect of the bar and the grateful appreciation of his
countrymen.

On the morning of July 4 last, at his beautiful summer home, on
the soil of the State in which he was born, and to which he remained
always deeply attached, his long, useful, and honorable life ended;
and when the sad announcement was made, we who had practiced in
the great tribunal where he so long presided felt a deep sense of
personal loss and personal bereavement that he had gone from us
forever.

Resolved, also, That the Attorney General be asked to present these
resolutions to the court and to request that they be inscribed upon
its permanent records.

And that the chairman of this meeting be requested to transmit a
copy of the resolutions to the family of the late Chief Justice and an
expression of our sincere sympathy with them in the great and
irreparable loss which they have sustained.

In seconding the resolutions Mr. Lee S. Overman said:

“The people of this country, Mr. Chairman, have the greatest re-
spect for the law for its own sake, and there is no country in the
world which honors and respects its great expounders and adminis-
trators more than does ours; and the reputation of a great and
upright judge is one of the greatest inheritances of a free and happy
people. Our country has been blessed with a Supreme Court whose
able, just, and upright justices have added to her history a crown
of glory and been to the Republic and its people a shield of pro-
tection.

“ With untiring labor, with a broad grasp of the principles which
underlie the structure of our Government, in the light of their genius
they have traced back the principles of the law to their fountain
springs, and then, running them forward to their logical conclusion,
with their expansiveness and flexibility, they have so applied them to
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

the great problems arising continually under new conditions inci-
dent to our progress and higher civilization that our republican in-
stitutions and the affairs of the people have not suffered.

“Chief Justice Fuller was among the greatest of these great and
illustrious lawyers and judges, and it is therefore most fitting that
we should do honor to his memory and hold these appropriate exer-
cises. By so doing we not only honor him, but we foster that spirit
which always exists among a free people, and which tends to con-
serve our highest ideals and uphold our free institutions. Great men
make great history, and love, veneration, and respect for them make
a great people.

“The great Italian poet, speaking of the mighty presence which
he met in that mystic realm of departed spirits, paid a great tribute
to him when he said, ‘ His was a life so round and full that when
it rolled out of time into eternity the world knew not how great
a void was left until a generation has passed away.’ This thought
is applicable to him whom we meet to honor to-day.

“ He was not a young man, dying in the fullness of his strength and
power with unfilled possibilities. This is no place for sorrow. This
man died after a full, well-rounded, completed life. He died when
age was ripe, with the harness of his great official position yet upon
him, and after maintaining the best traditions of his great office and
of a great lawyer. Crowned with honor, ripe with age, respected
by a great people, he leaned his white head beneath the soft touch
of death—a death befitting such a life.

“*Why weep ye, then, for him, who, having run
The bounds of man’s appointed years, at last,

Life’s blessings all enjoyed, life’s labor done,
Serenely to his final rest has passed?’ ”

Mr. Charles E. Littlefield, on the same occasion, said:

«* * * He came from a family of able preachers and lawyers.
With Mr. Chief Justice Shaw, of Massachusetts, one of the greatest
justices that ever sat on the Massachusetts bench, he had a common
ancestor in Rev. Habijah Weld, called in his time ‘a perfect
Boanerges in the pulpit.” Rev. Habijah Weld was the fourth in a
succession of four generations of preachers. Mr. Fuller’s paternal
and maternal grandfathers were both lawyers of note. Hon. Nathan
Weston, his mother’s father, was one of the first associate justices of
the Maine supreme court and its chief justice for seven years, and
a lawyer and judge of unusual ability. His father and mother each
had a brother who was a lawyer. He graduated from Bowdoin Col-
lege when 20 years of age, destined to become one of the most dis-
tinguished of an alumni which has a larger percentage of men of
eminence and note than that of any other educational institution in
the country. He had by inheritance an aptitude for the law. Ad-
MELVILLE WESTON FULLER—WALCOTT. 119

mitted to the bar in Maine, desiring a wider field, in 1856 he went to
Chicago, where, with gratifying success, he practiced his profession,
attaining a high rank, until his appointment as Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States, April 30, 1888. His practice
was general, varied, and extensive, involving much important litiga-
tion. With great abilities, a ripe classical scholar, learned and pro-
found in the law, diligent, industrious, conscientious, courageous,
and patriotic, of the highest personal character, he brought to the
discharge of the duties of the great office the abilities, qualities, and
characteristics that enabled him to achieve his signal suecess. The
dignity, urbanity, kindness, consideration, and gentle courtesy with
which he presided over the deliberations of the Supreme Court of the
United States endeared him not only to his associates on the bench
but won for him the love and respect of a great profession. Of him
it could be truthfully said, ‘And they shall judge the people with
justqudement:, )* 6*.°%.7)?

Mr. George E. Price said:

* * * “No other court in the world is intrusted with such
powers as this court. It deals not only with great questions of
controversy arising between individual citizens of different States
and between citizens of foreign countries and our own people, but
to it is intrusted the ultimate interpretation of the laws and Consti-
tution of the United States, with power to declare null and void not
only acts of the legislatures of the different States, so far as they
come in conflict with the Federal Constitution, but also the acts of
Congress, the highest lawmaking power of the Federal Government.
In addition tothese great powers, this court is also given jurisdiction
to settle controversies between the sovereign States of this Union,
and in the past it has been called upon to settle controversies which
involved the very autonomy of the States concerned, the integrity of
their territory and their governmental jurisdiction and power. It
is the first great instance of what is in effect modern international
arbitration. In the settlement of these controversies between the
States this court has no statute law to govern it and seldom any
provision of any written constitution, but it is obliged to invoke and
apply the eternal principles of an elevated and perfect justice, un-
fettered by technical subtleties and petty forms, the same funda-
mental doctrines of international law, which by the common consent
of mankind are the basis of the intercourse of the civilized world.
To its great credit it can be said that in these controversies between
the States its judgments have always been acquiesced in and nioel se
and carried out without question.

“Such are the powers of this great court over which the late
Chief Justice presided for nearly a quarter of a century. To-day we,
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

the members of the bar of this court, are assembled to pay tribute
to his memory, and all of us here assembled, as well as other mem-
bers of the bar of this court from all sections of the country, those
who have taken part in the great contests before it on the one side
or the other, those whose interests or the interests of whose clients
have been affected by its judgments, with one accord declare and
bear testimony that he discharged the great duties of his position
with becoming dignity, uniform courtesy, with signal ability and
unquestioned fidelity and integrity; discharged these duties in such
manner as to reflect great credit not only upon himself but upon
the court and the Nation at large. Speaking for myself and, in some
measure, for the bar of the State of West Virginia, I am here to
unite with the other members in paying this just tribute to the mem-
ory of the late Chief Justice; and, having said this, there seems to
be nothing more to say. I know of no way to pay greater honor to
the memory of any man.

“Chief Justice Fuller met the responsibilities arising out of the
great questions presented to this court in his day, and this is all
that can be said of his predecessors in this great office. Marshall
exercised a great influence in deciding the questions that arose dur-
ing the constructive period of our Government. They were far-
reaching questions, and the influence of his decisions is felt in the
administration of the Government to this day. Chief Justice Taney,
his successor, was confronted with the burning questions that arose
in the great controversies preceding and during our terrible Civil
War. Chase and Waite dealt with the important questions which
arose out of the war—the reconstruction period, requiring the read-
justment of many things which had been considered settled; the
readjustment of the relations between the two sections which had been
at war with each other, and the interpretation of the amendments
to the Constitution which grew out of the war. And Chief Justice
Fuller has been obliged to grapple with the great questions arising
out of the stupendous industrial development which has taken place
in the last quarter of a century—questions of interstate commerce
and transportation, questions of great trusts and combinations of
capital, questions of the mutual rights of capital and labor, questions
relating to the regulation of railroads, besides the perplexing ques-
tions arising out of the development of this Nation into a world
power since the Spanish War, involving our relations to our colonies
acquired by reason of that war. No one can say that these questions
are of any less importance than those which arose in any former
period of the Government. He and his associates on this bench have
met and disposed of many of these questions as they have arisen in
such manner as to command the respect of the whole country and
MELVILLE WESTON FULLER—WALCOTT. 121

to escape serious criticism. This is just what Marshall, Taney,
Chase, and Waite, and their associates did with the great questions
of their days; and so Chief Justice Fuller will stand forth in history
as a worthy successor of the great Chief Justices who preceded him.

“ The labors of the judge are along lines that make for peace—for
the security of life, liberty, and property. It is his work to settle, in
a peaceable manner, controversies that would otherwise result in the
triumph of fraud, violence, and oppression and lead to war. The
judge is essentially a peacemaker, and when we reflect that Chief
Justice Fuller devoted 22 years of his life to this work may we not
with propriety apply to him the beautiful beatitude which fell from
the lips of Him who is the Judge of all the earth, in His sermon on
the mount: ‘ Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the
children of God’ ?”

The Supreme Court, on January 9, 1911, adopted resolutions
identical with those adopted by the bar of that court on December 10,
1910. On that occasion the Attorney General of the United States,
Mr. Wickersham, in presenting the resolutions, reviewed the more
important decisions of the court under Chief Justice Fuller, and in
conclusion said:

“ * * * The Talmud compares the study of the law to a
huge heap of dust that is to be cleared away. ‘The foolish man says,
“It is impossible that I should be able to remove this immense heap.
I will not attempt it.” But the wise man says, “ I will remove a little
to-day, some more to-morrow, and more the day after, and thus in
time I shall have removed it all.”’ It was in this spirit that Chief
Justice Fuller toiled during the years that he presided over this
court. Much of the work of all courts is of but transitory importance,
save in so far as it keeps ever burning the sacred lamp of justice to
lighten the footsteps of men. But the labors of this tribunal are
essential to the preservation of the liberties of a free people. In the
largest proportion of causes submitted to its judgment every decision
becomes a page of history and may become a part of a rampart
against anarchy. To this court men look for the maintenance of
those rights which our forefathers wrung from a reluctant monarch
at. Runnymede 800 years ago, which are now embodied in the Con-
stitution of the United States, and which are as essential to the pro-
tection of the citizen against the tyranny of a hydra-headed tyrant of
the future as they were against the monarchs of the past.

“The labors of the eighth Chief Justice are over, and his work in
this court is submitted to the judgment of men. As he said of Jus-
tice Brewer, ‘he died suddenly, but not the unprepared death from
which we pray to be delivered,’ and having finished his course in
faith he doth now rest from his labors.”
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Chief Justice White, in responding to the words of the Attorney
General, said:

“Mr. Attorney General: The resolutions which you present are
consoling, since they show how poignantly our brethren of the bar
share with us the sorrow caused by the death of our cherished and
venerated Chief Justice. When the shadow which the bereavement
resulting from his loss casts upon the path of duty which les before
us is considered, the resolutions are additionally consoling, since they
strengthen our conviction that, whatever may be our infirmities, we’
may always rely upon the generous judgment of our brethren of the
bar if only we bring to the discharge of our duties the singleness of
purpose which ever characterized the judicial labors of our late
Chief Justice.

“Those labors find an enduring memorial in the reported deci-
sions of the court rendered during the long period of his service.
Their potency, whether in enforcing and protecting individual right
or in perpetuating representative government by upholding our con-
stitutional institutions, has passed beyond the influence of praise or
blame. They have become the heritage of his countrymen, for
’ whose good he labored with untiring devotion.

“The darkness of the valley of the shadow of death yet so ob-
scures vision as to render it impossible for me to attempt now to fix
the result of the labors of the Chief Justice or to define with accuracy
the scope of the blessings to his countrymen and to mankind which
have arisen from his work. I therefore do not attempt to supplement
the brief statement on that subject which you, Mr. Attorney General,
have so eloquently made. So, also, I shall forbear to comment upon
the wide attainments of the late Chief Justice, his engaging literary
fancy, his great familiarity with precedents, and his grasp of
fundamental principles. T leave these special attributes, as well as
the wider considerations which would be required to be taken into
view in order to symmetrically analyze the judicial work of the late
Chief Justice, not only because some other occasion would be more
appropriate and some more masterful hand than mine be required
to do justice to those subjects, but also because my purpose now is
only briefly to refer to some of the more endearing and admirable
personal traits of the Chief Justice which were manifested to those
associated with him in judicial labor, and at the same time to mark
the attributes from which those traits were derived and sustained.

“ Briefly, those qualities were his untiring attention to his judicial
duties and the dedication which he made to the efficient and wise
performance of those duties of every intellectual and moral power
which he possessed ; his love of justice for justice’s sake; his kindness,
his gentleness, associated, however, with a courage which gave him
always the power fearlessly to do what he thought was right, without
“MELVILLE WESTON FULLER—WALCOTT. OS

fear or favor. The source whence these endearing and noble qualities
were derived was not far to seek. It was faith in the power of good
over evil; faith in the capacity of his fellow men for self-govern-
ment; faith in the wisdom of the fathers of our institutions; faith,
unshaken faith, in the efficiency of the system of constitutional gov-
ernment which they established and its adequacy to protect the rights
and liberties of the people. And, above all, there was an abounding
faith in Divine Providence, the faith of a Christain, which domi-
nated his being and welded all his faculties into a harmonious whole,
causing his nature to be resonant with the melody of hope and charity,
which made him what he was—a simple, kindly, generous, true, brave,
and devoted public servant, treading with unswerving step the path
of duty, until the tender voice of the All-Wise and Merciful Father
called him from labor to rest, from solicitude to peace, and to his
exceeding and enduring reward.

“Mr. Attorney General, the resolutions of our brethren of the bar
will be made a part of the records of the court. In making this order
the thought comes unbidden to the mind that if there be in the future,
by either the bench or the bar, a failure to discharge duty because of
the want of an honest effort to do so, the resolutions will become the
test of our moral insufficiency and be a relentless instrument for our
condemnation. But the shadow created by these misgivings is at
once dispelled by our conviction that although the Chief Justice has
gone before, yet doth he abide with us by his precept and example,
which I can not refrain from hoping will be a spiritual beacon lead-
ing both bench and bar to a perfect dedication of all their powers to
the complete discharge of their whole duty. Ah! In the luminosity
afforded by that example and precept, and with the benign vision
given by that faith which is the proof of things unseen, may the
hope not be indulged in that the result of such a consecration to duty
will enable us to behold a continued righteous administration of
justice, a preservation of our constitutional government, the fructifi-
cation of all the activities of our vast country for the benefit of the
whole people, the abiding of tranquility and happiness in all the
homes of all our land, and the continued enjoyment by ail our
countrymen of individual lberty restrained from license and safe-
guarded from oppression.”

Other touching tributes to Chief Justice Fuller might be cited.
They all portray an earnest, efficient jurist, a man true to the wise
principles that guide the daily life of an upright American citizen
who holds the exalted position of Chief Justice of the United States.
we
Ja rere ote eres eb | tee Mer: dv
2 Sete Silene gies See Se a
gies ana gi MEBANE ci a nd AR
a “edule ebgac Septet aa Per aeeer bist hee ch we
nerdy ivodl Palio: i Heelan av hid bait : Ae red yond isi
+ Ragen n nee ct aimee ude” isBrislly Witt Sy hd Bi
: aesatlie Tire. chloe sorts delat: ase waits Henne i ai ?.
rf apiafgttast aa sis! 13 ee trae ay hte efistinrecl earth tf tut? il TH iran ib BP fi ce
‘aa sehen Rt ee ee ee Lecce iP AR ‘i
; Yarnsivar cain ware part as Wd panel aia iy of iat wee eel weet
ty ea Ys i siyelhs weedy tee ahd AAR ying ath: ini A OCI a,
eSahahiieteneersM) hited WILL 3 Yorbiny Saban ots Tehehir 3 Io
on ale hilt af onion pa ry fie vOT oh adtal eet! ‘oie 7
A Me ae AS beige fey sO RAS Hist
ald hi? Ray sae Deres Fe saath ‘beset: AEP fi jay ayia % ,'
Tistinsgeal ye ree i rat Pres HE ae 4 i Ye Pad PTL te
“sh ae Ro ai a ivi yee pik sapwith’ #5) en lNaF ob ae
~ aaa ie (7 VON PENy oF We ira i PtyF ait We. SPE SAL ‘
+ elle apetteseinct fit Bares oeY ‘ll atti # ea zoned ne to ti
| es a a Ani ial if Wr iiss isiifitediEaitoait te ‘2
a waeey bier hay RBS r vd reer ts ee hi ee ty SS aves: 4:
-rpanipeed nett ho HP! 3319) cane Hay re hiseestys ea eye
“pate: | tits Siero Ret od HAE ite eit f SY PE
heaheal en Re aetna fais iv ed {iy ‘Wiifet ‘ae es
. : twee wrens dag NEF 4 si: vat Phe NiiiSh Wookie ay MP Vind PAE é K
me, Hegmnniean REA Trig nla iC GSE TS: Sere efor
aa Chhnartattie evighreneeen rt wih tt Ma aang: ‘omcaini RUN
cA Seiad Rec eee mG aC a pal:

Oe ii a aie ema AopreeA LSP Ts nF
Rg tt i aia em “ai Frenne piles |
vane ON BST | Petit ees Sue femisss
~ CP NT 2 OR aa? VHA Ray OM a
Pe: } seein i erty AE eeu! PR Aine
Me ue acer ir Oe VAD

ip bay
ea / ie / aid, ,
si . pir ae fe

brad ie Hehe ane a eeneeel
b, Aas a ide eer eh, tude .

ORNAMENTATION OF RUGS AND CARPETS.

[With 6 plates. ]

By ALAN S. Cots, C. B.

In preparing this course of lectures, which the Royal Society of
Arts has kindly invited me to give on textile ornament, I find the
range of subjects covered by the title much wider than I expected.

Of textiles alone there are several distinct sorts: (1) Shuttle
weavings, with ornament special to brocades, velvets, damasks, and
figured silk stuffs, to say nothing of kindred ornament in woolen,
linen, and cotton fabrics; (2) tapestries, with their decorative pic-
tures of religious, mythological, historical, and domestic subjects;
(3) carpets, with a number of simple and highly complex patterns;
(4) embroidery, which is suitable to render almost any sort of orna-
mental and pictorial designs; (5) lace, with its textures and ornament
distinctly different from those of the foregoing; and (6) stamped,
dyed, and printed textiles with a still further variety of pattern and
design.

The ornament of these different classes of textiles is but a chap-
ter—an important one, certainly, but still only one chapter—in the
story of all ornament, and as textile ornament during, say, 5,000
years has derived almost as many of its phases from ornament in
other materials as it in turn has contributed to them, I find it neces-
sary to take these latter also into some account. In order, then, to
keep within the appointed limits, the choice of one or two central
or rallying points becomes desirable, and in view of my previous
Cantor lectures upon lace, tapestry, and embroidery, I have fixed upon
ornament in carpets and in stamped, dyed, and printed textiles for
my present course. This ornamentation has successive styles. Style
is a convenient word to apply to the results of reviewing ornament
designed by historic peoples, of determining various peculiarities or
salient features in it, then of grouping them together and naming each
group after some nation, locality, or period. In this way rough and

1Reprinted, by permission, from Journal of the Society of Arts, London, No. 3008,
vol. 58, July 15, 1910.

2Lecture 1 (delivered Jan. 17, 1910) of series of three lectures on textile ornamen-
tation. Lectures 2 and 3 are on stamped, dyed, and printed textiles.

125
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

ready classifications can be made and spoken of as Egyptian, Chinese,
Mesopotamian, Greek, and other styles. Underlying all these styles
are certain common factors of design. For instance, the arrangement
of their particular ornamental details or devices is subject chiefly to
balance, to repetition, and to symmetry. Again, ornamental details
or devices in all historic national styles are either representative of
actual things, such as plants, human and animal beings, etc., or are
merely abstract shapes presenting no likeness to any of these things;
although some apparently abstract forms are symbols to convey some
idea just as others are found to have descended, through many
changes or distortions of drawing, from an original which repre-
sented an actual thing. These changes or distortions occur to a
marked extent in the ornament of people whose ethnography is more
readily studied than their history. Take, for instance, Papuans, who
produce plentiful ornament that is of the distorted character. They
seem to have no regulated methods of design; at least, none so evident
as those of historic nations like the Chinese, the Egyptians, the
dwellers in Mesopotamia, and the Greeks, all of whom had culture,
organization, manufactures, and commerce in a high degree. These
great nations possessed neither aeroplanes nor telephones, but they
appear to have paid better regard than many of us do nowadays to
ihe suitable ornamentation of ordinary and ceremonial objects of use,
including costumes and floor and furniture coverings.

Leaving this digression, I come now to carpets and their ornamen-
tation. I use the word carpet in the sense of an ornamental textile
to be used under foot. Broadly speaking, there are two sorts of car-
pet—one with a flat texture and the other with a definitely raised
texture. It appears that in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia, and Greece
flat-textured materials were manufactured long before those with
raised texture. Ornament in the ancient flat-surface stuffs was pro-
duced by inweaving, needlework, painting, and stamping. In pre-
vious lectures I have touched upon the antiquity of methods of in-
weaving and embroidery as practiced by famous historic nations
hundreds and, in some cases, thousands of years before the Christian

ra. The inweaving corresponded precisely with tapestry weaving
by hand of the present day. Its texture was therefore the same as
that of a huge Gobelins tapestry and of a Kurdish rug.

Here is an ordinary specimen of such a rug, which illustrates the
flat texture we are considering. The style of its ornament has prob-
ably endured for some centuries. The scheme or plan of its design
is a field of small repeated devices inclosed within a border. ‘This
scheme or plan in connection with rugs and carpets is an old one;
older indeed than most of the devices in the field which are weavers’
renderings of sprays of blossom and leaves; the ornament of the
border is effective by reason of the repetition of its details. These
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. ON

are almost unintelligible, though the originai of them probably was
a dragon’s head; the dragon was invented by the Chinese almost as
early as the Sphinx was invented by the Egyptians, and apparently
some centuries before Perseus encountered any similar creature.

The next slide shows a simple but adequate frame of the sort
which has been in use from old times by wandering families or
groups of carpet makers in Turkestan, farther east, and south.
In such a frame flat or raised surface rugs could be made. These
wandering weavers have inherited, as it were, the designs they work
in their rugs; and, unless they come into the service of some merchant
or patron who furnishes them with other designs, they continue to
produce with scarcely any intended, but with a good deal of acci-
dental, variation of their own traditional patterns and designs. And
this condition has lasted amongst such peoples for many centuries.

This slide is from the carving of a floor covering which was prob-
ably of tapestry weaving, as indeed was the greater number of orna-
mented textiles made by Egyptians, Assyrians, Persians, and Greeks
before the Christian era. This carving was discovered in the ruins
of Kouyunjik and is of Assyrian workmanship, eighth century B. C.
The plan of its design, as fully displayed in the whole of the floor
covering, originally corresponded with that of the Kurdish rug, hav-
ing its field of pattern inclosed within a border. In this case the
ornamental features of the border are well shaped, and are based
upon plant forms. The outer ones are alternately buds and ex-
panded flowers, those in the next series are full daisy blossoms, and
then come repeated palm or radiating palmette forms. The pattern
of the field is formed with intersecting circles, and is a truly abstract
pattern, being unrepresentative of any actual things and not sym-
bolical in any way. ‘The texture of such a carpet was, as I have
said, probably that of tapestry weaving and not of raised or cut pile.
Indeed, the manufacture of this latter and more complicated material
does not seem to have been known by the old Egyptian, Assyrian,
Persian, and Greek weavers. The nearest approach to raised surface
textiles made by them were linen cloths faced with loose loops.
These give a shaggy-faced material resembling modern bath towels.
Several pieces of it have been found in disused Egyptian cemeteries,
dating probably from the first century B. C. or A. D., and it is eon-
sidered by various authorities that they are identical with a fabric
called by Aristophanes “ Persis,” and reputed as a manufacture of
barbarians. The Greeks, however, also manufactured similar tex-
tures, and called them “ kaunakes ” and “ phlocata.” Pliny, writing
500 years later, mentions corresponding stuff as “ amphimalla ” when
the shagginess was on both of its sides, and “ gausapa ” when woven
on one side only. This shaggy material was apparently as common
in use as tapestry weavings, but it does not seem to have lent itself
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

well to ornamental expression. And this I gather from specimens of
it made probably by Copts, who decorated it with close loops of wool.

Here is an exceptionally good example of a shaggy-faced floor or
couch cover treated in this manner. The style of the design may be
called Egypto-Roman. The center is surrounded by a bordering of
rectangular corner shapes linked together with intervening star
forms. It is interesting to note the interlocked device within the
left-hand star—a device which I think is of Chinese origin. We
find it in Turkestan and Asiatic rugs, as well, of course, as the
swastika or crooked cross—another constantly occurring emblem in
Chinese ornament.

Of more distinctly Roman character is the design in this next ex-
ample of looped worsted weaving or embroidery produced possibly
by Copts in the second or third century. Here we have but a corner
of a floor covering of the period, enough, however, to indicate that the
whole of the field was covered with groups, like the single one here,
of cupids in a boat. The border was narrow and of overlapping
leaves, and a medallion, containing a face, in each corner of the whole
rug.

Such a textile may represent the “ Sardian pile carpets ” mentioned
by the Egypto-Roman writer, Athenzus, of Naukratis, a place now
identified with Tell-el-Bareet, near the Rosetta branch of the Nile.
Sir George Birdwood, in his treatise on the “ Antiquity of Oriental
Carpets,” gives several interesting quotations from the “ Banquets of
the Learned,” by Athenzeus, to prove the considerable use in the third
century A. D. of floor coverings—but judged by the light of fabrics
discovered in the disused Egyptian cemeteries, already referred to,
none seems to indicate in a convincing way that cut-pile carpets or
any carpets of distinctly Eastern design were amongst the usual
household goods of either Greeks or Romans. We have, I think, to
look elsewhere for the earliest of such things.

Cut-pile fabrics were, I think, first produced by the Chinese. For
more than 2,000 years before Buddhism reached them, they had pre-
served to themselves a monopoly in the cultivation, spinning, and
employment of silk. It is the most delicate of all fibers or filaments
for textile purposes. In the possession of this monopoly, and of a
prolonged skill in the ornamental arts, the Chinese seem to have de-
veloped every sort of known process of ornamental and complicated
weaving—so, at least, one must infer from their traditions and rec-
ords. The evil of seclusion which had hidden these things from the
rest of the world was gradually lifted by the trade started by Asiatic
peoples living outside the Great Wall, who were the means of com-
municating to the northern districts of the old Persian Empire, two
centuries or so B. C., some knowledge of Chinese manufactures and
ornamental design. The trade in its course affected Asiatic crafts-

ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. 129

men and weavers; and they seem to have been the pioneers, as it were,
in imitating fabrics similar in texture to that of Chinese velvets and
the like. These Asiatics had boundless supplies of wool, camel and
goat hair, long before they learned how to rear silkworms and cul-
tivate them. Rulers of districts along the Chinese trade route recog-
nized the value of this Asiatic enterprise in industry at places like
the ancient Karakoram, Khotan, Samarcand, Bokhara, Herat, and
thus cut-pile manufactures passed on to India and Persia, whose
dominion had extended from Turkestan to Asia Minor and Syria,
and included, of course, the territories previously governed by Baby-
lonians and Assyrians; but there these goods were retained—the
Persians being very jealous of them and preventing textile manu-
factures from China from passing westward over to the Romans.

The ornament in the Asiatic and Parthian rugs and carpets, such
as they then were, consisted probably of geometric and abstract forms
interspersed with adaptations of Chinese emblems. But about the
fifth or sixth century A. D., or even a little earlier, they were com-
bined by the Persians with devices of their own Sassanian, Roman,
Persian, and older Assyrian styles. When, therefore, the Emperor
Heraclius took possession of the royal castle of Dastagerd in 627
A. D., he found, among other treasures there, carpets, and most of
them no doubt were of geometric and abstract ornament, and a less
number of realistic ornament. But this ornamentation can have
borne few, if any, direct traces of either old Egyptian or Grecian
styles of ornament. It had a style of its own, and was alive in
Persia up to the time when Mahomet and his conquering Arabs
overran that country, Egypt, and elsewhere. It served as a base
from which gradually the Saracenic or Mohammedan styles arose.

Now, for a far longer time than the life of the style we are consid-
ering, the Chinese style had been gradually influencing ornamentists
with some, at least, of its variety and ingenuity of design that must
have proved stimulating to all who came across it. In both abstract
and realistic ornamental forms the Chinese style has always been
exceedingly rich, as may be gathered from ornament on ancient
Chinese bronzes. These have, of course, outlived contemporary
weavings and embroideries, which would have been decorated with
as much, if not greater, variety of ornament. To put before you a
suggestion only of what I mean by the variety and ingenuity of old
Chinese ornament such as has lasted with little intrinsic modification
for 4,000 years, I have had a slide made from two Chinese bronze
vases.

The vase on the left (pl. 1, fig. 1) is a wine vase made in 780 or
769 B. C., and is symmetrically decorated with highly conventional-
ized dragon and bird forms adapted to fit into given spaces. These

97578°—sm 1910——9
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

forms vary in size with that of their spaces, and are distributed
within them with the skill of sound and well-established ornamental
design. A slight obliteration has taken place in course of time and
interferes a little with the definition of them, but there is nothing of
haphazard or barbaric art about them. The strange forms given to
the birds and dragons on the wine vase were meant as ornament;
more graceful realistic forms were designed and modeled at this
period, so that the strangeness is by no means due to want of ability
to do better, and does not therefore imply barbaric or primitive
performance. The other vase (pl. 1, fig. 2), with elephants’ heads
and rings, is of another phase of treatment, but one just as old as
that of the conventional ornament on the wine vase. The ornament
in this second vase is freer and more dainty, and some of the details
are much more naturalistic. In the upper broad band about the
neck are graceful, slim dragons upon a background fretted with the
key pattern. About the bowl of the vase the background is of small
continuous stems with spirals, upon which are large conventional
forms, which, by the way, are arranged rather like those of our own
seventeenth century strap ornament. Authorities say that this old -
Chinese conventional ornament is one of many which are intended to
be emblematical of the dragon. Above it occur two Vandyke panels
filled with a pointed device, which is suggestive, at least, of a lotus
blossom, a detail very frequent in Mohammedan ornament done by
Persians centuries later. Around the base is a band of swirling and
‘foaming waves. These two bronzes give us at least some idea of
unusual versatility in ornamental design. But besides such examples
as’ these of the great technical skill and mature power of design
\possessed by the Chinese in the eighth century B. C. and much earlier,
too, there are still older traditions and records of what they were
doing in the ornamental arts. Some 2000 B. C., for instance, some
500 years before Joseph introduced his brethren to Pharoah, who
would have been wearing a long flax tunic spotted with simple lotus
buds inwoven with colored wools, the Emperor Shun’s silken robes
had been woven and embroidered with the 12 chang or ornaments.
These consisted of (1) a solar disk upon a bank of clouds, a three-
legged bird within the disk; (2) a lunar disk containing a hare with
pestle and mortar pounding the elixir of life; (3) a constellation of
three stars; (4) mountains; (5) five-clawed dragons; (6) variegated
pheasants; (7) a pair of temple vases somewhat like one of those we
have seen, but ornamented with a tiger and a monkey; (8) grass in
sprays; (9) fiery scrolls; (10) grains of millet grouped in a medal-
lion; (11) a warrior’s ax, and (12) a symbol resembling two E’s
back to back.

It would take up too much time to go on reciting the number of
other different representative and fanciful ornaments that enter into
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Cole PLATE 1.

1. ANCIENT CHINESE BRONZE 2. ANCIENT CHINESE BRONZE
VASE, WITH DRAGON ORNA- VASE, WITH DRAGON AND
MENT. OTHER ORNAMENT.

CONTRE ORNAMENT
ek a rn

Getren

ANCIENT CHENESE SWAKTIKA KEY PATTERNS Faom

CHin€se® RUGS

TURRESTAN amo RYUR DION

re Y RG

3. ABSTRACT AND SYMBOLICAL ORNAMENTAL DETAILS IN CHINESE AND OTHER
ASIATIC RUGS.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Cole. PLATE 2

Chre &ce

CENTRE OF A AVE

6
or

CANTAR of ARGO

wm —_ " j
- mee }
a is O35
me ra 5 a ee
CF pancon As RENDERED INA KURDISH we et
Kevour-atavse famis
ane erst
RS ead
pavieBs
Ane * Aves F ?
ata

1. REALISTIC AND SYMBOLICAL ORNAMENTAL DETAILS IN CHINESE AND OTHER
ASIATIC RUGS.

2. CHINESE CUT-PILE RuGs.
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. 131

designs of the very ancient Chinese. Their complex rectangular
ornaments of abstract and symbolical character, as well as the counter-
version of them rendered in curves and spirals are, [ think, even
more remarkable and intricate than anything based on corresponding
elements in Egyptian, Assyrian, and Grecian ornament. In all like-
lihood textiles ornamented with all the familiar devices were then
made in China, though none probably is in existence now. Still, in
view of the conservative habits of the Chinese, I think we can get
from modern examples some fair idea of the appearance of ornament
in old Chinese cut-pile carpets, such as are likely to have been used
in north China, Manchuria, and Mongolia—as well as of modified
ornament made by Asiatics along or in touch with the trade route
across the Western Chinese Empire.

Plate 1, fig. 3 is from some rough sketches I have made of details
in cut-pile Chinese and other Asiatic rugs. The two first are a
central ornament or disk shape and a border of key pattern devised
upon the swastika emblem (the crooked end cross). The same orna-
ment is to be seen on Chinese bronzes of 1000 B. C., as well as in old
Chinese enamels, where it sometimes is terminated with a dragon’s
head; variants made with curved instead of rectangular winding
forms are similarly terminated. Swastika and dragon ornament is,
I think, a possible parent of Mohammedan arabesques, which we shall
come to later on. Below the Chinese details are others that I took
from rugs made by weavers in Turkestan, Bokhara, and Caucasia,
some in tapestry, some in close short stitch embroidery, and some in
cut-pile material. The first of them is not peculiarly characteristic;
the one below it with incipient key devices seems to have a Chinese
flavor; near it are various cross forms, some of which are Chinese
swastikas; others with scrolled limbs, as in the octagon, are perhaps
of Tibetan descent. Below an S shape is the knot or interlocked de-
vice which we found in the Coptic Egypto-Roman floor or couch
cover, and it may be symbolical of a recommendation, said to have
been made by Confucius, that Taouists would do better if they gave
up writing and took to making knots on strings. I am not quite
clear if Confucius was satirical and poking fun at his pupils. A
large panel or seal-shaped ornament contains what may be imitations
of the eight trigrams of Chinese divination (Pa-Kua). The long
narrow ornament, with two hexagons, may be an adaptation of a
form of band that was often woven into Syrian and Egypto-Roman
linen tunics about the sixth or seventh century A. D., and the last
panel of later date is of semiabstract shapes and of conventional lotus
buds.

The upper ornaments in the next slide (pl. 2, fig. 1) are from Chi-
nese cut-pile rugs, and are both realistic and symbolical. The circu-
lar forms may reflect veneration for the disk; one to the left contains
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

an emblem of longevity, which is surrounded by bats typifying “ Fe-
licity;” the other consists of four birds—beak converging to beak;
below this is part of a border that contains dragon forms like the one
given here. Such ornaments existed in China long before other
people knew them or tried to imitate them in any such way as that
indicated by the sketches below them, which are of details in cut-pile
and other rugs from Turkestan, Persia, and Kurdish districts. None
of the rugs is of great age, still the ornament on them represents many
conventions in rendering dragons, birds, flowers, human and animal
forms, the archetypes of which were more realistic in appearance and
better drawn. The part of a rug border to the left, in the lower set
of details, has a conglomeration of dragon and bird forms; the bird
immediately below is from another part of the same border; next to
it is a bit of a carnation border—a rude version, probably of a Per-
sian fourteenth century border; next to it is a device—perhaps a
double-headed eagle, although its counterpart in other rugs looks
more like a conventional fruit or flower. The childishly drawn man
and horse, with many other similar creatures, frequently occur in
flat and raised surface Caucasian and Kurdish rugs; and so does the
curious device to the right, which, with several others, was sent me by
a friend. The half hexagon panel with a dragon derivative is from
a Persian cut-pile rug which has its weaver’s name on it in Persian
characters.

It seems to me to be within the bounds of reasonable supposition
that some of these Asiatic rug ornaments are as old as the first and
second century A. D., though they may have been scarcely known
beyond Syria and Asia Minor. The same style of rug ornaments
has continued to the present day, and I suggest that the next few
slides may be representative of varieties of rug designs which have
_been used during the last 2,000 years perhaps.

The first (pl. 2, fig. 2) is from two cut-pile rugs of Chinese design
and manufacture—stout white, blue, and gray-black wools have
been used. The plan of design is a field with central circular device
or disk and corner devices within the inclosing border. Such circular
panel or disk (solar or lunar) placed at the center of the field appears
to be a particular feature in Chinese rug design.

The next slide is from two rugs, one made in Assam and the other
at Patna. Both designs show Chinese influence. The Assam rug
(pl. 3, fig. 1) is covered with a swastika key pattern. The scheme
of the Patna rug (pl. 3, fig. 2) is Chinese with its central disk and
corner pieces, but the ornament within them as well as in the border
is Assyrian in a style more than 2,500 years old.

The next slide gives a design of fuller ornament. The disk or cir-
cular device at the center is surrounded with repeated Chinese em-
blems; the corners have Chinese key pattern; the bold forms in the
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. 133

outer border show near affinity to ornament on old Chinese bronzes;
the smaller details in the field are derived for the most part from
plant form. This cut-pile rug was probably made in the neighbor-
hood of Yarkand.

Two rugs are shown on the next slide. That on the left (pl. 3,
fig. 3) is of cut pile and has three disks, each of which is surrounded
by curved and spiral versions of the swastika. The border has a
variety of circular blossoms or emblems. This rug comes from
Yarkand. The second one (pl. 3, tig. 4) has three octagonal panels
instead of disks occupying the larger part of the field, which is else-
where filled in as the border is with various more or less abstract
details lke those we have already discussed. Amongst them are a
few Chinese symbols of simple type. The rug is of closely-stitched
needlework, and is considered to be a Soumak rug, which is, I believe,
a corruption of Semaka, a town in Caucasia. The work corresponds
with that of some of the saddlebacks from this district.

Of less interest in the history of carpet design is that of the familiar
red and green modern Turkey carpets. In these comfortable cut-pile
floor coverings, the unintelligible forms are, I think, remotely related
to those of the Asiatic rugs mingled with others distantly derived
from patterns that were being designed before or about the time when
Marco Polo traveled in Asia Minor and noted the fine carpets made
there. These were doubtless of a type of Mohammedan style, the
gradual development of which in Egypt on the one hand, and the
Mesopotamian districts of Persia on the other hand, commenced soon
after the eighth century. About then and for some time later on,
Asiatic rugs such as we have seen were used at the courts of the
Khalifs and Mohammedan governors in Egypt, Syria, Sicily, and
Spain, whence germs only, of the later taste for rugs and carpets,
were sparsely diffused in Europe.

I have already said that at a period shortly preceding the Moham-
medan conquest, the ornamentation in Syria and western parts of
Persia, and to some extent in Egypt, was largely of a degenerate
Roman character with occasional traces of ancient Assyrian feeling.
It had but little Chinese flavor, and to give you a bare impression of
its character I have a few slides made from Coptic and Perso-Roman
specimens.

The first is from a Coptic tapestry weaving, with an Egypto-Roman
style of ornament of the fifth or sixth century A. D. picked out in
needlework. It may have served as a couch or stool cover. The
greater part of its ornament consists of ingenious variations of the
Roman Guilloche. The intertwistings fall into repeated circles,
within which are blossoms, and from such may have descended the
fully developed plan of pattern seen in silk weavings of the period,
in which the repeated circles were much larger and more widely sep-
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

arated, and inclosed fanciful griffons, lions, hunters on horseback,
parrots, etc. Such patterns prevailed in Sassanian and Byzantine
silks.

The next slide is from a linen fragment of Coptic or Syrian tapestry
weaving. Here we have a rather rude rendering of an old Assyrian
device, a tiger or lion springing on the back of an ibex or gazelle.
Improved representations of it occur in Mohammedan ornament, and
in Persian carpets of later date.

The next shde is from a golden bottle of the sixth or seventh
century. Its main ornament, Perso-Roman in style, consists of large
roundels, connected together, and inclosing such groups as the one
we see of a griffon pouncing on a gazelle, which again is a reminis-
cence of the Assyrian device.

How handicraftsmen and designers working in this style blended
it with Chinese ornament and Chinese feeling, which was so prevalent
in Asia during the Tang Dynasty (seventh to tenth century), and
invented much of what has become Mohammedan ornament, is the
next suggestion I have to make with a view to offering some explana-
tion of the ornamental designs in famous Persian carpets which are
generally regarded as preeminent amongst all carpets. The Moham-
medan Conquest dates from the beginning of the seventh century.
One of the reputedly oldest Mohammedan buildings, having orna-
ment on it, is the ninth century mosque of Tulun, in Cairo. It was
doubtless the work of Copts, and I think that Coptic-Sassanian ele-
ments as well as others closely resembling in effect modified tradi-
tional Chinese patterns—those usually about an ogre’s mask—underlie
a good deal of the internal ornamentation of the mosque. The inven-
tion of the intricate Mohammedan geometric tracery, and interlacing
ornament, including the curved arabesques that terminate in conven-
tional foliations, seems to throw back to influences of Chinese designs
having the same character of line and general scheme. The flow
of Chinese influence must have become stronger than ever, when
Arabs, in the ninth century A. D., were not only pushing trade with
the Chinese by both overland and oversea routes, but also had busi-
ness settlements at Canton and other seaport towns in China. Arab
rule at this period was most extensive. Their khalifs and governors
in ail parts—Asia, Egypt, Spain, etc.—possessed themselves of all
the material luxuries that resources and native industry could supply.
Their luxurious indulgence is the topic of many of their records;
and from a single instance such as that of Ahmed Tulun’s son, who
had in his palace at Cairo a lake of quicksilver, upon the surface of
which “lay a feather bed inflated with air fastened by silver bands
to four silver supports,” one can imagine how superbly they had
the best of things; and, as history tells us, were rightly looked upon—
not only in Europe but in China and amongst the Hindus and Tar-
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Cole.

CEL YTS

PLAA Seliely

1. RUG WITH SWASTIKA KEY PATTERN

FROM ASSAM.

ih Sey ert,

3. CuUT-PILE RUG FROM YARKAND.

PLATE 3.

)

XEUEY

2. RUG WITH CHINESE SCHEME
OF DESIGN FROM PATNA.

4. NEEDLEWORKED RUG FROM SHEMAKA, IN
CAUCASIA.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Cole. PLATE 4.

1. PERSIAN METAL BOWL, WITH MOHAMMEDAN ORNAMENT.

Bas SE a sete ross ab Sees

2. PERSIAN METAL EWER, WITH
MOHAMMEDAN ORNAMENT.
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. 135

tars—as the richest princes in the world. Their religious tenets
formed the basis of that uniformity of taste with which they required
the art craftsmen who served them to comply, and the earlier of these
artificers and ornamentists appear to have been Copts in Egypt, and
Persians in Mesopotamia. The Arabs themselves were not, during
the first periods of Mohammedanism, artistic craftsmen, although
they were builders. As regards the output of carpets about this time
we have, I think, to look to the weavers in Syria, Armenia, Mesopo-
tamia, Persia, Bokhara, and Turkestan, whose ornament was chiefly
of a geometric style, with Kufic inscriptions. About the beginning
of the thirteenth century the Mogul ruler, Jenghis Kahn, “a true
leader of man,” deported thousands of men of arts and crafts from
their homes at Samarkand to work in distant part of his realm for
his princes and nobles. “This,” the historian writes, “was the be-
ginning of the Mogul system of recruiting by force, of compelling
the service of artisans, of confiscating industries for the benefit of
the nation.” Besides his military exploits and his zeal in public
works, he gave new impulse to the trade with China. Soon after,
‘his great nephew, Mangu, became Kahn, and lived in splendid com-
fort in his capital at Karakoram (long since gone to ruin) in south-
east Turkestan—where in front of his throne was placed a silver
tree having at its base four lions from whose mouths there spouted
into four silver basins, wine, kumis, hydromel, and terasine. At the
top of the tree a silver angel sounded a trumpet when the liquors
ran short—another instance of Mohammedan luxury which is hard
to beat even now. Halagu Kahn, also a great nephew of Jenghis
Kahn, undertook big expeditions, and amongst other places captured
Bagdad, which still retained fine traditions of Haroun-al-Raschid’s
flourishing times. Accompanying Halagu were hundreds of Chinese
artificers, who are sometimes spoken of as engineers only, but for
all that I think it more probable that amongst them were workmen
proficient in branches of ornamental industries, and that they intro-
duced some fine Chinese ornament into the metal mounting of the
spheres, astrolabes, and globes which Halagu’s astronomer set up at
Bagdad.

At this time we get indications of high achievements in branches
of Mohammedan art—notably so in the metal work, the earlier bits
of which are considered to have been made at Mosil, on the Tigris,
some 200 miles northwest of Bagdad, whose glory was then on the
wane. The ornament of this metal work has a considerable bearing
upon that of rather later Persian carpets. With its arabesque key
patterns, scrolls, hunters, animals, inscriptions, and floral devices, it
is the exemplar of a Mohammedan style that passes on from phase
to phase between the thirteenth and seventeenth centuries, with so
little change that it is difficult to classify them according to locality
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

or period. Some are more restrained and simpler than others, though
all have the same air de famille. The simpler ornament was in ac-
cordance with the tenets of orthodox Mohammedans. At an early
date in the spread of their religion the Prophet’s followers had
divided themselves into two parties. Persians belonging chiefly to
the Shi-ite and more easygoing sect, while the Sunnite or orthodox
sect comprised Egyptians, Copts, and Moors, as well as some of the
peoples in Asia Minor and farther east, who in the making of their
rugs and carpets inclined almost exclusively to semiabstract and geo-
metric ornament such as we have seen. The existence of the two
sects helps, no doubt, to explain the maintenance in oriental carpets
of the two divisions of style in Mohammedan ornament. In both we
find traces of Chinese influence.

And now let me put before you two slides made from examples of
the metal ornament, and point to Chinese details in them.

The first example is from a casket rich in symmetrical ornament
of delicate stems that intertwine and form panels, the most of which
are filled with an interlocking angular pattern, the basis of which is
a developed swastika device. The intertwisting stems may be de-
scended from Coptic interlacements, but the swastika patterning is
surely Chinese. The leafy scrollwork, with birds here and there,
throws back to Chinese and Perso-Roman origins. The two winged
figures on the feet of the casket are Perso-Roman or Sassanian,
though the idea of such fantastic creatures.may have come into
Mesopotamia from China or Egypt centuries earlier.

The next slide is from a bowl and ewer, also of the thirteenth
century, possibly from the hands of art craftsmen farther east in
Persia, as at Ispahan. The ornament on each of these objects includes
figures, and thus is more to the taste of unorthodox Mohammedans.
Sportsmen hunting all sorts of strange creatures, mostly winged,
and these in turn attacking others, together with griffons back to
back, are to be seen in repeated four-lobed panels, between which is a
ground of Chinese key pattern. Bands of foliated arabesque scroll-
work run under the rim, round the center, and at the base of the bowl.
(PI 4; tig. 1.)

The ewer (pl. 4, fig. 2) is decorated with kindred ornament though
different in design, especially the shaping of the compartments on the
lower part. These are formed by intercrossing bands of rope orna-
ment, and resemble some of the enrichments in the ninth century
mosque of Tulun, but their shape is also akin to that of the pointed
device which we saw in one of the Chinese bronzes of much older
style. The spout is a Chinese dragon head, whilst the head on the
handle is that of a hound. But I will not encroach on your attention
to expatiate upon the delightful cross-breeding in ornament which
these objects exhibit.
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLR. 187

The contemporary richly colored illuminations of Mohammedan
MSS. and of book covers reflect the style of the engraved and dama-
scened metal work. And from both are directly descended the com-
positions of color and form which are woven in the more magnificent
cut-pile carpets that were manufactured in Persia from the fifteenth
century onward. They practically superseded the carpets of simpler
design during the fourteenth century and earlier.

The first of my slides, to illustrate a few of these finer types, is
from a carpet possibly of fifteenth-century manufacture. Silver
threads are inwoven with the colored cut pile of fine wool. The
border of cartouches inscribed with Persian characters incloses the
field, at the center of which is a circular device which, as we have
seen, is a feature of Chinese and Mongolian rug designs. At each
of the inner corners of the borders are segments of Persianesque
panels shaped and treated so as to suggest the shape of a conven-
tional lotus flower. Within the central circular band is a four-lobed
ornament—each lobe containing a peacock, which is a favorite subject
of Persian and Mogul Indian ornament. Over the main part of the
field are many long and short wavy devices usually identified as
Tatar cloud devices and of frequent occurrence in Chinese ornament.

The next slide (pl. 5, fig. 1) exhibits a carpet with a border of
cartouches having inscriptions of which an interpretation, as given
in the great Viennese work on oriental carpets, mentions the Shah,
for whom the carpet was made, and states that “within the fair
border of this field you see a flowery bed, refreshing and lovely as
the paradise in Eden. To Chinese art its beauty is an object of envy.”
(This is clearly an indirect though palpable acknowledgment of the
superiority of Chinese art, as known to the Persians.) And then fol-
lows a good deal more about the garden, and turtledoves and nightin-
gales. But on looking into the design itself, at the center of the
field we see a group of four lions, nose to nose, surrounded by fine
spiral stems and Tatar clouds. At the top and bottom of this group
is a pomegranate inclosed by two serrated long narrow leaves, charged
with small sprays of flowers precisely like those on so-called Rhodian
plates, and inside the pomegranate are a pair of peacocks. Beyond
is a symmetrical distribution of fanciful floral ornament, lions, tigers,
or cheetahs springing on antelopes—nothing in fact to suggest the
serenity of flowers and birds referred to in the inscription, which
may have been by chance the handiest, though not the most apposite,
for the weaver to use.

The next slide (pl. 5, fig. 2) is from a carpet made in 1540 for the
mosque at Ardebil—a town in the northwest of Persia and not far
from Caucasia and the southwestern shore of the Caspian Sea. The
wider part of the border is designed with alternating circular cusped
panels and elongated panels, not inscribed but decorated with flowers
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

and Tatar clouds. In the center of the field is a large cusped
medallion or roundel, containing dainty arabesque ornament; around
the medallion is a series of pointed oval-shape panels, each filled in
with floral and arabesque or Tatar cloud devices of different design.
From the central pointed oval panel hangs an elaborate mosque lamp
amidst flowered blossoms growing on delicate stems arranged in
spirals, straying symmetrically all over the chief part of the field.
Close to the lower border is a white rectangular panel with the name
of the maker of the carpet. At the corners within the border are
segments as of the great central ornament. The narrow light bands
of the whole border are enriched with repeated Tatar cloud devices.
Of its kind this is probably the most remarkable carpet, and was
made nearly 50 years before the accession of the great Shah Abbas
to the throne of Persia. During his reign the arts were much
encouraged at his capital of Ispahan and at other important towns of
eastern Persia. It is hardly possible now to identify the manufacture
of carpets of Perso-Mohammedan style with any particular town of
central and eastern Persia. Several fine carpets were made from 760
to 1258 in western Persia or Mesopotamia—at Bagdad for instance,
for luxury-loving Abbasid Caliphs. The ornament of these, however,
was chiefly geometric (as in pl. 3, fig. 4), if one may judge from
Persian miniatures in the British Museum, of which I find a number
quoted by Mr. Martin in his big work on “ Oriental Carpets.”

This is part of a Persian carpet perhaps, from Herat, with a border
designed in a different style from what we have hitherto seen. The
large arabesque curved forms between the pairs of varied pointed
oval panels remind one of Chinese forms sometimes used in that
ancient ornamentation composed with goggle-eyed ogre masks, which
I have mentioned already in connection with the mosque of Tulun.
The field of this carpet contains the wavy Tatar cloud shapes and
several animals, the design of which seems to be Chinese in char-
acter—as, for instance, the beast on the left with curious almost
dragon head and a lashing tail; there is a smaller version of him
within a pomegranate form below. Still lower down is a black
panther, perhaps springing across a similar dappled beast. Above,
on the right, is a dappled stag with antlers. Stags and fawns are
favorite animals in Chinese porcelain of the Ming dynasty
(1368-1644).

Here is another variety of design in which Chinese influence seems
to me to be very strong. The border is of delicate arabesque design ;
within the counter-changing and almost lotus-shape compartments
the group of the leopard or cheetah seizing an antelope or goat is
repeated. But on the field are many devices, the like of which our
previous designs have not given us; for example, the highly decorated
vase or bottle toward the center with a pzir of Kylins at its foot,
RAT ENOs

Smithsonian Report, 1910,.—Cole.

2. PART OF THE CUT-PILE CARPET MADE IN 1540 FOR THE

1. PERSIAN CuT-PILE CARPET OF LATE FIF-

MOSQUE AT ARDEBIL, NW. PERSIA.

EARLY SIXTEENTH CENTURY

DESIGN, WITH INSCRIPTIONS.

TEENTH OR
Smithsonian Report, 1910,—Cole.

PLATE 6.

la amr
vart

ME

ve

Ay.

Pex ae:
AVA SO
to 85635 83

1. SPANISH CARPET OF LOOPED WORK,

2. SPANISH CUT-PILE CARPET,
SIXTEENTH CENTURY.

SIXTEENTH CENTURY.

3. ITALIAN CARPET, SEVENTEENTH CENTURY; WOVEN
AT PESCOCOSTANZA.
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. 139

the minute serrations to the pointed oval and circular cusped shapes
inclosing birds or fishes, the cone shape, and the minute floral forms
throughout, all these seem to tell of a Chinese Mohammedan
designer.

This carpet is less strong in Chinese influence, but even so we do
not lose it. As compared with what we have seen, the design of the
field is remarkable for cypresses, almond trees in blossom, rose trees,
birds perched amongst their branches, hares by their trunks, at the
center ducks apparently, and at each corner a flying phoenix—the
mystical Chinese bird with elaborate tail. All these are brought
into ornamental effect by symmetrical arrangement chiefly. The
border, like that of the immediately previous carpet, is of counter-
changing, semilotus-shaped compartments, within which is delicate
conventional flower ornament.

Here, again, is part of a carpet of somewhat similar design, with
trees and animals—the dragon is by the trunks of the cypresses, a
flight of cranes amidst Tatar cloud devices fills the cusped center
panel. It is a pity that the upper part of this carpet, which came
from a synagogue in Genoa, has been so cut as to destroy practically
a corner panel, in which there was the figure of a man apparently
in Chinese dress, and by him some unusual ornament of Chinese
style—quite different from the arabesques of the border. The flight
of cranes recalls the class of subject for which the Chinese painter,
Hsieh Chi, of the seventh century, was renowned. The carpet was
probably designed and woven in north Persia about 1450.

With the Persian carpet designs fresh in our eyes, I may now show
a slide from one of the several so-called Polish carpets. Its design
is of a purely Persianesque type, but somewhat angularized and stiff-
ened in appearance. The materials are silk pile or velvet inter-
mixed with gold and silver threads. The question of its Polish
origin is one of many raised for discussion which does not lead any-
one far on the road toward understanding material and artistic
excellences. As far as I can find out, there were certainly some
Persian or Turkish weavers in Poland in the eighteenth century
who made golden brocades for a short time. The specimen before
us is apparently of earlier manufacture, and may perhaps be, Dr.
Bode, of Berlin, has suggested, of Turkish manufacture—one of the
rich Damascus carpets in which the Venetians traded in the sixteenth
century.

Rather poor in character of design is this cut-pile carpet, which
may be of Moorish manufacture, to conform to the taste of some
orthodox Mohammedan customer. The cruciform panel is poorly
shaped when compared with Persian panels. ‘The ground is covered
with inscriptions of the ninety-nine names of Allah. The stars in
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

the border are suggestive of Cairene and Moorish titles of indifferent
quality. The carpet came from a mosque at Aleppo.

In the same class of debased ornament, derived from finer origi-
nals, we may place this carpet. Most of the forms are undecipher-
able. A cypress tree is fairly evident; below it to the left is a queer
and somewhat entangled device, which I think we may call a dragon;
still lower down, to the left, is a pair of shapes which faintly resemble
those of animals, and to the right of them is an equally faint re-
semblance of a long-necked bird—possibly a crane. The carpet is
called Persian of the sixteenth or seventeenth century. Another
specimen elsewhere is described as being made before the fifteenth
century. The scheme of the design is usually found in woven stuffs
of the fifteenth century, with details and devices of intelligible
beauty. I think that the indications are in the direction of estab-
lishing such carpets as the one before us as ambitious attempts by
careful weavers far removed from properly drafted designs and
relying, therefore, upon elusive memories for their ornamentation
which does not call for much admiration.

The strenuous itinerant instrumentalist seated on the pavement,
and diligently twanging the strings of his harp with some rhythm,
much discord, and uncertain melody is surely a kind of confrére of
these weavers of distorted patterns.

This slide is from two carpets of Indian manufacture at Malabar,
the modest patterns of which—especially that on the right hand—
are directly borrowed from inlaid work of the fifteenth century, done
by Mohammedans at Broussa, in Asia Minor, and in Venice, etc. A
similar style of pattern occurs on carpets made at Tanjore.

A considerable number of Persian carpets were made in the six-
teenth century from designs, of which the leading feature was a
covering network or framing. Here this feature is carried out so as
to produce a succession and series of interchanging panels, each of
which is filled in with plant forms, Tartar clouds, arabesques, or
pairs of birds. Schemes of net pattern, but in other variations may
be traced in Roman mosaics contemporary with Coptic tapestry
Weavings, as well as in Byzantine shuttle weavings, thence they pass
into medieval European textiles and embroideries, and architectural
enrichments, before appearing in carpets. ’

Another and simpler example of this scheme of design is shown in
this next slide from an Indian or Persian carpet of the sixteenth or
seventeenth century. The border is much narrower; the net or frame-
work is defined in delicate spiral stems, and at their junctions are
variously shaped panels, the network itself does not form such recur-
rent panels as in the previous specimen, but is independent of those
here shown.
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. 141

From these I pass to specimens of another type of design. That
on the left is probably of Caucasian or Kurdish weaving, and in the
style of fiteenth century carpet designs, whilst that on the right is of
Spanish or Moorish work. Its field is covered with a diaper pattern
of small foliated crosses, and toward the middle there are two eight-
cusp circular panels containing a shield of arms. The outer border
has Kufie characters mixed with small animal, bird, and blossom
devices, which are repeated in the squares of the narrower inner
border. The border pattern of the left-hand rug seems to be of orna-
ment developed from Kufic writing, and such borders are seen in
Persian miniatures dating even from the end of the fourteenth cen-
tury, and more often in later miniatures as well as in paintings by
such artists as Hans Memling (1425-1490), Raphael (1483-1520),
and many more at this time. Such carpets, with others coming into
general use by the well to do in Europe, served more often as table
than as floor coverings, and it is claimed that some of them were
made even in England.

Here, for instance, is one of these carpets. The design of the bor-
der corresponds with that we have just discussed; at the sides and
bottom of it are shields with the arms impaled on them of two
English families, and on the lowest part of the carpet are the words,
“ Feare God and keep His commandments. Made in the year 1603.”

At this time East India merchants caused carpets to be made to
their order at Lahore and elsewhere, and their coats of arms and
initials would be introduced into the designs. A very fine specimen
of such carpets belongs to the Girdlers’ Company, and has been illus-
trated in recent books about carpets.

On the ornamental side of carpets made in Europe from the six-
teenth century onward, there is much to say. On the gradual devel-
opment of European methods of carpet manufacture there is still
more to say; but in these lectures I can give an extremely brief
résumé only of a few incidents that stand out. The oldest of them
has to do with those French corporations of tapissiers whose thir-
teenth century regulations are well known and have been much dis-
cussed with the object of determining which of the two bodies—the
“Tapissiers Sarrasinois” and the “Tapissiers Nostrez” were con-
cerned with the manufacture of flat-surface floor covering and that of
raised pile. Their weavings were employed for seats and hanging on
walls, or placing on tables, and this more often probably than as floor
coverings—rushes or mats being then ordinarily strewn on floors.
Illuminated MSS. supply indications of their patterns, which were
generally diapers and spottings; patterns of fuller design were dis-
played upon imported Oriental carpets. With the early years of the
sixteenth century the manufacture of tapestries in France begins to
be organized, under the patronage of the Government, but it is not
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910,

until the seventeenth century that pile-carpet making, under this pat-
ronage, is well started at a disused soap factory known as the Savon-
nerie of Chaillot, on the outskirts of Paris. Here were made the
tapis veloutés—pile carpets as distinct from the ¢fapis ras, or flat-sur-
face carpets that were being produced at several of the tapestry weav-
ing centers—the Gobelins, Beauvais, Tournai, etc. The manufacture
of the two sorts was not combined at the Gobelins works until early
in the nineteenth century. Aubusson carpets were first made early in
the eighteenth century from designs that reflected the Louis XV.
style—naturalistic floral garlands, ribbon knots, ali shown with lights
and shades, and entirely distinct in style from that of any Oriental
rugs and carpets.

In Spain some rugs are likely to have been made at many of the
old Moorish towns, Malaga, Almeria, and Granada, perhaps as early
as the middle of the ninth century, when their ornamentation would
have been probably of the geometrical and abstract character, inter-
mixed with inscriptions that appealed to Sunnite Mohammedans.
Toward the end of the fifteenth century Spain had much to do with
Flanders, where tapestry weaving was flourishing; it appears that
at this time the making of Spanish carpets as distinct from Moorish
carpets began. Specimens of them have come lately into collectors’
hands, some with cut pile, others with looped surface similar to those
Egypto-Roman stuffs that we saw at the beginning of this lecture,
and others wrought in a sort of cross-stitch embroidery.

Here are now two of the Spanish rugs I have in mind, made prob-
ably in the sixteenth or seventeenth century, one (pl. 6, fig. 1) with
a surface of loops has an ogival net or frame of vine stems with sym-
metrical groups of leaves and grapes alternately placed in the ogival
panels. The scheme of the design is Byzantine originally, and be-
came finely developed in Italian velvets of the fifteenth century. The
border of this carpet is of a continuous stem scroll with offshoots of
conventional plant shapes. The other carpet (pl. 6, fig. 2) is of cut
pile of fair quality, its field of three octagonal panels or wreaths
inclosing scroll ornament with a slight resemblance to Saracenic
arabesque disposed on the plan of a cross, has a border of Italian-
esque scrolls, griffons, and baskets. In both carpets the corners of
the borders are not well managed in design—a defect which is seen
constantly in Oriental carpets other than Persian, and runs through
ornamental textiles woven from insufficient drafts, the completion
of which is left to chance that the weaver can supply the deficiency
of design.

The weaving of pile and other carpets in European countries from
designs by Europeans arose more or less simultaneously in Spain,
Italy, France, Flanders, and England, about the middle of the six-
teenth century. The English industry was stimulated a great deal
ORNAMENTATION OF CARPETS—COLE. 143

through commerce with the East Indies and by the employment of
Flemings here. But, besides this, a few enterprising Englishmen
sent trusted workmen to Asia Minor to learn the methods of making
“Turkey carpets.” Nowadays, when museums expound technical
and artistic efforts, progressive and otherwise, material facts are be-
coming available in an almost unexpected way to illustrate allusions
and records, and thus give reality to much that has been speculative.

Unquestionably of English manufacture, or, more correctly, of
manufacture in England, is the pile carpet shown on the screen.
Details of its ornamentation may throw back to Oriental sources, but
the coats of arms are distinctively British. In the center are the
royal arms, with a date 1570 and E. R.—Elizabeth Regina. On the
left are the arms of the borough of Ipswich and on the right the arms
of a Suffolk family. Other equally interesting examples have lately
become available for consultation, so that no doubt we shall soon learn
a good deal more of English carpet ornament than we know at pres-
ent. Carpet making at Wilton and Axminster dates from the end of
the seventeenth century, and its history from: that time forward can
be pretty clearly traced. Many Frenchmen were employed there and
elsewhere in England during the eighteenth century, and introduced
much of the French taste in carpet ornamentation. The Society of
Arts, as early as 1758, gave prizes for English-made carpets, “ in
imitation of those brought from the East, and called Turkey car-
pets;” and the Transactions of the Society of 25 years later record
how the manufacture of these was then established in different parts
of the kingdom, and “brought to a degree of elegance and beauty
which the Turkey carpet never attained.”

It is not difficult to make a pretty close guess of what large Geor-
gian carpet designs were like. Some of them at least had a flavor
of the French taste, and of that I have one interesting design, made
at the beginning of the eighteenth century by Robert de Cotte, for a
pile carpet woven at the Savonnerie. It is rather like a ceiling
decoration and apropos to a style that the machine-made patent
Axminster and other carpets have been affecting during the last few
years, presumably to the content of some people, who do not care for
the restrained treatment of ornamental forms and harmonious colors
in Oriental carpets.

As to Italian carpets I have not collected much information. Shut-
tle weaving by peasants in the Abruzzi continues to the present day
and is responsible for most of their bright-colored woolen aprons with
stripes that are broché or woven with floating threads. This same
character of work has been done for some centuries. In the fifteenth
and sixteenth centuries Perugia was notable for white linen table-
cloths and towels, broché with blue threads in a considerable variety
of interesting patterns. Farther south Pescocostanza appears to have
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

been noted in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries for similar
shuttle-woven woolen rugs, of one of which I have a slide.

The style of the broché ornament is virtually the same as that of
the Perugia linens. In the specimen now before us we have a field
broken by garlands into repeated compartments, in which are, respec-
tively, fountains, lions, horses, or perhaps unicorns, lambs of God
bearing the cross and a flag, double-tailed mermaids with mirrors in
their hands, and double-headed eagles, of a seventeenth century type,
though almost all of them are emblems with traditions behind them,
that, in some cases, spring from Gnostic sources of more than a thou-
sand years earlier. Emblematical ornament, however, is far too big
a subject to discuss now. The border of the carpet is a woven imita-
tion of Italian lace points or Vandykes of the late sixteenth century.

The last slide is from two pile rugs made at Merton from designs
by the late William Morris. In both of them we trace his regard for
Oriental symmetrical arrangement and fiatness in treating orna-
mental devices.

In conclusion I must mention my indebtedness to important publi-
cations, amongst which are the late Dr. Bushell’s handbook on Chi-
nese Art, Mr. Martin’s admirable work on Oriental Carpets, and
the great Viennese publications also on Oriental Carpets. This
latter work contains illustrations of a hundred carpets or rugs, each
of which Dr. Alois Reig! has described in detail with unsparing care.

I do not think that either of these two last-named authorities, or
even Dr. Bode, of Berlin, and others, who have a profounder erudi-
tion than I can pretend to, have paid enough consideration to the
enlivening effect which Chinese ornamental design must surely have
had for the last 2,000 years at least upon that of other nations west
of China, and especially in regard to its share in the invention of
Mohammedan ornament. In offering a few hints upon that matter I
hope that I have not made too great a call upon your attention.
Mohammedan ornament, whether to the Sunnite or Shi-ite taste, plays
a very important part in carpet ornamentation. The more it can
be investigated and appreciated the less likely are we to manufacture
carpets with quasi Oriental patterns that are at times really ludicrous
in their simple-minded imitations of distorted devices.

It is extraordinary what modern machinery can do in producing
carpets of any sort of design. Certainly the daintiest that I have seen
recently were manufactured at Glasgow and are reproductions of
some of the finest and most intricately patterned Persian rugs.

Messrs. Maple and Messrs. Warings have kindly lent the specimens
of English machine-made rugs, as well as interesting portions of
handmade carpets, not only from England, but from other European
countries as well.
RECENT PROGRESS IN AVIATION.

[With 19 plates. ]
By OcTAvE CHANUTE,’

Honorary member of Western Society of Engineers.

[Remarks by President Allen introducing Mr. Chanute: It is a
remarkable coincidence that just 12 years ago this evening—October
20, 1897—Mr. Chanute gave his first paper before this society on
the subject of aviation, the paper being entitled “ Gliding Experi-
ments.” A few years later, in 1901, and again in 1903, Mr. Wilbur
Wright appeared before the society, at Mr. Chanute’s invitation, and
gave an account of the experiments then being made by himself and
his brother Orville. The opportunity comes to very few men, I
think, to appear before the same body 12 years after their predictions
had been made, and be able to point to the fulfillment of those pre-
dictions, as can be done by Mr. Chanute to-night.

It is our privilege to listen to him now, at a time when aviation
has become a matter of great public interest, and when he can point
to the fulfillment of his own prophecies, and the launching of the
aeroplane as a practical machine on the ideas that he enunciated in
our rooms 12 years ago. Mr. Chanute is well known to us all and
needs no introduction from me. We are proud to number him among
our members as, perhaps, the foremost living authority on aviation
to-day in this country or in any other country. |

I shall endeavor, with the aid of some lantern slides, to talk to you
about what has lately been accomplished with flying machines. As
your president has said, on the 20th of October, 1897, I had the
honor of presenting to you an account of some gliding experiments
that were carried on at Dune Park, near this city. Those experiments
were made solely to study the question of equilibrium and to deter-
mine if it was reasonably safe to experiment. We had the good
fortune to make about 2,000 flights (Mr. A. M. Herring, Mr. W.

1Reprinted by permission from Journal of the Western Society of Engineers, Chicago,
April, 1910. Presented before the society October 20, 1909. Journal copyright 1910

by the Western Society of Engineers.
2Mr. Chanute died November 23, 1910.

97578°—sm 1910-——10 145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Avery,and myself) without any accidents—not even a single sprained
ankle. The only thing we had to deplore was the fact that my son,
in making one flight, tore his trousers. An account of these experi-
ments was published in the journal of this society for October, 1897,
and subsequently an account was also published in the Aeronautical
Annual, Boston, in 1897. That publication contained the statement
that it was thought that these experiments were promising, and I
gave an invitation to other experimenters to improve upon our prac-
tice. That invitation remained unaccepted until March, 1900, when
Wilbur Wright wrote to me, making inquiries as to the construction
of the machine, materials to be used, the best place to experiment,
etc. He said that he had notions of his own that he wanted to try, and
knew of no better way of spending his vacation. All that information
was gladly furnished. Mr. Wright wrote me an account, subse-
quently, of his experiments in 1900, which gave such encouraging
results that each year thereafter the brothers carried on further ex-
periments in North Carolina and at Dayton, Ohio.

On the 18th of September, 1901, Wilbur Wright read a paper be-
fore this society, in which he gave an account of what he had done
up to that time.

Again, on the 24th of June, 1903, Mr. Wright read a second paper
before this society, giving an account of his progress since 1901. Late
in the year 1903 the Wrights applied a motor to their gliding ma-
chine, which by that time they had under perfect control, and they
made their first flights on the 17th of December, 1903. (I might
mention that I was present on each of the years during part of the
experiments.) At that time Wilbur Wright expressed his intention
of giving to this society the first technical paper on the subject which
he furnished to anyone. He said he had already promised to give
a popular account in the Century Magazine, but that a technical
paper, giving an account of the results and the laws which had been
observed, would be reserved for this society.

In 1905 Mr. Wright told me it had dawned upon him that there
was some money to be made by selling the invention to governments
for war purposes, and that he would defer giving a technical paper
to our society. He considered that his invention would be more
valuable if, with the machine, he could give the secrets of construc-
tion and laws which have been observed. I do not know whether the
paper has been written, but I hope you will get it some day.

Of the early flying experiments which had been made previous
to that time I will mention but two.

Plate 1, figure 1, represents the Maxim machine of 1894. Mr. Maxim
built an enormous apparatus, weighing 8,000 pounds and spreading
4,000 feet of surface, moved by a steam engine of 360 horsepower.
That machine was run upon a track of 9 feet gauge a good many
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 1.

1. MAximM’s MULTIPLANE 1894—FRONT VIEW.

Weight, 8,000 pounds, Propeiled by 363-horsepower steam engine. Span, 126 feet;
area, 4,000 square feet; cost, $200,000.

2. MAxim’s MULTIPLANE, 1894—SIDE VIEW.

When run on rails at Baldwyn’s Park, England. July 31, 1894, at 36 miles an hour,
this machine lifted so much more than its weight that it broke a set of rails
provided to hold it down, and thus demolished itself.
‘4adJ OT NOGK Jo YISuey vB YITA ‘dy 07 dn
UMLOIF OOF GL AOAO O]FTT BSBA [OPOUT IOLABST] 9} JO oayA any (poAOLYOR SBM INOY UB SO[IUL OF INOGB 4B AWS o[Tut TayreNnb
-9014) B ‘spunod 0g ynoq 2 SUIYSIOM [OPOUT TBI TULIS B yr Ho6t 8G JoqWOAON UO ‘A]JUONbesqng ‘“imo0y uBR So[IU OZ JOR
JO poods ¥B 4B “IOATY OBUIOJOG OY} IOAO [IU B Jey way oadt { 10} Moy ‘9681 ‘9 ABI UO JopOUT SIT, “oLsuv [BIpeyTp 1B SSUTAA

“9681 "ANV1dONO [Al WHONVL GNNOd-GZ S:ASTONV]

'S aLV1d

ainueyx>— 0 l6Lwodey upp” 4} le
PROGRESS IN AVIATION—CHANUTE. 147

times, and on one occasion it undertook a vagabond flight on its own
account ; its equilibrium was bad, however, and the steam was shut
off ; the machine alighted somewhat broken. Mr. Maxim saw clearly
that it would be necessary to change the design, and he has never
rebuilt that machine.

Another view of the same machine is shown in plate 1, figure 2.
It had a large aeroplane at the top and two propelling screws 17
feet 10 inches in diameter, which imparted a speed of 45 miles an
hour running over the track, and it was held from rising by wooden
rails of 35 feet gauge which engaged outrigger wheels as soon as the
machine left the sustaining track.

Maxim is now said to be building another machine, which it is
expected will be completed soon.

The next experiments were made in 1896 by Prof. S. P. Langley.
After devoting some years to experimenting, he devised a working
model which he started from a launching scow. The model machine
flew perfectly on the 6th of May, 1896, in the presence of Alexander
Graham Bell. This machine, shown in plate 2, flew about three-
quarters of a mile, alighted safely in the Potomac River, and was
ready to fly again. ;

On the 28th of November, with a similar model, Langley made
another successful flight, and further launches were privately made
subsequently. [For flights of 1899 and 1908 see plate 3.]

He was then urged by the United States Government to build a
full-sized machine, capable of carrying a man, and he spent three
or more years in doing so. That man-carrying machine was com-
pleted in 1903, and on the 7th of October of that year the launch
was attempted. The machine, however, caught a projecting pin
of the launching rail and was cast down into the Potomac. The
operator, Mr. Manly, was upset, carried down into the river, and
came very near drowning. Another effort was made December 8
and the same mishap occurred. Part of the launching ways caught
the machine, and it never entered upon flight. There is no doubt,
however, that if the machine had been properly launched it would
have flown. The machine is still in existence. It was broken when
alighting, and in picking it up afterwards, but has been repaired. It
is most unfortunate that further effort was not then made to launch
that machine, and that Langley was so severely criticized in Congress
and by the newspapers. He was grievously balked of deserved suc-
cess, and he died of apoplexy two years afterward.

The next attempt to fly with a man-carrying machine was in
North Carolina on the 17th of December, 1903, when the Wright
brothers effected three successful flights, the first to alight safely in
history. The longest flight covered 852 feet and occupied 59 sec-
onds, in the face of a 20-mile wind. The weather was so inclement
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

that they then took the machine down and abandoned experimenting
for that year. There had been unfortunately some previous delays
and breakages. When I went there in November to see the launch-
ing of the machine, it was postponed first by the twisting off of the
shaft, and then by the breaking of the propeller, which required
sending it back to Dayton in order to repair the work in the shop,
but full success was attained at last. In 1904 they operated in a
field about 8 miles from Dayton, Ohio, and it took them most of that
year to learn how to turn a corner. The machine was slightly
broken a number of times, repaired, and finally, in October, 1905,
they got their apparatus under perfect control, and succeeded in
making a flight of 24 miles in 38 minutes. They made 105 flights
in 1904 and 49 flights in 1905. The system which they have adopted
in order to avoid carrying too powerful and heavy a motor is shown
in plate 4, figure 1. The machine is placed on a single rail, weights
are hoisted on a derrick, and a rope is carried from the derrick with
a return pulley to the machine. Upon the dropping of the weights
the machine is given an impulse, this method being found to be
preferable to the catapult which Mr. Langley had devised and which
failed him on two occasions when trying to launch his machine. In
plate 4, figure 2, is shown the machine at the inner end of the launch-
ing rail, just before it gets under motion. The launching rail is
60 feet long, and with the aid of the falling weights the machine
quickly acquires the necessary velocity for rising in the air.

The years 1906 and 1907 were spent by the Wright brothers in an
effort to sell their machines to various Governments. They had taken
out patents in eight different countries, and they hoped to sell flying
machines to war departments, together with the secrets, the tables
of resistance, and all the elaborate calculations which they had made,
but in each and every case the Government wanted to be shown the
apparatus before buying. The Wrights refused to exhibit the ma-
chine until such time as they had a contract contingent upon their
performing certain feats—notably, to fly with two passengers and
with enough fuel to carry it 125 miles; that it must attain a speed
of at least 36 miles an hour, maintained over a distance of 5 miles,
and must fly continuously for one hour.

None of the Governments would thus contract with them. They
were Offered at one time $120,000 by the French Government, but
they refused. They were then offered $200,000 if they would per-
form their feats 1,000 feet in the air. To this they said that they
had no doubt that they could get up 1,000 feet but they had never
done so and would not agree to the proposition.

In 1908 they changed completely their plan of operation and de-
cided to show their machine with the risk of its being copied and
getting themselves into litigation. Plate 5, figure 1, shows the ma-
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 3.

2. QUARTER-SIZE LANGLEY AERODROME IN FLIGHT, AUGUST 8, 1903.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 4.

2. WRIGHT MACHINE ON STARTING RAIL
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 5.

1. SIDE VIEW OF WRIGHT MACHINE.

2. THREE-QUARTERS VIEW OF WRIGHT MACHINE.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 6.

1. WILBUR WRIGHT FLYING AT DUSK.

2. WILBUR WRIGHT AT LE MANS.
PROGRESS IN AVIATION—-CHANUTE, 149

chine of the 1908 design, at Le Mans, where Wilbur Wright first ex-
hibited it to the French, while a contract had been made in this coun-
try with the United States Government to furnish a similar machine,
and figure 2 represents a three-fourths front view of the machine.
There is at the front a double-decked horizontal rudder. It will be
noticed that these inventors have modified the make-up of a bird by
putting the tail in front. Behind are placed vertical rudders, but it
is the front rudder which elevates and gives horizontal direction to
the machine. The rear rudder guides the machine to the right or left.
Back of the main surfaces are the two screws revolving in opposite
directions.

The machine is equipped with a pair of skids for alighting, while
the French people have equipped their machines with wheels. The
wheels weigh more, catch more air, and are not as safe as the skids,
but the skids require a rail and a starting weight in order to get the
machine into the air, unless there is a brisk head wind. Plate 6,
figure 1, is from a remarkable photograph sent to me by Wilbur
Wright, which was taken just at dusk.

Mr. Wright had extraordinarily good fortune in carrying on the
experiments in France, his machine falling only once. One other
accident occurred in the breaking of one of the sprocket chains in
mid-air; but he then operated the machine as a glider and came down
safely. The French people at first made all sorts of comments, criti-
cisms, and caricatures of Wilbur Wright, and even published a num-
ber of amusing songs, but finally he triumphed, won their esteem and
admiration, and they acknowledged that he was the master of all the
aviators. Plate 6, figure 2, shows one of the flights at Le Mans.
From Le Mans he went to Auvours in order to get better ground, and
there made over 100 flights.

The more remarkable performances which he made I have under-
taken to tabulate, but I will not inflict those statistics upon you this
evening. Mr. Wright established great records, however. On the
18th of December, 1908, he flew 62 miles in 1 hour and 54 minutes,
this being at that time the world’s record, and he beat this directly
afterwards, on the 31st of December, by flying 77 miles in 2 hours
20 minutes and 23 seconds, thus winning the Michelin prize and
establishing a world record, which was only beaten in the tournament
at Rheims three weeks ago. In Rome he took up a great many pas-
sengers, and on one occasion he started without the use of starting
weights, simply facing a wind of sufficient intensity and going up
straight from the ground. Plate 7 shows one of these flights. On
the 25th of September, after returning to America and after he had
been universally acclaimed in this country and overwhelmed (modest
man that he is) with public dinners, receptions, and medals, he
encircled in flight the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor and
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

made a magnificent flight of 21 miles, from Governors Island to
Grant’s Tomb and return.

Meanwhile we may go back to September, 1908, and note some of
Orville Wright’s performances. He had at Washington the same
general arrangement, consisting of a launching rail, launching der-
rick, and an apparatus for hoisting up the weights, in order to give
the machine impetus. This aeroplane is 40 feet across and has a
breadth of 64 feet. The front rudder is 16 feet long, 24 feet broad,
and is equipped with skids, as shown in plate 5, figure 2. The pro-
peller is of peculiar and original construction, and the motor is in
every way the Wrights’, for, in 1902, they made a canvass of the
different makers of gasoline motors in this country, asking them to
furnish a motor according to specifications which they presented.
None of them at that time could do so, and the Wrights went to work
themselves, designed a motor, and built it with their own hands.
This design has proven more reliable than the motors built in France,
which are unduly light. The Wright motor, originally of 15 pounds
to the horsepower, was reduced to 7 or 8 pounds to the horsepower,
while the French people are building motors weighing 44 to 5 pounds,
but they do not prove as reliable, while the Wright motor has never
given any trouble and has proven reliable in every respect.

Orville Wright made a number of unofficial tests in 1908. On the
8th of September he rose to a height of 100 feet and flew 40 miles;
on the 12th he made a little higher ascension, estimated by the Army
officers at 200 feet, and flew 50 miles in 1 hour and 15 minutes. AlI-
together that year he made 14 flights. On the morning of the 17th
of September he made several short flights. In the afternoon of that
same day he met with a terrible accident; his propeller broke while
he and Lieut. Selfridge were in mid-air, the machine falling to the
earth, when Orville was seriously injured and Lieut. Selfridge was
killed. This ended the tests of that year. The Government granted
an extension of time and the trials were not resumed until July of
this year (1909). The results this year, as you know, have been very
successful. The official time test shows that on the 27th of July the
machine remained in the air for 1 hour and 13 minutes, with two per-
sons on board.

On the 30th of July the machine traveled 5 miles and back cross-
country in 14 minutes, with two persons on board, at a speed which
averaged over 42 miles an hour. Therefore, the machine was accepted
by the Government and a premium was given the Wrights of $5,000
for the extra 2 miles of speed. Wilbur Wright is now engaged in
teaching the Army officers how to use the machine. Immediately after
the acceptance of the machine, Orville Wright went to Berlin, and
there he has been accomplishing some remarkable feats. On the 29th
“AWOY LV LHOINM YNATIM

Le omnaannansicnee

"LZ 31v1d ‘ajnueyg—'O1 61 ‘Hodey ueiuosyyiws
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute.

1. SIDE VIEW oF SANTOS-DuUMoNT’s “DEMOISELLE.”

2. SANTOS DUMONT. ST. CYR TO Buc.

Sa ae

3. THREE-QUARTERS VIEW OF THE ESNAULT-PELTERIE MONOPLANE.

The wing wheels b b and the twisting rudder h are features of this machine.
PROGRESS IN AVIATION—-CHANUTE. 151

of August last he made his first exhibition there, flying 15 minutes.
On the 8th of September he went up with Capt. Hildebrandt; on the
18th of September he went up with Capt. Englehardt, and on the
17th of September he made a demonstration before the court. On
the 2d of October he took up into the air the Crown Prince, who gave
him a handsome present, and on the 4th of October he made a flight
of 21 miles, reaching a height estimated at 1,600 feet. This is the
latest performance which he has made, although there is no telling
what another day will bring forth. He is now in Paris. In London
he may make some demonstrations with his machine in the course of a
week or two.

The French, in 1905, became partly acquainted with what had been
done in this country, and they thought it would never do to let the
Americans obtain priority in the air, so a good many people began to
experiment. Among the first was Santos Dumont, who made a flight
on the 12th of November, 1905, of 720 feet in 21 seconds with his No.
14 machine, Hargrave type. That flight created great excitement,
and the French people thought they were on the high road to beat the
Americans, but it required a good deal of further experimenting be-
fore that result was even partially accomplished.

Santos Dumont brought the machine out a second time but broke
it. He then concluded that it was not built on the right plan and
began to experiment with a modified machine. It proved unsatisfac-
tory in various ways, and after it was broken he discarded it.

The next machine he tried was the biplane, the cellular partitions
being removed. That ought, in my judgment, to have given satisfac-
tion, but it did not and he abandoned it, although with that machine
he made a flight, in Paris, on the 17th of November, 1907, of 500 feet.

He then went over to still another plan which he called the “ Bird
of Prey.” In this design he placed the motor up in the top and had
a dihedral angle in the biplane. But that did not give him satisfac-
tion, and in the next machine he finally went over to the monoplane,
which the French people have always insisted was the best design for
a flying machine, and which they have promoted as against the
biplane.

Plate 8, figure 1, is a view of the monoplane of Santos Dumont, and
with that on the 10th of March, 1909, he made a flight of 1,300 feet.
On the 10th of April he made another flight of 1.2 miles. On the 19th
of June he made a flight at Issy, near Paris, of 820 feet, at which
time his machine was struck by a downward rush of air, and to his
great astonishment he found himself suddenly on the ground. The
machine had gone down without his knowing what was happening.
Fortunately the machine was not broken and he was not injured.

Santos Dumont’s idea had been all along to have a handy machine,
and he finally built a baby monoplane, which he called the “ Demoi-
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

selle” (Dragon Fly). This is the smallest of all the existing aero-
planes. Its supporting surface is only 97 square feet; its weight, 260
pounds. When that is compared with the Wright machine, which
has 500 square feet of supporting surface and a weight of 950 pounds
(the empty machine), we can appreciate the enormous difference and
the necessity, therefore, of driving this Dragon Fly very much faster
in order to obtain support from the air, with so very small a surface.
On the 13th of September of this year, near Paris, Mr. Dumont was
able to drive that machine 5 miles in five minutes, going down the
wind, or at the rate of 60 miles an hour over the ground. The speed
through the air was probably about 50 miles an hour. Plate 8, figure
2, is from a photograph taken during that flight, which was from
St. Cyr to Bue. I think the general idea is sound, for the smaller the
flying machine can be made, within limits, the faster it must be made
to go, and the more uesful it is likely to prove for varying wind
conditions. Commercially I have no clear opinion as to its uses, but
as a mode of rapid transportation for very light loads, I think the
smaller the aerial plane the better.

As regards the question which has lately been debated extensively,
of the relative merits of the biplane and monoplane, I do not think
we are yet in position to decide which is the better design. Both
have their good points. The monoplane offers less resistance, but
the biplane is steadier, stiffer, and stronger in every way. So it is
only experience that will determine which one is the most efficient.

Other experimenters have come into the field, and among the first
was a clever young sculptor by the name of Leon Delagrange. He
went to Voisin Bros. and asked them to build him an aeroplane. This
was called the Delagrange machine, but as a matter of fact the design-
ing and construction was done by the Voisin Bros., who are a leading
authority on the subject of building flying machines, and who, in two
years, have had to enlarge their shop three times to keep up with their
orders.

In plate 9, figure 1, is shown the machine the Voisin Bros. built
for Delagrange. At first he did not trust himself to fly the machine,
but got Voisin to ride in it and show him how. Subsequently he
flew in it himself and all the later feats he has accomplished by him-
self. On the 11th of April, 1908, he flew 2.5 miles at Issy; on the 27th
of May, at Rome, 7.9 miles in 15 minutes and 26 seconds; at Milan,
June 22, 10.5 miles in 16 minutes and 30 seconds. Then he went to
Turin and for the first time in history took a lady on board, who was
very proud of the honor. The picture (pl. 9, fig. 2) is from the
meet at Rheims in August, 1909, where Delagrange flew 31 miles on
a monoplane. It may be remarked incidentally that there have been
lately quite a number of these tournaments in Europe, which have
attracted great crowds, have proved very satisfactory, and where all
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 9.

1. DELAGRANGE ON THE VOISIN MACHINE.

2. DELAGRANGE ON A MONOPLANE.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 10.

: = y, =

2. FARMAN’S NEW MACHINE WINS FIRST PRIZE.
PROGRESS IN AVIATION—CHANUTE. 153

previous records have been smashed. One was at Rheims, where the
Champagne people contributed large sums for the experiments. An-
other tournament took place later in Berlin, and still another in
Juvisy, near Paris, in October, 1909.

The next man to gain prominence was the celebrated sportsman,
Henry Farman, who walked into the Voisin shop one day and ordered
an aeroplane. He succeeded on the 26th of October, 1907, in flying
253 feet, which at that time was considered a great feat. He then
attempted to sweep a circle, but did not succeed. It really took the
French people two years to learn how to turn a corner. They were
somewhat misled at first by amathematical equation, and then closely
analyzed the motions of the bird. They found that he flexed one
wing at a lower angle than the other, placing himself thereby on a
slant, so that the centripetal force of gravity should overcome the
centrifugal force of the speed, and that similar effects could be pro-
duced by side fins and wing tips. Since that time they have turned
corners without great difficulty but only on long radii.

Mr. Farman was successful, among other things, in sweeping curves
on the 6th of July, 1908, when he flew 12 miles in 19 minutes and
won the Armengaud prize which had been offered for the first turning
of a corner. One of his flights is shown in plate 10, figure 1. On
the 30th of October he made the first cross-country flight in history
by going from Chalons to Rheims, 17 miles in 20 minutes, thus win-
ning great applause and becoming the foremost aviator in France.
In 1909 he designed and built a flying machine of his own with which
to compete at the Rheims tournament. He put both skids and wheels
in this, the wheels being so adjusted that they could be lifted up, and
with that apparatus splendid results were obtained in the Champagne
tournament. The apparatus is shown in plate 10, figure 2.

On the 18th of July that machine flew for 1 hour and 23 minutes
at Chalons. On the 23d of July he took a cross-country trip covering
40 miles from Chalons to Suippe. On the 27th of August his machine
made a flight of 112 miles at Rheims, which is the world’s record for
distance at present,’ and he received, therefore, the first prize in that
tournament. On the same day the machine flew 6 miles in 10 minutes
with three persons on board, this being the first time three persons
had ridden in a flying machine.

The next experimenter to be mentioned is Louis Blériot. He be-
gan his experiments in 1906, and has built and broken more machines
than any other aviator in the world. He has built 12 machines
and broken about 15, that being accomplished by rebuilding the
same machine after smashing it. He is a man of tremendous pluck

1 Since this talk, Mr. Farman made, on the 3d day of November, 1909, a flight officially
estimated at 1573 miles in 4 hours 6 minutes and 25 seconds, but really of 150 miles,
over the aviation grounds at Mourmelon.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

and wonderful imagination, and therefore tries all sorts of things.
The machine with elliptical cells was launched on floats in the Seine
in order to haul it up as a kite, and was Blériot’s third. He had an
idea that this elliptical arrangement would increase the stability very
much, but it did not, and he gave up that idea. He then constructed
No. 4, which he called a box plane.

Machine No. 5 was of the Langley type,! on the same plan that our
Army officers had been unable to obtain further funds to experiment
with—two sets of wings, one behind the other—he placed it on
wheels, and with that type he got some very fair flights, flying 474
feet [Aug. 6, 1907]. That was not enough for him, so he went from
that to the monoplane and he has built, I think, six of them. Since
then he has adhered to the so-called dragon-fly plan and is now
flying on No. 12. On the 13th of July, 1909, he flew 27 miles in 45
minutes. Plate 11 shows the machine on which he made his journey
cross-country from Etampes to Chevilly, a distance of 27 miles, and
on that occasion he flew across a railway train, over one of the
churches, and over various buildings.

On the 25th of July Blériot attempted to cross the British Channel
and succeeded. Plate 12 is from a photograph taken on that occa-
sion. That trip comprised a distance of 33 miles and was made in 37
minutes. It created great excitement, great applause, and great
wonder, although, as a matter of fact, it was perhaps not as difficult
a feat as the previous flying across country, but it appealed very
much more to the imagination.

Blériot then went to the meeting at Rheims in Champagne, and
there exhibited some very good performances. He flew over the
grandstand at a very great height, made a trip on the 27th of August
of 25 miles in 41 minutes, winning the ninth prize for distance, while
on the sueceeding day he flew 6 miles in 7 minutes and 48 seconds,
winning the first prize for speed.”

The next man who began experimenting was Mr. Esnault-Pelterie,
a young French civil engineer, who started out with gliding ma-
chines, and then built a monoplane. Plate 8, figure 3, gives a view
of the 1908 design. That is the machine as finally perfected. He has
made quite a number of flights, but no very long ones nor any high
ones, the highest being 100 feet.

Capt. Ferber, who is next to be mentioned, has been the chief apos-
tle of aeroplanes in France. He became interested in the subject at
an early date (1898) and has been promoting aeroplanes ever since.
He began with gliding experiments. At first he was greatly in favor
of the monoplane, but when I explained to him the advantages of

1 See appendix for account of flights with Blériot machine No. 5, built on Langley type.

2 Subsequently, Dec. 12, 1909, he was driven against a house during an exhibition flight

at Constantinople, met with his twenty-second fall, and sustained injuries sufficiently
severe, though not fatal, to require his going to a hospital.
"AULNNOD SSONOY “SNVIdONOW S.LOINaTg

S {hl SHE]

‘ayNUEYO— 9161 ‘Hodey ueiuosyyiWiS
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. Lars 11/22,

BLERIOT’S MONOPLANE. ACROSS CHANNEL.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 13.

1. FERBER’S BIPLANE IN FULL FLIGHT.

2. LATHAM (AT TOP), LEFEBVRE, AND BUNAU-VARILLA.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 14.

1. LATHAM’S ANTOINETTE MONOPLANE IN THE ENGLISH CHANNNEL AND THE RESCUE.

2. PAULHAN ON VOISIN MACHINE AT RHEIMS.
PROGRESS IN AVIATION—-CHANUTE. 155

the biplane, he accepted that design, although he did not like the stiff,
horizontal lines, and introduced bird-like transversal curves. Then
he added a motor; this was applied to the No. 9 machine, in which he
still had these transversal curves in the wings; he had the propeller
in front, and instead of twisting the wings he used fins at the rear,
which are adjustable. He obtained some very fair results. This ma-
chine is shown in plate 13, figure 1. On the 5th of September, 1909,
he borrowed a Voisin machine and undertook a trial flight at Bou-
logne, preliminary to attempting to cross the British Channel, where
it is about 40 miles wide, but, in making a turn, his machine tipped
over unduly to the left. He undertook to alight, but in doing so his
left wing struck a lump of earth, or hummock, when the wheels
rolled into a ditch, the machine turned turtle, and poor Ferber was
killed, to the profound sorrow of all interested in aviation. He is the
third victim thus far this year,’ but the wonder all along has been
that so few accidents have occurred. There have been thousands of
flights made—for instance, 1,300 were made in one week at the Rheims
tournament—but thus far only three deaths have occurred.

More people kept coming into the field, and among the later ones
is Mr. Hubert Latham, with a monoplane called the “ Antoinette.”
Mr. Latham has risen to sudden prominence by some daring feats.
Mr. Levavasseur designed and built this monoplane and engaged Mr.
Latham to operate his machine. With it Mr. Latham got some very
fine flights, such as that shown in plate 13, figure 2, taken at Rheims.
On the 6th of June, 1909, he went across the country 10 miles from
Juvisy. On the 19th of July he attempted to cross the British Chan-
nel, but was unsuccessful. On the 27th of July he tried it again, and
flew 20 miles, or within 1 mile of Dover; the motor then gave out
and he fell into the sea, the rescue being shown in plate 14, figure 1.
On the 26th of August, at the meeting at Rheims, he flew 96 miles in
2 hours and 18 minutes, and won the second prize for distance. On
that occasion he rose 508 feet, a record which has since been beaten by
Paulhan and Rougier, who have developed an extraordinary aptitude
for high flights. On his first attempt, on the 10th of July, 1909,
Paulhan was able to fly 1.25 miles. On the 19th of July he flew 12
miles across country; on the 7th of August, 23 miles; on the 24th of
August, 18 miles on a Voisin machine, and on the 25th of August he
flew 81 miles at Rheims, winning third prize for distance. He has
since made very fine flights in various meets. Plate 14, figure 2, is
from a photograph taken at Juvisy.

The next man to reach prominence is Mr. Sommer. On the 4th of
August, 1909, he flew 2 hours; on the 27th of August, 37 miles at
Rheims; on the 10th of September, 18 miles over troops in review;

1 Since then Aviator Fernandez was killed at Nice, Dec. 6, by a fall in his aeroplane.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

on the 11th of September, 24 miles, from Nancy to Lenoncourt.
Plate 15, figure 1, shows a flight in company with Farman.

K. Lefebvre, an automobile dealer, having purchased a Wright
machine, laid down lines of rails and taught himself how to operate
and fiy the machine. At Rheims he made some very good perform-
ances. On the 27th of August he flew 12.5 miles in 20 minutes and
47 seconds. Unfortunately, upon the 7th of September, when test-
ing a new Wright machine, he was upset and killed, this being the
first fatal accident to occur in 1909.

One of the last men to come into prominence in France has been
Mr. Henri Rougier, who operates a Voisin machine (pl. 15, fig. 2),
and who has made some remarkable high flights. At Brescia he
reached 328 feet of altitude, and later, on another occasion, 650 feet
of altitude was reached. At Berlin he won the first prize for dis-
tance. On the 18th of October, at Blackpool meeting in England,
he made a flight of 18 miles in 25 minutes, but all of those perform-
ances in height fall far short of the performances of Orville Wright,
who rose to a height of 1,600 feet.

By the contract in which the Wright brothers agreed to sell their
French patents to a syndicate, Mr. Wilbur Wright was to teach three
pupils to operate the machines. The men selected were the Count
de Lambert, Mr. Paul Tissandier, and Capt. Lucas-Girardville. The
latter, being an army dfficer, has not appeared in any public tourna-
ment, but Mr. Tissandier has made many good flights, the longest
up to the present time being one of 69 miles at Rheims, and he has
been training pupils of his own. Count de Lambert made a flight
of 72 miles at Rheims, and day before yesterday (Oct. 18) he
made a sensational journey from the aviation grounds at Juvisy,
where plate 16, figure 1, shows one of his flights over a portion of
Paris to the Eiffel Tower and back, some 30 miles. This feat, as
well as the flight of Latham on September 27 over the suburbs of
Berlin, is disfavored by the Wrights as involving undue risks of
accident.

Wilbur Wright also taught two pupils in Italy (where he sold a
machine)—Lieut. Calderara, who flew at Rome and at Brescia, win-
ning some prizes and meeting with accidents, and Lieut. Savoya,
whose performances have not been made known.

Mr. Legagneux and Mr. Bunau-Varilla also made creditable flights
at Rheims upon machines built by Voisin Bros. (pl. 16, fig. 2), but
the performances most commented upon at that tournament were
those of Mr. Glen Curtiss, who, with a machine built by himself,
won the Gordon Bennett cup by making the shortest time over 20
kilometers; won the first prize for speed in a flight of 30 kilometers
(46 miles an hour), and the second prize for speed over 10 kilo-
meters, in which he flew at 48 miles per hour. Plate 17 shows these
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 15.

1. SOMMER AND FARMAN IN RACE.

cas aie 2 aS ee SS x ee

2. ROUGIER’S VOISIN RISING FROM STARTING GROUND.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 16.

1. DE LAMBERT ON WRIGHT MACHINE.

2. BUNAU-VARILLA ON VOISIN BIPLANE.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 17.

1. CURTISS AND BUNAU-VARILLA.

2. THE “JUNE BUG” AT HAMMONDSPORT, N. Y.
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 18.

1. BLERIOT AEROPLANE No. 5 AFTER A FALL.

2. BLERIOT AEROPLANE No. 5 AFTER FLIGHT OF 265 METERS, AUGUST 6, 1907, AT
IsSy LES MOULINEAUX. (LANGLEY TYPE.)
PROGRESS IN AVIATION—CHANUTE. 157

flights. Subsequently Mr. Curtiss won the grand prize at the Brescia
meet by flying 31 miles in 49 minutes and 24 seconds. He had previ-
ously won twice the Scientific American trophy in this country, once,
July 4, 1908, by a flight of 5,090 feet at Hammondsport, N. Y., and
again, July 24, 1909, by a flight of 25 miles in 52 minutes and 30
seconds.

This was the direct outcome of the labors of the Aerial Experiment
Association, organized in 1908 by Alexander Graham Bell, upon the
suggestion of Mrs. Bell, who generously contributed the funds. Dr.
Bell had been experimenting with groupings of tetrahedral kites,
which exhibited extraordinary steadiness in the air. He hoped to
develop them into an efficient flying machine of automatic stability,
and had been well served in his experiments by two young Canadian
engineers, Mr. F. W. Baldwin and Mr. J. A. D. McCurdy. In order
to give these faithful men a chance to test their own ideas the Aerial
Experiment Association was organized by taking in (besides the
three named) Lieut. Selfridge and Mr. Curtiss, the latter then being
a manufacturer of motor cycles and motors at Hammondsport, N. Y.,
where the experiments were first started. The association built four
flying machines—the Red Wing, the White Wing, the June Bug, and
the Szlver Dart—all of double-bowed shape, shown in plate 17, figure
2, and equipped with Curtiss motors. With these some very prom-
ising flights were made, both at Hammondsport and at Baddeck,
Nova Scotia, to which the association removed and where Mr.
McCurdy made flights of 16 miles and over.

I have memoranda of many more flights that have been made
by other aviators, but I think they will be of less interest than the
moving pictures about to be shown.

[Editor’s Note: The talk was illustrated by many beautiful and
interesting scenes, exhibited by the stereopticon, which are virtually,
though not necessarily exactly, the engravings printed in this paper.
At the close of the address, some beautiful and wonderful views of
different machines in flight were shown by the aid of a moving-
picture machine installed that evening for the purpose. The illustra-
tions on plates 1, 4, 5; figs. 1 and 3 on pl. 8; fig. 1, pl. 10; fig. 1, pl. 14;
and fig. 2, pl. 15 are from Victor Lougheed’s “ Vehicles of the Air,”
kindly loaned by the Reilly & Britton Co., publishers. ]

APPENDIX I.

The following account of flights with the Blériot Machine No. 5 (the Langley
type) referred to by Mr. Chanute on page 154 is translated from Bullettino
della Societa Aeronautica Italiana, August, 1907.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

THE NEW BLERIOT AEROPLANE.

The Blériot IV, in the form of a bird, of which we spoke at length in No. 4
of the Bulletin of this year, does not appear to give good results, perhaps on
account of its lack of stability, and Blériot, instead of trying some modifica-
tions which might remedy such a grave fault, laid it aside and at once began
the construction of a new type, No. V, adopting purely and simply the arrange-
ment of the American, Langley, which offers a good stability (see Bulletin
11-12, Nov. to Dec., 1905, pp. 187 and 188). The experiments, which were com-
menced a month ago, were first completely negative, because the 24-horsepower
motor would not turn the propeller, which was 1.80 meters in diameter and
1.40 meters pitch. By advice of Capt. Ferber, Blériot reduced the pitch of his
propeller to 0.90 meters, so that the motor could give all its force.

This modification was an important one for his aeroplane. From that
moment every trial marked an advance. On July 12 he made a flight of 30
meters, and the aviator was able to show that the lateral stability was per-
fect. On July 15 the trial was made against a wind of 6 miles an hour, but
gave good results. He made a flight of 80 meters, showing, however, that the
hind part of the aeroplane was too heavy. In this flight he arose as high as a
second story and on landing the wheels and one propeller were somewhat
damaged.

On July 24, repairs having been completed, a new trial was made. This
time, in order to remedy the defect in the balance, Blériot had moved his
seat forward about 80 centimeters. The correction was too great, for on that
day the aeroplane, although the hind part arose, was not able to leave the
ground. On July 27, after having mounted the seat on wheels, as in skiffs,
Blériot resumed the trials and made a flight of 120 meters, at first moving his
seat back and then, after getting started, bringing it forward. Blériot had
not provided this aeroplane with an elevating rudder, but, following the ex-
ample of Lilienthal, changed the center of gravity of the apparatus by moy-
ing his own person, and after having established the proper angle remained
immovable on his seat. In order to arise or descend the aviator made use of
the spark lever, thus varying the number of turns of the propeller.

During a second trial on the same day, having accidentally reached the limit
of the aviation field, Blériot, without allowing himself to be surprised and
obliged to descend, decided to attempt a turn by maneuvering the steering
rudder and to return again to the center of the field. With marvelous pre-
cision the aeroplane began to describe a circle of about 200 meters radius, in-
clining as if on a pista cidistica. Having finished the flight he quickly re-
gained his balance, still in the direction of the wind, but on account of a slight
movement of the aviator the aeroplane fell to such an extent that he was
obliged to land. He landed gently and without shock, rolling on his wheels.

On August 1 he made another flight of 100 meters in 64 seconds, and on the
6th one of 265 meters, with one interruption. While the attention of the pilot
was distracted for a moment the aeroplane, which was flying at a height
of 2 or 8 meters above the ground, touched the soil with its sustaining wheels
at the end of 122 meters, and then, immediately arising, covered the remaining
148 meters at a height of 12 meters. Blériot, moving forward too quickly,
caused the aeroplane to descend swiftly to the ground, and the shock broke the
axle and the blades of the propeller were bent. In order to confirm this
account we reproduce what was said in the Auto of August 7, 1907:

“™M. Blériot, continuing the trials of his aeroplane yesterday, surpassed the
superb results which he had already obtained. The trial took place at 2 o’clock
in the afternoon on the aviation field of Issy. After a sustained flight of
Smithsonian Report, 1910.—Chanute. PLATE 19.

.

1. BLERIOT AEROPLANE No. 5. (LANGLEY TYPE.)

2. BLERIOT AEROPLANE No. 5 IN FLIGHT. (LANGLEY TYPE.)
PROGRESS IN AVIATION—CHANUTE. 159

about 122 meters at a height of 2 meters, the aeroplane touched the ground, with-
out stopping, however, and set out again almost immediately at a height of 12
meters and traversed about 143 meters. M. Blériot, who for the time had no
other means of balancing but by moving his body, then moved a little forward to
stop the ascent. The aeroplane plunged forward, and in the fall the propeller
was damaged and the axle broken.

“M. Blériot, whose courage as a spertsman equals his learning as an engineer,
was fortunately uninjured. An inspection of the apparatus showed that one
blade of the propeller was bent; which was sufficient to prevent the maneuver
made by the aviator having its desired effect and contributed to the fall. The
engine will be repaired without ditficulty and the trials will be resumed
Friday.”

On August 10 he made a flight of 80 meters, but the motor was not in perfect
order, so Blériot did not make other trials. He decided, however, to substitute
definitely a 50-horsepower motor for the 24-horsepower motor with which he
made all the experiments above reported, which were of a character to encour-
age the most sanguine expectations.

Ferber advised Blériot to adopt an elevating rudder also, because the effect
produced by changing the position of the center of gravity, although efficacious,
is very difficult and delicate to control.

APPENDIX II.

The following table, compiled by the author, is here reprinted through the
courtesy of the World Almanac, 1910:

CHRONOLOGY OF AVIATION.
[Compiled by O. Chanute.]

Bewildering advance in aviation took place in 1908 and 1909. When it is
remembered that the first successful man flight, landing safely, was made by
Wright brothers December 17, 1903, that it took them two years—1904-1905—
to obtain entire control over their machine; that the Santos-Dumont flight of
720 feet, November 13, 1906, excited the wonder and admiration of all Europe,
we can realize partially the progress made, now that flights of over 100 miles
have been made, that a height of 1,600 feet is said to have been attained; that
there are hundreds of successful experimenters in the field, and that records are
being broken every few days.

It would be quite futile to give a compendium of all the flights made in 1909.
They number thousands. The profitable thing which can be done is to tabulate
the more remarkable performances; and, in order to mark the advance, to in-
clude therewith the former feats of the same aviator, which excited wonder
only one or two years ago. The most interesting of these are prefixed with a
star.

During 1909 exhibitions of aviating apparatus were held in Paris, December
24 to 30, 1908; in London, March 19 to 27; in London again, July 6 to August
4; in Frankfort, July 10 to October 10; in Paris again, September 25 to October
17; and these drew great crowds; while meets, contests, and tournaments were
held at Rheims, August 22 to 29; at Brescia, September 5 to 20; at Berlin, Sep-
tember 26 to October 3; at New York, September 25 to October 2; at St. Louis,
October 4 to 10; at Paris, October 2 to 21; and at Blackpool and at Doncaster,
October 15 to 28,
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

The events which have attracted most attention have been the cross-country
flight of H. Farman, from Bouy to Reims, 17 miles, without landing, October
30, 1908; of Bleriot, October 31, 1908, from Toury to Artenay and return, with
landings; of the same man from Htampes to Cheyvilly, 26 miles, July 13, 1909,
and his flight across the British Channel, July 25; the two unsuccessful at-
tempts of Latham to perform the same feat, July 19 and July 27, 1909; the
flight of Farman, July 23, from Chalons to Suippes, 40 miles; of his flights at
Rheims of 112 miles, August 27, and of 150 miles at Mourmelon, November 38;
of Orville Wright, at Fort Myer, July 27 and 30; of W. Wright, at New York,
October 4; of Curtiss, at Rheims, August 28 and 29; of Latham, over Berlin,
September 27; and of De Lambert, over Paris, October 18; as well aS a speed
of about 90 miles an hour, down wind, at Blackpool, attained by Latham,
October 22, 1909.

These feats have not been accomplished without some deplorable accidents.
Several aviators have been killed or injured by the fall of their machines, and
many of the latter have been smashed. It will be remembered that Lieut.
Selfridge was killed at Fort Meyer, September 17, 1908. In 1909 Hugene
Lefebvre was killed at Juvissy, September 7; on the same day Enea Rossi was
killed at Rome while testing a machine of his own invention; while on September
22 the distinguished propagandist of aviation in France, Capt. L. F. Ferber,
was killed at Boulogne by an unlucky landing. On December 6, A. Fernandez, a
French aviator of Spanish birth, was killed at Nice by the fall of his biplane,
similar to Wright’s, caused by the explosion of his motor when at a height
estimated at 500 meters.

The tendency has been to develop special experts for exhibition flights. Some
200 of their flights, which are thought the more memorable for one reason or
another, will be found in the following list:

Chronology of memorable flights—Motor Aeroplanes.

WILBUR WRIGHT.

Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. Bets Remarks.
H. m. 8

Dec. 17,19031| Biplane....| Kitty Hawk....) 852 feet......- 0 00 59 1 | First successful man flight
in history.

Nov. 9,1904 }..... dower es Dayton, Ohio...| 3 miles....... 4 30 1 | Made 105 flights that year.

Oct. 5,1905 |...-.. Go. sees sae nsdO sauce. Me. 2 24 miles...... 38 00 1 | Made 49 flights that year.

Aug. 8,1908 |..... GOn ccc MANS 2 (te ae cine cjaceetaneinewe rine es ieeometeee 1 | Short flights showing con-
trol.

Sept. 21,1908 1)..... GOtnhas ATLVOUTS=)152<0 =| 41 miles... 222 1 31 00 1 | Made over 100 flights here.

Oct. 10,1908 |..... GO. ceecleeens G0 seeane sear 46 miles...... 1 900 2 | With Mr. Painleve; took 35
others.

Dec. 18,19081)..... G (ae aes GO nasacae cen 62 miles...... 1 54 00 1 | Rose to 360 feet; then world
record.

Dec. 31,19081)..... lt). Se meee (i (see Toemiles.-.s.- 2 20 23 1 | Won Michelin prize; world
record.

Mar. 20,1909 |..... GOs. <26 Pau; Prance. 05 --.bs. 422.565 6 00 1| No previous propulsion;
teaches 3 pupils.

Apr. 16,1909 |...-.. GO c= RoOMeGzcciiscua. lbsaees cod Seed lhe eeee 2 | Took up many passengers.

Apr. 26,1909 |..... GO wacisc| 3-26 = OSs cce eg) -- ee eeunessestes|teeeeee ee 1 | No previous propulsion.

Sept. 25,19091)..... dosscen INOW: VOT. Ss. 5222 ccs ee eee AE ee eee 1 | Circled Statue of Liberty.

Oct. 4,19091)..... GO sscra-|--co0 GOpe ence ae = Zi amilpseeeee 33 33 1 | To Grant’s tomb and return.

PROGRESS IN AVIATION—CHANUTE.

161

Chronology of memorable flights—Motor Aeroplanes—Continued.
ORVILLE WRIGHT.

Per-

Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. eee Remarks.
H.m. 8.

Sept. 8,1908 } Biplane. Fort Myer.....- 40 miles.....- 0 62 00 1 | Unofficial; rose to 100 feet.

Sept. 12,1908 1)...-. GOs jeeulease GO. acess: 50 miles...... 1 15 00 1 | Longest flight of 1908.

Sept. 17,1908 1)....- Gharoc bocce do sesarceeee 3 miles....... 4 00 2 | Selfridge killed; Wright in-
jured.

July 20,1909 |..-..- Oe nas alee COR es caare ss] becane Hescab ae 1 20 00 1 | Unofficial test.

Mealys 21909) |b =.=. Ghyeeorc faroe Oe cjacivestoc|ssacsese coseck 1 29 00 1 Do.

July 27,19091)..... Cosa asl tesse GOs see wats lea cette seberton 1 13 00 2 | Official time test; machine
accepted.

July 30,19091)..... Gos ssi o-c52 GO vsecessds< LO amiles* see 14 00 2 | Official speed test; 42 miles
per hour.

Aug. 29,1909 }..... dQerettsi IBOT]TES siejeeecistsis| ies ciseisciamitate 15 00 1 | Many preliminary exhibi-
tions.

Sept. 4,1909 |...-- oe eee OO cincecosses (Gcesnen das secios 5500; 1

Sept. 8,1909 |..... (6 (Se eee ClO Ge aas on 6 baRarocnenornee 17 00 2) With Capt. Hildebrandt.

Sept. 9,1909 |..... Oats aratusees4 GOS ste sss-elecsasstecmmmmclen 15 00 2 | With Capt. Englehardt.

Sept. 17,1909 |..... dose cslees~5 GOs ceces to |ececace ae ssn soe 54 26 1 | In presence of Empress rose
to 565 feet.

Sept. 18,19091)..... (0 (a A ets! GOs ssssdas|Peesoc cheers 1 35 47 2 | With Capt. Englehardt.

Oct 231909)|2 206 dossiers sete GOe seem seen sestenienaeere 10 00 2 | With Crown Prince of Ger-
many.

Oct. 4,19091)..... dovassclessae G02 seme cee 21 miles...... 33 33 1 | Reached height of 1,600 feet;
unofficial world record.

A. SANTOS DUMONT.

Nov. 13,19061) Cellular....| Bagatelle.......- 720 feet.....-- 0 21 00 1 | First flight in Europe.

Nove 2721907/)| (Biplaness= | Issys-- 22 <.mcencs ONO feats s4-5|aaseaccke 1 | Made several flights.

Noy. 21,1907 | Monoplane.| Bagatelle........ 400 fete ss o54=\|saceattetars 1 Do.

Mar. 10,1909 |--..-.- Gosassa| sees. dose aeswace I S00HECE =u tes lacecenncrs 1 | With the Libellule.

Apr. 10,1909 |.-.-.- do. . SEs Cytiee snot U2) milesos).\os|s2a10o-00- 1 | With the Demoiselle.

June 19,1909 |.-.-... Gossie- =| ssyutes cc sscece= S20 ifeetia. = tesa leas aaiejeres 1 | Several other flights.

Sept. 13, 19091)......do.....- St. Cyr 2h. .2-- S.milesssz: - << 12 00 1 | St. Cyrto Buc to visit friend.

Sept. 17,19091)--.-=doss.-- -|5-.-- Oss scessasc 10 miles...... 16 00 1 | Across country.

LEON DELAGRANGE.

Mar. 16,1907 | Biplane....| Bagatelle........ SO feete2 32 ses Sascences 1 | First Voisin aeroplane.

Mar. 29,19081)..... do: Ghent eset -.25- ADS MOODS AY Aa/ailleimapine- cine 2! First flight with passenger
(Farman).

Apr. 11,1908 |..--- Gora sa|Wssyz2oceas cesses 2.43 miles....] 0 6 30 1 je Won Archdeacon cup.

May 27,1908 |----- do.. FROMO=. seen eee 7.90 miles....| 15 26 1 | In presence of King, ete.

June 22,1908 |..... doses e|| Milan. ee see se 10.50 miles....} 16 30 1 | Best flight on Italian trip.

July 8,19081)..... doz: UTIN Se nsec ca BOO Tet = seas el a acieeetee 2| First woman passenger
(Mrs. Peltier).

Sept 6,1908 |.--.-. GOs 22a MLSS Yas sienna asc’ 15.2 miles..... 29 53 1 | Beat then existing records.

May 23,1909 }..... GOs 2 | PU ULVISS Veiner ae ee 3.6 miles. .... 10 18 1 | Won Lagatineri prize.

June 12,1909 |..... Gotees=2|s45 5 (3 (oS a SPOMES ewenl naa ce os 1 } Circling across country.

Aug. 23,1909 | Monoplane.} Rheims.........|....-----.-..-- 11 4 1 | Woz tenth prize; speed.

Aug. 27,1909 |..... (6 fo Se eae (6 fe a SL MMeS eee |S 5ceacicele 1 | Won eighth prize; distance.

Sept. 15,1909 |..... dozscc2 IDONMATK siz, dista's nse masses esi e 15 00 1 | Before King, at Aarhus.

Oct. 16,1909 |..... do......| Doncaster....... 5.75 miles..... 11 25 1 | To keep crowd from grum-
bling.

Oct. 26,19091]..... Co Le yale rs (a peat ae 6Gmmiles... 24. 7 36 1 | Over 50 miles an hour.

97578°—sm 1910——11
162

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Chronology of memorable flights—Motor Aecroplanes—Continued.

HENRY FARMAN.

Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. er Remarks.
H.m.s
Oct s/26;1907) |" Biplanel-: 3) Tssy- 2222.22. see 258) feehss-cses 2h. 2s es 1 | First sweeps a half circle.
May 30,1908 ].-.-.- do eee. Ghentenec-e7- 2 Oxi7mmiles see ce cece 2 | With Mr. Archdeacon.
July srG 1908s. Goeeeme|- este (6 (0) eee om 12.2 miles....)019 3 1 | Won Armengaud prize.
Oct. 30,19081..... dossecc Chalonsess-oeeee Lj amilessos he 20 00 1 Cross-country, Chalons to
Rheims.
Oct. 31,1908 |..... Osea lanes (0 (ay pees let paeg rarest Bc 23 00} 1 | 82 feetaltitude; won prizes.
July 18,1909 |..... deere BOOBS OS HCtnetg 35] HSCGEaCneeEsSse 1 23 00 1 | His first long flight.
July 23,19091)..... COssece| ns -sdOsncccecee | 40 mniles S20 ot 1 500 1 | Cross-country, Chalons to
Suippe.
Aug. 27,19091)..... d0.<.--| Rheims ....---.|' LIZ miles.°_2- 3 457 1 | First prize for distance and
time up.
DOL se caceltaene Gla) Sood\Racse GliAqagacoete Gumiles 232 ee 10 00 3 | With 2 passengers; won
prize.
Oct. 3,19091]..... GOs se/sic IBOrIN ts esis est 62 miles=2+ 22. 1 40 00 1 | Won third prize, $960.
Oct. 1871909) |aa2-< dOescee Blackpool..-...- 14 miles.._... 23 00 1 | On first day of meeting.
Oct. 20,19091)..... COseece |e = = doze 2 oi - sr 47 miles..-... 1 32 16 1 | Won prize of $10,000.
Nov. 3,19091)..... doscmee Mourmelon..... 137.25 miles..| 4 6 25 1 | Said to be 150 miles; 4 hours
17 minutes 35 seconds.
LOUIS BLERIOT.
Aug. 6,1907 | Langley...-| Issy. 2 (1a (212 RESTA SCT 1 | His first attempt to circle.
July 4,1908 | Monoplane. Sifamiless 52 0 547 1 | Swept several circles.
Octs 251908" |saa2e doece- 4.25 miles.... 6 40 1 | At height of 65 feet
Oct. 31,1908 |....- do astels.26, 8.7miles= 2 ...< 11 00 1 | Toury to Artenay, landed.
Do piesee iene GO meme eae OOo cminioe esis taieie DOL Aeerteslicecacecn 1 | Artenay to Toury; inter-
mediate landing.
May 30,1909 |..-.. oO ee | WSS Vicsainmmimielta sel Sees Goze Ness|eetee wees 1 | Over adjoining fields.
June 12,19091)..... doje O84feob sea ki es cee eeee 3 | Santos Dumont and Four-
nier as passengers.
July 13,19094)..... dos saree 26 miles...... 44 30 1 | Etampes to Chevilly, cross-
country.
July 25,19091)..... d0-sse5 Szmiles_ wees 37 00 1 | First flight across British
Channel.
Aug. 28,19091)..... MO seco 6.3 miles.....| 7 48 1 | Won first prize speed for
6-mile trip.
Aug. 27,1909 |..... doe 25milesees ce 41 00 1 | Won ninth prize for distance
flown.
S. FE. CODY.
Feb. 22,1909 | Biplane....) Aldershot....... L200 feetactw =| -eximciatei= 1 | Ina12-mile wind.
May 14,1909 |...-- (6 fa) a aR Wl Baapneasor MH Oe eee Sacks siscte siaers 1 | On the Army biplane.
July 21,1909 |..-.-. GO seis | eens CO wacicie Ace.) SMS 22 een sacessene 1 | On rebuilt machine.
Aug. 29,1909 |..... Go scree sosecd0ccuccccene 1Omiles scot el sace sacs 2] With passenger in three
flights.
Sept. 8,1909!)..... dose de.|seee e00. dccccese-| 40 niles. oe. 1 300 1 | Circuit to Farnborough and
return.
Sept. 11,1909 |..... Cian Patee 5 Co ey us eal a BER eat bh Se nee 1 | Before Empress Eugenie.
Oct. 16,1909 |..... dotecs= Doncaster....... 3,000 Te6b 2. tes |ecas-ciems 1 | Machine wrecked; aviator

hurt.

PROGRESS IN AVIATION—CHANUTE.

163

Chronology of memorable flights—Motor Aeroplanes—Continued.

MOORE-BRABAZON.

Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. eer Remarks.
H.m.s

Jan. 28,1909 | Biplane....| Chalons.......-.- Selmilesse ges eee eee 1 | Learning use of Voisin ma-

chine.

Feb. 24,1909 |.-..-. doss5-- TSsy soccee so ale 7nc08l CCE ae Aenea 1 | Swept over two circles.

Feb. 28,1909 |..... dOwsancle-cee dO sa sces- 325 ZO MES saaoelbaocee cies 1 | Several flights.

Avpr. “30;1909) |... - does. England’. 2.2222 A-5:milesssascloss02 cece 1 | Gradually improves per-

formances.

Oct. 30,1909 |..... Gls Soe Slits Nstenveal ee! Beagusdsccsoccs Padosoase 1 | Won Daily Mail $5,000 prize
| for flight with a British
| machine.

L. F. FERBER.

Atig.. 841908") Biplane! s..|Issyo.2o ses--50-|- cea mecsstecs c| accesses 1 | First trials with motor ma-

chine.

Sept. 19,1908 |..--- does es 225 (6 (eee Soe 1640 feets.e sleecacseee 1 | His aeroplane No. 9.

June 13,1909 |..... dost. dhthas oe eeeeoge 3.1 miles... .- 0 530 1 | Ona Voisin machine.

Sept. 15,19091)..... dosis =). Boulogne......-. Gmailesess. 222 9 00 1 | Boulogne to Wimeroux.

Sept. 22,1909 |..... doom. | seca dossier ccctee Tomilles = 324cc|5s0sc=-= = 1 | Landed in ditch; killed.

ESNAULT PELTERIE.
Octsel95907) sMonoplanes|) Bucs. n225- 52 oss) =ce cesicnicsaceee access see|taeee First short flights.
June 8,1908 |..... ORS er eee dose ass cee O:7Zoumilesss. o|sactoeess 1 | At height of 100 feet.
HUBERT LATHAM.

May 19,1909 | Monoplane.| Chalons......... i 6400ceteesen|se-se-2- 1 | Begins operating the Antoi-

nette.

June 5,1909 |..... Os 222 5i4|2 356 e0Oses22kseecls ss ccesancees ass 1 | In wind and rain; breaks

record.

June 6,1909 |..... doS:=--- JUNISVR eee ce ee LOpmulesee neue sseesseee 1 | Cross-country flight.

June 12,1909 }...-- 0 (Seen Bema (o Seeeciarc ace 30 miles...... 39 00 1 | Won Goupy prize.

July 19,19091)..... 0:2. 22 Calais... 5.2205 Tht sable <8 Bepocecoe 1 | Over British Channel; fell

in sea.

July 27,19091)..... Ores alan GOseseccce sea cOsmiles. 2. oo | sce sseee 1 | British Channel; fell near

Dover.

Aug. 26,19091)..... dovsens Rheims so22 se 96 miles.....-. 218 9 1 | Won second prize for dis-

tance.

Aug.. 27,19091)..... C0 CBS eee Lorre ran arial Meer ey ces Se eee 1 | Won first prize; altitude, 508

feet.

Sept. 27,19091)..... do%2=--|sberlin=..- = -aee\ 6.5 miles. .... 13 00 1 | Across suburbs of Berlin.

Sept. 29, 1909 |..-.. C6 (SS Sonn lo PAS Seale beth aah espa he 1 10 00 1 | Won second prize for dis-

tance.

Sept 30, 1909 |....- dows soelee =e Go-eeesceee 51 miles.....- 1 23 00 1 | Machine broken in landing.

Oct. 22, 19091)..... doseene Blackpool. shen \leceesatastemes laceceecs © 1| Flew in gale; won prize,

$1,500.

Nov. 19, 1909 |..-..- dogesec Chalonsis sop esse eee 10 00 1 | Rose 1,345 feet, competing,

Weiler prize.
Deen 151909) |: ose do!2-+. |p Monrmeloniass = 2|y.sseeeones se eal oe ce ceee 1} Rose 1,500 feet in 40-mile

wind.

164

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Chronology of memorable flights—Motor Aeroplanes—Continued.

LOUIS PAULHAN.

Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. eer Remarks.
H.m.s.

July 10, 19091} Biplane....| Douai.....-..--- LOR mMilese-e wee ee 1 | His very first flight.

July 15, 1909 |----- dos. se al-ases GOP ees Sosa oe eee hee ae 11700 1 | Reached altitude of 357 feet.

July 19, 19091|----- do.....|....- do.....-..-- 12.1 miles....] 2253] 1 Cross-country, Douai to
Arras.

July 23, 1909 |----- GOSsc<3| see GOl2-cascses 43.5 miles....| 1 17 19 1 | Official allowance, 30 miles.

Aug. 6, 1909 |----- doe. DunKergQueyccrc|o esac ct ed sone 18 20 1 | Altitude, 200 feet.

Aug. 7, 1909 |----- do.....|....- do......---- 23 miles...... 33 00 | 1} Ona Voisin biplane.

Aug. 24, 1909 |----- dopenne Rheims-_------- 18.6 miles....] 38 12 1 | Altitude, 295 feet.

Aug. 25, 1909 1|.---- Cl Reay beaee ee eece de 81 miles...... 2 43 24 1 | Won third prize for distance.

Sept. 9, 1909 |----- dOsese- TowEnaie-=-oeeee 12.4 miles._.. 17 00 1 | Two cross-country flights.

Sept.13, 19091]-.... GD sooelfacoe- Clip aca socote! bsdenembesdecar 135 00| 1 | Tournai to Taintignies and
return.

Sept.17, 1909 |----- do sae28 Ostend (eee -.-a-- 1.24 miles... - 3 16 1 | Circled over sea.

Sept. 18, 1909 |-.--- (CO eee) Bocee (0 (RPE Seo re ee nee nee A tea 1 | Over sea front; won $5,000
prize.

Oct. 10, 1909 |----- do s-22: Port Aviation ..| 21.5 miles....| 21 48 1 | Flew over line of the stands.

Oct. 12, 1909 |----- doserse| Sea. GOES siaiesec 3.6 miles... .. 6 11 1 | Won prize for slowest flight,
$600.

Oct. 18, 1909 |----- do! as-- Blackpool. ...-.- 14 miles...... 25 53 1 | On first day of Blackpool
meeting.

Oct. 19, 1909 1)----- dosse ieee do.cseee=e- 15.75 miles...) 3218 1 | Won third prize for dis-
tance, $1,400.

Nov. 19, 1909 |----- doseeey CB a TOMS rer ie Sa aed eee ey A EA a eer 1 | Rose 1,210 feet, competing,
Weiler prize.

Nov. 20, 1909 1)-.--- Goisso=2 Mourmelon.....- 37 miles.-..... 55 00 1 | Chalons and return. Rose
nearly 1,000 feet.

ROGER SOMMER

July 4,1909 | Biplane....| Chalons......... Bs (OL CS erates =a eee hte 1 | On Farman’s new machine,

July 18,1909 |-..-- dO: sceeleeeee GO esses se) Ben cnee Sse ie 1 400 1 | Longest of several flights.

July 27,19091)..... 5 Lo Re ee Goza= 25 miles ....-. 1 23 30 1 | To Vadenay and back.

ATIe 5 wl LOD9) |e a= Oh) S-as5|baacs GO Sesecss Sees | =o ecg sine 1 50 30 1 | Beats all French records. _

Aug. 2,19091)..... CO Se Aloe a= doz.a-= Oimiless-s-e-- 12 00 1 | ToSuippes; 45miles an hour.

Aug. 4,1909 |....- GOnccces | heen! GO sdesienctetealstwisesesclcieeners 2 010 1 | Trying to beat Wright’s
record.

Aug. 7,19091]..... GOls5-2|5=-=2 GOs sana cot sel|e neice sees see eee 227 15 1 | Beats Wright’s record of
Dee. 31, 1908.

Aug. 22,1909 |..... dos seni Rheims i a5 el oa mace ee seers = 119 33 1 | On first day of Reims tour-
nament.

Aug. 27,1909 |..... co oe ell Eee Gocce cee Dy AMIUES Seater eee eer 1 | Won seventh prize for dis-
tance.

Sept. 6,1909 |..... GO... Nancy. foc. eee 25 miles. ..... 35 00 1 | Also made flights with pas-
sengers.

Sept. 10,1909 |..... GOsces-s Pena Gin sashes AS anilese ss see |seeeeeee 1 | Accompanies troops on re-
view.

Sept. 11,1909 |..... dove ce slene ec GOesee eae 2a milesee eas sess. 1 | Nancy to Lenoncourt.

Oct. 1651909222 52 G0ssce-- Doncaster... .... 9.7 miles.....- 21 45 1 | Best flight in Great Britain
to date.

Oct. 26,19091)..... GOrsscsalbaee GOsrecoc tae 29.7 miles....| 44 58 1 | Won Whitworth cup.

PROGRESS IN AVIATION—-CHANUTE.

165

Chronology of memorable fiights—Motor Aeroplanes—Continued.

M. ELLEHAMMER.

Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. eee Remarks.
H.m.s
1906-1909... . Biplane s2 Denmar ks]. o265| 15. -1eee eee ao | sasteesee 1 | Experience with varied suc-
cess.
|
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL.

ON —1909 we ee cise hee Bad dee kes a 2 syscall Seeey ecules ee toee |e at rare Ue ae gee Experiments; tetrahedral

machine.
COUNT DE LAMBERT.

areata GO9R | MES 1p lane sree AUT ope He terse este ere ne 0 300 1 | First flight alone; Wright’s
pupil.

Mar. 24,1909 |....-. dors s|t S226 (6 (oe ee 15.6 miles..... 27 11 1 | Wins Aero Club prize for 250
meters.

Mar. 27,1909 |..... (sto Sate arene GO ee aceon ae 7 56 1 | Flies beyond experimental
field.

Apr. 13,1909 |..... GOvsee ee eess GOW 255 sees |: Mee Waders accer 1 30 2 | With Delagrange as passen-
ger.

Aug. 26,19091)..... dose! Rioimseesaes. =: 72 miles=..... 1 52 00 1 | Won fourth prize; distance.

Oct. 18,19091)..... do.. UULVISSYseeee eee Siimiles see se 49 39 1 | To Eiffel Tower and back
across Paris.

Oct. 2U1909! |---2 2 Goseseoe Port Aviation .-.} 1.25 miles.-..- 1 57 1 | Wins $3,000 prize for speed.

PAUL TISSANDIER.

May 20,1909 | Biplane....| Pau............. BOs TOES soa | eee Pupil of W. Wright.

Aug. 22,1909 |..... doeanee Ue S aa eeerae 18.6 miles. ...| 0 29 00 1 | Won third prize for speed
over 30 kilometers.

Aug. 27,19091)..... (lo ears (aeeate GOs anisate see 69 miles...... 1 46 32 1 | Won sixth prize for distance
flown.

E. LEFEBVRE

July 21,1909 | Biplane....| La Haye........ 2 TMES SPs. 13 | Seo eee 1 | Self taught on Wright ma-
chine.

Aug. 27,19091)..... do.. Riheinseseseesee 12.4 miles. ...| 0 20 47 1 | Shows great boldness and
skill.

Aug. 28,1909 |..... GOs eeetctses GOA aes Saat Scie seresece. aaa 115 2 | Performs evolutions with
passenger.

Sept. 7,1909 |..... do: si22 ULLVASSY/seee eee 1 800 fe6t Sosa. |=. 2- 5552 = 1 | Upset and killed.

MARIO CALDERARA

April 28,1909 | Biplane... ROMEZ a saciac ee aal Weems see 0 10 00 1 | Pupil of W. Wright.

May 6,1909 |..... doweereledeee Gin ea a eles cer ae Nera [ARE 1 | Upset and hurt.

Sept. 12,1909 |..... donee | IBYese lat sae ee GsSeMUES eet oseete cee 2 | One passenger; won prize.

Sept. 15, 19091)..... doses apa (6 Co ete ee ee GW iacoht CCN al ae ee 2 | Won Oldofredl prize.

_ Sept. 20,19091)..... doziesss | te ee do 31 miles... ..- 50 51 1 | Wonsecond prize for speed.

166

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

Chronology of memorable flights—Motor Aecroplanes—Continued.

GLEN H. CURTISS.

Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. He Remarks.
A.m.s

July 4,19081) Biplane....| Hammondsport-| 5,090 feet..... 0 1 42 1 | Wins Scientific American
cup.

Dye LS; OOO) |e cate dos ene Mineola........- 1.5 miles..... 3 00 1 | Tuning up Aeronautic So-
ciety machine.

July 17,1909 |..... ON aS Rann s (Che oeaG 15 miles.....- 21 00 1 | Described figure 8.

July 18,1909 |..... (6 ames ses 0 en See ae 3s0smilese S52 tr 2 30 1 | Official distance, 25 miles.

July 24,19091)..... co (oral ee GO saccecweee 25 miles.....- 52 30 1 | Second winning Scientific
American cup.

Aug. 24,1909 }..... dome Rheims. ....--.- 6.2 miles. ..-- 8 35 1 | Wins second prize; speed
over 10 kilometers.

Aug. 25,1909 |..... doe. 252-258 dolsessssse 6.2 miles... .- 8 11 1 | Bleriot is 7 seconds faster.

Aug, 26,1909 |..... does eee. 2 Gol eeeice sens 19 miles...... 29 00 1 | Wins tenth prize; distance
and speed.

Aug. 28,19091)..... Gos. .25|e-'5-5 GOs. nia ee ons 12.4miles....| 15 56 1 | Wins Gordon Bennett cup.

Aug. 29,19091/..... GOswawe|ss25- Oz <<) 2-255 18.6 miles....} 23 30 1 | Wins first prize, speed over
30 kilometers.

Dovssiesa| esos Coe Bsa eteae doses eet 6.2 miles. .... iol 1 | Wins second prize, speed

over 10 kilometers.

Sept, 11,1909 |-..-.do....- Brescia. s=.- <= - 31 miles...... 49 24 1 | Wins first prize for speed.

Sept. 29,1909 |..... GOz% eee INew, Yiorkseetiile cnccmteopeees|s-c cameos 1| Flights about Governors
Island.

Oct. 10,1909 |....- doseeee St: owls: 22 S4cccce cee ccc se= een sesele acne 1 | Flights at Centennial cele-
bration.

Oct: 16;1909'|----- donee: (Chicago.2..5. =e. Lmile.2<2. 22: 1 30 1 | Exhibition flights.

J. A. D. McCURDY.

May 18,1908 | Biplane....| Hammondsport.| 600 feet.......|....-..-- 1 | With the White Wing.

July 4,1908 |...-. GOccosen lane: doz... 2 io; 420 MOR G 2 rene eeetoe anys 1 | With the June Bug.

Feb. 23,1909 |..... G0sses-2 Baddeck.......- 2 G40 featheeene allen scee a 1 | With the Silver Dart.

Feb. 24,1909 }..... Govescre Resse dOeze-5 BV Aco eS see sere eae 1 Do.

Mar. 11,1909 |. ---- (6 (oS es ee ee (o (yeas pl Oamileses saat 0 22 00 1 Do.

Mar. 18,1909 |..... 6h) ses5e leew dose NGimileshe sa | Sees a 1 | Aggregate of 1,000 miles.

VN tame) 0 2) Re Petawawa..-2---|| cOmilesteeas ie 1 | Many flights; broke ma-
chine.

LE BLON

Oct. 18,1909 | Monoplane.| Doncaster... -..-.- Pa TONES aes eee 0 30 00 1 | On Bradford cup; flew in
rain.

Oct. 19,1909 }....- Gos... ie dOuesce Lormiles zee se ee se ee 1 | Astonishing flight in a gale.

Oct: 20; 19094. =. - dO... re Ob beeds Ac sem Meters Samrat [eeeinaiee ee 1 | Foolhardy flight in great
gale.

F. W. BALDWIN.

Mar. 12,1908 | Biplane....| Hammondsport.| 319 feet.......|......--- 1 | With the Red Wing.

May 18,1908 |..... Contes sole fdOt en eee ce acl Le at pees nee tel | Cee ae sone 1 | With the White Wing.

Mar. 18,1909 |...-.. MOseaase Baddecke ues Alle ee pate ene ae) neeeeeione 1 | With the Silver Dart.

SATE ee OOM eer doteers: IPOtAWAWALccsettlleces coset eters |i cet acere 1 | Several short flights.

PROGRESS IN AVIATION—-CHANUTE.

167

Chronology of memorable flights—Motor Aecroplanes—Continued.

LEGAGNEUX.
Date. Machine. Place. Distance. Time. eee Remarks.
H.m.8.
Feb. 14,1909 | Biplane....| Mourmelon......| 1.2 miles.....]......-.. 1 | Pupil of Ferber.
Doses see doieee = dOnsens SMa anil Soa sasaneshe 1 | Sweeps two circles.
Apr. 27,1909 |....- dors.) Viennaeecuee.<. = 2.9 IMUes= <2 == 0 3 26 1 | Ona Voisin machine.
Aug. 6,1909 |....- dols..--| Stockholms :--=. S280 Hee Geese |ase esas = 2 | With a passenger.
Aug. 22,1909 |...-. Gosseene Rheims'..... Ganiles ease 9 56 1 | Won eighth prize for speed
over 6 miles.
HENRI ROUGIER.
May 23,1909 |} Biplane....| Juvissy........- TSiGamilesss lees = 1 | Swept eleven circles.
Aug. 29,1909 |...-- Gomeses RPSIMNS css acoaet teehee ote see eo oe acnes sas 1 | Won fourth prize; altitude
; 180 feet.
Sept. 9,1909 }..... doseeese Bresciad usec soeerels et seiee rece 0 12 10 1 | Reached 328 feet altitude.
Sept. 12,19091)..... AO seses-|s- 255 Goeeene Siemilessoe os: 110 18 1 | Reached 380 feet altitude.
Sept. 20,19091)..... GOisessa|a-- 2 GOvsetSessnce |S sesee ce are acess cemsaice 1 | Reached 650 feet altitude.
Sept. 28,19091)..... Gonnare Berlin... 31 miles... ..- 54 00 1 | Rises to 518 feet.
Sept. 29,1909 |..... Gow cess |sa-- Gozt=ce 22 (48milesass— 4. 1 35 00 1|In competition with
Latham.
OCs | Lt9Q9H ey. 2 Osea | eee Ganeaes -| 80 miles......} 2 38 00 1 | Wins first prize, distance.
Oct: 18,1909 }_ =. Goscsa:2 Blackpools=.---- 17.7 miles....| 24 43 1 | Wins second prize, $3,600.
E. BUNAU-VARILLA.
PANIED 909)|) Biplane 2: 3)\Chalons's-ca. .2.4| sss aeesee = 0 15 00 1 | Voisin biplane presented by
father.
Aug. 22,1909 |..... Gote-s== UNOS eee 6.2 miles....- 13 30 1 | Thirteenth prize for speed
for 10 kilometers.
Aug. 29,1909 |....- GOSasene poe Ot neces | USO esas | mo ooL 1 | Eighth prize for speed for 30

kilos.

1 Considered the most interesting flights on record.
PROGRESS IN RECLAMATION OF ARID LANDS IN THE
WESTERN UNITED STATES.*

[With 12 plates.]

By I’. H. Neweti, Director of Reclamation Service.

PRESENT CONDITIONS.

The progress being made by the United States Government in the
reclamation of arid lands under the terms of the so-called Recla-
mation or Newlands Act of June 17, 1902, has been notable, and the
results as accomplished are instructive to students of engineering and
economics. The plans and hopes have been touched upon in previous
discussions, but the time has now arrived when more tangible con-
clusions are becoming available. The work is in an instructive stage
in that it is possible to observe the results of the practical application
of ideals of conservation and the working out of these in communities
of considerable size.

Reclamation works have been laid out in all of the Western
States and Territories and an investment of over $60,000,000 has
been made. Part of the works in each State has been completed
and is being operated, returning a part of the cost. About 10,000
families are being supplied with water. Most of these have come
from the humid regions and have located upon tracts of land which
formerly were considered valueless, and in portions of the country
which were called desert. In short, by the use of a trust fund which
is being returned and used over again, the waste waters of the Nation
are being conserved, destructive floods prevented, apparently value-
less land converted into highly productive farms, and thousands of
families settled upon small tracts sufficient for their support. To
this extent relief is being given to the tendency toward congestion
in the industrial centers and home markets are being extended. The
farmer located upon a small irrigated tract owned and cultivated by
himself necessarily practices intensive farming, produces the highest

1 This article is in continuation of papers printed in the Smithsonian Reports for 1901,

pp. 407 to 423; 1903, pp. 827 to 841; 1904, pp. 8738 to 381; 1907, pp. 331 to #45.
169
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

crop value per acre, is a large consumer as well as producer, and be-
comes the most valuable citizen in the stability of the commonwealth.

The individual projects are located far apart and the engineering
problems connected with them are varied and many of them novel
and difficult. They have not been confined to any one branch of en-
gineering, but include not merely the ordinary surveying and prac-
tice of civil engineering, with planning and construction, but reach
out into hydraulics, to electrical development and transmission of
power and the use of the power in pumping water and incidentally
in commercial enterprises, the manufacture of cement, and of various
structures, large and small, together with the safe and economical
handling of explosives, the digging and maintaining of tunnels, and
innumerable mechanical operations.

Joined with the engineering has been the business side. This in-
volves not merely the expenditure of the trust fund and the getting
of the largest possible return for it, but also the careful accounting
for all expenditures in terms of value received. It has not been the
custom for work under Government auspices to be measured in the
ordinary commercial way by returns. On the contrary, it has been
usual to state simply that so much money has been appropriated and
spent. Thus data are lacking for comparison of relative efficiency
under Government and under corporate enterprise in most compa-
rable operations, but in the use of the reclamation fund this side of
the work has been made prominent.

The engineering and business problems have been met and suc-
cessfully solved. The most difficult undertaking, however, is that
incident to the stage of progress now being entered upon, namely,
the operating side which involves successful dealing with the human
as opposed to the physical elements. This means the tactful han-
dling of thousands of individuals, collecting from them in small
payments the original cost of the works, they in turn deriving this
money from the sale of products of the soil, and at the same time
operating the works in such way that the best results in crop pro-
duction may be attained, also maintaining the structures so that ulti-
mately, after having been paid for, they may be turned over to the
landowners in the best possible condition.

The object of the reclamation act, as stated in the law is the con-
struction of irrigation works for the reclamation of arid or semi-
arid lands in the States and Territories named in the act. But the
purpose behind the mere reclamation of the land is the providing of
opportunities for homes for an independent self-supporting citizen-
ship. The law is not drawn for the purpose of making men rich,
but for providing opportunities for citizens who have the skill,
energy, and thrift sufficient to make use of the opportunities for se-

?
RECLAMATION OF ARID LANDS—-NEWELL. 171

curing a home for themselves and for their children; one in which
the family may be supported; and one where with the growth of the
country and increased land values, it will be possible for an in-
creasing number of families to maintain themselves upon subdi-
visions of the original farms.

Thus far the wisdom of the framers of the act has been demon-
strated, and it has been shown that, with wise administration, the
law is proving of inestimable value to the States and to the Nation.
From time to time, it is necessary to make improvements or changes
in the organic law, such as are inseparable with growth, but as a
whole this act has proved remarkably complete.

CHARACTER OF SETTLERS,

The character of the citizens who have taken up lands on these
projects under terms of the homestead act, or have purchased them
from the original occupants, is as varied as can well be imagined.
Characterizing them as a whole, it may be said that they include
the more energetic and venturesome part of the population, such
as largely make up all pioneer communities; men who have the
desire for the novelty and for change deeply planted in their charac-
ter, who are wearied of the monotony of the old familiar life, and are
attracted by the remote and unknown. Among them are many me-
chanics, shopkeepers, and clerks, who have had a longing to get
into the open air, and who through energy and self-denial have saved
a little money. Others are young farmers who can not find land
near the old home and who wish to try their fortunes in the West.
Others who come from nearer irrigated States, where the price of
land has increased rapidly, and by selling the old farm for a high
price they can obtain land equally as good at far less cost.

The would-be irrigators come from every part of the civilized
earth but are mainly Americans. There are some men of the Latin
races, Spanish and Italians, also Germans and the northern races,
English, and Irish, a mingling of the white men of every variety
of religious belief and of political affiliations.

As might be imagined, the population in the first few years is
largely transitional. The same qualities which bring a man to a
project tend to make him leave it. He has heard of all the good
things, has read the roseate descriptions of irrigation, its benefits,
but the drawbacks have never been brought to his attention. It is
hardly to be wondered that many of the people who take up irriga-
tion for the first time suddenly awake to the fact that it is not wholly
a matter of sunshine and flowers, and that for success energy, skill,
and thrift are required. In order to get well started on an irrigated
2, ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

farm a man must have not only good fortune but must be prepared to
endure privations which he would not be willing to consider at home;
doing this, however, with the assurance that the reward ultimately
will be correspondingly great.

This awakening to the fact that irrigation has its thorny side some-
times comes as a startling shock, sufficient to discourage all but the
most enthusiastic or persistent, and the more faint hearted seek still
farther for the promised land. Those who remain soon learn that
success must be preceded by subduing the soil, getting it into a good
condition of tilth, supplying the necessary nitrates and perhaps the
phosphates, applying water day or night, and perhaps all night,
wading around in the mud, or enduring the heat of the long days of
brilliant sunshine and the accompanying dust of the arid regions,
the troubles with neighbors over division of water, the possible seep-
age followed by crop losses, or ruin from alkali. All of these look
very large at first to the man who has never given them thought, but
they gradually fade again as time goes on and experience is at-
tained.

As a consequence of these conditions a considerable part of the first
settlers on every irrigation system sell out or relinquish their home-
steads and seek other fields.

The second comer is more apt to stay. He has usually looked over
the field in advance with considerable care and has weighed the dis-
advantages more carefully than his predecessor, but sometimes he
in turn sells to a third comer, who may be regarded as the final
locator.

The first and sometimes the second man has reaped more or less of
a reward for the discomforts of pioneering. He has obtained the
land for nothing or at very small cost, has, it is true, endured priva-
tions for a time, but has received an otherwise unearned increment in
land values, due to construction of the works by the investment of
capital not his own. Thus, if his land has cost him directly or indi-
rectly $1 or $2 an acre, he usually sells it for $20 or $30 an acre, the
final purchaser paying a reasonable amount for the land, but nearly
what it is worth. The purchaser approaches the undertaking on the
basis of a thorough appreciation of values and possibilities involved.
He has not rushed in as have many of the pioneers because of the
feeling that he was getting something for nothing, but on the con-
trary has carefully weighed the advantages and disadvantages and
has paid a fair price with the knowledge that he must get his money
back out of the land itself. With him it has not been a vision of
comfort or luxury, but a realization of hard work involving certain
risks, though with reasonable assurances of success.
RECLAMATION OF ARID LANDS—NEWELL. Wis

SIZE OF FARM.

The size of the farms obtainable from the public domain is defined
by the reclamation act not by an arbitrary number of acres, as in the
case of the homestead and other similar laws, but the Secretary of the
Interior is required to give a “limit of area per entry, which limit
shall represent the acreage which in the opinion of the Secretary may
be reasonably required for the support of a family upon the lands in
question.”

With reference to the right to the use of water sold for lands in
private ownership, the limit is placed at 160 acres “ to any one land-
owner, and no such sale shall be made to any landowner unless he be
an actual bona fide resident on such land or occupant thereof, resid-
ing in the neighborhood.” These provisions necessitate a study in
advance of the character of the irrigable land, so that it may be
divided into tracts in accordance with its quality, each of these farm
units being of a size reasonably required when irrigated and culti-
vated for the support of a family.

In the extreme southern part of the arid region, where the daily
sunlight and warmth is most favorable for the production of crops,
it results that where the land is carefully tilled, where it has been
put into high-grade crops, and especially in fruit, 10 acres may be
ample for the support of a family. This is because of the fact that
with intensive cultivation, crop follows crop in rapid succession,
there being hardly any interval for rest during the year. Alfalfa,
for example, may be cut eight or ten times, while there may be three
successive crops during the year of grains or vegetables.

Farther north, where the summer season is limited, and there is a
long cold winter, the area required for a family is correspondingly
greater. With alfalfa and sugar beets, 40 acres may be considered a
fairly good sized farm, as, for example, in the more favorable parts
of Montana, and elsewhere, 80 acres is usually the limit. Few men
can handle successfully over 80 acres of irrigated land, especially
with high-priced water.

In laying out the farm units it is necessary to follow the conven-
tional rectangular system adopted by the Government, of which the
section, or 1 square mile, of 640 acres is the unit, and the quarter
section of 160 acres is the size of the homestead entry. The smallest
subdivision ordinarily recognized is the quarter-quarter section, or
40-acre tract, commonly known as a “ forty.” This in turn in the
irrigated regions is again divided into quarter-quarter-quarters, or
10-acre tracts, this smaller subdivision not being generally recognized
in the Land Office tracts.

Not all of any quarter section or even of the “ forty” is usually
irrigable, Generally the farm unit consists of, say, 80 acres in all,

’
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

of which 48 or 52 acres or some other number may be irrigable.
The charge for water is apportioned according to the number of
irrigable acres, irrespective of the total of the farm unit. This farm
may extend across the canal to an extreme size of 160 acres, of which
a portion may be dry land above the reach of water and a portion
irrigable.

REQUIREMENT OF SETTLEMENT.

The requirement of actual settlement on the reclaimed land has
been one which has led to much discussion and has been the cause of
much of the hardship incident to pioneering. The theory of the law
as originally passed was that the Government, investing this trust
fund without profit and interest, does this for the purpose of securing
settlement in the more sparsely populated western States. The
prime object was not so much to enrich these localities or States as
to secure resident citizens, who would not only cultivate the soil and
become producers but would build up the institutions of the State,
make roads, organize schools, and add to the strength of the Com-
monwealth.

If, however, the Government were to reclaim the lands and permit
men living in near-by cities, or even in Chicago or New York, to pur-
chase or hold these lands, cultivating them through tenants, the main
object of the bill would be defeated. It would amount practically
to lending this money without profit or interest to a favored few.
Assuming, for example, that the proportional cost of reclaiming a
40-acre farm was $30 an acre, this would be $1,200 invested by the
Government for the benefit of some one family. This $1,200 is to be
repaid in 10 annual installments by the landowner. If he prefers
to live in the city, and rents the use of the land to some other indi-
vidual, this renter will have little or no interest in the permanent
improvement and in development of the land and of the community.
if either man is to be benefited by this loan of the Government, it
should be the renter on the farm rather than the big or little capi-
talist living in town.

For this reason the resident clause has been held to be vital to
the object of the act, although it has caused much hardship through
the requirement that men bring their families out into the desert and
live there throughout the early years of preparation. From the
standpoint of a man working in a store or machine shop, a teacher
or professional man, the idea is extremely attractive of getting one
of these homesteads from the Government, visiting it occasionally,
adding improvements, and hiring a man to look after it until the
community has been built up and the days of pioneering have passed.
His monthly savings can be put into the little farm and provision
made for the future without interfering with his daily wage-earning
RECLAMATION OF ARID LANDS—-NEWELL. 175

capacity.. It seems to him a useless hardship to be compelled either
to give up the farm or to go and live upon it, and he urges that if
he be allowed to hold the farm and invest his savings in it he can
in the end bring about a higher development than would be possible
if he spent all his time on the farm itself.

There is, however, no way of distinguishing between the small
investor and the large, and if the school-teacher has the right to
enjoy absentee landlordism, so has the man of larger means. Thus
it would soon happen that the bounty of the Government would be
enjoyed by people of comparative wealth and leisure, renting their
farms to the class of men who are most needed as resident owners.

CROPS.

The crops planted by the settlers are as varied as are the farmers
themselves and the climatic surroundings. They naturally endeavor
to raise the things with which they are familiar and are somewhat
slow in adapting their methods to the requirements of the soil and
climate. As a rule, grain is planted first, as it is a quick crop and it
is possible to realize an early return from the new ground. The
experienced irrigator endeavors to get a small part of the land into
alfalfa as quickly as possible, knowing that it enriches the soil.
With his first grain crop he sows on part of his land some alfalfa
seed and if the stand is good he leaves this small tract in alfalfa for
a few years, cultivating the remaining areas and adding each year to
the alfalfa tract until the time arrives when he can plow in the alfalfa
which was first planted, turning the plants under to enrich the soil,
then cultivating it and planting to root crops (pl. 6, fig. 2).

One of the problems with the lighter and sometimes better soils is
to hold these in place until the crops are established. The desert
vegetation, the sagebrush and greasewood, while undisturbed protect
the soil from the winds, but, as has been shown by bitter experience
again and again, when these plants are removed and the ground is
plowed the winds of early spring sweeping furiously across the dry
level field blow the soil away in clouds, carrying off the seed (pl. 1,
pie gul)i:

It requires a few incidents of this kind to convince the newcomer
that it is wise to follow the advice given him not to clear his entire
farm at once, but to leave rows of sagebrush across the path of the
prevailing spring winds. He soon appreciates that it is little short of
wicked to burn the sagebrush, and instead of piling it for destruction
he learns to leave it in long windrows, cultivating the places between
until the ground is well shaded by the growing crop and the roots
have been firmly established, then he can remove the remaining sage-
brush or windbreaks and get his entire field into crop. Ina few years,
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1910.

by careful handling, the light soil becomes reasonably compacted, or
held back by the roots and straw of the vegetation, or protected by
the growing trees and shrubbery, so that no further damage is
incurred.

PROBLEMS.

These problems of dealing with the settlers, of giving them sound
advice, and at the same time collecting from them the cost of the
works, involve the problems which are far more difficult than
those of engineering construction or related business manage-
ment. The difficulties of management are complicated by the
fact that the irrigator frequently regards his individual interest as
antagonistic to that of the community or management, insisting upon
wasting water because of the mistaken belief that the more of a good
thing he has the better. He thus gradually reduces the value of
his land or ruins it and that of his neighbors, contesting stubbornly
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

~1-- 4 4 -- Tek See PO Pe 1 ee Pa eb? ty Ie 0 SR LS

= dS a =
every effort at economy and wise management, because it interferes
with his convenience, He has paid for water ad he wants all he has

ea co Bi d's ~—--1----*- 4 My DES ee ee NO ee = ee ee
eer a PO ITS Na TE SIDE ARES Sp BES eS ia ey Pe MY PLL
