uiites AY

Vie

shir Ch Ga) "

42D ConGREss, | HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Doc.
3d Session. ; No. 107.

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTTPUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1872.

rr ee

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
IES) (536
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
February 3, 1873.

The following resolution, originating in the Senate December 20, 1872, was agreed to
by the House of Representatives January 31, 1875.

Resolved, (the House of Representatives concurring,) That twelve thousand five hun-
dred additional copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1872, be
printed ; twenty-five hundred of which shall be for the use of the Senate, five thousand
for the use of the House, and five thousand for the use of the Institution: Provided,
That the aggregate number of pages of said report shall not exceed four hundred and
fifty, and that there shall be no illustrations except those furnished by the Smithsonian
Institution.

Attest :

GEORGE C. GORHAM, Sceretary.
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1872.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 20, 1873.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year 1872.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. 8. CoLFax,
President of the Senate.
Hon. J. G. BLAINE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1872.

This document contains: 1. The programme of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution. 2. The annual report of the Secretary, giving
an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the
year 1872, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &c.
3. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1872, and the estimates for 1873.
4, The proceedings of the Board of Regents. 5. A general appendix,
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from foreign
journals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteor-
ologists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others inter-
ested in the promotion of knowledge.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES S. GRANT.....-- President of the United States, ex-officio Presiding Officer
of the Institution.

SALMON P. CHASE....-.. Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution, President of the Board of Regents.

MOSHE LEVI NR Coes bose Secretary (or Director) of the Institution.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

St: 124 (BUNS eS Seeoes soeede Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board.
S. COLFAX .......-...---. Vice-President of the United States.
HENRY D. COOKE ....--.Governor of the District of Columbia.

ity SURO UB ON WI Bees pooeae Member of the Senate of the United States.
JeWe SLEVWENSON =o. ---1 Member of the Senate of the United States.
FEI EV AUN stab a occcicincise< Member of the Senate of the United States.
dio 2\e (Geel MOM FID SEASy Sooe Member of the House of Representatives,
iene OUTAINID 2s satenie asics Member of the House of Representatives.
Sh So (OCD. ies see ee Member of the House of Representatives.
Wi Be PASI ORs csse mee acc Citizen of New York.

PD aWiO OLSEN saeeeric sc Citizen of Connecticut.

NGAGAS SIZ a sot serene ose Citizen of Massachusetts.

JOHN MACLEAN......... Citizen of New Jersey.

JEIDUM Me, JeysUed Odes oon ao sear Citizen of Washington.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN ..Citizen of Washington.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.
PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

(WiSa GIVAINEY 3 se <.nclse aici President of the United States.

san © ONUWAXS Peace accclsece Vice-President of the United States.
Sab CHAS Hear es cees 2 Chief Justice of the United States.
13 IS) see eeecese Bocnpere Secretary of State.

Garo. > OU Wiha = s=s2--- Secretary of the Treasury.

Wie Wie s Bi KONI ne eeae Secretary of War.

Co Wi, TROIITSOW) -so565 os56 Secretary of the Navy.

J. A. J. CRESWELL..-... Postmaster-General.

CRD ETANO Meo er sae ee Secretary of the Interior.

GEO. H. WILLIAMS...... Attorney-General.

Wi, 1D, LIE Ca oy ano eaas Commissioner of Patents.

ee) COOKE acces vsasec Governor of the District of Columbia,
OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION,

JOSEPH HENRY, SECRETARY,

Director of the Institution.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Assistant Secretary.

WILLIAM J. RHEES,
Chief Clerk.

DANIEL LEECH,
Corresponding Clerk.

CLARENCE B. YOUNG,

Book-keeper.

HERMANN DIEBITSCH,
Meteorological Clerk.

HENRY M. BANNISTER,
Musewm Clerk.

JANE A. TURNER,
Exchange Clerk.

SOLOMON G. BROWN,

Transportation Clerk.

JOSEPH HERRON,

Janitor.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF TIE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.]

EN EE OD UW Cir ON.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan of
Organization.

1. Wit. oF SmirHson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge among men.”

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4, The objects of the Institution are, Ist, to increase, and 2d, to dif-
fuse knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased,
among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of in-
creasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at
all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.
(oe)

PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provis-
ionally ; can be easily reduced to practice; receive modifications, or be
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate in some measure for the loss of time occa-
sioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a
considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added
to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con- .
struction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, bnt also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con-
tain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons.

TO DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.
I. By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, in

a Seem form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions’ to Knowledge.

. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub-
Mon which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge,
resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be re-
jected.

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for ex-
amination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the
branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for publica-
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a
favorable decision is made.

_6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col-
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining
copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to
form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from new institu-
tions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

Il. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects of
research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by
couoselors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4, Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made:

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag-
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation
of a physical atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina-
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of
light ; chemical analysis of soils and plants ; collection and publication
of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of Government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral,
and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the differ-
ent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our
country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the nevw
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in alt
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the
reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report ;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons in-
terested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it with-
out purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu-
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institu-
tions, and sold to individnals for a moderate price.

II. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs,
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of
competent judges, previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the
table of reports.

SECTION IL.

Plan of organization in accordance with the terms of the resolution of the
Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing
knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in-
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 1A

cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library
and a collection of objects of nature and art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more im-
portant current periodical publications, and other works necessary in
preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of ob-
jects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex-
perimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of bibliograph-
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which
he may require.

9. Itis believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to
purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to secure for the gallery of art casts of
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense,
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar
societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an-
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &e.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act
as librarian.

14, The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to the
Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep a
record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, employ assist-
ants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

The foregoing programme was that of the general policy of the In-
stitution until 1866, when Congress took charge of the library; and since
an appropriation has been made by Government for the maintenance of
the museum the provisions of Section II are no longer fully observed.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY FOR THE YEAR 1872.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: The report which I have the honor to present at this
time completes the history of the operations of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for the first quarter of a century of its active existence; and as it
is important to recapitulate, from time to time, the policy which has been
adopted for the management of the funds intrusted to the United States
for the good of men by James Smithson, it may be well on this occasion
to recall the essential features of the trust, and to briefly state such
salient points connected with its administration as may be of especial
importance in the future.

At the time the funds were received by the General Government, the
distinction between education and original scientific research was not
so fully recognized as it is at the present day, and therefore it is not
surprising that the brief though comprehensive language in which the
will of Smithson was expressed should not have been generally under-
stood, or that the words “‘I bequeath the whole of my property to the
United States of America, to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men,” should have been so interpreted as to
induce Congress to direct the expenditure of the income of the fund
principally to objects which, though important in themselves, did not
comport with the strict interpretation of the will, being of a local char-
acter instead of affecting the interests of humanity in general.

Smithson devoted his life to abstract science and original research,
and there cannot be a reasonable doubt that he used the terms “ increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men”* to imply that the income of
his bequest should be devoted to original research in all branches of
knowledge susceptible of increase, and the diffusion of the result of this
through the press for the benefit of mankind generally.

*The terms increase and diffusion of knowledge were used, in the specific sense here
indicated, by men of science of the time of Smithson. As an illustration of this we may
cite the following remark of William Swainson, a celebrated naturalist. Speaking of
the Zoological Society of London, he says: “It is more calculated to diffuse than to
increase the actual stock of scientific knowledge.” The author further remarks that,
“while we may truly exult in this awakening of the national intellect, we must remem-
ber that diffusion and advancement are two very different processes ; and each may exist
independent of the other. It is very essential, therefore, to our present purpose, when
we speak of the diffusion or extension of science, that we do not confound these stages of
development with discovery or advancement; since the latter may be as different from
the former as depth is from shallowness.” (See Cabinet Cyclopedia, Natural History,
p. 314, London, 1834.)
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The terms of the will, when critically analyzed in their scientific signi-
fication, will admit of no other interpretation, and the fitness of the
policy which has been adopted after much discussion, and, as far as the
original restrictions of Congress would allow, has met with general
approval by men of science of all countries.

After having devoted assiduously twenty-five of the best years of my
life to the administration of the affairs of the Institution, I may be par-
doned for making some personal allusions to the past, and expressing
my earnest desire that the same policy which was inaugurated and has
been continually observed under my direction may be continued in the
future, when I shall have ended my connection with the establishment,
with only such modifications as the ever-changing conditions of the
world may render necessary.

Immediately after the organization of the Institution, in 1846, I was
requested by personal friends in the Board of Regents to give my views
as to what the Institution ought to be, in order to realize the intention
of the founder as expressed in his will. Having been long impressed
with the importance of special provision for original research, and
believing it was the intention of the founder of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion to offer facilities for this purpose, I suggested the essential features
of the programme published in my first report to the Board of Regents
in 1847; and, on account of this suggestion I presume, I was informed
that if I would accept the position of Secretary, or rather director, of
the establishment, I would receive the appointment.

Being at the time engaged in a series of original researches, I did
not at first entertain the proposition ; but afterward, on the expression
of the opinion of the more prominent members of the American Philo-
sophical Society that it was my duty, as the only scientific candidate
that had been proposed, to accept the appointment, I accordingly con-
sented, was elected, and entered upon my duty; not, however, without
much anxiety and great solicitude as to my ability in the line of admin-
istration, but with the hope that the policy which I wished to inaugu-
rate would be readily understood and properly appreciated ; that my
plans would be immediately adopted; and that, after seeing the Insti-
tution fully under way in the direction proposed, I might retire from its
charge, return to my former position in the College of New Jersey, and
resume my scientific investigations. In this, however, I was sadly dis-
appointed.

The plan proposed was too much in advance of the popular intelli-
gence of the day, both in this country and in England, to be immedi-
ately adopted. The value of scientific research had not then received
that high appreciation which it enjoys at the present time; and, indeed,
no distinction was then made between the popular expounder of scien-
tific principles and the original investigator, to whose labors the world
was indebted for important additions to human knowledge.

Opposed to the views of establishing an institution the great feature of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

which should be the facilitating of original research, was the organization
which had been directed by Congress, namely, that provision should
be made on a liberal scale for a museum, a library, a gallery of art, lec-
tures, and an arboretum, involving the construction of a large building,
whereas the plan for original research required a building of compara-
tively small dimensions, the cost of which need not to have exceeded
‘$50,000; while the estimated cost of the one proposed was $250,000, and
it has actually cost more than double that sum. It was in vain to urge
that the law of Congress might be altered, although the willof Smithson
could never be changed. Public opinion apparently was generally in
favor of the erection of a large building, and the establishment of a
library, museum, gallery of art, and lectures. Still a majority of the
Board of Regents were in favor of the plan of original research and
publication, and, after much discussion, it was finally agreed, as an
experiment, to divide the income into two equal parts, giving one
part to what has been called tke “active operations,” and the other to
the library, museum, and. other local objects. In the attempt to carry
out thisdivision, difficulties occurred which led to its final abandonment,
and to the adoption of another arrangement, that of making such pro-
vision from time to time for the museum and library and gallery of art
as might be thought necessary under existing conditions. As might
have been anticipated, the cost of the building far exceeded the origi-
nal estimate, and the multiplicity of objects was far too great to be sus-
tained by the comparatively small income of the establishment. The
increase of the library, by exchanges for the publications of the Institu-
tion, itself was so rapid that the care and binding of the books alone
absorbed a considerable part of the income.

The collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to the Gov-
ernment were transferred to the care of the Institution, and an allow-
ance of only $4,000 annually made for their support, while, as the num-
ber of specimens was continually increasing, the sum allowed by Con-
gress finally scarcely paid more than one-fourth the actual expenses,
without estimating the rent and cost of repair of the building. Besides
this, Congress had presented to the Institution a portion of the publie
reservation on which the building is situated. In the planting of this
with trees, nearly $10,000 of the Smithson income were expended.

It is readily seen from this statement that with the increase of the
library and museum, the formation of a gallery of art, and the sustain-
ing of a public park, all theincome would beabsorbed, and the cherished
plan of an institution to facilitate original research, and the publication
of its results, must be abandoned.

To prevent so undesirable a result, advantage was taken of the expo-
sure of the books after the fire, to urge the plan of uniting the library of
the Institution with that of Congress, and of the two to form a collec-
tion worthy thename of National Library. Theproposition was adopted,
and the results have proved eminently successful. The Library of Con-
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

gress is now the largest in the United States, the scientific part of
which is rapidly becoming, through the Smithsonian exchanges, one
of the best of the kind in the world. Furthermore, Congress is now
about to erect a separate building for its accommodation.

Previous to this union of the libraries, however, an appropriation had
been made by Congress for improving the public ground between the
Potomae and the Capitol. Advantage was taken of this to include the
Smithsonian portion of these grounds in the general plan, and thus to
relieve the Institution from the cost of its maintenance.

The remaining drains upon the income, which continued to diminish
the active operations, were the care of the building and the maintenance
of the museum; and the next step, therefore, was to induee Congess
to relieve the Institution from these. The results, in the mean time, of
the active operations having signally demonstrated the importance of
original research and publications, together with the general system
of exchanges which had been adopted, Congress finally lent a favorable
ear to the petition for appropriations sufficient to support the museum,
and now annually appropriates $15,000 to this purpose.

In justice to the trust, however, the Government ought to do much
more than this. It should repay at least a portion of the $600,000
which have been expended on the building, erected in accordance with
the instruction of Congress, and far exceeding in cost an edifice wanted
for the legitimate objects of the Institution. The proper course to adopt
would be tor Congress to take entire possession of the building for
the National Museum, repay the Smithson fund, say $300,000, adding
$200,000 of this to the principal of the trust-fand, and applying the
remainder to the erection of a separate building, consisting of offices,
laboratories, store-rooms, &e., required for the present use of the
Institution.

The only other requirement of Congress which has not been fully met
is that ofa gallery of art. It is true the Institution owns a very valu-
able collection of specimens of the early masters to illustrate the prog-
ress of the art of engraving, and some articles of painting and sculp-
ture, which may be considered as forming the commencement of a gal-
lery of art; but the expense of supporting a collection of this kind has
been obviated by the establishment in this city of a gallery of art by
the liberality of Mr. W. W. Corcoran, with an income larger than all of
that from the Smithson fund.

Notwithstanding the various burdens which have interfered with the
full development of the plan of active operations, it is through this plan
that the Institution has made itself known throughout every part of
the civilized world. The publications which result from the facilities
it has afforded to original research are to be found in all the principal
libraries, and its specimens in all the great public museums of the
world. And it is hoped that in future, with the appropriations of Con-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. LG

gress for the support of the niuseum, still more important results will
be obtained.

The success of the plan for realizing the intentions of Smithson for
increasing and diffusing knowledge among men has been due to its
simplicity and efficiency. Under a Board of Regents, which holds its
sessions once a year, the operations of the establishment are directed by
a single individual, called the Secretary, who, with the consent of the
Regents, employs assistants and disburses the income of the fund. In
determining the appropriations to different objects of research, the
advice of persons of established reputation in different branches of
science is obtained, and in all cases, before an article is accepted for
publication, it is submitted to a commission of experts, who report upon
its fitness for adoption by the Institution. In order to obtain a free and
unbiased judgment, the name of the author, as far as possible, is concealed
from the examiners, and the names of the latter are unknown to the
former. By adopting this course the Institution secures the co-opera-
tion of the best minds of the country, and in some cases has called in
the aid of foreign savans. It is gratifying to be able to state that in no
instance has aid of this kind been declined. In this way the greatest
amount of mental labor is secured witha given expenditure of funds.
It is true the plan might have been adopted of electing men of original
research in the various branches of science, and supporting them entirely
on the funds of the establishment; but the income was not sufficient for
this purpose, as will be evident when the fact is considered that the will
includes all branches of knowledge, and that every subject susceptible
of increase is entitled to the benefit of the funds, At the beginning,
however, since Congress directed the formation ofa library anda museum,
it was necessary that the Secretary should have assistants to take
especial charge of these two branches of the establishment. With the
transfer of the library to the care of the Government, a librarian of the
Institution has been dispensed with; but since the museum is still under
the care of the Institution, an assistant in charge of this is still re-
quired, and Professor Baird, who has acted as assistant secretary, has
had charge of the museum, and has rendered important service, not only
in the line of natural history, but in that of the general operations of
the establishment.

The greatest opposition to the plan of active operations was made by
the friends of the establishment of a library, but they have finally acqui-
esced in the propriety of the course which has been pursued.. The num-
ber of books of the first class which the Institution is bringing into. the
country through its system of exchange, and which are distributed
to all the large cities of the United States, more than compensates. for
the support of a restricted library in the city of Washington by the
funds of the Institution.

The plan in regard to the museum was also at first misunderstood.

eis was supposed that because the Secretary opposed the: establishment
28
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of a museum at the expense of the Institution that he was not well dis-
posed toward the advance of natural history. But this misapprehension
can readily be removed by the consideration that natural history could
be much more effectually advanced by expending less than a moiety of
the cost of the building for the museum and the support of the collec-
tions, in original explorations, in collecting specimens not to be pre-
served, but to be distributed to all who might have the desire and ability
to investigate special problems in this branch of knowledge. The policy
in regard to natural history is that of making collections of large num-
bers of duplicate specimens to illustrate the natural productions of North
America, to make these up into sets, reserving one for the National
Museum, and distributing all the others for scientific and educational
purposes to the museums of the world. In every case in which appli-
cation has been made to the Institution by an original investigator from
any part of the world for specimens connected with his researches, they
have been sent to him as far as possible, assurance being given that the
specimens would be properly used and full credit given to the name of
Smithson. Avs the specimens are collected, as a general. rule, they are
submitted to specialists in the various branches of natural history, who,
without charge, classify, arrange, and label them for distribution. In
this way the Institution has done much for natural history; but it is
evident that it could have done much more had it not been obliged to
support a public museum at the expense of several hundred thousand
dollars for an edifice for this purpose.

One prominent maxim of the Institution has been ‘ co-operation not
monopoly,” and another, ‘in all cases, as far as possible, not to occupy
eround especially cultivated by other establishments,” or, in other words,
pot to expend the money of the bequest in doing that for which provis-
ion could be obtained through other means. To gratify men of litera-
ture as well as to advance an important branch of knowledge, from the
first much attention has been given to anthropology, including linguis-
ties, antiquities, and everything which tends to reconstruct the history
of man in the past; this being a common ground on which the man of
letters and of science could meet as harmonious collaborators.

From the foregoing sketch it will be evident that the theory of the In-
stitution is that of an ideal establishment for the collection of facts, the
elaboration of these into general principles, and a diffusion of the re-
sults among men of every race and of every clime. That an institution
of this character, in which the accumulation of ideas and not merely of
material objects is the great end, should not have been properly appre-
ciated at first in a country so eminently practical as ours is not surpris-
ing. But we are happy in knowing it has been from year to year
growing in public estimation, and we are encouraged to cherish the
belief that it will not only realize the ideas of the benevolent founder
of the Institution, but also serve as an example of imitation, while the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

errors which may have been committed will also be of service in an
opposite way.

' There is one feature of the establishment ordained by Congress which
is worthy of imitation in the conduct of all endowments for benevolent
objects, namely, the restriction of all expenditures to the annual interest.
This rule has been rigorously adhered to in the conduct of the Institu-
tion, and after expending, in accordance with the act of Congress, up-
ed of $600,000 on the buildings, the original fund remains intact with
an addition made to it of upward of $150,080 by savings, judicious
investments, Xe.

FINANCES.

The following is a general statement of the condition of the funds at
the beginning of the year 1873:

The amount originally received as the bequest of James
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of
PASO US Ea ML A Gh tas Sis oner perth ig sens 29d Eo aed Oa AP La $515,169 00

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-
ited in the Treasury of the United ete in accord-
ance with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867... .- 26, 210 6

Co

MOG EbeqUest Ol SMI NSOMs 22, <5 aye raise os. 4s qai-cls claire Se 541, 379 6
Amount deposited in the Treasury of ae United States, as

authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867, as

derived from savings of income and increase in value of

FE DTREISIGTTONE) DUR S)oes op gs EU A et ell ees ie ee en ate 108, 620 3

CX

bo |

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable

See MMM ASTM Olas etalk eee ale hn iN 650,000 00
In addition, there remains of the extra fund from savings,

&c., in Virginia bonds, at par, $88,125.20, now valued at.. 37, 000 00
The balance in First National Bank Ist of January, 1873... 17, 811 30
Total Smithson funds Ist January, 1873................ 704, 811 3

The income of the Smithson fund during the year, ineluding

PRS TOMB TIN OME OLE WASE. fk eet) cin. Soon og 2 A Se 46,916 45
HELE cp eM CNV ULES OWELC seipesjs is) seis, 15s Sec eta 45,420 11
einer ay al ame ClOn ery. setae Ay] sete ak eee aa Me i 1,496 34

To be added to the balance at the beginning of the year 1872.

Included in the income was $3,004.90 derived from back interest on
the Virginia bonds. The value of these bonds has appreciated during
the year.
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
PUBLICATIONS.

The publications of the Institution are of three classes—the Con-
tributions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual
Reports. The first consist of memoirs containing positive additions to
science resting on original research, and which are generally the result
of investigations to which the Institution has in some way rendered as
sistance, or of such an expensive character as cannot otherwise be pub-
lished. The Miscellaneous Collections are composed of works intended
to facilitate the study of branches of natural history, meteorology, c.,
and are designed especially to induce individuals to engage in studies
as specialties. The Annual Reports, beside an account of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Institution, contain translations
from works not generally accessible to American students, reports of
lectures, extracts from correspondence, &e.

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu-
tion of these publications :

1st. They are presented to learned societies of the first class which in
return give complete series of their publications to the Institution.

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata-
logues and other publications, or an equivalent, from their duplicate
volumes.

3d. To colleges of the first class which furnish meteorological observa-
tions, catalogues of their libraries and of their students, and all other
publications relative to their organization and history.

4th. To States and Territories, provided they giye in return copies of
all documents published under their authority.

5th. To publie libraries in this country, not included in any. of the
foregoing classes, containing 15,000 volumes, especially if no other copies
are given in the same place, and to smaller libraries where a large dis-
trict would be otherwise unsupplied.

6th. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular
branches of knowledge are given such of the publications as relate to
their respective objects.

7th. The Reports are presented to the meteorological observers, to con-
tributors of valuable material to the library or collections, and to per-
sons engaged in special scientific research.

The distribution of the publications of the Institution is a matter
which requires much care and a judicious selection of recipients, the
great object being to make known to the world the truths which may
result from the expenditure of the Smithson fund. For this purpose, the
principal class of publications, namely, the Contributions, are so dis-
tributed as to be accessible to the greatest number of readers, and this
is evidently to principal libraries.

The volumes of Contributions are presented on the express condition
that while they are to be carefully preserved they are to be accessible to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

students and others who may desire to consult them. These works, it
must be recollected, are not of a popular character, but require profound
study to fully understand them. They are, however, of immense impor-
tance to the teacher and the popular expounder of science. They con-
tain the materials from which general treatises on special subjects are
elaborated.

Full sets of the publications cannot be given to all who apply for them,
since this will be impossible with the limited income of the Institution ;
and, indeed, if care be not exercised in the distribution, so large a portion
of the income will be annually expended on the distribution of what has
already been printed that nothing further can be done in the way of new
publications. It must be recollected that every addition to the list of
distribution not only involves the giving of publications which have
already been made but also of those which are to be made hereafter.

At the commencement of the operations of the Institution the publi-
cations were not stereotyped, and consequently the earlier volumes have
now become scarce, especially the first, of which there are no copies for
distribution, although it can occasionally be obtained at a second-hand
book-store in some of the larger cities, the authors having been allowed
to strike off an edition to sell on their own account.

No copyright has ever been taken for any of the publications of the
Institution. They are left free to be used by the compiler of books
without any restrictions except the one that full credit shall be given
to the name of Smithson for any extracts which may be made from them.

The printing of the publications of the Institution almost since the
organization has been principally done at Philadelphia, by the house of
T. K. Collins, under the superintendence of Mr. J. W. Huff, whose accu-
racy and typographical skill leave us nothing to desire in this line.
The stereotype plates are all deposited in the fire-proof vault of the
basement of the Academy of Natural Science, Philadelphia; and to
this society the Institution has been indebted many years for the cour-
tesy of storing, free of cost, this valuable property.

Publications in 1872.—During the past year the volume of Tables and
Results of the Precipitation in Rain and Snow in the United States and
at some stations in adjacent parts of North America, Central and South
America, has been printed and partly distributed. It consists of 178
quarto pages, with five plates and three charts. It contains the abstracts
of all the records of observations of the rain-fall which have been made
from the early settlement of this country down to the close of the year
1866, so far as they could be obtained. These records are from about
twelve hundred stations, and consist of the observations made under
the direction of the Institution, assisted since 1854 by the Patent-Ofiice
and Department of Agriculture, of those of the Medical Department of
the United States Army, of those by the United States Survey of the
North and Northwest Lakes, of those made by the New York University
system, by the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, and also of those by
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

other scientific institutions and individuals. During the past year the
compilers have completed the tables of rain for 600 Smithsonian stations
for the years 1868, 1869, and 1870, and of 220 military posts from Decem-
ber, 1864, to November, 1871. The result of all the observations has
been incorporated in the charts published in 1872, but the tables will be
combined with those already published at some future time.

It is proper here to express our obligations for the valuable co-opera-
tion of the Medical Department of the Army, under Surgeon-General
Barnes, who has given us free access to all the unpublished records; and
also for that of the Department of Agriculture, under its former commis-
sioner, General Capron. These tables furnish the means for important
deductions intimately connected with the agriculture, commerce, and
mechanical industry of the country, while they constitute a valuable con-
tribution to the physical geography of the globe.

This memoir is one of a series embodying the results of all the labors
of the Smithsonian Institution in regard to the meteorology cf the United
States. These will inelude not only all the observations which have been
made under its own direction, but also the discussion of all that has been
made by other parties. The whole series will embrace the tabulation
and discussion of observations on the temperature, atmospheric pressure,
direction and force of the wind, moisture of the air, and miscellaneous
phenomena.

Another work, that of Dr. Horatio C. Wood, jr., of Philadelphia, on
the fresh-water alge, was briefly noticed in the report for1870. It forms
a complement to the great work on the marine alge by Dr. Harvey,
published in 1858 by the Smithsonian Jnstitution. It is illustrated by
numerous drawings, made principally under the microscope, and will
serve to illustrate an obscure department of botany, and also to furnish
the means by which investigators of minute microscopical organisms may
compare recent and fossil forms. The work was presented to the Amer-
ican Philosophical Society and also to the Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia, but the expense of the engravings prevented either of
these societies from undertaking its publication, although it was consid-
ered entirely worthy of their adoption. It was referred by the Institu-
tion to Dr. Torrey and Professor Barnard for critical examination, and
published on their recommendation.

A large part of the material for this work was gathered by Dr.
Wood himself, although he was indebted to several persons for aid,
especially to Dr. J. S. Billings, of the United States Army, for col-
lections made near Washington; to Professor Ravenel, of South Car-
olina, for collections in Texas, South Carolina, and Georgia; to Mr.
C. J. Austin for ‘specimens gathered in Northern New Jersey; to Mr.
William Canby for collections obtained in Florida; to Protessor Sereno
Watson for others from the Rocky Mountains; and to Dr. Lewis for
specimens from the White Mountains. The work embraces all families
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

of the fresh-water alge except the diatomacex, which are so numerous
as to constitute in themselves a special object of study.

The synonomy of Professor Rabenhorst has been generally followed,
this nataralist having gone over the subject most thoroughly, with full
access to all its literature. ‘To attempt to differ from him,” says Dr.
Wood, “would cause endless confusion. [have therefore nearly always
contented myself with his dictum, and have referred to him as authority
for the names adopted.” The memoir in question consists of 272 pages,
and is illustrated by 21 quarto-plates of a very expensive character, since
they required in most cases a number of printings to produce the differ-
ent colors.

Another investigation to the prosecution of which the Institution has
contributed is that by Mr. William Ferrel relative to the tides. 'To this
subject the author has given much attention, and has completed a me-
moir in regard to it, which is now in the press. This memoir does not
purport to be a regular treatise on the tidal theory, but is for the most
part supplementary to what has already been done. It does not, there-
fore, include elementary principles, but pertains principally to those parts
of the general theory in which new results are attainable or old ones
susceptible of being presented in a more concise and simple manner.
For the author’s purpose, however, it was necessary to go over much of
the ground which had been investigated; but all those parts of the sub-
ject which had already been well treated are passed over with a mere
reference as to where they might be found. At the time when thissubject
was treated by La Place, Young, and Airy, but few observations had
been made and little attention had been given to the accurate compari-
son of the results of observation with those of theory, or to the forma-
tion of tables for the purpose of predicting the time of the phases of the
tides. For accomplishing the result it is necessary to obtain not only
an accurate development of the solar and lunar disturbing forces, but
also to determine the expressions which shall represent most accurately
the tidal relations to any one part of the whole of these disturbing forces.
“Every investigator of the tides,” says the author, ‘‘must frequently have
felt the great need of formule of this kind prepared to his hand, which
he could use and thus save the labor of difficult developments and ac-
curate determinations of co-efficients in special cases.” This great need
the author has attempted to supply.

Believing that most of the hitherto unexplained apparent anomalies
in the tides are due to the friction of the water on the surface of the
earth, the author has given special attention to the effects of this in
all the various cases, not only on the hypothesis of its being in direct
proportion to the velocity but also as the square of the velocity. The
results obtained in this part of the investigation are regarded as being
interesting and important in relation to some of the phenomena of the
tides which have not hitherto been explained, especially to the occurrence
2A REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the greatest tides in the Atlantic one or two days after the time of
the greatest force. A correct tidal theory should furnish the data for
a determination of the moon’s mass; and this determination should be
the same for every port. Considering this as one of the best tests
of any tidal theory, the author has given much attention to framing
various equations from theory for this purpose, and to their application
to the results of tidal observations at various ports. The comparisons
are made with the extended series of observations of the United States
Joast Survey and with the results obtained by the Tidal Committee of
the British Association from the analysis of tidal observations of various
ports by means of the harmonic method of analysis. The memoir also
contains the discussion of the published series of observations of the
French government at Brest, with a comparison of the results with
theory, and a chapter on the retardation of the earth’s rotation on
account of the tides, and its effect upon the apparent secular variation of
the moon’s motion in its orbit.
Beside the labor expended on this memoir in the line of higher mathe-
matics, it involves arithmetical computations of a very laborious charac-
ter, the expense of which will be defrayed by the Institution.

The investigation of the orbit of Uranus, by Prof. S. Newcomb, of
the National Observatory, was substantially completed in October last,
and has since been entirely prepared for the press, with the exception
of some final revision. Considerable additions and alterations are,
however, still required in the appended tables, to be used for comput-
ing ephemerides of the planet; but these the author hopes to complete
in a few months, so that the work may be put in the hands of the
printer early in 1873.

This work, on which the author has been engaged for thirteen years,
has absorbed the greater part of his leisure time from his duties in the
National Observatory during the last five years. Its preparation not
only involved abstruse mathematical discussions, but also arithmetical
calculations of very great extent. The latter were made at the expense
of the Institution; and through the assistance thus rendered, Professor
Newcomb has been enabled to complete his important investigations
without devoting his energies to labors which could be well performed
by intelligence of a less valuable character.

The following remarks by the author of this work may here be con-
sidered in place:

‘Tt will perhaps surprise those not especially devoted to astronomy
to learn that, although the planet Neptune has been known for’a
quarter of a century, the positions of Uranus in all the astronomical
ephemerides of Europe are still computed, without regard to the action
of that body, from the old tables of Bouvard, dating back as far as 1820,
the errors of which led to the discovery of Neptune in 1846. <A result
of this was that an occultation of Uranus by the moon, which occurred
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

in 1871, was erroneously predicted by the Nautical Almanac to the
extent of some six minutes, and in consequence a number of observers
who were on the alert to see so rare a phenomenon missed it entirely.
An outery was raised against the almanac in consequence, but it was
met by the remark that that work could use only such tables as were
at its disposal, and that the construction of new ones corresponding
to the present state of astronomy was now almost beyond the power
of any individual, and could only be undertaken under the auspices of
some sufficiently liberal government.

“The disinclination of astronomers to undertake such a work as this
may be illustrated by the fact that the tables of Jupiter and Saturn, as
well as those of Uranus, are more than fifty years old, and are, of
course, considerably in error. The Astronomical Society of Germany
has been engaged in preparing the data for new tables of Jupiter during
the past five years, but I am not aware of any recent report of progress.

“The first chapter of the work gives an exposition of the method
employed in calculating the action of the disturbing planets Jupiter,
Saturn, and Neptune on the motion of Uranus. In the second chapter
this method is illustrated by quite a detailed calculation of the pertur-
bations of Uranus produced by Saturn, including, however, only those
which are of the first order with respect to the disturbing force. In the
third, the perturbations produced by Jupiter and Neptune are given, but
the computations are not presented with the same detail. The fourth
chapter opens with a preliminary investigation of the orbit of Saturn,
using Hansen’s perturbations and the Greenwich observations, the
object being the accurate determination of the terms of the second
order. This is followed by the computation of the terms of the second
order produced by Saturn, which include those containing as a factor
either the square of the mass of that planet, or the product of its mass
by that of Jupiter or by that of.Uranus. The most remarkable of
these terms is oue of very long period, in which the results differ materi-
ally from those of other authorities, including Le Verrier, Delaunay,
Adams, and Hansen, who all agree among themselves. I cannot find
any error in my work, and so must, of course, retain my own result,
leaving it to future investigators to find the cause of the discrepancy.
The difference is of such a nature that it cannot affect the computed
position of the planet until after the lapse of more than a century.

“The sixth chapter gives a discussion of all the observations of Uranus
which have been published and reduced in such a manner as to be
made use of. The entire number is 3,763. The correction to a provis-
ional theory given by each series of observations is deduced.

“The object of the seventh chapter is to apply such corrections to the
elements of Uranus and the mass of Neptune that the observations
shall be represented with the smallest possible outstanding errors. The
mass of Neptune comes out ;54;,, almost exactly the same as that found
by Professor Peirce more than twenty years ago.
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

“The representation of the observations by the concluded theory will
probably be regarded as good. The mean outstanding difference dur-
ing each five years since the discovery of the planet only exceeds a
second of are in a single instance, namely, during the years 1822~26,
when it amounts to 1.4. This agreement is very much better than any
obtained before. Still the vast number of observations used, and the
care taken to reduce them to a uniform standard, led me to believe a
better representation possible; and the outstanding differences, minute
though they be, follow a regular law, thus showing that they do not
arise from the purely accidental errors of observation. How far they
arise from errors in izy own theoretical computations, how far from the
reductions of the observations themselves, and how far from the una-
voidable errors of the instruments, I am unable to say without further
investigation. It would be desirable to learn whether they may be due
to the action of a trans-Neptunian planet, but to do this would require
an entire re-reduction of all the older observations. Such a work is on
mInany accounts an astronomical desideratum, but it could not be under-
taken except under the auspices of the Government.

‘Tn the eighth chapter the general formule and elements are collected
and expressed in the form most convenient for permanent use.

“The ninth and concluding chapter gives tables by which the position
ot the planet may be computed for any time between the Christian era
and the year 2300.”

It has been mentioned in several of the reports that the Institution
has collected large numbers of vocabularies of the several Indian lan-
guages of North America, including those of the Indian tribes of Wash-
ington Territory, California, northwest coast, New Mexico, Arizona, and
the prairies; that these had been placed in the hands of Mr. George
Gibbs for critical study and revision; and that, after consultation with
some of the principal philologists of the country, it had been concluded
to publish them, as it were provisionally, as material for ethnological and
linguistic investigations. During the past year Mr. Gibbs has devoted
considerable time to the arrangement of these vocabularies, and has
completed the preparation for the press of one of the sets, namely, that
of the Selish language, which is now in the hands of the printer.*

In order to facilitate the re-arrangement of the collections of the
National Museum, the Institution has requested experts in the various
branches of zoology to prepare catalogues exhibiting the best arrange-
ments of the several classes of the animal kingdom; the families, in
each case, to be numbered in successive order, and the subfamilies to
be indicated by letters, thus: ‘¢15, Canidie ; (15) a, Canine ; (15) b, Mega-
lotine,” &c. It is intended that these numbers and letters shall be

s Since the presentation of this report, the work in question has been stopped by the
death of Mr. Gibbs, one of the most esteemed collaborators of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. it

attached to the specimens or receptacles containing them, and thus the
agency of an ordinary laborer, or one unconversant with the animals,
can be utilized in sending for specimens, replacing them, and revising
the collections.

Tn accordance with the requests made, Professor Gill has prepared three
catalogues, one on the arrangement of the families of mollusks, referred
to in previous reports; another on the arrangement of the families of
mammals; and a third on the arrangement of the families of fishes. The
last two were published in November, 1872.

The “arrangement of the families of mammals” embraces a list of the
recent as well as extinct families and subfamilies of the class. Of
these, 136 are recognized. These are combined under fourteen orders
and three subclasses, the subclasses being those almost universally recog-
nized at the present time—monodelphia, didelphia, and ornithodelphia,
The orders of monodelphia have been segregated into two higher divi-
sions, or “super-orders,” equivalent to the educabilia and ineducabilia
of Prince Bonaparte, but with other characters derived from the interior
structure of the brain; the educabilia correspond with the archencephala
and gyrencephala of Owen combined, and the ineducabilia to the lissen-
cephala.

‘““Synoptical tables of characters of the subdivisions of mammals,
with a catalogue of the genera,” have been in part published in. connec-
tion with and under cover of the arrangement of the families of mam-
mals, embracing pages 43 to 98 of that work; only that portion em-
bracing the orders of educabilia has been completed, the remaining
portion having been necessarily deferred. In contrasted dichotomous
tables are given characters successively of the (1) subclasses, (2) the or-
ders of monodelphia, and (3) the suborders, (4) families, and (5) sub-
families of each group of the educabilian monodelphia. The ‘ arrange-
ment of the families of fishes” is limited to an enumeration of the sur-
viving families of the class, and was especially prepared for imme-
diate use. The group of “fishes” is considered as an artificial combi-
nation, and is divided into three classes—fishes proper, marsipobranchi-
ates, and leptocardians. The three classes contain 244 families, of
which the true fishes embrace 240; the marsipobranchiates, 3; and the
leptocardians, only 1. The families of the fishes proper are combined
under eighteen orders and three subclasses ; the teleostein ganoidei and
elasmobranchii differing in this last respect from Miiller’s—the most gener-
ally accepted—classification simply in the union of the ganoids and dip-
noans. The greatest deviation from the current classifications is the
constitution of the order teleocephali. In an extended introduction the
reasons are given for the modifications suggested.

A large demand has been made for these catalogues for the arrange-
ment of other museums and collections.

It wa3 mentioned in the last report that a new edition of the List of
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Foreign Correspondents of the Institution was in press. This work, con-
taining all the later additions to the list, has been published, and is now
in use by the Institution and its correspondents.

It was also stated that a List of the Scientific, Educational, and Liter-
ary Establishments in the United States was in press. This work, which
was prepared by Mr. W. J. Rhees, the chief clerk of the Institution, has
been published, and is of much service in the distribution of the publi-
cations of the Institution, as well as those of the different Departments
of Government, and of educational establishments, and will be of assist-
ance to members of Congress in the distribution of documents. It
includes 8,575 titles of societies, libraries, &e., as follows:

Colleges, male and female, (so-called)... --- eet 758
Academies, normal and high-schools...-.........-.-.. 2,850
Lawaschools. and libraries... 35-4 pple eee 53
Medical:schools and libraries. 2 2. 52e3 Feaeeeeeree ee 221
Theological schools and libraries... ... 4. 2. 3. see. 2e-: « 127
Observatories: 4. oo. cc gi ws hy Se 2 23
Scientific societies and libraries..........- Ry an 94
Noricul tural SOCiehes- =. 2s 525 eee eee eee 1,082
Imbraries, general. ..5.- <2: ap nice Eee Foe ee eee oe ee 2,692
Asylums and ihospitals 222.2 ¢<)5.- bb 2 oe eee oe ee 491
A sylums for Insane. - ..As Aaa ees Be Bee oes 65
Asylomstor deaf and idumbou 34-6), 22-68: See eee 33
Asylams for blind. 24. set ee Oe A eee eee eee 30
iPeisons having libraries 2222 ec cree eee Sire 51

For the purpose of forming a general hypsometrical map of the North
American continent and for collecting together, for permanent record
and publication, the data on which such a map should be based, letters
of request have been sent out in every direction likely to be available
for such information, while the printed reports of the various govern-
mental, military, and geological expeditions and of railroad and canal
surveys have been consulted and made to render tribute. The whole
of this work has been placed in charge of the topographer of the Post-
Office Department, Mr. Walter L. Nicholson, who reports in regard to
it as follows:

‘Contributions, in manuscript, have been received from 312 engineers
and other officers of railroad companies, furnishing a large body of valua-
ble facts, which, with the heights shown on upward of 70 graphic pro-
files collected, give upward of 16,000 points more or less accurately
determined, over the several States and Territories. ;

But great labor and perplexity have arisen from the discrepancies
found to exist among many of the statements given, owing, chiefly, to
the various planes of reference used in the surveys, and to the indefi-
niteness in their references; and great difficulty has been experienced
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 24

in co-ordinating the items so as to refer them all to a common base, the
mean level of the sea, while another source of incoherence remains from
the non-return of answers from numerous railroad corporations, which
have been applied to with all possible courtesy and with expression as
to the value of the results sought. Unfortunately, many corporations
and engineers have lost or taken no pains to preserve the record of
their surveys.

These collections of heights have been copied in twenty-five quarto-
volumes, for preservation and convenience in collation. The heights
are arranged under the names of places alphabetically, under the
headings of the individual States, &c., for convenience of reference
when published—giving county, specification of locality, and authority,
with notes where required.

This large mass of material is, in greater part, copied in manuscript
directly from the returns—the individual names to be finally cut off in
slips and arranged alphabetically for printing. While this is being pro-
ceeded with, a. map has been projected, to represent the mean results of
these data, ona scale of five-millionth, size of map 52 inches by 39 inches,
which will embrace the large area from 15° to 58° latitude, and, from
east to west will take in Newfoundland, the Bermudas, the larger
West India Islands, (to St. Thomas,) and on the northwest coast, Van-
couver’s Island and Queen Charlotte’s Island, extending thus well up
into Hudson’s Bay and down to Central America.”

This work will form the basis of a physical map, and will be useful
for many purposes of reference other than that of hypsometry.

The report of the Institution for the year 1871 was presented to Con-
gress, and ordered to be printed. A resolution was offered as usual order-
ing an extra number of copies ; and the House of Representatives directed
an edition of 20,000 copies. This numher was reduced in the Senate to
12,500, and unfortunately, before an arrangement satisfactory to both
branches of Congress could be made, the adjournment took place. Up
to this time, however, no further action has been taken, and the Insti-
tution is still without extra copies for distribution.

As an offset to this disappointment, we are gratified to be able to
state that a resolution passed Congress at the last session, directing
that an edition of 2,000 copies of all the reports of which there were
stereotype plates be printed for the use of the Institution for distribution
to public libraries and especially to colleges and higher academies. The
series of eight volumes thus repreduced includes the reports from the
years 1863 to 1870, inclusive.

We doubt not that Congress before the close of the present session
will order the Public Printer to strike off the usual number of copies
from the stereotype plates of the report of 1871, and that we shall thus
be enabled to gratify in some measure the increasing calls upon the In-
stitution for copies of this document.
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In addition to the report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations, expenditures, &c., of the Institution, and the proceedings of
the Board of Regents to the 4th of April, 1872, the report for 1871
contains a memoir of Sir John Frederic William Herschel, by N.S. Dodge,
esq.; aeulogy on Joseph Fourier, by Arago; an account of Prof. Thomas
Graham’s scientific work, by William Odling; translations from the
German of a lecture on the relation of the physical sciences to science in
general, by Dr. Helmholtz; a lecture on alternate generation and par-
thenogenesis in the animal kingdom, by Dr. G. A. Kornhuber; a lecture
on the present state of our knowledge of cryptogamous plants, by Henry
William Reichardt; an original paper on the secular variations of the
planetary orbits, by John N. Stockwell, being an abstract of the elabor-
ate memoir published by the Institution in the Contributions to Knowl-
edge; an original article on methods of interpolation applicable to the
graduation of irregular series, such as tables of mortality, &e., by E.
L. DeForest; a translation of the transactions of the Society of Physics
and Natural History of Geneva from June, 1870, to June, 1871; the scien-
tific instructions to Captain Halls north polar expedition; together
with a large number of articles on ethnology and meteorology.

EXCHANGES.

The labors of the Institution in promoting literary and scientific inter-
course between this country and other parts of the world have been
continued during the past year. The system of international exchanges
includes not only all the principal libraries and important societies, but
also a considerable number of the minor institutions of Europe. The
following table exhibits the number of establishments in each country
with which the Smithsonian is at present in correspondence:

Sweden ost. 2 Fee oe ee eee 20
INOEWIAY toot ce ost Ooo aes ee See eee eee ae ee mth aspees
cela 6 eco eae a ee 2
Wennrarke 2 8 See Wee Je ee ne ters cere ere 27
PUUSSIa S25 DL Se ea ok ee a ne rete eon ga 155
Folland’: soe ee oo. Ok ea eee rec er ha ee 62
Grerimianyy’ 2 £0.08 OS Ce ae re eS tr eee 588
POMIEZEPLA MIG 605 PE EPCs es ie da ee nee ee © eee eee ee 63
Pe VOI oS Seay Zi ee eee ae eA Ae 105
Hiramce i: sR: oc ee ee oe Oe ee 229
| LUZ Sees Soo PRN ego 2/2 Fee cae yee ee i 156
MEORUUS A, Sorkin Sec ee ee ee See A ae ee 20
7S) DET ee em pei eee in gh Sees Be aT gail
Creat dritaincand ireland ...0 0 aves. sacke 40 eae ee 306
reece: foe ee hte S oc os 2 Ca ee ee ee 7
KOWAL se oes ee Se ek 32 ee ee ee fal:

AGITICAN ee eee CEE Sob eee tae ee ee eee 19
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Sat

ENGI AE: Ae ta ee nL were take ame LA aL aes 36
PAUStLalilay ae erat ts oo aaa See as cs ake ae ele 26
ING We Zeal alereee ees ee fee oY) ee ee is a sl Se 13
RO ly We Siampen ye rieter C2 Se 25 ets ES Se ON a cia i
SOUR a) VALTNGI CFCS S eee eS eR En ree gets nt aie ee eee 36
RMelstp ad be VOS | 2B aera ie be eee ee SER US a Fy ot eee ae Tee ae i
VEGA COMP RER ie ane chet ee eee otis en choses Bice Suey SEP 9
COvarEneT a PASEIY SH PIG Crees ee eee a ge 2
TREIATISUN TN TTRYES Sp ea Bs Si aces ee ee gaa ees ee 18
SHEL BIRO 1a ae tee ee eee Po Se tee ee Ge 4

TiO, See ee ne eae nea ne ee eee apoB Enmr Ee ee 1,985

As in previous years, the Institution has received important aid from
various steamer and railroad lines in the way of free freights, without
which the expense of carrying on the system would be far beyond the
means at command. Acknowledgment is again due for the liberality of
the following companies:

Pacific Mail Steamship Company.

Panama Railroad Company.

Pacific Steam Navigation Company.

New York and Mexico Steamship Company.

New York and Brazil Steamship Company.

North German Lloyd’s Steamship Company.

Hamburg American Packet Company.

French Transatlantic Company.

North Baltic Lloyd’s Steamship Company.

Inman Steamship Company.

Cunard Steamship Company.

Anchor Steamship Company.

The Adams Express Company also continues its liberal policy in re-
gard to freight for the Institution.

During the year 2,561 packages, containing many thousand different
articles, were transmitted to foreign countries. These packages filled
159 large boxes, having a cubical content of 954 feet, and weighing
26,850 pounds. The parcels received at the Institution for parties in
this country, in addition to those for the Smithsonian library, num-
bered 4,635.

It was mentioned in the last report that the advantages which result
from the system of international exchanges had become so apparent
that arrangements similar to those adopted by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution are beginning to be introduced into different parts of Europe, and
that a central scientific bureau for the Netherlands had been estab-
dished at Amsterdam to receive and transmit packages for different
parts of the world, and in the United States to co-operate with the
Smithsonian Institution, A similar arrangement has been proposed in.
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Brussels, by which the Belgian Academy will become a center of scientific
exchanges.

During the past year we have received as usual, from persons abroad,
copies of works to be distributed gratuitously to institutions and in-
dividuals in this country.

The following are the regulations which are to be observed by parties
availing themselves of the privilege of the Smithsonian system of ex-
change:

“The Smithsonian Institution receives parcels at any time with
assurance of speedy delivery, at least to the more important addresses,
upon the following conditions, which must be strictly observed :

“1, Every package without exception must be enveloped in strong
paper, and secured so as to bear separate transportation by express or
otherwise.

62. The address of the institution or individual for whom the parcel
is intended must be written legibly on the package, and the name of
the sender must be written in one corner.

“3, No single package must exceed the half of a cubic foot in bulk.

“4, A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their
contents, must accompany them.

‘5, No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel,
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package.

“6, All packages must be delivered in Washington free of freight
and other expenses.

“Unless all these conditions are complied with, the parcels will not
be forwarded from the Institution, and, on the failure to comply with
the first and second conditions, will be returned to the sender for cor-
rection.

‘“The Institution recommends that every parcel shall contain a blank ac-
knowledgment, to be signed by the recipient and returned, either through
the agent of the Institution, or, what is still better, direct by mail, to the
sender. Should exchanges be desired for what is sent, the fact should also
beexplicitly stated on the accompanying circular. Much disappointment
has often been expressed at the absence of any return in kind for trans-
missions; but unless these are specifically asked for they will fre-
quently fail to be made. It will facilitate the labors of the Institution
greatly if the number corresponding to the several addresses in the
Smithsonian printed catalogue be marked on the face of each parcel;
and for this purpose a copy of the work will be forwarded to all who
apply for it.

“Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission,
unless with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk.”

LIBRARY.

It was stated in the last report that the accessions to the library dur-
ing 1871 had not been as large as they were the year before, on account
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oe

of the war in Europe. In1870 the whole number of books, &e., received

was 5,182; in 1871, 4,597; while during 1872 it has been 5,962, as will be
seen from te ee stele statement of the books, maps, and charts
received by exchange in 1872:

Volumes:

Octavorormlessss-.s- 4-5... 5. 54- CeCe 2 TAT ene ae ne 975
Qadanuoromlarger-— 22-1. ss ene aes ae Notes RNG See cree A 287
——1,262
Parts of volumes:
rer ROLES Stray of Se ata ap a ee sey oe See 1,37
Quarto or larger......... SNe a te PARP ke Pree 1,250
—— 2,621
Pampblets: |
Mere On Ole OSS ieer arcs os yaaa ya Gero a Re aa NI 8 5 LETS
SEE BEG ROLL GC Le yyy ar ery a ees eS Tie ape iS os 324.
——1,881
Th SESS) PEGA | CLAN GBS Se ie Soe BS a ah age Pe MD a ae 198
MotalmeceiptSes «ost ee = asso saeco: ASE) dire ie Perea OE ETN GS 5,962

The following are some of the principal donations received in 1872:

From the Commission européenne du Danube, Galatz—* Mémoire sur
les travaux d’amélioration exécutés aux embouchures da Danube,” with
an atlas of 40 plates.

From A. W. Franks, esq., London—‘‘ Catalogue of the Collection of
Glass,” formed by Felix Slade. London, 1871. Folio. Beautifully illus-
trated.

_ From the Observatorio do Infante D. Luiz, Lisbon—“ Annals.” Vols.
lii-vili, 1866-1870. Folio.

From the Institut de France, Paris—‘ Mémoires de Académie des
sciences.” Vols. xxxvi, xxxvii. 4to. ‘‘Comptes-rendus.” Vols. Ixviii-Ixx.
“Tables Générale,” 1851-1865. 4to.

From Dr. K. Keck, Berlin, 203 pamphlets—University Theses.

From the University of Tiibingen— Repertorium morale.” Vols. i-iii.
1489. Folio. “ Universitiitsschriften,” 1870; and 18 pamphlets.

From the Universities of Bonn, Erlangen, Giessen, Géttingen, Greifs-
wald, Halle, Heidelberg, Jena, Leipzig, Marburg, Pesth, Bern, Ziirich,
and Havana—Inaugural Dissertations for 1871.

From the Royal Veterinary Academy, Utrecht—47 pamphlets.

From the University and Government of Chili, Santiago—10 vol-
umes and 2 pamphiets.

From the Public Library of Buenos Ayres—151 volumes, 334 parts
of volumes and pamphlets, and 7 charts.

From the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Pesth—9 voltae: and
do parts of volumes.

From the Royal Public Library, Stuttgart—26 volumes and 11 parts.
38
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

From the Hydrographic Department of the Ministry of Marine, St.
Petersburg—57 charts, 16 volumes, and 9 parts.

From the Royal Academy of Sciences, &c., Rouen—“ Mémoire sur
le Commission maritime de Rouen,” vols.iand ii; and “ Précis ana-
lytique,” 1804-1870, 14 volumes.

From the Ohio State Library, Columbus—13 volumes and 5 charts.

Among the donations there are two which deserve especial notice,
namely, the memoir upon the works which have been executed for the
improvement of the mouth of the Danube, and the fac-similes of the
Egyptian papyrus.

The first consists of an account, with a large atlas of plates, of the
investigations which have been made in regard to the obstruction in
the way of navigation of the outlet of the Danube, through several
channels along the delta of the river. This subject appears to have
been of so much importance that a commission was instituted in accord-
ance with the provisions of the treaty of Paris of 30th March, 1856,
including the representatives of seven different powers. The onan of
the memoir in question gives an extended account of the following sub-
jects: 1. Preliminary investigations and preparatory works; 2%. The
choice of the mouth to be improved, and an elaboration of a definite
project; 3. The provisional work. An appendix presents the report of
the chief engineer, Sir Charles Hartley, containing: 1. A general de-
scription of the delta of the Danube; 2. The formation of the bars; 3.
The means of improving the entrance to the river; 4. A comparison
of the different branches; 5. The result of meteorological and technical
observations from 1859 to 1865; 6. Statistics relative to commerce and
navigation. The memoir is accompanied by a large atlas of 40 double-
folio colored plates.

The work is one of great value to the engineers of this country, in
reference to the improvements which will doubtless be undertaken in
regard to the rivers and water-courses of the United States. To this
subject publie attention has not been directed with an intensity coim-
mensurate with its importance.

If we cast an eye on the map of the United States and view the rela-
tion which exists between the vast body of water in the northern lakes
and the branches of the Mississippi and the Ohio, we must be struck
with the means which nature has placed within the power of man for
improving the navigation of the great water-courses which form the
channels of communication between the interior of the country and the
sea-board.

We have, in a previous report, mentioned the interesting fact that
among our correspondents was the Institute of Egypt, founded at
Alexandria in 1859. Since then our correspondence with that coun-
try has been kept up,and more especially increased during the last year
by the visit to that country of one of the members of the Board of
Regents, General Sherman. We have received from General Stone, of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

the Egyptian army, an interesting chart of the fluctuations of the Nile,
and from the author, Auguste Mariette Bey, the fac-similes of the Egyp-
tian papyrus in the museum of Boulaq, prepared under the auspices of
S. A. Ismail Pacha, Khédive of Egypt. These fac-similes occupy forty-
four folio-plates, on tinted paper, representing in color and form the pres-
ent appearance of the papyrus.

Among the donations to the library should also be mentioned a col-
lection of two thousand drawings of fishes, including copies of all kaown
engravings of fishes published up to 1834, made by Dr. A. Reuss, for-
merly of Germany, but now of Belleville, Illinois.

WORK DONE IN THE INSTITUTION AND IN CONNECTION WITH OTHER
ESTABLISHMENTS.

The Secretary, from the first organization of the Light-House Board,
has been one of its members, and has acted as chairman of the com-
mittee on experiments. In this capacity he has made in past years an
extended series of investigations relative to different materials of illu-
mination, also investigations relative to different instruments proposed
for fog-sigpals, besides reporting on a large number of propositions made
to the board with the idea of improving the aids to navigation. During
the last year he continued the investigations in regard to fog-signals,
and for this purpose spent his last summer’s vacation on the coast of
Maine. Tor these services he receives no other compensation than ten
cents amile as traveling expenses. The work is one, however, in which
he takes great interest, and it has been to him a source of diversity of
employment and a means of improved health.

He has, during the past year, upon the retirement of Admiral Shu-
brick, been elected chairman of the board.

The Secretary is also one of the visitors to the Government Hospital
for the Insane, and as President of the National Academy of Sciences
directed the preparation of the instructions for scientific observations
for Captain Halls arctic exploration. In addition to the foregoing, the
Government placed the direction of the exploration of Major Powell in
charge of the Smithsonian Institution.

Appropriations have been made at the last two sessions of Congress
for investigations, under the direction of Professor Baird, of this Institu-
tion, relative to thealleged decrease of food-fishes on our coasts. Tothis
at the last session was added an appropriation for stocking the rivers
and Jakes in the United States with useful fishes. These investigations
have occupied all the time and attention he could spare from his duties
in connection with the Smithsonian Institution.

Besides the prominent subjects of immediate inquiry, there were quite
a number of collateral matters bearing on the general questions, which
were prosecuted at the same time, and which have in themselves much
scientific interest. His headquarters for the season were fixed at East-
port, on the Bay of Fundy; and,with Professor Vervill to take charge of the
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

invertebrate fauna, he was enabled to gather, both at Eastport and Grand
Manan, immense numbers of specimens, which, when fully elaborated,
will be distributed to various scientific establishments throughout the
world. With the facilities furnished by the Government in authorizing the
use of the revenue-cutter Mosswood whenever necessary, the party was
enabled to carry on these researches in every branch of the inquiry,
including dredging and temperature-observations at great depths in the
Bay of Fundy. Every facility was heartily rendered in this work by
Captain Hodgdon and his officers. For a portion of the time a detail of
the party, consisting of Professor Webster and Mr. C. H. Pond, was oc-
eupied at Cape Porpoise, south of Portland, as also at the island of
Grand Manan.

By permission of Professor Peirce, the Superintendent of the Coast-Sur-
vey, Professor Baird also placed a party on board the Coast-Survey steamer
Bache while surveying the Georges Banks and other shoals off the
coast of New England; this detail consisting for a time of Mr. 8S. J.
Smith, and Mr. Oscar Harger, of Yale College, and afterward of Dr. A.
S. Packard, jr., and Mr. Cook, of Salem.

The additions to our knowledge of the natural history of the Ameri-
can seas made by all these parties has been very great, and the results
will be published in detail in the report of the commissioner to be made
to Congress.

While engaged at Eastport himself, Professor Baird had a party also at
Wood’s Hole, the scene of his labors during the year 1871; and several
interesting additions to the known fauna of the Vineyard Sound region
were made, among them, two genera and species of the sword-fish
family, previously unknown on the coast of the United States; and other
specimens of marine animals, especially of fishes, were contributed by
Mr. Samuel Powell, of Newport.

The following is an account of the work done by Mr. F. B. Meek, who
still retains his apartments in the building, and examines and reports
to the Institution all specimens of paleontology and geology submitted
to it for examination.

Most of his attention during the year 1872 has been devoted to the
invertebrate paleontological department of the Ohio State geological
survey. The collections have been sent to him at the Smithsonian
Institution. He has, from time to time, published preliminary papers on
these fossils in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia and the American Journal of Science and Arts, and sub-
sequently prepared more elaborate descriptions for the first volume of
the Final Report of the Ohio Geological Survey, in charge of Dr. J. S.
Newberry. He has also had the drawings, illustrating his part of this
volume of the Report, and a part of those for the second volume, made
in the Institution, under his immediate direction; and has likewise ar-
ranged the plates and superintended the engraving of the same, so far
as completed.
i

©

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Tn the early part of the year he prepared for publication some notes
on the geology of the country immediately about the White Sulphur
Springs, of Greenbrier County, West Virginia, with figures and
descriptions of a few new fossils. He has likewise superintended the
engraving of the quarto-plates of fossils from the Upper Missouri coun-
try, illustrating a report on the region, to be published by the Government
in connection with the results of the United States Geological Survey
of the Territories, in charge of Dr. Hayden.

On account of failing health he was induced to avail himself of an
opportunity to spend the summer in the Rocky Mountains and along
the Union Pacific Railroad through to.the Pacific, during which jour-
ney he collected specimens and made observations at the expense of
the Government survey. Since his return he has prepared descriptions
of some forty or fifty new species of fossils collected during his journey,
to be published in Dr. Hayden’s report.

METEOROLOGY.

Among the first acts of the Institution was the establishment of a
system of meteorology, intended especially to gather trustworthy intor-
mation as to the character of American storms and the general clima-
tology of the United States. To assist in this enterprise, Mr. Janes P.
Espy was for several years previous to his death associated with the
Institution. Lieutenant Maury, then in charge of the Observatory, had
previously established a system of meteorology for the sea, and for sev-
eral years another system had been carried on by the War Department
at the various military posts of the United States, besides subordinate
systems in the States of New York, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania.

Tt was the intention of the Institution to harmonize these different sys-
tems, and, as far as possible, to reduce and discuss the results on one
general plan. For this purpose it had prepared at its expense, by Pro-
fessor Guyot, a volume of meteorological tables, also a series of instruc-
tions, and introduced a set of trustworthy instruments, constructed by
Mr. James Green, of New York.

The Institution was the first to employ the telegraph in the prediction
of the weather; but as its income was not sufficient to carry on this oper-
ation to its full extent, and owing to the interference of the war, the
project was for a while abandoned. The proposition was, however,
afterward brought before Congress by other parties, and a system of
weather-forecasts established under the direction of the War Depart-
ment, in the especial charge of Chief Signal-Officer General A. J. Myer.

The placing of this system of forecasts underthe War Department gave
it special advantages not otherwise to be secured by it. The observers
are all enlisted in the Army and paid out of the Army appropriations.
The whole being under military discipline gives the system a regularity
and efficiency which leaves nothing in this respect to be desired. The
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

appropriation for the support of the system has thus tar been very lib-
eral, and I do not doubt it will continue to be so from year to year.

Since the establishment of the Government system of weather-fore-
casts [have proposed, on the part of the Smithsonian Institution, toaban-
don the field of meteorology to General Myer, preserving to the Institu-
tion only the labor of discussing and reducing all the observations which
it has collected from its own observers and from all others in the coun-
try up to, say, the: year 1872. To this proposition I have not as yet
received a reply.

The Smithsonian system includes at present about five hundred obser-
vers, who give their services voluntarily. They are of two classes: those
who report upon the barometer, thermometer, psychrometer, rain and
wind gauges, and those who report upon only the temperature, the
wind, the face of the sky, and the rain. Of the first class there are
about one hundred and fifty, and these serve as standards to which the
observations of the second class are referred. Most of the instruments
of the first class have been constructed by Mr. Green. The rain-gauges
are of a very simple form, consisting of merely a cylinder of tinned
iron, two and a haif inches in diameter and twelve inches deep, in which
the rain is measured to within half a tenth of an inch by the insertion
of a graduated slip of wood.

If the system just described were incorporated with that of the Gov-
ernment, and an agent sent from time to time throughout the country
to instruct the observers, the whole would form a more extended and
perfect system than any now in existence. The voluntary observers
would render good service in supplementing the more precise observa-
tions of the Army in marking the extent and boundary of special con-
ditions of the atmosphere and in noting casual phenomena, such as
thunder-storms, auroras, tornadoes, &c.

The Smithsonian system has now been in operation more than twenty
years, and the Institution is at present occupied in reducing and dis-
cussing the observations up to 1870 for publication. The only part of
the results as yet published is that relating to the rain-fall. The part
relative to the winds will be put to press in the course of a few months.
All the observations on the winds which the Institution has been able
to collect from unpublished and published records were placed in the
hands of Professor J. H. Coffin, of Easton, Pa., who has nearly com-
pleted their discussion. Of this discussion of the ‘“ winds of the globe,”
which has been made at the expense of the Institution, excepting as far as
the labors of Professor Cofiin were concerned, the tables have nearly all
been completed, and. the preparation of the maps and descriptions
alone remains te be done previous to putting the work to press.

All the temperature-observations have been for several years placed
in charge of Mr. Charles A. Schott, of the Coast Survey, and are being
reduced as rapidly as the appropriation for the purpose from the Smith-
sonian income will allow. The first division of this work has been com-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

pleted, and will be sent to press during the coming year. This section
consists of tables and discussions necessary to reduce observations
taken at different times of the day to the true mean of the day, and
other general corrections of irregular observations, and hence it was
necessary that this should be prepared first. It ineludes—

1. General remarks on the explanation and extreme cases of the daily
fluctuations of the temperature; investigation of the corrections to
the mean temperature from certain hours of the day to refer it to the
true mean of the day.

2. Tables of times of sunrise and sunset for every tenth day of the
year, and between latitudes 23° and 60°.

3. Applications of Bessel’s circular function to represent the daily
fluctuation, (yearly average ;) the results for twenty stations are given.

4, Classification of the daily fluctuation into six typical forms; epochs
of maximum and minimum, and of mean values and daily range, (with
two diagrams.)

5. Annual variation in the range of the daily fluctuation, (with two
diagrams ;) and extremes of daily fluctuation in December and June,
(with three diagrams;) also table of recorded daily range of tempera-
ture for every month and for certain stations.

6. Variability of the temperature at any hour from the normal value
of that hour, specially investigated for Toronto, Mohawk, Philadel-
phia, and Sitka.

7. Table of the mean values of the hourly, bi-hourly, or semi-hourly

observations of temperature, for every month, at nineteen stations.

8. Table of the daily fluctuations of temperature derived from the
preceding table, and showing, for every hour and for each month and
the year, the difference from the respective daily mean temperature.

Self-registering instruments are absolutely necessary for this kind of
investigation, and when their readings are applied will place the results
on a more satisfactory footing, and one commensurate with the import-
ance of the subject.

The following is the condition of the wrark: which has been continued
during the past year with the labor of two computers:

1. Consolidated tables, giving the mean temperature for each month,
season, and the year, have been prepared for the following States, &e.:
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Dakota, Idaho, Nebraska, West
Virginia, Greenland, Iceland, British North America, and part of New
York.

2. A large number of observations made at Havana, Cuba, have been
computed and added to the general tables. Various other additions
have been made and many deficiencies supplied.

3. About three-fourths of the annual means at the different stations
have been calculated, embracing about 7,000.

4, The maxima and minima tables have been nearly completed.
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
MISCELLANEOUS.

At a meeting of the British Association in 1868 a committee was
appointed for the purpose of obtaining observations in various localities
on the rate of increase of underground temperature downward. This
committee (through its secretary, Prof. J. D. Everett) has requested
the Institution to furnish observations on this subject from the United
States.

These observations are generally made by noting the temperature in
artesian wells; and although a large number of these borings for water
have been made in this country, the precautions to be taken, and the
skill required, in obtaining the true increase of temperature in relation
to the depth are of a character not to be intrusted to ordinary obser-
vers; and, therefore, to meet the requirements of the committee, a special
agent will be necessary to visit the different localities. The income of
the Institution, up to this time, has not permitted the incurring of the
cost of such an agency, although we hope in the future to be able to
make an appropriation for the purpose. In the mean while we have
intrusted a set of four standard thermometers, furnished by Professor
Everett, and compared at the Kew Observatory, to Mr. B. D. Frost,
engineer of the Hoosac Tunnel, Massachusetts.

The investigation is one of great interest to the geologist, being inti-
mately connected with the hypotheses concerning the geological changes
to which the globe, has been subjected. The fact has been fully estab-
lished that, in every part of the world where observations have been
made, after descending a few feet below the surface or beyond the
depth at which the temperature of the ground is affected by variations
in the solar heat, there is a gradual increase of temperature varying in
the rate of increase at different places, but on an average not far from
one degree in every sixty feet, or a rate which, if continued, would indi-
cate the fusing-point of iron at a depth of about twenty-eight miles.

At the last meeting of the Board the subject of the desirability of
the franking privilege to the Institution was discussed, as it had fre-
quently been at previous meetings. Hon. Mr. Hamlin, who is a member
of the Post-Office Committee of the Senate, offered to endeavor to pro-
cure action of Congress in regard to this object, and accordingly at
the last session the following law was enacted.

“¢ All publications sent or received by the Smithsonian Institution,
marked on each package ‘Smithsonian Exchange,’ shall be allowed to
pass free in the mail.” (New Postal Code, 6th subdiv., 183d sec.)

It will be seen from the above that the franking privilege is confined
to printed matter, and does not relieve the Institution from the burden
of its large letter-correspondence, and, above all, from a new and unex-
pected source of expense in the mineral specimens which, since the
transfer of the collection of the Land-Office to the museum of the Insti-
tution, are sent by mail from the different Government surveyors. We
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

have before us a lot of specimens from one Government officer on which
postage of upward of, thirty dollars is charged. Unless provision is
made for the transmission of these to the Institution through the mails
free of cost, as it was in the case of the Land-Oifice, we shall be obliged
to decline receiving them.

By the will of Henrietta Jane Bedford, of Wilmington, Del., daugh-
ter of Hon. Gunning Bedford, jr., one of the framers of the Constitu-
tion of the United States, aid-de-camp to General Washington, and
first district judge of the United States for the district of Delaware
under the Constitution, a bequest was made to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion of a pair of pocket-pistols, presented to her father by General
Washington; also a silver punch-strainer, said to have been made out
of a silver dollar earned by Benjamin Franklin on the first day news-
papers were carried round the city of Boston for sale. In case these
bequests should not be accepted by the Institution, they were to be given
to the Historical Society of Delaware.

While the motive which induced this bequest is fully appreciated, the
objects, not being of a kind now in its collections, which relate more
especially to natural history and anthropology, the Institution preferred
that they should be presented to the Historical Society of Delaware.

At the request of the ladies in charge at Mount Vernon it has been
thought proper to deposit with them the model of the Bastile of Paris,
presented to General Washington; an iron stirrup of a saddle used
by Mrs. Washington; and a small picture of Mount Vernon. These
articles came into the possession of the Institution from the effects of
the National Institute, and can be reclaimed for the National Museum
at any time it may be thought important to obtain possession of them.

It was mentioned in the last report that a portion of the large room
in the second story of the building was used for the exhibition of the
cartoons or original sketches of Indian life, made by the celebrated
Indian student, George Catlin. Mr. Catlin continued his exhibition of
these pictures during the summer, and devoted all his time not occupied
in explaining his pictures to visitors, to finishing the sketches. Unfor-
tunately, in passing between the Institution and his boarding-place,
which were separated by the distance of more than a mile, he exposed
himself to the heat of the unusually warm summer, and was seized with
a malady which terminated his eventful life on the 23d of December,
1872, in the seventy-seventh year of his age.

Since the subject will again come before Congress, I may here repeat
what was said in my report last year relative to the purchase by Con-
gress of the Catlin collection: ‘“‘The entire collection, which comprises
about twelve hundred paintings and sketches, was offered by Mr. Catlin
to the Government in 1846, and its purchase was advocated by Mr. Web-
ster, Mr. Poinsett, General Cass, and other statesmen, as well as by the
principal artists and scholars of the country. A report recommending
A? REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

its purchase was made by the Joint Committee on the Library of Con-
gress, but, owing to the absorption of public attention by the Mexican
war, no appropriation was made for the purpose. Mr. Catlin made no
further efforts at the time, but exhibited his pictures in Hurope, where,
on account of an unfortunate speculation into which he was led in Lon-
don, claims were brought against them which he had not the means to
satisfy. At this crisis, fortunately, Mr. Joseph Harrison, of Philadel-
phia, a gentleman of wealth and patriotism, desiring to save the collec-
tion for our country, advanced the means for paying off the claims
against the pictures, and shipped them to Philadelphia, where they have
since remained unredeemed. Mr. Catlin, however, retained possession
of the cartoons, and has since enriched them with a large number of
illustrations of the ethnology of South America. Whatever may be
thought of these paintings from an artistic point of view, they are cer-
tainly of great value as faithful representations of the person, features,
manners, customs, inplements, superstitions, festivals, and everything
which relates to the ethnological characteristics of the primitive inhabit-
ants of our country. We think that there is a general public sentiment
in favor of granting the moderate appropriation asked for by Mr. Catlin,
and we trust that Congress will not fail to act in accordance with this
feeling.” It is the only general collection of the kind in existence, and
any one who has given thought to the subject could scareely fail to sym-
pathize with the last anxious feelings of Mr. Catlin that, after a life of
devotion to Indian ethnology, these results of his labors might be pur-
chased by the Government. To insure the permanent preservation of the
collection, Mr. Catlin would have gladly presented the pictures to the
Government as a gift had he not expended all his worldly possessions in
the formation of the collection, and therefore had nothing wherewith to
redeem the portion of the general collection pledged for debt or to be-
stow upon his three orphan daughters.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Until the year 1870 the support of the National Museum princi-
pally devolved on the Smithson fund, only $4,000 having been annually
appropriated by Congress for this purpose. Since that date, however,
Congress has indicated an intention of providing for the full support of
the museum. In 1870 and 1871 it appropriated $10,000, and in 1872,
$15,000. This last sum, however, is scarcely yet sufficient to defray the
expenses.

The cost of the reconstruction of the building, exclusive of furniture,
after the fire of 1865, was $136,000, the whole of which was paid from
the Smithson income. This expenditure was for restoring the main
building and not for fitting up rooms wanted for the further extension
of the museum. For the latter purpose, Congress has made appro-
priations, since 1870, amounting in all to $35,000. Of these appropria-
tions $20,000 have been expended in ceiling, flooring, plastering, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

finishing the great hall, occupying the entire second story of the main
building, intended for the extension of the museum; and, with the
remainder of the appropriation, arrangements have been made for fur-
nishing with cases this room, and also the room formerly occupied by the
library, and now devoted to mineralogy and geology.

With a view to the entire separation of the affairs of the museum
from those of the Smithsonian proper, all the operations of the latter,
with the exception of those in the Regents’ room, are carried on in ite

east wing and range of the building, leaving all the other parts, includ-
ing the main edifice, towers, west wing, and west range, to the museum

The following is Professor Baird’s account of the additions to the
Museum, and the various operations connected with it during 1872:

AD)

Additions to the National Museum in 1872, in geographical sequence.—
The additions to the National Museum, in charge of the Smithsonian
Institution, during the year have shown a gratifying increase over those
of 1871, and have been decidedly equal in value to those of any previ-
ous year. The great bulk, as might be expected, has been derived from
the collections of the various Government expeditions, especially those
under the charge of Professor Hayden, Professor Powell, and Lieuten-
ant Wheeler, supplemented, however, by others, contributed by private
effort, especially on the part of Mr. Henry W. Elliot and Mr. William
Hi. Dall.

A great addition to the magnitude of a portion of the cabinet, namely,
that of mineralogy and geology, has been the result of the transfer to
the Institution, under the order of the Secretary of the Interior, of the
extensive museum of the Land-Office.

In the appendix to this report will be found a detailed list of the
donors of the various specimens, together with the general indication of
their nature; but with a view of calling attention more particularly to
the afore regions represented therein, 1 beg leave to present some
remarks, both in regard to the auspices wae which they were secured
and their general character.

As in previous years, the principal regions of Aumnation are more or
less represented among the additions in 1872, and these, as usual, will
be mentioned in systematic order.

Beginning, therefore, with the Northwest Coast, we have, in the first
place, from the Island of Saint P: aul, one of the fair: seal group in Behr-
ing Sea, a very extensive collection, presented by Mr. Henry W. Elliot,
for a long time connected with the Institution. This gentleman Asha
the two seal-islands, Saint Paul and Saint George, as an assistant agent
of the Treasury Department, to attend to the interests of the Govern-
ment with the Alaska Commercial Company, and to look after the wel-
fare of the native tribes. The collection embraces a large number of
Skeletons of many species of water-fowl, as well as their skins and eggs,
quite a number of which are new to the national collection ; also various
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

fish, mollusea, and other marine objects, together with minerals, rocks,
and plants.

Mr. William H. Dall also contributed largely from the region a
little to the south of that occupied by Mr. Elliot, namely, Unalaska
and some adjacent islands. The most marked feature of Mr. Dall’s
contribution consists in the rich collections of pre-historic objects, some
of them found in localities of which the native Aleuts have no tradi-
tion as being the site of ancient settlements. The series is 0: interest, as
showing the state of civilization among the progenitors of these people.
Other objects collected by Mr. Dall consist of marine invertebrates,
fishes, and numerous birds, eggs, &c. Among the eggs are several new
kinds, which, with the contributions by Mr. Elliot, nearly complete the
desiderata of the National Museum in regard to the water-birds of the
North Pacific.

Some contributions have also been obtained from Professor Harring-
ton, the companion of Mr. Dall. It should be stated that Mr. Dall
has been engaged since July, 1871, in the service of the Coast Survey,
in surveying the Aleutian Islands, and that the collections made by
him, like those of Mr. Elliot, were gathered entirely at his own ex-
pense, at such periods as could not be occupied by any regular official
work. In addition to the specimens just named, skulls of rare species of
cetaceans were supplied by Captain Scammon, who has also added to
them others from Southern California.

From Oregon have been received several series of Indian relics, and
a number of human and other ecrania, presented by Mr. Bissell.

California has furnished some curious remains of fossil vertebrates
from Point Conception, presented by Mr. Sceva, and collections of
Sacramento salmonide from Mr. Stone. Dr. L. G. Yates has continued
his contributions of ancient relies, as also of minerals and fossil remains.
Some rare birds’ eggs and nests have been furnished by Mr. William
A. Cooper, of Santa Cruz.

From the States and Territories in the interior of North America,
especially those of the Great Basin and of the Rocky Mountain region,
the collections have been principally made on the part of the Govern-
ment expeditions, nearly all of which have had the center of their opera-
tions within these boundaries. Among these we may mention, first, the
parties of Professor Hayden, who renewed in 1872 his explorations of
1871 in the Geyser basins of the Upper Yellowstone, as also farther to
the west, in the regions between Fort Hall and the Three Tetons.

In addition to the researches prosecuted by his own immediate party,
and its division under charge of Mr. Stevenson, with Professor }. H.
Bradley as geologist, there were several subsidiary explorations prose-
cuted in connection with Dr. Hayden’s labors, by Professor Joseph
Leidy in Wyoming, and by Professors Meek and Bannister, Professor
Lesquereux, and Professor E. D. Cope, all of whom added largely
to the general collections, the total number of boxes of specimens re-
~

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AD

ceived from Professor Hayden’s expedition amounting to very nearly
one hundred.

The labors of Lieutenant Wheeler in the more southern portions
of the region referred to were continued throughout the season, with
Messrs. Gilbert and Howell as geologists, Dr. Yarrow as surgeon and
chief naturalist, Mr. Henshaw as assistant naturalist, aud Mr. Sever-
ance as ethnologist. The investigations of these gentlemen were prose-
cuted in Southern Utah and in Eastern Nevada, and resulted in the
acquisition of rich collections of geological specimens, as also of a large
series of animals, especially of the vertebrates. The ethnological con-
tributions of the party were also of much interest.

Professor Powell also, in continuation of preceding explorations along
the Colorado River, devoted himself more particularly to the ecllection
of Indian remains, and succeeded in procuring a very extensive series
of everything illustrating the habits and manners of the interesting
tribes that now occupy that region.

From Governor Arny, of New Mexico, the museum has received some
valuable minerals, and numerous articles of dress and ornament of the
Apaches and other modern tribes. He has also contributed the re-
mains of what Dr. Leidy considers to be a new species of American
fossil elephant, and other bones of the same species were supplied by
General J. H. Carleton.

Some interesting reptiles of New Mexico were contributed by Dr.
Bailey. Other collections of less extent will be found mentioned in the
table of list of contributions.

From the valley of the Mississippi have been received human remains
from the mounds of Dakota, contributed by General Thomas; from
Louisiana and Mississippi, casts of some very remarkable stone imple-
ments, furnished by Professor Joseph Jones, of New Orleans; and also
original flint objects, together with insects, from Mr. Keenan.

Mr. J. G. Henderson has lent us the rarities of his fine ethnological
collection, gathered principally in Hlinois, with permission to duplicate
them by means of casts; while from Mr. Peters, of Kentucky, Mr.
Anderson, of: Ohio, and other gentlemen, additions have also been
made to the ethnological department.

From the chain of lakes extensive contributions in the way of food-
fishes have been furnished by various parties. Among them may be
mentioned, as the most important contributor, Mr. J. W. Milner, deputy

commissioner of fish and fisheries for the lakes. His transmissions em-

brace the different species of trout and white-fish in great variety.

In obedience to the instructions of the minister of marine and fish-
eries of Canada, the fish-wardens on the lakes have also supplied speci-
mens of trout and white-fish from Lake Erie, Lake Ontario, Lake Cham-
plain, the Saint John’s River, &c. These have been received from
Messrs. Kerr, Kiel, Macfie, and others.

The State of Maine is very amply represented in the collections of
A6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the year by means of the specimens of marine animals collected by
Professor Baird as United States commissioner of fish and fisheries, and
his assistants and associates. In addition to the collections made on
the coast of Maine, the Institution has received, through the commis-
sioner of fish and fisheries, a valuable series of the salmon of the Penob-
seot River from Mr. Atkins; of the blue-backed trout of the Rangely
Lakes from Mr. Stanley; and lake-trout and land-locked salmon of the
Saint Croix from Senator Edmunds. Marine animals in great variety
and of much interest were also collected for the fishery commission at
Fort Macon, North Carolina, by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, assistant surgeon of
the United States Army, supplemented by others from Dr. Mackie.

The donations from the interior of the Atlantic coast States consisted
of Indian relics from Mr. Kellogg, of Connecticut; minerals and rocks
of South Carolina from Mr. Waldo; and various specimens of birds from
Florida from Mr. George A. Boardman. The trustees of the Charleston
College have been kind enough to lend to the Smithsonian Institution,
to be copied in plaster, several unique objects of ethnology.

Proceeding to the regions south of the United States, we may men-
tion, first, contributions from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, furnished by
Professor Sumichrast, these consisting of numerous birds and reptiles,
in continuation of similar collections previously transmitted. Mr. Flor
entin Sartorius, of Vera Cruz, also furnished specimens of the rare and
curious wax-producing insects first described as Lystra cerifera.

From Guatemala have been received collections of insects, presented
by Mr. F. Sarg, and from Nicaragua a collection of rare pottery, by Dr.
Earl Flint. Certain collections made several years ago by Dr. Berendt
near Belize were received during the year, consisting principally of rep-
tiles and shells. As these were gathered at the expense of the several
contributors to a common fund, they were assigned for distribution to
Mr. Thomas Bland and Professor Cope.

Of South American regions, New Granada is represented by a col-
lection of birds presented by the American minister at Bogota, Mr.
Hurlbut; Southern Brazil by the skeleton of a tapir from Mr. Albu-
querque; and Chili by a very valuable collection of native minerals
from the University of Santiago, through Professor Domeyko, and a
collection of Chilian eggs of great interest from the national museum,
through Dr. Philippi.

Perhaps the most interesting South American object is a human head
prepared by the Jivaro Indians of the province of Chimborazo, Peru,
and presented to the Smithsonian Institution by Don Edward de Feiger,
through the honorable Rumsey Wing, United States minister to Ecua-
dor. This head belongs to a very rare series of ethnological objects, of
which a very few only have been brought to Europe and America. They
are held by their owners in much veneration, and jealously guarded as
household divinities. They are believed to be trophies of victories; the
head of an enemy being thus prepared for permanent preservation. The
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

precise method of manipulation is unknown, but is supposed to consist
in the careful extraction of the bones, flesh, and brains of the head, and
the subsequent contracting of the skin by some astringent. The result
is a well formed and quite symmetrical head, about four inches in diame-
ter; all parts contracted in equal proportion, and with long flowing
black hair; a braid of strings is passed through the lips, and there are
several other artificial appendages.

Prof. William M. Gabb has kindly presented to the National Museum
some extremely rare and remarkable stone implements and pottery from
San Domingo, while Professor Poey, the eminent and veteran naturalist of
Havana, has supplied a series of fishes from Cuba as types of his species.

Fishes of Bermuda were also received from Mr. J. Brown Goode.

The collections from other parts of the world, as might naturally have
been expected, have not been so great, either in number or value, as
those already referred to, although some of them are very important,
as tending to complete the series already in the museum. The most
interesting of these objects are certain pre-historic stone implements,
especially of the drift-period, presented by Mr. William Blackmore,
of England, and a similar collection furnished by Mr. Baker.

Professor Holst, of Christiania, has supplied a series of minerals from
Konigsberg, a mining-region near that city, while Dr. Sars and Dr.
Boeck have furnished specimens of the crustacea, Mr. Robert Collett
of the fishes, and Dr. William Boeck a skeleton of Hyperoodon. Dr.
Mobius, of Kiel, has also sent us a series of the food-fishes and crusta-
ceans from the vicinity of Kiel.

No collections are recorded from Africa, with the exception of a
superb skull of the Koodoo antelope, from Captain Holmes. From
Japan, however, have been received some remarkable stone and bronze
implements of pre-historic times, presented by the Japanese minister,
Mr. Mori.

The Sandwich Islands are represented by collections of skulls and
ethnology, from Mr. Valdemar Knudsen.

Systematic summary. 'The preceding enumeration expresses the geo-
graphical relations of the collections received during the year; and it
may be well, in addition, to make a brief systematic reference to the
principal objects received, so far as this has not already been done,
especially as some general collections, covering a wide range of country,
‘have not yet been referred to.

The department of ethnology has been especially enriched, not only
by the collections of Professor Powell, Mr. Dall, Professor Hayden, and
others, but very largely by a contribution from Mr. Vincent Colyer. This
gentleman, while connected with the Board of Indian Comunissioners,
took oceasion duripg his official visits in various parts of the Indian
country to collect, at his own expense, large numbers of objects, all of
Which are now in possession of the Institution.
AS REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The head of the mummy, presented by Don Edward de Feiger,
already referred to, is perhaps the most important of the ethnological
Series; but there are other objects of very great interest worthy of
note. Among them, one of special interest, is an Indian pipe of black
slate, carved in a very striking likeness of a loon, found in West
Virginia and presented by Rev. J. N. Davis.

In the department of mineralogy and geology, the additions brought
in by the parties of Lieutenant Wheeler and Professor Hayden have
been especially rich; the donation of Chilian minerals by Professor
Domeyko, and of Norwegian by Dr. Holst, will do much to increase
the value of this portion of the collection.

The most important addition, however, is that of the Land-Office
collection of minerals, embracing many thousands of specimens, and
especially rich in series of ores irom Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Colorado,
and California. These collections will shortly be arranged with others
of the same character in the new mineralogical hall.

In the department of zoology, a contribution from the Imperial Zoolog-
ical Museum of Vienna, of skeletons of large mammals, such as those of
the lion, tiger, giraffe, brown bear, &c., may be considered as chief in
value. The skeleton of the Brazilian tapir, from Mr. Albuquerque, is
also of much moment, as rendering the collection of American tapirs
nearly complete. We previously possessed skeletons of the tapir of
the Andes from Mr. Hurlbut, the Panama tapir from Captain Dow,
and the Guatemala tapir from Mc. Henry Hague; the last additions
making skeletons of four perfectly distinct species or varieties of this
animal.

The skeletons and skulls of the cetaceans of the west coast from
Captain Scammon, a skeleton of hyperoodon whale from Dr. Boeck, and
skeletons of many hundreds of birds from Henry W. Elliot may also
be enumerated.

Among mammals, the chief accessions have been that of a Rocky
Mountain goat, from W. J. Wheeler, since mounted and placed in the
collection; that of a gnu from an unknown source, and the restoration
in full size of the Irish elk, deposited by Mr. Waterhouse Hawkins.

The Royal College of Surgeons of London has contributed a col-
lection of casts of the brains of mammals.

Of birds, a valued addition is that of the rare Labrador duck from
the Museum of Natural History of New York; and the extensive col-
lections of Professor Hayden, of Lieutenant Wheeler, of Mr. Dall, and of
Mr. Henry Elliot embrace many important specimens. The eggs fron
Messrs. Dall and Elliot, taken in Alaska, and those from Chili, are of
principal value.

The collection of fishes has been very large, made principally by or
in behalf of the commission of fish and fisheries. It embraces speci-
mens of the Salmonide of the Sacramento River, received from Mr
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 4G

Livingston Stone, and of various localities on the great lakes, and in
the States of Maine and New Hampshire.

The marine collections from the coast of Maine, Vineyard Sound,
Rhode Island, Fort Macon, Cuba, and the Bermudas have already been
referred to. The European collection presented by Messrs. Sars, Boeck,
and Collett, as also those of Dr. Mobius, of Kiel, will also be of much
value for purposes of comparison.

The invertebrates gathered under similar auspices have also been
very numerous, and will furnish ample means for distribution to other
museums.

In accordance with the policy of the Institution, all the specimens of
human anatomy, including crania and skeletons from the ancient
mounds, have been turned over as soon as received to the Army
Medical Museum, while the insects and the plants have, in like manner,
been deposited with the Agricultural Department.

The total number of distinct donations received during the year 1872
amounted to 315 entries, comprising 544 separate packages and coming
from 203 different donors.

The corresponding figures for the year 1871, consist of 271 donations,
comprising 400 packages.

Work done in the museum.—The addition of so large a stock of ma-
terial to the collections already in charge of the Institution, of course,
involved a great deal of labor, such as the unpacking and classifying
of the objects; the labeling of all, at least as to localities; the entering
in their respective record-books; the putting such of them in order
as required it; placing such as were ready for- immediate exhibition
on their respective shelves; and storing the rest away where they could
most readily be referred to on occasion.

All dry objects of an animal nature generally need prompt attention
to prevent their being affected by mold or by the attacks of insects;
ethnological objects usually requiring to be thoroughly cleaned and
poisoned, while skins of animals, furs, Indian robes, dresses, &c., must
be immersed in some poisonous solution before they can be considered
as permanently secure. All this has been effected with as much thor-
oughness as the time and force at the command of the Institution would
permit.

In addition to this, it was found that the immense collection of objects
of dresses and ornaments belonging to the ethnological galleries, were
more or less infected by moths, and it became necessary to subject the
entire series to a process of renovation, embracing many thousands of
specimens.

The transfer of the mounted birds and mammals from the old stands
to those of a neater form has also been prosecuted to :» considerable ex-
tent during the year, several thousands having been so treated, to the
meaner improvement of the general appearance.

S)
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Perhaps the most important labors in the museum have been that
connected with the renovation of the extensive alcoholic collections.
These were in a very unsatisfactory condition, in consequence of the
fire of 1865, and the unavoidable confusion during the process of recon-
struction of the various apartments of the Institution.

The bottles were necessarily stored in a damp cellar, where the labels
became obliterated to a greater or less degree; and aithough the pre-
caution had been taken to introduce within the jars numbers corre-
sponding to these of the external label, yet both in many cases were
found to have become illegible. It was necessary, therefore, to use
every effort to remedy the difficulty by re-labeling such specimens as
had not lost their history beyond recovery; and this work has occupied
a considerable portion of the force the entire year. All the bottles,
however, have been cleaned and placed in a dry cellar, and during the
coming year this part of the collection will be put in as good order as
can be desired.

A considerable portion of the time of the employés of the museum
was occupied in the transfer of the extensive collection of rocks and
minerals from the Land-Office, which has necessarily required great care
to prevent the misplacement of the labels. This was, however, satis-
factorily accomplished, and the specimens are now Safely in the posses-
sion of the Institution, and, it is hoped, will be placed on their shelves
in the course of the year 1873.

Quite a number of the skeletons of the larger animals, such as the
Irish elk, several species of tapir, the American moose, the buffalo,
American and European bisons, the elk, camel, &c., have been mounted
during the year and placed in the general collection. ‘There is yet much
to be done in this direction, the museum fortunately possessing very
complete series of the bones of most of the American mammalia and
many foreign species. Severallarge mammals have also been mounted,
such as the bison, the moose, walrus, and a considerable number of the
larger fish found on the Atlantic coast.

Distribution of specimens.—In accordance with the policy adopted by
the Smithsonian Institution in the administration of the collections of
the National Museum, much has been done in the way of transmission
of specimens to other museums at home and abroad.

Many of the rare and more choice stone implements in different mu-
seums throughout the country have been borrowed and duplicated by
means of casts, and enough of these prepared to permit quite an exten-
sive distribution.

The collections brought in by Professor Hayden during his different
expeditions of several years past were all unpacked and arranged; and
atter reserving a series for the Museum of the Institution, the remainder
were made up into some fifteen or twenty sets, which were distributed
to different colleges and academies throughout the country. This branch
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a

of the work of the Institution, it is hoped, can be greatly extended
during the coming year, in view of the immense number of duplicates
which will be found in the Land-Office collection and in the collections
just received from the various Government expeditions.

A large number of specimens in mineralogy and geology were also
boxed up and transmitted to Professor Egleston and Professor Newberry,
of the School of Mines in New York, under the existing arrangement
with those gentlemen to select and label a perfect single series for the
National Museum and to exchange the duplicate specimens in its interest.
Numerous returns have already been received of valuable material,
adding greatly to the richness of the lithological department.

Dr. Coues, assistant surgeon in the Army, having volunteered to pre-
pare a monograph of the smaller rodents of North America for publi-
cation by the Institution, received at Baltimore the entire collection of
specimens, both in alcohol and in skins. Having subjected these to a
careful criticism, he made the duplicates into thirty sets, which will be
distributed in the course of the coming year to the different museums
in this country and Europe, in return for which we shall doubtless
receive some valuable additions to the cabinet.

A few of the small number remaining on hand of sets of minerals, geo-
logical specimens, shells, &e., have been sent out to various addresses,
and as also several series of birds, &c., mammals, skeletons, eggs, We.
The entire number of specimens thus sent forth will be found in an
accompanying table.

The museum may now be considered as in much better condition than
it has ever been before. The process of renovation is progressing as
rapidly as possible, and will, before long, be completed. The establish-
ment of better store-rooms in which to keep the unmounted skins of
animals, and the alcoholic collections, has enabled us to work to much
better advantage. As fast as each department can be re-organized and
placed in a satisfactory condition, pains will be taken to eliminate the
duplicates, and distribute them as authorized. The result will be to
greatly reduce the bulk of crude material to be cared for by the Insti-
tution, and to render a great service to the cause of scientific instruc-
tion by disseminating authentically-labeled types of the various species.
Returns of great value may be expected also for these specimens.

There is, however, a great deal to be done before the collections at
present in the National Museum may be considered as finally arranged,
to say nothing of those yet to be received. The greater portion of the
ethnological museum will need to be properly mounted on tablets, or
otherwise prepared for permanent exhibition, and labeled. As soon as
the cases in the large hall of the Institution can be completed, these
specimens will be placed in position. It is intended to prepare a large
number of effigies representing accurately the lineaments, dress, and
form of the tribes of Indians, and to place upon these their correspond-
52 REPORT OF THE. SECRETARY.

ing ornaments, weapons, &c.; and to introduce them, either singly or in
- groups, into suitable cases, where they can most readily be seen.

The approach to completion of the new cases for the mineralogical
hall, formerly occupied by the library, makes it necessary to re-arrange
all the mineralogical and geological specimens, these including not only
such as have been for a long time in the Institution, but the newly-ac-
quired treasures from the Land-Office, and the Government expeditions
of 1872. These transfers will vacate a portion of the present exhibition-
room, amounting, perhaps, to nearly one-third its present capacity; and
it is proposed to occupy the gaps thus made by specimens of mammals,
birds, and skeletons. Of these there are ample series in the building,
enough, indeed, to fill several large rooms. Such a selection will be
made from these as will make up the most important deficiencies in the
mounted series at present on exhibition.

Mineralogical collection.—Under the authorization of the Secretary of
the Interior, the Commissioner of the Land-Office transferred to the care
of the Institution, as a part of the National Museum, the collection of
minerals which had been formed by Mr. Joseph Wilson, the previous
Commissioner. This collection, intended to illustrate the mineral resources
of the country, consisted of samples of ores and geological specimens from
every State and Territory in the Union. Though a very valuable addi-
tion to the Museum, it is formed in some degree of duplicates of specimens
already in the Institution. Thisfact, however, will enable us to make up
sets of duplicates for distribution to collegesand academies. It is proposed
to continue the plan inaugurated by Mr. Wilson, of illustrating the
mineral products of all parts of the United States in addition to a gen-
eral systematic mineralogical cabinet. For the exhibition of the latter
the large room formerly occupied by the library will be devoted, while
the connecting range, by a few changes, will serve as the receptacle for
the specimens to illustrate the former.

In concluding the history of the Institution up to the year 1872, it will
be evident that the establishment has had, on the whole, a successful
career, although it has not been free from mishaps, and the appropriation
of the fund was not at first as conformable to the strict interpretation
of the will of the founder as could have been wished, yet continued
improvement has been made in this respect from year to year. Not
only the state of the funds, but the character which the Institution has
established over the world, will enable it to compare favorably with the
management of any endowment with which we are at present acquainted.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, February, 187?
NOTES RELATIVE TO GEORGE CATLIN.

George Catlin was born in Wilkesbarre, in the valley of Wyoming,
Pennsylvania, in the year 1796. His father was a lawyer of considera-
ble reputation, and designed his son to practice the same profession,
which he did for a short time; but his natural inclination for art was so
strong that after two or three years he abandoned the idea of becoming
a lawyer and removed to Philadelphia, where he pursued his occupation
principally as a portrait-painter. It was here that an incident occurred
which determined that future career which has made his life and labors
famous. <A party of roving Indians visiting Philadelphia, decorated
with the barbaric splendor of their native dresses, by their bold and
martial bearing, and by their unconstrained attitudes and gestures, so
impressed him that he determined to become the historian of this
remarkable race, which was rapidly becoming extinct, and to devote
himself to the illustration of their arts, types, manners, and customs.

With this purpose in view, in 1830and 1831, he accompanied Governor
Clarke, of Saint Louis, then superintendent of Indian Affairs, who was
engaged in making treaties with the Winnebagoes, Monomonees, Shaw-
nees, and Sacs and Foxes. In 1832 he ascended the Missouri, on the
steamer Yellowstone, to Fort Union, and aiterward returned, in a
canoe, with two companions, a distance of 2,000 miles, visiting and
painting all the tribes, so numerous at that time, on the whole length
of the river. The next year he went up the Platte as far as Fort
Laramie, and extended his journey to Great Salt Lake. In 1834 he
explored the Mississippi as far as the Falls of Saint Anthony, and visited
the Ojibbeways and other tribes, and returned to Saint Louis, a distance
of 900 miles, in a bark canoe. In 1835 he made a second visit to the
Falls of Saint Anthony, and thence proceeded to the Red Pipestone
region on the Couteau des Prairies, and then, returning to the Falls of
Saint Anthony, descended the river a second time in a canoe to Saint
Louis. In 1836 he accompanied Colonel Dodge on an expedition to the
Comanches and other southwestern tribes; and in 1837 visited Florida
for the purpose of painting the Seminoles and Euchees. During these
eight years he visited fifty different tribes of North American Indians,
taking sketches all-the time. Having thus accumulated a large number
of paintings representing the portraits of the principal men and the tribes
and the pictures of savage life, he exhibited them in various parts of
the United States, especially in Washington, Philadelphia, New York, and
Boston, with such success that, in 1839, he went to London and Paris,
where the artist and his collections attracted general attention. From
this time until 1852 he remained in Europe, being everywhere treated
~

54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

with marked distinction. In 1852, when fifty-six years old, his enthusi-
asm undiminished by his advancing age, and with a vigor and endurance
rarely found even in the young men of our day, he explored, with the
same object, the forests of South America. He went to Venezuela, and
visited the Oronoco, Amazon, and Essequibo, taking a great number of
pictures on his route. He afterward crossed the continent to Lima,
and going northward visited the mouth of the Columbia River, Nootka
Sound, Alaska, and to The Dalles, and up the Columbia River to Walla-
Walla, thence up to the Salmon River Valley, and across the mountains
into Snake River Valley at Fort Hall, thence to the Great Falls of the
Snake River, and returning to Portland proceeded .to San Francisco
and San Diego. From San Diego he crossed the Colorado of the West
and the Rocky Mountains, and descended the Rio Grande del Norte in
a canoe to Matamoras. From Matamoras he set out for Sisal, in Yucatan,
and thence proceeded to Havre. Starting again from that place in the
fall of the same year, 1855, he went to Rio Janeiro and Buenos Ayres.
Ascending the Paraguay and Parana, he crossed the Entre Rios
Mountains to the head-waters of the Uruguay, which he descended to
the mouth of the Rio Negro and returned to Buenos Ayres. From this
place, in 1856, he took passage in a sailing-vessel coasting the whole
length of Patagonia, and then north to Panama; thence to Chagres, to
Caracas in Venezuela, to Santa Martha and Maracaibo. In these six
years, completing his Indian studies, he retired to Brussels, and, with
pen and brush, again set himself to recording the results of his travels,
adding to his history of the North American Indians that of the Indians
of South America. He remained at Brussels until his return to thie
country in 1871.

During his life, and in periods of rest from his travels, he wrote and
published the following works:

1. Catlin’s Notes of Eight Years’ Travels among the North American
Indians, 2 vols., 1851.
2. Catlin’s Notes of Eight Years’ Residence in Europe, 2 vols, 1548.
Catlin’s North American Portfolio, 1544.
. Okee-pa, a Religious ** Mandan” Ceremony.
. Life among the Indians, (book for youth,) 1867.

6. Last Rambles among the Indians of the Rocky Mountains and
Andes, 1867.

7. Shut Your Mouth, 1869.
- 8. Uplifted and Subsided Rocks of America, 1870.

Crm OO b
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the Smithsonian

Museum at the close of the years 1871 and 1872, respectively.
Class. 1871 1872

Skkeletoneranceskculllgmem ewes ean. mete centers eee ey a ee eee 12, 059 | 12, 450
WEVA |. 500 sto abe boeGso Sa skoold eb aces endear edoues easscN 9, 849 11, 195
DBTANOIS cise oct Shs ORAS Sea E NS ENS ore RICOEUR ON ee ea ge 61, 250 62,718
Reptiles. 20-22 .2-.-- LEGS ATe Sree S Se atee Me sr Ye aie Ic safe os | 7, 536 8, 729
INNS IGS So5 don BUCA AeA OB OS ee Se OS SERS Hai a eae 7, 983 9, 758
[SCS OE NOE ae Son = be ole eee eee ager ae eee eee Cece eee | 15, 986 16, 322
(CINMISUAOSEINS 52 o45 oe godeusosse 4 eo Sceg cosced be sone ooseae bose 1, 287 2, 187
IMOITISKSRe Ha meee ok tise ne ios Stee UE eh ka | 24, 792 24, 792
Ep Tien ec Mn AN OT Pena ane oi Be TTT | 2,730 3,107
Ah SOT STIGG Reich AS OAS EE ee | 100 | 100
TENCE es SSO Au ea eee 2 ceo Ae TSE en ee | C1000 Ue US
Mitr eral Sie eee sere eats ato cust dos eyciole = pic: Seinen saws, Seren Zeta Stele 7, 160 | 7, 167
IDA OloeMeR ENCES: Ooooo0 ceeadeseqaecn odds bocoaeecue 10, 931 | i1, 607

Motalteyettit wees sie wees ees Stems Sees Coe 169, 560 177, 747

Increase for 1872, 8,337.

Approximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1872.

Distribution to the | Distribution Total to end of
end of 1871. during 1872. 1872.
Class.

i Speci- \ Speci- Speci-

Species. mens. | sPeecies- mens, | SPecies. iene
Skeletons and skulls .----- 325 827 19 37 344 864
Mammal siseecsclss ne eeaen as 941 E22 22 68 963 1, 890
IBLUEGL 3 A eee aA aU ae Se 22, 940 SO 428u i deel 29) | G67 24,069 | 37,095
IRE ptilest sesh aes et woe 1, 841 PCO Wass dase laa seiceue 1, 841 2, 970
SHES es oa ee eae ese 2,477 Soul 40 87 2017 5, 398
Eges of birds...... Jeet 6,606 | 16,698 21 22 6,627 | 16,720
PSHOVE MS) pleases sceepahe boca ene os aaieg ened 83,712 | 186, 157 905 | 1,035 84,617 | 187, 192
Crustaceans) -seaer nee tee 1, 078 O50) See Seo ECS Sele 1,078 2, 650
RACIALES ys tesserae nee 583 MBAS Ae Shove a les eer 583 778
Other marine invertebrates 1, 838 aloe 6 8 1,844 5, 160
Plants & packages of seeds 18, 503. 25,063 | 1,867 | 4,642 20,370 | 29,705
SLOSS See se tere aa 4,109 10, 185 3 6 APA?) |) 10, c41
Minerals and rocks........ 4, 630 9, 974 683 728 S013 | 10; 702
Lthnological specimens ror 295 1, 342 381 397 1, 676 1739
flineectsre Vee sae de ey. 1, 836 3, 150 412 | 1,144 2,248 |* 4,294
Diatomaceous earths ....-. 29 623 29 29 58 662
ovale ees uaue L 152,743 | 308,080 |}. 5,517 | 9,880 158, 260 | 317, 960

56 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION IN 1872.

Abell, J. Ralls. Indian relics, insects, &c., from Virginia.

Akhurst, J. Specimeus from Northwest Coast.

Albuquerque, F. Skeleton of Tapir and head of Deer from Brazil.
Allen, J. A., for Mus. of Comp. Zool., Cambridge, Mass. Specimen of
Lagomys in alcohol, and nest and egg of Plectrophanes ornatus.

Two specimens Leucosticte tephrocotis from Colorado.

Aman, S. Specimen of Spider-crab from Chesapeake Bay.

American Museum of Nat. History, New York. Mounted specimen of
Labrador Duck, (Camptolaemus labradorius.)

Anderson, Wm. Ethnological specimens and fossils from Ohio.

Arny, Hon. W. F. M. Bundle of arrows of White Mountain Apaches,
Arizona, and many other specimens of Ethnology, Mineralogy, and
Natural History.

Atkins, C. G. Two specimens of Salmon, from Bucksport, Me.

Aubin, N. Copper-ores from Lake Superior.

Babcock, Gen. O. FH. Specimens of silicified wood from excavations of
public works, Washington, D. C.

Bailey, Dr G. W. One bottle alcoholic reptiles, insects, &c., from New
Mexico.

Baird, Prof. S. F.. U. S. Commiss’r of Fisheries. Forty-four boxes general

collections from Eastport, Me.
Embryonic chicken in alcohol, Washington, D. C.

Baker, W. A. Collection of prehistoric flint implements from Great
Britain.

Barnes, Thos., through Col. £. Jewett. Copper chisel from Niagara Co.,
N.Y.

Bendire, Lt. U. S. A. Birds dried in the flesh, nests, and eggs, from
Arizona.

Berendt, Dr. H. Three boxes and one package general collections from
Honduras.

Binckley, J. M. Indian stone implement from Virginia.

Bissell, Geo. P. Stone implements, and antler imbedded in wood, from
Creswell, Oregon.

Blackmore, W. Prehistoric stone relics from Europe.

Blakeslee, D. Yndian stone relies from Ohio.

Bloom, &. J. Fossils and Indian relies from ‘Mississippi.

Boeck, Axel. Crustaceans from Norway.

Boles, Hon. T, 8S. Specimens of iron-ore from Arkansas.

Brevoort, J. Carson. Specimen of Ring-tailed Monkey from the Amazon,
(fresh).

Brown, Dr. Ryland T, Specimens of rock-salt from Arizona.

Brown, Hon. S.G. Quartz arrow-head from Anacostia, D. C.

Brush, A. P. Indian.stone implements from Quincy, Pa.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 57

Bryan, O. N. Skull of a mound-builder, from mound near Dubuque,
lowa.

Carleton, Rev. Hiram. Specimens of wheat prepared against rust.

Carleton, Gen. J. H. One box fossil bones from Sonora, Mex.

Choate, J. B. One box fossils from Iowa and Illinois.

Clarke, Geo. Fishes from Lake Erie and Detroit River.

Clarke, S. C. Ethnological specimens from Spruce Creek, Fla.

Cleburne, Wm. Three boxes fossils from along the line of Union Pacific
Railroad.

Clements, C. C., Surveyor-General of Utah. Specimens of silver-ores.

Cochrane, J. Ancient pottery, &c., from Illinois.

Cogswell, Mrs. W. F. Specimens of iron-ores from Lake Superior.

Collett, Robert. Collection of Norwegian fishes.

Colyer, Vincent. Indian clothing, implements, &c., from Alaska and the
western Territories.

Comstock, Gen., U. S. A. Specimens of dredgings made under the lake
survey in Lake Superior.

Cooper,W. A. Birds’ eggs from Santa Cruz, Cal.

Coues, Dr. Elliott, U. S. A. Skeleton and odd bones of Didelphys vir-
ginianus, (types of his monograph of the species.)

Curtis, R. C. Fossils from Genesee Co., N. Y.

Curtis, W. W. Specimens of quartz from Wisconsin.

Cusick, C. C. Ethnological specimens from Dakota Territory.

Dall, W. H. General collections from Alaska and the Aleutian Islands,
part of the collections by M. W. Harrington.

Davis, Rev. J. H. Indian stone pipe, (loon shape,) from West Virginia.

Dennis, Joel M. Ancient pottery from Newark, Ohio.

Dobson, J. R. Specimens of iron and iron-ores fron Pennsylvania.

Domeyko, Dr. Ignacio, University of Chili. Hight boxes of Chilian min
erals.

Duvall, Geo. W.. Specimen of Cormorant, (Graculus dilophus.) Sucking-
fish, and woodchuck, from Annapolis, Md.

Dyer, C. B. . Box of fossils from Cincinnati, Ohio.

Hidwards, Amory. Fossils from Kansas.

Edwards, Vinal H. Fishes, &c., from Vineyard Sound, Mass.

Elias, Mr. Medal issued in commemoration of the introduction of water
into the city of Buenos Ayres, South America.

Elliott, Henry W. Ten boxes general collections from Saint Paul’s
Island, Alaska.

Faulkner, J. Collection of birds’ eggs from Northern [linois.

Feiger, Don Ramon. Prepared head of Indian from Ecuador, South
America, (through Hon. Rumsey Wing, United States minister.)

Fithie, Jas. S. Insects, &e., from Mississippi.

Flint, Dr. Earl. One box of ancient pottery from Nicaragua. ..

Gabb, Prof. W. M. One box stone implements and pottery from Sante
Domingo.
58 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Gibbon, Lardner. Arrow-heads and Indian relies from South Carolina.

Giles, Norwood. Birds’ eggs and nests from North Carolina.

Gilpin, Dr. J. B. Specimens of Sea-Trout from Labrador and fishes from
Nova Scotia.

Goldsmith, Dr. through P. S. Phelps. One box fish from Ticonderoga,
Lake Champlain.

Goode, G. Brown. One box fishes from Bermuda.

Greene, A. k. One package minerals and one can fish from Maine.

Griffith, T. D. Cotton raised by Indians of Chickasaw Nation, Indian
Territory.

Hamilton, Hon. C. L. Specimen of white Coral from Key West, Fla.

Hansen, F. Walter. One ancient implement of polished, iron-ore from

’ Texas.

Harenbergh, J. R., U. 8. Survey’r-Genl. Specimens of ores from Calave-
ras Co., Cal.

Harford, G. Oue box of birds from San Miguel Island, California.

Harris, Wyatt. Fossil univalve from Mt. Vernon, Mo.

Hawkins, B. Waterhouse. Model of Irish Elk (restored) on deposit.

Hayden, Dr. F. VY. General collections of minerals, fossils, and speci-
mens of Natural History from Wyoming, Utah, and Montana.

Hatch, Dr. Four specimens of Silver Trout, from Centre Pond, Dublin,
NE.

Henderson, Jno. G. Indian stone implements from mound near Naples,
I]l., (loaned.)

Hicks, W. R. One package Indian relics from North Carolina.

Hilgert, H. Specimens of silicified wood from New Mexico.

Hobbs, Maj. T. J. Specimen of Potomac Black Bass.

Hoffman, Dr. A. H. Indian relics from Angel Island, Cala., (through
Surgeon-General’s office. )

Hoffman, Dr. W.J. Tortoise from Colorado Desert.

Holmes, G. G. Skull and horns of African Antelope ‘‘ Koodoo.”

Holst, Dr. Chr., University of Christiania, Norway. Collection of min-
erals from Norway.

Hoover, Jno. T. Nest of small Fly-Catcher from Dansville, N. Y.

Hough, R. B. Nests and eggs of birds from Northern New York.

Hovey, Geo. Specimen of Gordius in alcohol.

Howell, R. Indian relies and fossils from Tioga Co., N. Y.

Hurlburt, Geo. H. One box of birds from New Granada.

Imp. Mus. Vienna. See Pelzeln, A. von.

Jewett, Col. H. Stone disk from mound at Cedar Key, Fila.

Jones, Dr. Jos. Casts of ancient stone implements from Louisiana.

Jordan, H.C. Alcobolic collections from Brazil and Paraguay.

Junghuuns, Dr. Two human skulls from Japan.

Kalteyer, Geo. H. Fossil tooth (Ptychodus) from Texas.

Keenan, T. J. Rk. Ethnological and other specimens from Mississippi
and Louisiana.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 59

Kellogg, B. B. Indian stone implements from New Fairfield, Ct.

Kercheval, A. Minerals and fossils from West Virginia.

Kerr, Jno. W. Hight specimens of Lake White-fish from Lakes Erie
and Ontario.

Kiel, Peter. One box White-fish from Wolf Island, Ontario.

Knudsen, Valdemar. Ethnological and zoological collections from the
Sandwich Islands.

Kyron, F. J. Indian antiquities from North Carolina.

Lee, Col. J. G. C. Specimens of Indian pottery and other relics from
Arizona.

Lehane, Jas., Hospital Steward U. S. A. Specimen of Mountain Rat,
(Neotoma,) and skin of Horned Owl from Camp Douglas, Utah.

Leidy, Dr. Jos. One box ethnological specimens from Wyoming Terr.

Luce, Capt. S. B. Specimens of ancient Roman mosaic pavement from
Italy.

Ludington, C. Fresh fish, shells, &e., from lower Potomac.

Macfie, k. One box White-fish from Alburgh Springs, Vt.

Mackenzie, Jas. Specimens of corals and shells imbedded in asphalt,
from Cuba.

Mackin, Dr. C. One jar alcoholic collections from Beaufort, N.C.

Marquardt, H. Specimens of Guaco, and Nopal, from Mexico.

Maynard, C. J. One box birds, (lent for examination.)

McCallum, DP. Specimen of Glow-worm.

McWilliams, Dr. Specimen of rose-breasted Grosbeak from Washing!
ton, D. C.

Meigs, Gen. M. C. One jar alcoholic collections from Arizona, shells,
&c., from Lower California.

Merritt, Jno. F. Arrow-heads from Northern New York.

Metcalf, W. Birds, &e., from Michigan.

Miller, J. De Witt. Indian stone implements from New York.

Miller, 8S. A. Collections of fossils from Ohio.

Milner, James W. Collections of fishes, reptiles, &c., dry and in alcohol.
from the great lakes.

Mobius, Dr. Karl, University of Kiel, Prussia. Fishes from the Baltic
Sea.

Moore, A. B. Birds’ nests and eggs from Florida.

Moore, Carleton &. Indian stone relies from the Eastern Shore of Mary-
land.

Mori, Hon. Arinori. Set of Japanese gold and silver coins, and ethno-
logical specimens from Japan.

Morris, Jordan, through Z. B. Sturgis. Fragment of fossil Coral (Favo-
sites) from Salem, Ind.

Mullet, A. B. Two boxes of minerals.

Munson, Chas. Specimens of gray copper-ore.

Mus. Comp. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. Casts of fossils; two boxes general
collections.
60 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Nelson, W. J. Specimen of rock from Virginia.

Nichols, Dr. C. H. Specimens of Jaguar and Monkey from 8S. America,
(died in captivity at Government Hospital for the Insane.)

Nugent, F. F. Birds’ nests and eggs from Utah.

Oler, H. D. Indian flint implements from Illinois.

Palmer, Jos. Casts of skulls and aleoholie specimens.

Papineau, E. A. Insects from Kansas.

Peabody Mus. See Wyman, Dr. Jeffries. .

Pelzeln, Dr. A. von, Imperial Mus. Vienna. One large box skeletons.

Poey, Prof. F. Two casks and one box Cuban fishes, labeled.

Powell, Maj. J. W. General collections from Utah and Arizona.

Powell, Capt. S. One box fishes from Rhode Island.

Prentiss, Dr. D. W. Birds collected in the vicinity of Washington.

Propper, Geo. H. Fossils and ethnological specimens from Dakota Ter,

Putnam, Geo. D. One box insects from Iowa.

Read, Rev. D. One box fresh-water shells from Minnesota.

Reinsch, Dr. Paul. Herbarium of mosses (2 vols.) from Central Europe.

hticksecker, HE. One box of eggs from Nazareth, Pa.

fing, Lt. F. M. General collections from Alaska.

Robinson, Miss Agnes C. Nest of Vireo from vicinity of Washington.

foessler, A. Rk. Specimen of copper-glance from Archie Co., Tex.

Rouckendorjff, W. Cluster of barnacles.

Royal College of Surgeons, London, Prof. W. H. Flower. Casts of brains
and osteological specimens.

tutter, H. Fresh fish (Coregoni) from Fredericton, N. B.

Salt Lake Museum. One box minerals, fossils, &e.

Sarg, Francis. Collections of insects and shells from Guatemala.

Sars, G. O. Embryonic Cod fish from Norway.

Sartorius, Florentin. Four specimens of the wax-producing insect
(Lystra cerifera) from Mirador, Mex.

Sayre, W. Marine invertebrata from South Carolina.

Scammon, Capt. C. M. Specimens of bones of Cetaceans, &c., from N. W.
Coast.

Sceva, Geo. Five boxes of fossils from Pt. Conception, Cal.

Schacht, Bros., Sandusky, O. One box fish-producets.

Schoolcraft, Mrs. H. R. Indian flint knife.

Schrock, J. Ethnological specimens from Ohio.

Sherman, Isaac C. Stuffed specimen of Bill-fish, (Histiophorus gladius.)

Sinclair, Thos. Specimen of young Sucking-fish from George’s Bank.

Spencer, J. W. Fossils from Sullivan Co., Ind.

Stanley, H. O., through H. T. Richardson. Six jars Blue Trout from
Rangely Lake, Me.

Stearns, R. H.C. One box birds’ nests and general collections from
California.

Stimpson, Dr. W. Two cases general collections from Florida.

Stone, Livingston. Salmon-eggs from Sacramento River, Cal.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 61

Street,W. Eggs of Hawks from Easthampton, Mass.

Sumichrast, Dr. F. General collections from Tehuantepec, Mex.

Surgeon-General U. S. Army. See “Hoffman, Dr. A. H.

Swan, J. G., through Geo. Gibbs. Indian implements from Washington
Territory.

Thomas, Gen. H. G. One box bones of mound-builders from Dah xta.

Thompson, D. Indian stone relics from Ohio.

Thompson, J. H. One jar fishes from New Bedford, Mass.

University of Chili, Santiago, Chili. See Domeyko.

University of Christiania. See Holst, Dr. Chr.

University of Kiel. See Mobius, Dr. K.

Unknown. . Fossils from Onondaga Co., N. Y. Box of living plants
from Washington Ter. Fresh skin of African Gull. One Moth from
Erie, Pa. One box specimens from Pa. One box alcoholic specimens
and insects. One box fossil bones from North Carolina. One living
serpent (Abastor erythrogrammus) from Georgia. Ores from Amador
Co., Cal. Bones of Mastodon from Mississippi. Silver-ores from
Montana. One earthen pipe.

Voorhees, P. W. Specimen of bog-iron ore from New Jersey.

Waldo, Rev. Milton. One box minerals and fossils from South Carolina.

Walker, Dr. R. L. Indian stone hammers and arrow-heads from Penn-
sylvania.

Wallace, Jno. Skeletons of Flamingo and Swan.

Ward, Prof. H. A. Skeleton of Buffalo.

Wasson, Jno., Surveyor-General Arizona. Specimens of silver-ores from
various mines in Arizona.

Watson, S. Sets of plants made up for distribution.

Watters, Dr. W. Fragment of skin of a Plagiostome from Searsport, Me.

Webber, Mrs. Specimens of shells in alcohol from Florida.

Westcott, O. S. Specimen of Bald Eagle from Hlinois.

Wheeler, Lt. G. M. General collections from Utah and Arizona.

Wheeler, W. F., U.S. Marshal. Skin of Rocky Mountain Goat from
Montana Territory.

Whitman, G. P. Beak of a Cuttle-fish from Rockport, Me.

Williams, H.C. Stone arrows and ax from Fairfax Co., Va,

Wilson, Dr. J. N. Copper quiver from near Newark, O.

Wood, Dr. W. M. One box general collections.

Woodworth, O. H. Specimens of Horned Toad and insects from New

_ Mexico.

Wright, Chas. D. Brick from the wall of Pekin, China, (on deposit.)

Wyman, Dr. Jeffries, Peabody Mus., Cambridge, Mass. Three boxes of
European prehistorie relies.

Yarrow, Dr. H. C. General collections from Ft. Macon, N. C.

Yates, Dr. L. G. Minerals and stone relies from California.

Yonge, Wm. Penn. Specimen of Shad from Alabama River.

Zaremba, Dr. C.W. Fruit and leaves of Chilian Boldo-tree, (Prunus
Sragrans.)
62

EXCHANGES.

TABLE SHOWING THE STATISTICS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
EXCHANGES IN 1872.

2 5 @ Nees wpe
5 2 | Rl el ems
Agent and country. = S yao cg
gee ole | enue
° iS ° od 5 DE
S S) Se: Se
Zi Zz A | Ss
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stock-
holm:
SWEGED.. 2's 22255. wesc eerie secs 27 73 Ae 3.52 eens
Royal University of Norway, Christiania :
INE Nara O58 oaeeao so binds ces ompeob acre 22 58 Bit eases Wario cia soo
Royal Danish Society of Sciences, Copenha-
gen:
Wenmarkneaneceee asses eece ce es cae 25 BY) Poerer meter lames.
eelamdee cies merce cl eee merase 2 2 Saleen (id Sees 5
Total stescreee osc see etee eee 27 59 Bib Reese asec
Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg : wy a
INDE Eh Gaus osheoa caso seanaeigaaosaacs 89 189 6 oe ee
Frederic Miiller, Amsterdam : ee ee
Holland 2. -cceeece sae eerste sa ssieme 56 125 7 ee se toc
IEA Ges oo nonnSG As oape neaoad poOKnA 95 140 Gil etekee allen = Be
MODE ee Saeco tine see eee er sit 265 Bolle sep eae eee
Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic: py
Germany o-ccs. fescue ce eteeeeceen eee 435 626 “A Pec eealonccaess
Switzerland jo s.icen cect eee ese 56 148 S| Spe ee eee re
GICCCO semen harom eee tna ee Ine Eee 3 3 oA ste SOs Altes ee
Oba. ae Sees en ee ete tees 494 777 AD) 2oce lhe nose
Gustave Bossange, Paris:
TAPANGCE fous snes ss Hans seers meee ees 187 349 Bolsee eacyaeeies
R. Istituto Lomb. di Scienze e Lettere, Milan:
IRIE isGe Se COR SoHE esa CHO ARO aHen AAAGE 131 232 tl Somes, S| Benet see
Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon: a
PorbuG@als sae sce woes: sees Leek Saee sects 19 19 1) 322 SaReeSse
Royal Academy of Sciences of Madrid: aha
SM se gascaosacss 40S 3as060 sanbeb ones 8 8 1. 222 Se] See

William Wesley, London:
Great Britain and Ireland
Asia

University of Melbourne :
Australia

Parliamentary Library, Wellington :
New Zealandinas se cc see ee aoe Soseeer

Rest of the world

452 Pfs ace
22 AD a |(sscene
4 Bll ceceee
458 doa estes
20 UN eee.

42

1,544

49

2, 561

179

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Instruments used: B, barometer;

T, thermometer; P, psychrometer ;

R, rain-gauge.

a as
= a0
Name. Town. County. 5 ad
x oo
DB aq
Crile
ALABAMA.
JNO EL, Wig WE Desa eas epson Carlowwille steepness IDRIS Serpeocasssspoearens TR 1256
‘Anthony, [DFE On ee ee Eun tS ville sete ites te = IMGGISO No oebeonbecocbae TR 187k
ThaGieOn), Jie BUS seeeepecootess Slate pdbereanasseadoscous IDEA spradeesepcocenanoce BIPR | 1872
Hurley, Dee AUG imo cle pep edsonroocesds IBIAG\ -pdeo cogeccueesee snes TR 1872
Meters; Lhomas M .-.--.-.-.--. Mowlionts recesses serenss =: ILA IRDNO Aone esos coneoos6 BIR | 1866
inti wilecm EMILY; s--1)-=-| === avaMm aie veeya= eee |e elas pial epee sesee se aya mSORODGE TR 1853
ViValllseiot, Vito MY Gecececceecoce=se Bluff Springs -..---------- (HEN corecnesaosueseacorsee g 1872
ARKANSAS.
Bishop; Harmon! 5-----..------- Mineral Springs .-.....--- Ife mpPSterdseeee lactate ee TR 1870
iporden wie Pye ese eee sare Washington: 22. 225255522 |nceeee Owe tee hee oe see Se TR 1872
Greene Hie ic ss- sce esis. @larkswill@nas-es-—c= See PORNSONP se see eae TPR | 1871
ifr ras} WM Fe) Oecpaseeecss nee ISIE me RonmeaobconeEeSae IAMS osae cosoocosnpenc TR 1872
IMamntindi0Ss bee =es-25- = 2 --- IRocahontasmecrec= ase LEGON cascnacancooscose TR 1871
Mieibendonyl. Gs Pe see- nea -=- Mineral Springs .--.-...--- J MASS» oles tegcodascoae TR 1872
McClung, Charles i. .----..---. Hayetteville..22--.-- 3-222. Washi stones -.-------ee= TR 1870
TReR Sel (OLIPote cee aeceeeeneacer Helena eres sees ae Hii psieeee see oee ee TR | 1865
Wellborn, William T -.--.-.--. Horest City 2s-----4--e ee Saintphtan Cis \-ose eee eee TR 1872
Whittington, Granville ........ MiG WA, M6 este oenesonbose Montgomery.-..-------.--- TR 1872
CALIFORNIA.
IAD both: By. Ke 3.2 se2 csecce- Salimasi Citys s5-caee IMONDELG Yeo =see Sto A 1872
Ames. MoH Er alsifers-- 55-7 - Imdiani Vialleyeesseecsneee: iBiamaseP sete ease oes TR 1870
JANG. Uni soa esaeapessopoe National City.:--..-...--- Shin O@RNs S25 scoersonsoocr db 1872
IBarncs Or GuiW osse-escee= ese: Sanh Dieeo) 22255-22652 555|benees (ORS ae See eee aeaaiae BTPR | 1871
Cantreldy Wry CeAv ee sleet Miontereyso-s isso e see WGN cote Ace seonsssaee BTPR | 1864
Cheney, Dr. W. Fitch .--...---- Chicos sae eaee Bu btere case e oscesemeae TR 1869
Compton} Drv Awdin.-s 24 -2s555 Santai@ruzeesceese see aeoee TR 1869
horton! Or 45-2 5.e22= sess s=6 Mendocino...-..---------- TR 1869
Wnited States s Naval Hospital: >| Mare Tsland 225 J2.2-2552-|2 ss. - esos cee <n nee =e = BTR | 1868
COLORADO.
Byers, William N..---..--.---- MEN Very se eee eee eee PATA MMOG aise eee ae ole TR | 1869
Croft) Clayton! Wo 2-o-2.55.222 22 MOUNTAIN ee een eee see BPPasot cases steionc alge 1871
Lakes, NSO sino DUS Beamon Golden! Citys 22 sss5-scec-: ViCHersOme en esse sess TR 1872
Nettleton, E.S. and Copley E..-| Colorado Springs. -...-.--. IIR elas eSeenoeeceoauns TR 1871
CONNECTICUT.
Alcott, Rev. William P......... Round Hill WMairfieldl--- 4. 4cs-eacooece BRR een
Andrews; uumMani ses. 245 22-1 Southington --- Martlorde econ Nase sees TR 1870
BST eS PAG) se satin saciie)s een =|| seein LONE a a er aia ST anes ORY ae aa eee BIR |} 1872
Johnston, Prof. John.......---- Middletown se. 56 eee Maddlesex os) ene aaee BIPR | 1854
Rockwell, Charlotte............ @olebrooksee se eet ee Matehihel dss ese eee Abies 1860
Yeomans, William G.....-...-. Columbia ee ee Tolland ease soe eee een TR 1856
DAKOTA.
pAmmbrosesHenryas ssn ne eee Ware Onemesacec sees cee Sone Pembuar seen aes BE 1872
Baylis, ALR. = ath Black, D.S.-.-| Second Crossing .-.--.-.-.- Cheyennek essa saccse ee Br 1872
Greene yrs Che tosen season sen-ne BoneHommese esos ss. cc- IBonsHommepeee ee eeeee None. | 1872
DELAWARE.
Baveman secs cace see aeceee DOVeIs en ota e ns aessenne Kentvascuenccesscaceee TR 1870
(GbUbirenn) 1999 bs Come coeepsenrse Mi fordieee tacos sea ee alnee ees Glin Sse bep eee beeen fw ed i Coy
FLORIDA
‘Baldwanylr Al So. -ns soso e Jacksonville .......--.---- Wtivalle dest wecd-eeceaeee BIPR | 1853
Barker, Edward ..........----- Springfieldiss22----2-- == Diacksomeee asain ee esse TR 1865
64

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

a '
' a Bs
q o°o
Name. Town. County. 5 aa
2 ia a g
a
See
FLoripa—Continued.
Beecher, Rev. Charles....-..-.-- Newport-s2-.ces- essere Wiakallass: 222s. eee TR 1870
Betis wiramanSsers oss <es225 = Tallahassee. 2222-424 eae qheone ea -h-3. ois setae R 1872
@hamberlinyS: Ni. -5-.--.--=- =: Daytona. . ears - cece nee WGIISIA 255 < <2. 2 Sclsnceee TR 1870
owe) Hadmond WK 5225-22-25 ING Wi SMyf0a een nceceoe nasal eee CONS o Somscccosee een TR 1871
PowellM Charles H.-.5..---82-4- Bicalata .6 252... 2ees see SEU C0) eee eee seceree ede 1871
Robinson, General George D...| Pilatka .............-.--.. PAGAN S3- eee snes elsea ome TR 1869
Robins ohn cheeses as acaa é|P:BOrtGGOnfe).----- = e-eeeee U0 hill Ceeeae Soe eeoenea oe Ay 1872
Sturtevant, M065...) tees BiSCayne soc. 2 eee eee DEG Sat ar Sense eee TR | 1872
ThrallsGeorgeR 2-4.-.s2---- Wrelborn\s-2- 2 --cesecsee SUWANEE eo c- sees saeco TR | asi
SWihttos Wied osc. coc Snes wie Mam pais= =) a- sass sasee Hillsborough ces = sss a-e SR 1871
GEORGIA.
Barker, Ebenezer .-...--------- Saint) Mary’s.....-------. Camden) Soo 0 5. oesciec ones TR | 1870
@olward PAs 425 soso cocci ees Gabaniss 3222 scesscSoeetees IMOHTOS YE Soc o* sass nea oe 2 TR 1872
CutterdGhnils 22 22-2553 Quitman) = a2.) 5- 2522s eae IBLOOK See see se neeccemen ce TR 1870
Deeknensh.;& Son. 5.5. -5254-- PASGLAINGS a7 Sacin e ss eae Malton) 4 5-2 cece ase s am TR 1865
Grant edr Wie ota e 2 cece ete PAU OUS# 24 eiecetcmaceeey Clarke re st See cone aes ees abies 1872
IEGH Ven SH teers ce oe aoe Saint: Mary’s-...-..-.5.-:2 Gamdbne J2ceste ses csceme TR 1869
Hollitield: HoriNs-s-25 4-5. e Sandersville --.--..-:-.-.. Washington’ 5252. deme-c. TR 1872
McClntehen ALOR 2-2. 23 secce ga Payette ..<.2.-.25.+-5- AWidlKGEn se ooae tt cemances te TR 1871
Sapford, Professor Shelton P...| Penfield -.....---..-...-.. (Greene -bs.oa meer eee TR 1869
SmG aes) Pai, eS eee tesa Rraders Hil eee sees eee Charlton ge. sen TR 1872
Stephenson, Dr. M. F... -.-..-.. Gaineswille 2s oo a. Ceoese Talk re.cee wets ee Soe a 1972
ILLINOIS.
Widrich aVierny.-.--2.---- 2 =e. TASKS Wey 2 coe cose aces ak Bareau c22- 22) soes cemiaceke 4b 1859
Blan chard! OWA. occ. cee: I OVE Re AS Sea Stgnk.) Bes sees eee TR 1862
Bowman, Dr: M.B. .----=-2-.)-< Am@alusiaye=—s-scee ese Rock Island 1866
Brendel sHred!: .----.--422-<<- PEON Bit Joon see see aces Peoria 1855
Brookes; (Samuel... -.-2---~- CHICAS OE tas. ease eee Cook 1859
hase: Or sD. (Woe ee actee Louisville. --- <2. ackeee ee Clay 18u9
Cochrane; Joseph.---.--=*4---. Havana. --2 2555.) a5tesek Mason 1870
Dudley, Timothy ..--.--.....-.. Warrensbureh:-..--....... Macon 1867
Donean Rev: Alex: —- a. 22).<c00% Mount Sterling --......-.. Brown 1866
Grant, John and Maggie...-..-.. Manchester. .-......-.-- _--| Scott 1866
Hamilton, Mrs. M.....----...-. Jerseyivillesc- as sec seer Jersey 1872
iHeame. Krank: (os: 05.2--25..- QOminG wins sseecscecoee aes Adams 1870
Horinesar OW. Hes sco. Waterloo’ 22. ~ -.:s2cen.ss 5. Monroe 1872
PRIMES TIL : focne os eeeenceces Marengo foes eens McHenry 1869
Langguth, John G..-.-.-.----- CHIGAGDE Feo seen eee Cook 1867
Livingston, Professor W-..--.-.- Galegbureh?s-=---e— seme Knox 1861
Marcy, Professor Oliver........ MTVaMNSLOUN: on. samen on eeeek Cook 1869
PGR GN SSIS i fa, o oes) o.n cieywisikiverm miss ATU OUSUR Ecc cela c senda Hancock 1849
IVIOSSIG- Us ese Seema a= saci ees ts ipelvidere). -tacc-cssacehee Boone 1868
INGO GRAV AVeCbOR 2c ieee Sinteree Manchester... 2.65.5. 2. Scott 1871
Osbornhthaniees---- 5-465 ee" Hennepin epee sete eeee Putnam 1870
PatipersGnwwe: INizo so: o2 eae Oquawka eee sso eee Henderson 1870
Phelps, E. 8. and Miss L. E..--. ‘Wiyamety 5 262 ci ciseae 5 ce ae Bureau 1864
EP ATOn PAC OW cee = sae eck saan Mattoon 2.5 02 -cisseccesaee Coles 1871
Spaulding, Dr. A. and Mrs...-. Aurora. ane 22 sacceascinee IKane 1865
Spencer, William C.-..-........ DOS cee eis eee eee ae Wiss bio Gone eee eee TR 1865
WihitakerwiBitso:-¢ ceo enecee Wial'saiWi --os-scc oece eee Hancock 525-2. 2 22 -eeeee TR 1855
INDIANA. i
Alden: Thomas Hi. .2----5s--05- Rising SAN i. c.5 5-502 == Ohion ent -c cee eee TR 1871
Applegate, J. A., and daughter.| Mount Carmel ......-.-.-- Hiram kdiin 82,5 csesimreniccescpuer is TR 1869
iBoerner,|Charlea'G: <- 20. 25.4. MOV Ris 5s a ineeminnceh eet Switzerland 5. 525.22/5.05-. BTPR | 1864
Chappe'lsmith John.-.--..----- New, Harmony.----...---- POSEY; Qos-ns seas es eeeene BYPR | 1852
(CWE) ae a 3 ee Beech Guovesasncosceses se Rush eeece ee eee “ANRR: 1s71
Wrosier Adam -.- oo. .324- 52s oe | UACOMAs soe cetacean coaee iM arrisOn Bs sec ee ees eee BTR | 1869
Dawson, ‘William -38..-...5.-22 Spicelandl: 2. S45. cece cess ONLY, j= 5-0 ceo cto Seeee BIR | 1863
RSMAS he ccs coms heck Konightstown)- ss. --5--- FRU SDs gfe = ajc aaa aie eee BTPR | 1868
SHIVARA ANATON: -)-.o 02 -c scence Cannelion: > ssase Ney ess. IPOEny ore Os is een ue setae BIR | 1872
Fralleels peilit sss. ace e en ae North Liberty -....-..---- Saint Joseph.........--..- TR 1872
Homies, D:D: Rev. chomas....| Merom)s esses saeeeeeeeee = Sullivan -eeeee ee ere eee TR 1866
Howard td pak seemed eee em eiee Rivonia sos. csneee eee ae Washington 2. eee sees as TR 1871
iewin AlbertiCsscc..-2n so: Syreetsert.stssecere nese Grant.< ct 28s cote eee eee TR 1868
Robertson, R.'S....-.---.-.5--- Monty Wayne! a-essecce- cee JAN OT. 2 Bec eee ae eee TR 1870
State University..-.....--...-. Bloomingtonse. sees -ee = IMOnTOGs: Pas ee oee eee eee BTPR | 1868
DUUHON MGlORPC seen ccrc ac ADLOLA ee eee eee ree eee ‘Dearborn <a ee eee BTPR | 1859
Walliams DreB Cs. 22. ceces< Steam Comereeeeeee eee Mountgilie= seceee ees lees TR 1869
IOWA.
NSD G yan Vi ecto 2 see scion EASTUOT aeons eis ee ee ‘Unrront:. 40a eee TR 1871
IBADCOCK WHY Aaaeasce omen nee Boonsborough=- ses eeee- BOOKS 22s cas pee TR 1867

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

Name. Town.
Iowa—Continued.

Bryant, AvP .3s2se2ss2se esses Montanelle).- = -<<<s5-6--5-
Cornell College ....-..-.--.---. Mount Vernon....-.-.-...-.
Dickirson, James P.....-..---- Guttenberg s---24---=<c-<
Marris: By AC saeco se 2a: Red Oak Junction......--.
Horr) ri Asalesasaeeesasc ss IDubuguel: iss se scescas cee
JANOS Jee a oeeeeee ns ceteee eet Nonticelloessescese mee naa:
Kridelbaugh & Peterson......- Clarinda 2s ase see
Marshall, Gregory..------~.--- @rescoet fia see ssekceee es
MGBrides Himes -sssest3.c2 5: HMopkintonsccsseecoece re ee
MeClintoels) Hranke = --...2:.- =) VES CHUMIONG: seem see ake
McCready, Dan’land Miss Luey| Fort Madison ..-.....-..-..
Miller, Edwin and Mrs. R..-.-- Cimhnin(Omine cossoscocueons
INelsonw DamieleBiwe nece cae see SBISK Gili? we soercoosoeeaceds
ROSS MLPA Ort oiainis ietcins.abisecale Durand
Russell, A. M. and M. M....... Atalissa
Sheltoume Dr Se os seecostescc.- ee Mavenponters: sseeseese cee
State University ..-...--...-... MOWwia Ci yer oe iajae ntsc terete
Blerm saeco M2. --.2.222 224 c20l8 WMO CaN eeNe se ec ceces Sees se
Talbot, Benjamin -.--.-= -:-..- CouncileBlutisi=s-s-csee es.
Townsend, Nathan .-...-...... lowarbalistssses. esses
ANALG pd Dee ee Rocktordl sce sesw sa aeosee
Wialtonwi te. 222 c5.2 2c cccccesks IMMSCAtMN OM = cits2 es sscsince
Wiarne; Dr: George -.--..------ Independence ......--.----
Warren’ James H -..:2-::.<-%-- Ac ON dees emcees See
iWireaton, Mrs .DO iB. 5 cece: Independence...--.--.--.-
NWAbCED. aD Re osncaccn occ sedecee CounciPBluiisessssseeeeeee

KANSAS.
BECK Wath Wi eseese ses a-c-ss- Qlatharsgeesansscsecsccsecces
Cottons Wim. Hi: and! diohn NM Rurallss. 2-2-5. 2-2-2 25-2se-
MD BO1G MRA Ey x oaisals a Se/-5 ss eter Buiffaloi@reek 5-522 ---.-:
HOSIGMD) tees cease nat hte sos ose Walliamsburghi:.22----22
ROR RVR Wish) assss8s-52 scence Independence. .--..--..---
Horn: Dr. Hi. Bi and! Miss). ---=-- PAVECHISONGas en ea aeee nee
Hoskinson, Riley M ..........- Bunlin games ---sacee ese
Pent PARAM Jae ee eS a ses oe niuitbchinsonie ees se acesce eee
Fiyland Walliams. = 252 -45es<. IBAXGEL!SPLINGS! | 3.125256
amb Mis. WiecMe. s2225 setae: Dou slasss-ievesssescccecs
Neiswender, William N.-....-. MOPOlkiaerssssacenaeceecesee
Raynolds, J.W.and Carr, Austin} Belleville ..............---.
michardson,, A's Gisssssesssna0s Plum Grove eeeeeeeeseee
Shoemaker: JeiG.-. Ssn5 sseaasecis IGOVRON a aaseceneecece once
State Agricultural College ...-.. Mam attain sere else
State) University ...--- 225.22... WGANVCNGO! se =) seisseeice aa
SUayvMANW OCA Iisa. co. esc has Leavenworth .....--......
Walrad ele Dis pnt S ie ee es Pig) Wi ark Be pene ete Sate eat
Walters, Dr. James-.-.......-.. Molton sesso snc se soe
Woodworth, Dr. Abner ........ Couneil’Grove ....-.-.-2-.

KENTUCKY.
IRAs Oe oseostoogdesoscandboe Danville wemerarr ast nece
OER S Hdiwav Wieisca- cose 225: Bian divalleyseec acter erswene
Berton INC .iIs Hi = ss seceoces Harrodspuroh ss cocecne-
Martin, Dr. Samuel D.......... Chiles pumps eemeeneee
Oden) James Mi. --2- 422. 2-25: IWADCHEStER SW a3.2< cece eoe
Shriver, Howard. .5---+-.----.- AMCACTA (asics snes ehecee
Young, Mrs. Lawrence Springdale se sansececcee
LOUISIANA.

Cleland Rey. De Hee. 2325325565 MeV ieee esc eee ee!
Collins MEAG 32 nace cose ss ose Ronchatowlais eesis--6seeo.
Foster, Robert W .---.--------- New Orleans: << s<c0625s255
ieoni, George Ni. : 2-5-2. Ne WLbDeriaie t5 2 22ccececees
Moores ry JOS Wine ascenecseee SIMCOE OM SSonaacoseccaes
SENN IG in ICH Oe een poemaseemaeee INeGwsOrleanss= 4-22. cee ee
PURELY OSti ssc «<= slices = Point Pleasant2-.--2------

MAINE.
Clifford, J. R. and A. J ........ IMonmbilenses oscrasecesecer
ColbondeyAag a ise ts oe eeeiaeecee IBUCKAPONE 3--.)- 2-222 =o:
HermaldeMii ©. thos-c2cccecnices OnonGer 5 -j-eleccescnces
(CAmGine y tals Go oereRAaeaecaene Gamelan orn a as cats aicersiets
GuptilhGaiwiee. -csascesseebee @ornmisheetes wo se cese ence
EUS IOLA Wi sare oe yociesater sree a eicle IBUCKAPON a as\-fen eee

oS

County.

Clayton
Montgomery.....-..--.---
Dubuque
Jones

MCE Neo neice serie

Hardin
Floyd

Kossuth
‘Buchanane-sesceaeeeceeeee
Pottawattamie

Johnson

Jefferson
WiO0GSOM <2 a-22 cc -e-eee
Franklin
Montgomery
Atchison

OpUbliChci-d saesc en ee
Butler ye see ches eenee ee

Miami

Morris

Boyle

Lincoln

Hancock

Penobscot

Kennebeck
York
PancoGkerersccccea lcciens

Instruments.

op)
Or

When com-
menced.

1866
1860
1866
1872
1851
1866
1872
1871
1872
1869
1892
1869
1870
1871
1871
1867
1861
1866
1871
1263
1868
1863
1867
1867
1866
1867

1564
1870
1872
1871
1872
1865
1871
1872
1867
1870
1872
1872
1871
1869
1865
1868
1866
1869
1867
1865

1853
1871
1872
1865
1872
1869
1849

1871
1870
1867
1872
1871
1872
1872

1871
1872
1870
1866
1855

1871
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

#
§
Name. Town. - County. =|
2
a
Matne—Continued.
IMIG OTC VAY BP er crates coe =sie Lishbomis. sce jseceeeOee ee MAmdroscogciny =. s-cacesaee TR
Moulton ohne. ---522.5-ece 2 Hoban dishi mc secie= sence eee Cumberland Eee ne TR
OTE MWe ete ee or oee Sosa ccc Portlandiss sees gon eee see Omen sot ohn ee TR
Parker yOReO eee cee cs codcn cee Mount Desert ....2: 2... Wrasbinoton)s=-2-/2)---25-- TR
PinkdiamMwNVNS esse se cosaceee Milllbrid er tose -- a eee WO Bees st cet see acs wR
Leni, JON ahve peeespo se se sece De@DEC se taase tee see eee ISCHIA WIS eee. os tose ta TR
Leen eNOS}, 1019s 18 ee eaeepesesoc 2 aS taweltoneeceems- acme ARM eee oe ee ence. TR
Smith He 282s aes \en asian NG AEM esonbpeeSacea. conse Oxfordee este. vseh cae dccice TR
Mp PHO. Wa. Siecle sess meinlene SHIDHNT 5 55gnasan0Reeas concs6 aN COCK ee cepeece ce see - TR
INIGSEM SILAS cose ae oo ae eee Gornish:. = 2 o2022ceescecise WORM eatine Aan ot eae BIR
AWall Dine se esa eisiserecnionsis West Waterville.........- ICONNE DEC Herne ere ce siciae TR
MARYLAND.
@urtiss; (GAG: cess ~sccesaascee IDEM IO) Mn eeaenoddkcassosce Hartondeseseasanteo re ae TR
Wevil DissE diner oe esse Samis' Creel: .< (2ti2c6 205454 Carrollite cases sence eee - TR
Hllicott; Jamesi—& - 2.525. ----< San belMiSOes oa ese- =o. NalmteMany78 sees ciae oe TR
Goodman, William R -.....----- ATMO POLIS asec see ee eae AmnevAT ONG eases eee eee BIrPR
Tan she wate) OM Roe teer aa Wredeni¢ks. 9-scacacse-eoee Mredericks 522 -e= eee nine BIR
Jourdan, Professor C. H..-.---- Emmittsburgh . 3.52. --2/.-4|---==- dot eae eee BIPR
inscllRy Ge Pa oscesaecsea sas Green Spring Furnace ....| Washington ..-.....-..... TR
McCormick, James QO .-..------ Wioodlawn.s2. i caece <ecee Cecleast sacs es ete nee BIR
Nema doOspitall 2. o- ee AMINO POMS ences sesseree AnneyvArontlelaeesseeeree BIR
Shepperdighlo Mi eae aeciaa= HilhicottiCity.< 3-5-0. 225 - Howard) Sasso en oeeee BIR
Siciahy(ey oh dy Ml a ecee moose snasee @umberland <3. -s.-e-eeee Aillechamy ine sacetoa- ese ce Awe
WVinlonte,eAs oXos2 cee cai ise hanes Woodstock College --..--- Baltimore seen sees eee TR
Veber a ny JO) ey ID, TC aaseaoboace MTOUNG AIG seein eae ce (Mi ipgooososeecomossodesee TR
MASSACHUSETTS.

Bacon) Wallaam cesens ose - eer Ricghmon dyes = -eeeceee esac Berkshire 2225 eeseec eae - aR
Gildwelldiohnebies=- aces. eee INGO VEIN A Sone seceton aoson= I OT Tob dis aeeC aa seas Soe ae TR
Cunningham, George A........ eunen burgh sq sree cessee MWWORUCUOY Ssmpcosenceseose BIR
Dewhurst eRev: Hi sseeses ose Mansdalle:os5- ceca BELrkshivecso5.scscec-ce se BIR
Hallondolite seers os cee eee ae TW ONCE! ese «aera SSS Gxt ree oe eee ee BIrPR
Hrost, Benjamin De 22sec Hoosac Tunnel 22 aa es|ceeeeriean esse eee eee BIR
amb George) Sea: ccscie ce mcisien IN@Wabeatordusss eens eee IBTIBTO ER tee aerate sere TR
Hopkins, Professor Albert-.--. Walliamstowmn..--<.------ IBeEKShINGs ee eee eee BTR
Noun Aic sELOspiball -----— ase WiOTGEStOI ce caesar seen Worcester): --5-— --a-e-n BIPR
Metcalf, Dr. John George ooo Mendont sy. eee e eee eeulte ee dO Jane ateecieeee BIR
Nason, Rev. Elias. aeeeee|| Northebill erica. --—sea—- Middlesexs.scsersnascseee BIR
Nelson, 8. A. and EGNiet oes Geersetowa - esses HSS OR fen eee nore eee TR
iNav. coms (Gan wees kcmesses Kingston Pst. --~crie-eee IP ymO ules ete TR
Perry. Rev. John B. and Mrs.

SOjowe) lel coos 5 Sooogd eseeseer @amibridgessse-ecee=em seer IMaddlegex: 22-2 = </25/5-5- 5 aT
Rodman WSaMUel. 222.2222 2 New Bedford ....-...--4-- Bristolescecemsccaoeoce cee BIPR
Gindowiblistialt) os. .2---8iccece SOM@ESCb Sere e tiene ee eee nearer ora s22 secre eee TR
Snell, Professor E. S...---.---. VAMINOLS thes scelsacesee oes Mampshires 2. =. )s- seer BIPR
Teele, Rev. Albert K...---.... Malton seeee eis Seehicne Seer INGELOMG seas se eee TR
Tucker, Edward T....-...-..-- iNew Bedford = 2 eee. cee. 2: IBLIStOL Ss aosseeceeen seteae TR

MICHIGAN.
Bullard Ransomes ees et Chhel desea eee MN Sd alex eee se se Wess BIR
lis PD r SHG Wille na---eoee ae Ontonagoneaacessenee asec Ontonaconys- 22 -aas.4452 TR
Eo oins) WNW. Sec saee eee eee WStlOlty ke oeecwcee ose cee eae Wie Oana sc c/s= eee eae TR
Holmes, IDM Db Di eesokosane Grand! Rapids: ------..-=-- OQeliicccebsbsossen Seaocese TR
Kedzie, Professor R. C......--- Man sings Shas ce a=. See ee Imphiam sae screen caster BIPR
Lathrop, OnI©). gocrisvececesteeseies NORDOREL Veneer see ae meaee Waneburen. 2s. seeeeee TR
OlivetiCollege 22: 35-225 sesso Olivet... 2425 ssss-slsedece Maton sep eeeee eee eee ae BIPR
Paxton, John W............--- JN CE See cab-cousseooRgas JN OAM oacss]e Soscsces: eel) 1M ie
Smith, Rev. Geor PON asda o. Northport ee see eee Wecleugw, sse--2 sees se TR
Siten Crulagete se Acre ceanke eee GrandRapidss ase ese= == UGiels- secocesacasssa5t t= TR
Whelpley, Elorence and Thos..| Monroe. .--.--.-----....-- IVEOTIRG Cap ceiseie eer eee TR
Wiison aWalliame <2 ooo -e mo Hap PY VALLOY; seein ea maine = ise sees secoasnc S5555¢ TR
Winchell, Professor and Mrs-5|| AnneAr bor sseeeeeeeeseee Wiashtenawenen- senses eee BIPR
MINNESOTA.
Cheney, William...-......--.-. Minneapolis\se-e-neenes Hennepin’ .3-- eee ee ae BIPhR
Paterson, Rev. A. B------- --- Sainte aoleeee see eee IRAQWSCY - 2oaee cao eee eer TR
Pender grast, Solomonsems seer. Bonniwell’s Mills. ,-...--. Mcleod) 25-25 eee = TR
Pyle, Die, 10 eas ae eee te Audubon : 232 -eeee cee: Becker. cs. bass 2 ee TR
Roe, a, a PEPE Ee ateseeioas Seri) Auttoni 3: Se ce seen eeee Wiashinotonmeescsan eee BIER
Roos, @Harlese set oye cremiracincic iN ewaWilmiticc-scece- earner BLOW Aso cee =e eee eae Ee BIR
Wadsworth, JL ee ae Bae Datchicldes sce seeeeneceee Meeker) \.sicceepensecee se: TR
WiielandaC es bescosceccc use eee Beier Buys 406 -meeee ere Rghke cane. oe ae ee TR
Winters! Je. (Pic cteccccies sre IBOANVOL bac. osecacon meeieee WANOD Gi sssa5-seeGeemncen= TR

When com-
menced.

|

1859
1865
1872
1849
1872
1863
1871
1868
1870
1257
1863

1870
1871
1871
1856
1869
1867
1872
1865
1871
1871
1871
1870
1872

1849
1865
1866
1868
1857
17h
1871
1863
1866
1849
1866
1865
1866

1868
1853
1872
1849
1867
1871

1865
1865
1870
1865
1863
1872
1870
1865
1865
18957
1862
1870

1870

1864
1862
1872
1869
1871
12864
1870
1859

1871
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

oP)
~]

Fa em
8 | 53
S| oo
Name. Town. County. Z| ae
Be 2s,
RD ei!
g |e
MiynEsora—Continued.
Woodbury, C. W. and C. E..... Sipleyaqeeee ass: 0s a4- Sinlov gee a ee TR 1865
Young, Th. M. and Mary H....| Koniska -----..-..---..--- WW IGID ROY be aaa pono boeceene TR 1869
MISSISSIPPI.
Coleman, Thomas’ B-..-----.----- Holly SPRING Sloss ees = see Wipres tie coe ceeccoccosce TR 1870
Mithie:dlames| Sees s22+--—5-- =: IWiatSSODE Sse sso seoe ca eo aee Copiaheae soc scsesescces. BIR | 1872
Florer, Dr. Thomas W..----.--- IW eral -Geeseqguceens caseee Wanderdal Oressee- eee TR 1862
Jennings, Dr. S: H..-...-.---.- Baldwin eescscees cco cioe OOie semis eens eee sea: UR: 1871
Keenan, Mrs. W. H. A ...-.--.. Brookhaven saccee =e. MawenGGs sae aes es eee ae TR 1867
Ierymite, IGN Sie seso6e eoneasouoes (Cue) ooo cecose ne wbeces Walabushaececss-ss sere TR 1870
Literati, dilted i Sse cocmpecnees Columbussss22-sci-o eee owndes-s 22. s-cascccceer BIPR | 1869
MISSOURI.
Bond pesdiess cece se -icessse see INGE soonennecocodessce IG) Ses ae eene Seeeearee ERE ler
Bollard) Rev. Henry. ..---. ---.- DAN ehOSe phe eer aeteee IBachamany =.) acces seer TR 1869
Garliont AW Vis oo a pscmi- scene IWiebl Gla Zeenat ost eerie: (Chane. seccos cscconeesce- TR | 1872
AD GAWiVIRPNTCOLAS = (2) ce rin as Jefferson City -.---...----- (os bes coedeseacmcasenenne Br 1868
Goodwin, Spencer L....... ...- Ire MlaiaG| (As hs Bees asebeees ISWERISe scosesecesos cacues TR | 1872
lee yaaey WARN eee eeese Ee passes Mount Vernon.....-.-.:-. ILE AECR): Boos sb eousesooact BIR | 1871
Renmchenwwalliam cr scsse sie @reconl. ton2 2s sgacsocieos Holt Pepe BR tS Ataee BEIPR | 1867
Kribben, Bertram D..-..--.---. Sanit Muomislsacecmiacces-eee sebbotn JEWS secoaeecsceoeas BIPR | 1872
Martini Orage ec. 5 -j-js-- 1-555 Cormin ges: sisroiearc tise VOM G15 crayshaiayarey fais wicaveiontneee TR 1870
ic Cordeh whe eee asen ciacmoaee Airlie latte sectec eters ye (GUWEGING) = oadce sassescaodss TR 1870
Pc oles wHOMeLE aasee ee =s2 oe RON aero ene seiceeeactee ee nel psp er cesses ee reer TR 1867
DalishULVASAWireeeer coe e= See er Kansas) Cltyssassesaeoseoee SACKSOM ee eee eee sei BIR | 1870
Smintheoonne Messe se ences sala Hematite. --c-2-2s\se see JEHERSON I: sche aren see TR 1868
Saint Louis University.......-- sree IU@WH 6° Sooessosees ac SEM HOS sssaseacasesee BTPR | 1865
Weston, Arthur-H.....--.----- Gallatineee assceseeessceee IDSMICSS! 2 2320 Seeenseceeee R 1872
MONTANA.
KOC Retr ee eee ener eeeere IBOZeMaleeceen rent eerere oe Gallatin eam enafee seer TR 1872
Minesin cored) Me eaaee nee ciae Missoula....-- aera oe MUSSOUNA EEE eyesore mer ee ee TR 1870
Slane, (Codmaialllles |= epooeonesone Deer Lodge City.-...-.--. Deer odges--- == se 5-4" BTR | 13869
NEBRASKA.
Caldwell, Mrs. Eveline E .----- iBellevmetsot ce seckee casos SAU Yeee cna cece cette ncceioe TR 1868
ID Mit, WANE) No ocemesdoaecooes IME LSODE eee ae ae ones [0 See oe Ie eee Se TR 1871
Hamilton, Rev. William ..-..--- Qmaha Agency = .-.----- =. Batteeasceaacieeee cases TR 12867
WWellomombdward= so: ene = Hedi Cloudiee sete sene ] eee Wiebster® ss. 58 sssseee sce IDR 1872
Seltzs@harles'.25.--\co- 22 222222 DESotor eee se eee eee Washinotontees-ecse seo 5- TR 1867
Smith; he wisvHi-s 02. 52-5---- 2 ING we Castle sssa 5255 soo: DiXOM Se aseostsscessnee oe TR 1570
AbnarmanyG oreo so) see sence eee Santee Agency.-.-..------ L'Eau qui Court .-....--.-. TR 1871
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Brewster, Alfreds.---+-)------<- SRE, cococeocencouber @arrolltassnerce ssc acer TR 1867
Brow e pra chee see eaecen eee StiratrorGtacaasce vs once aeee COOSere tae eee ee see ases TR 1859
ColbyseAlliiredies eee sees oe ENINOSK OAD os ae sje =e /-le's ES boroughs. esis === TR 1868
COUCH HDT 225s ssa qacascce ae SHIN] NUN @ cpagobeosaouieans Mie resi aC kay )apeyata)-t fale eae = RR 1870
Earhineey. Walliam! esses se SouthvAm trim) so-e-—s-ee Halll Sborowgh) sas -s4-5 42 -e t 1866
GIGI GILAD) os Soserondgoadseee iWaltittieldseccee ase ee stones WOOSse sees iees asses sonoes aT 1869
VER SONNE Sete ee eee oe ee Gorhameres sto ee espe teeaee GORE ee sass see eee Br 1872
OdellMhicetcherss 2-5 2---42-5-<.--4lss2 see COR eee eee eee leeee GOtisesdseeceaeassaeer WR: 1856
NEW JERSEY.
Beans; Thomas'di-..---- ------- IMOLEISLO WOE eer eeer see ee Burlinoton 2-4-1 essere TR 1865
IBEOOKS Wall amnesty lar IPALeTSONee Seo et ee ee ees PassaiG 2.3. = ceo o2se6.- oc TR 1866
Chandler, Dr. William J ...---. South"Ovranges=- se. -5222- INSSOXe..o7 ch eis ae seca ys TR 1870
Cook vEnRezeauw..---.-=.----4-5 TRPEMbOM pee cee eel ese Mercer 2.255 = oseweseeas BTR | 1865
Hlemin ox On seen See eee eee IMO UMG PANTY) me secenoseee IsteReN AON, GaacoooHouEscac LR 1871
GireenmeAgr ase ee 2 ere ie INGO) sae SOP SE OIE re Cam deniers seseee seer TR 1871
Howard, Thomas T., jr-.-.----. MUOseny Cilin~soaaccoosnasece Ia Somes eae sneer eae cece te BIPR | 1871
Insramy) Dye donne 25. -5 sss Rvaielanidle ae epee steers = Cumiberlandeeeeesee- eee BIPR | 1867
ION, ATR 3.0 Ssccoassogoessas New Germantown ....--.. Jehoommcdoa S. sae saoneener BIR 1868
Jepilbreerh WOE hd ody aoeesoceeeccor RIOM Grandoe ss) shee seuecer Cape May? sss ssesssnac- CRS 1263
etjaryads Gl OSes acee meade neeseac Allowaystown -.--.--.---- Salemmpres faneeere. eens TR 1871
Sheppard, R. C., and sister... ... (Green wichereten eee ne reer Gumberlandieenese seaee eee BIPR | 1868
SLociwwell Mra Wietle 22-22. - es Orang eee cae ce ccs sys SEBS coegacoeocoueeoesces TR 1872
Whitehead, W.A --.-.--.----: INGWADK einwine \ccsinesceecleeneer Oyster n eee saee neo BIrR | 1849
NEW YORK.
Adriance, Charles E....-..----- HE CLOT! Seca: semeee eee ee ee Schuylom=2c2 3) ya. se sas None. | 1871
ASAI, WUNOWHS IE So decmeeseaee (Garninonisteee ee eer ee IMT sau eae tesacse TR 1860
ATOM Cob sas acinn ares dane AMS CHCA eee eset per Alle mamivae sae care TR 1571
68

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

Name. Town.
New York—Continued.

Baker, | Galberhw sec ceem eee = Oeeo- cao career eoeciee
Barrows, Captain Storrs.--...--. South Trenton..-.-.-.-..

Bartlett BrastusB: 22. --.-3-- - IPalérmo 2a: -sseoseoacceeer
Bussing, John W. and D.S...-. Minaville@}scsesccacecscena
ClaricBawiheaton 2 sec. .-.2- Mockpottr-casses. =e cece
MdwardsDanielec--.2.--.<---1- Little Genesee .....---.--.
(Broaliinayys NEI 55.56 soosucoode Carlton terceec-asceeeeee
HaasHenry eo. 202 =e eliersrcinn acre Depa Ville: assesses cee ae
Hachenbero: Dr\G. P22 .------ Rochester. sce na cise
MenaricKs DEB ccceesseeeeccee WNieaTeKanostons cae e cae
Heimstreet, John W ...-..----- Mroyeescnecece scenes sae
18 Gy sy cll ba RO) eee ances IMichols= 2. 72 sedceccmceess
Hungerford’s Collegiate Insti- | Adams .....-......-.-----

tute.
stated Wh saeeencaassaces 0056 Notth Ateyle:-------=.--.
TIngalsbe, Grenville M..-....-- || South Hartford’=- =: .- 2... -
trish: Reve William soso. ese ce WO WivaHOs ee eaieonieenieesier
Ives, William! sae ecc=ceeeeeeeee Buttalo ssa osie.eeseceeoeees
Johnson, Rev. Samuel .--..----- Grotonee te onanecceeeeescee
ieesejGweOmeroy =... =. == -- Cooperstown. --.--..-s2--:
OBR JOBS A S58 5e5050ccda55er @antoneen neseeeceeeese cee
MoversoamuellG oa-nc ccc er eceeee SAMESCOWI occ ccieeieeeja= ers
IN EX tea ) 1G UE ee ee ee ees laibosh essere eer
WISN elm 12_ 2s seecreesessesesccces TEIOIID AN Gososcosnesscore=
Malcolm, William Schuyler --..| Oswego ...-..-.-----------
Merritt Wohni© 22.25 <ccc- cee Ranrminedaleeancesce- ee.
INIGISHIS WHY TUS S5aocqocouceace PBHRO RSE NGC aemsane meee
Morris rotOUW) -s==2-+2-se5" INE KVRMOLISc saeco eee ee neees
JEANS dis Ne See a soecesicceaod IN OAIN MGINGS seen Se shono-
Roe tSan Orga Vase se ee aeene eer Middleburcnies se seeeee ee
massell’ (Cyrus) Hees cents se Gouverneur. - 2-5. o.cc=-
SEMA @EKCE ID cocretooceacc sonces InbNeNGh Soe Sa oocooss
Smith, E. A.,and daughters..--..| Moriches ...-...-..--..-..
Soule, Prof Walliams... 2.2 -o: Wazenowia eccecetcoese nee
Spooner, Dr. Stillman .......-... Oneida Sic secccice seca
Trowbridge, David.-....-. Peeae Wraterburghi soo 2). cence
United States Naval Hospital..| New York..-......-.....--
Wiater Wiorks=-.---.----------- IBroolkdhyniesserer icc ee ee
Willis, O. R., and daughters ....) White Plains ............-
WioosterCharlestA: 2252555555222 North Hammond ....-.--..
alow Valter Dera: so ccccl cess Houseville ee saccncs eee cee
Wires dBW Se Ss Somerppesecoenos AOS Gala vreee en cetsceaoior
NORTH CAROLINA,

JAG HVAT IRI 5 WE Sa5555so5cse- Goldsborough.....-...-.--
Allison, Thomas H -..--........ Stmimasnqlsen Soascosenpes
IAS TOT Gwe I aslote = <Vaicis = <\a}eisici='== Wish e villas vce see ee cee
Austin, RebertcEl <2. ----2---2.- Man boroughs == -e-e é
Beak, aWaliamsaeeaccscwectece. Miurp hiv 222 escenario
Beall Drekelisessecenes senses ONO Ses eee eee see
@larlk RIAD Ae aac ssc ecneecn Wieldons22ao tee pene eee
Davies: Mins. DD) etic cess WIiEDSLOGesacacncese seca
GalmersRobertiS: sse-seesee === Mount eAdny.-anc-cee ee
Hardy, Droid. WoW os a2 secon a= INshevalleceecescea- ose
Hicks; Dr. William R---..---2..- Osmonds: ee eee eee
HIMES VRICHATGUN «oe caeee see ndentonit=22266).25.ceecees
later Gus bishes tek once oeoakoccoenas Greensborough ......-----
SICH en, FAG HS 25 Sse epe eee NewiGardenece.-2c=-c- oe

SREROM PPL eects Sy me me mere AbOMAarene eb ceeceeeee
Ibthawaranvetes (Gs \ifocereodcossecsos Fayettevjlle ....-......---
MorellesKev. Daniel 7-2-5. ---. Wall bones eel tere
INE MIRTLE Nad s Beseeaeeaogeoosce ONE esouogecsosesenaT
IPernYaROv sed) soouees ooeeeeede Albemarle. 25-6 -eases-2-
UI VA MEGS a5 noc cic cerns: Beantorty-aecatice seer ee:
SilenvAdlberteases2 :Seice.s al-ccls aye Mranklinessmaceeeceeer cect

OHIO.

Baldwin University....-.-..-... IDOLOMe chy ones eae oe eee
IBarcisVAMEUSt =a - see ecesce Groveport essere ee eee
TS yeeineye Wit Bsoysaconsercoser Bellefontaine .....-....--.
BIN OMAT Me) eats mec cce = ccc ‘Penrisvillect Seek eee eee
BOWMAN WE ebere ce eci--- ce -ee-e Savannah) < jcanseeeeeeeee
BurrissOmeceseia-. 2c sisi ciseis se North ainieldiessseeeeess
Claniketsionmsennicniccee = cicicne ner Bowling Green.........---
Crane\GeorteuW).-\..4--56-1-- Bethel ss: 2 saaess cence
IRIGEEIS HOO eo nthe aecie ce creseiere IPAINES VINE Sone eee eee

County.

OSWeCOsP ee c-cosacccess=2=

MONTOG Ree cet eseres see ce
Ulster
Rennselaer
MOPAR et edeseces =< =
Jenersone.<<---ceio= s=s=55,

Erie

(ONSGEME Sasa cobb cooscnose
Saint Lawrence.....-. =..
Chantauqua

Queens
Wiestchester a a..-necceees
New York
Oe MGR as acocoussscnsecan-
Schoharies:.22 22 ceeceeeeee
Saint Lawrence.......-..-
18 idaho @eaesosaee Boodos
Suffolk
Madison

Hlomp kin Slee me asseeeeeeseee
New York
[GINEE |. oe coocsoses 5250s"
Westchester
Saint Lawrence......-...-
WiGWiSics f-c-\so8s cos cseasice

Edgecombe
Cherokee
Galdwellls,.c2 550. ceceecoe

SaLityree oer eee oeeeme
Buncombe
Granville ...:.:-: wives eae
Chowan
Guilford

Stanly
Cumberland
New Hanover
Wake
Stanly
Carteret
Macon

Instruments.

com-

menced,

When

|

i
ies)
aD
=)

1863

—
iv)
fa?)
i=)

1867

an
wo
~)

ee
lo eos}
fo
=o

1865
1869
1869
1849
1857
1872

1870
1863
1871
1858
1868
1869
1871
1871
1862
1870
1854
1868
1865
1849
1868
1866
1860
1871
1864
1565
1864
1868
1868
1872
1862
1866
15849
1871

1860
1866
1867
1871
1872
1871
1872
1872
1872
1868
1867
1872
1871
1872
1849
1871
1872
1871
1872
1872
1872

| 1871

1872
1870
1270
1872
1867
1866
1859
1867
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 69
ge
Name. Town. County. 5 dg
A i
On1o—Continued.
Hammitt, John Wi.-----.------- CollecerHallye eee. -5- aml tone eeeesee spe oa TR 1859
Harper, George W ------------- @imemmmatieee --— eae | ee (9). Seccoskdebacoceass BIPR |} 1855
(EORTC sala emer eee cea al= a == Oberlin esses essen EorainOwss2s. Somes aeceee ec DE 13870
Hiyde, Mr! and! Mirs:<--.=--.---- Clewelan distance @uyahocarees-cee ec eeee BIR | 1862
Marsh, Mrs. M. M .---...---.--. (CERES OM AS soncemosocseeodes ISWGUROIN G. SesoopopeRTanOason BIPR | 187]
Matthews, Joseph McD.....--. illlsporous hes eas= = -- ee bla die ea ae eee eee BIPR | 1851
McFarland, Prof. R. W--------- Oxtordieeeee ere -reas ae IBGE sw oScosecoouccosoass BIR | 1870
Morton, Dr. George R ..-.------ North Bass Island ---.---- Obta wares escseces ese mee: TR 1269
Mount Auburn Young Ladies’ | Mount Auburn .....--..-. ical tone eeesesaeaeseee BIPR | 1868
Institute.
Witter, lO, IMs cose eeesecaossec @anthagenaes=se cee -- = - IMMCK CELE erate eee erties BTPR | 1870
INGUIN OMAS! =) === =) = l= -1- pandushiys=-cm- ~=---- == -- IDG) ssmgeonane caccooCAbANS BTPR | 1809
Otterbem University ----...-.-- Wiestervill op see mare IRM IG Se oanoeccsoososs BTPR | 1808
Cxnslesy, IDE de 183 SSSR Sap eocsoers Jacksonborough ..--..----- TWEE. oescooe gococences oR 1868
lalla), let OC; eo oeecoeoeaaeeseeoe Cinema eee ae Ts yaoulhoyny Cao5 Sooapecoseue BTR | 1809
Pollock. Rev. Ji. BH ~ 22-22-5222 Salemi! 223 eee sek ee: Columpbianae-s-- eee eee TR 1s70
Rodgers, Alexander P..-...-.-- Gallipolistoo22—) 22 c-2-=-- Geile. sacdotsnonocoocorosé TR 12857
iho) Wie Space coer eo eHeeeose SPNPUNT So 5666 sosccosese PREM ENNI soem anoeengaseeoas BTR | 1871
Sniciolk) diond 8 loekeooneaoedececeD- @inemmnatiee eee s-= = === amiltonWess- sss ss202 ee! TR 1871
Shreve, Martha B..-..---.----- Martin’s Herry---=--=----- IBeIMOn tere eee eseee aaa ae 1869
Smith, Dr. Charles’ H.--.---... IGNOU <a shee eee 18 biGbhike pues eomecqOnBeAne aOR 1862
Smith. Charles is ---22=2---- 2-2 IsGION Seenoe aoncooosoSe Summithss- a5 oo ace eee BIR | 1871
SUD Je big JCC ieee es Seca a eesEeeess Wieésteblkton.<2-<--2: 5-25 IPreple mn cecreet ete ae BIR 1872
Thompson, Rey. David......--. Birmin shame =e se (CmennsOyeeee nese eeeeeees TR 1862
Uihin@, 10 bes bee ee eeeeiseeesescse Marion: 2522/2 shee ee Wine e eaten sooosanb OAOb TR 1265
Urbana University .-. -.-..-.-- (Webinar sate nee see eee Champailpnisss. cscs ee BIR | 1855
Western Reserve College ---.---. MMdsom -sjss22 s555-2 5522s Summituess sate sseecssces BLR | 1872
Wilkinson, Johu R ..----.----- Waliiamsport ------------- IRYCkawayaes esas ese TR 1867
OREGON.
Coes CharlesiiCs 2: ss .ssssssscae MOOG River =eaesacmeeease: WiaSOMec os cee eenisisinss TR 1872
OxerHeary As ooscecis 22 cceeo: Pocilandieee—- eee Minnltrromahiessse eee ee BIPR | 1871
JEGEhOS) MUO Sooaeaqoooacd soo! Lb) oeceoosenecascopesads BO Aesaae se were ese eee TR 1870
NVALSON WOUIS) sae sas cesses INStoriaiset aces sceeeeacsacs Clatsopeeeeer eens seater BIPR | 1870
PENNSYLVANIA.

Mlibree; Georges =. =s\s=<2= == Parti sare ieee see eaeleee =e Wer temyy =e am ass eel TR 1870
Belly JOSepls-a=5 o=ee—2--5- =. IERIE, Cosoocesoacsoses Wiens Of eee eesaceer ser TR 1872
bene 105 eS eeeeecopeoseros TORRES. esc 4 Sete tseteee LOWE Gh = nsscssechoososscee TR 1863
Black SamuelwAs = 22 =2 22-2. arrspurghl = .-oe-s-o= =< IDPH HTN Soo seccocasuopsocs BIPR | 1869
Burlchalterjohn 55) 1---- 2-2. Meadville: 2 -2ss<552s5221-: (Che vatN so sencgone socasce Ih eae 1872
Cooke, Dr. William H.-..---..... @Warlisle2 sass aAe ee eecenoes Gumiterland)ss2e-2s-e ee oe BIPR | 1268
Corson, Samuel M ........-.--- Plymouth Meeting. --...-- Montgomery ..---.--.------ | BIR | 1862
Guminiin gs) sleee esas aeemeee es a Maren eee See AMG RTOARG Js casriosodessese a 1s71
@urtisy As Wi:.<2-2 ss2ose22222 55 Catawissar: 2452652522252. Columpbiae eee see eee eee TR 1870
Darlington, Fenelon .--...----- Parkerville 2 sse6sessscooe ORester esses eee see oes TR 1859
Day,theodere\--s=--2 = 22.222 IO WIOGuey -eeRoaoodansessaes NERO) 2 doen cteepoedodorce TR 1869
1G ti, 1D) see oeee eee neesee Allegheny City .........-. JNUCSINEIT poe osccoodoasaoe TR 1871
Menton blishals=ss>-s2sss4s26225 Grampian’ Hills-2.5------- @learheldinicn sss see cee se BIR | 1864
Grathwohl, John. ....-.-------- INV GOS Sasa seesetassess IPHIKG) Gece con eRDaSACraber TR 1865
Islenin@s, NGS) saccoaccceescssonos Rin eto wie === sess === Selatan op secncoccoess TR 1872
isehemili@n, INS Al Basoooseuedes oer lobaifcre Jabbenlgacnoeasnsoesce GAMA eee see eee TR 1872
Hance, Hbenezer..--.-........- Hallisinctoneeeeee eee BUCS eaten senetscisecerer BIR | 1865
deehyeriy doll SERS eoosogars Hazleton sss 2ssscssicne se WARING Secoccenaccasoocoe TR 1870
MOTOR Jeno = 42 gears ste sie NULL Oh/ecespedacaceocsce duancastets se seeeesecee as BIR | 1857
Hubbs Prd. Allens <7 --—" <8 IBrownsyilles tes sseee sso: WA VEUO i MShoste sa sosteene TR 1269
James, Professor C.S .-.---.--. We wisbureh esses jcc) == (WntOnee wince enters BIPR | 1855
CMOMOTISS NV AL ME se =u 12 ie seclacicies West Chester .-----.----.- @hestert ss s-c-aacaeeeetiee GU 1872
Kirkpatrick, James A........-- iZiladelphian seer see eo Philadelphia----2+-e--- == BTPR | 1862
Kohler, Edward s.25..5 4550555: Roy Diseases eee aoe eee ehiohl Season aac eease se TR 1859
WMefeverrWaACODmsss 55-5452 5ss545 Mount Rock 2525-2222 32--. Cumberlands eee ee seeee OR: 1871
Madlom i Wer Biss secicssccenccee Wphritah eects seeks sess 2 35 Main castereseeen a eee tac: TR 1871
Marsden, Dr. J. H..-...-. --.. Work snlphur Springs s-= a) Adameseeeseeseceseeaeee eR 1871
Martin, Dr. George: -.-=---<---- West Chester ..-.....-.--. @hestere ase caeessc eee es BTPR | 1868
MeConnelll By Me ais sassscenee New (Castlonssas sssectocse i aiWwiCNCOmsemasetinecs =e male TR 1866
Meehan, Thomas. .....-.--....- Germantown <------:----- Philadelphialssss: sssse-2- TR 1859
Packard, D. P). -sosscsssnssss 325 Greenville s sar fae oe eee iMErCenae a45 oa eee saa TR 1871
Raser;J ot) Heyl. cess-2-4-5-- Readn gem Gaeescasase see BGT Shere oo esas es Peete TR 1857
Sisson, Rodman). -.j..05-scce0sc: Mactoryvilleys- sos sc-s2525- SWAY OM ops seeeeeameinee TR 1864
Smith, Rev. William, D. D...-..- | Cannionsburgh == 2225-4222 Wrashinotonlesseae sees ease BIR | 1868
Spencer, Miss Anna............ HMOTSHS NT Aes asaace ee eee Montgomery .-.-.-.----- BIR 1864
SPeLant Week somes seeoceece Imiiphratghie:. en oecee eee Mancasters se peeee enone BTR | 1865
Stocker, Jias. D. and Jerome T..; Salem. .............-.-.--- Wine ties samen aa ees oe TR 1869
Stump Jee Melos vrccerente sas Greensburgh ...... ------ Westmoreland ......-.-.--- TR 1871
RAO WOO Mie eenstoxras cere aerate Connellsville ssseseeeeeeeee MA VeUbO sche as eas gee eeeie TR 1849
PevVLOL MRO Wer Rin Ls =rajais}-raroretaret~i<tate IBGaVOn hth jescercoteemess BEA OL Meee ss ee ee neces a 1867
.
70 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.
1 z in
a) Be
= g eS
Name. Town. County. 5 a8
| = oa
; Sie
PENNSYLYANIA—Continued.
Tolman, Rev. M. A ...-..- Eason Mranklin: 3: soso essen | MN O0RT CO EEe eee. eee ae TR 1867
United States Naval Hospital..! Philadelphia .....-......-- iRbiladelphia ss. oss. 220s BIR | 1857
NwalikersGh@ se sasece nse sncees Mountain Dale -5 2. -.-eoe- UNG RICK, 2 Bs Ree ee eS eonee PTR | 1868
WiC aver Weel ennceceriesianecee Greensburchyerer see e ener Westmoreland .......----- BIPR | 1872
RHODE ISLAND.
IGJwe ee, Vg Soeasdeqsdossaasee Newpotthess-cceuss-seeees VANS WHORtee Rss fee n-s twins TR 1870
SOUTIT CAROLINA.
Busby, D. Benjamin..--......--- iPomanige ese ecoe: eee INewipeunyges a= eee ee TR 1872
Cornish, Rey. John H......---- EN cert pees tates cee ee ee Jarniwellis 2 sesee es aceen BIR ! 1857
Gaibbonwlandners-o---oe eee Hacienda Saluda.........- Greenwille:2 2352-255 TR 1871
Jepieshill 10, ID cea Saaoadassosae Grahamswillle) <5 5. ---=- Beautortitec.c oe caeicce ces TR 1872
Petty, Charles <2 cos .> >see a= Gowdyswilletesse-ceseeoes WUgionteee eee eee ee TR , 1868
TENNESSEE.
AEC, 185 Mf osaeosescodsacese Jacksonweree: soe sce ae Madison i neato eee TR 1872

pAMETOLt Oy Coe eye near Lookout Mountain...-.-.-- le ypmllW soe socscasescas BYR | 1867
Tei trlibret, 12 OSes Re eG ee reese Smithville peseeseeeeenenee Dekalb) 8: Aes cepeeeea eee TR 1872
(Calhouniples Bassa e ee cee eee ATISTING S- coe ce eeeeeneceee Wilson) < sos s2ececes <eeee TR 1868
DORKAWesO 129.59) 22-526 <5: G@reenvillenoeensece eens Greene) a: 2. oe eee TR 1868
Franklin, Dr. W.E........-.--. MS OLANS Ove cece -eicenieeeene HAG the} seek ee eee eee TR 1870
Gnigsbyswalliam Eee 2s. 52-2. TEP enone oe eee ee Gibson. eee eee TR 1269
Jennings, LOY ytd k Gu cane ete te | Bethel Springs.-.. .-.-.-- MGNauiry: pace ccceeeseeeee DR; 1872
Kennedy, Dr. Thomas J.-....-- | Castalian Springs. .-..----. Sumncree + =e eee eee uR 1872
Lewis, Miss Blanche ..-.....---. | MéMinnville. 252.225.1222 Warrenios 22¢ esc o one eeeed TR 1872
MewissCharlessH: - 5. o..cee2 see Elizabethtown ..........-- Garten. ess oe ee eee TR 1868
Payne, Professor J. K.----..--. Gio ose seems Reo 1Gilis Cape eee ee ae aie oa BIPR | 1869
Stewart, Professor William.--.| Clarksville................ ieMiont@omenysccesesenoe eee BIPR | 1851
WinterburysheveiG. ces es a2. ae IRODReRWOOUe eee cen eee VIS ti ancion gees See ee ee TR 1872
Vira id ee 2 eee smear a Glearmonteeces ceeceeee ce Warren TR 1870

TEXAS.
Anderson, Rev. John ...--.---. WClorksvillemess sees eee INSGLIQIE@® 5-5 s5saccecasene TR | 1870
Connell, Miss Jane ...--..---.. WET OUSLONE sere cee fhe eee 18 haste ere ean es 4p 1867
Davis S. and Mrs. Rush........ | @ieasarill) oo sossccececuse. unten TR 1871
Hietsam, James...--.........- Blot hee ee eence Havethoene ces jas eee ee TR 1870
CIBBCO WEN see ene einer Galmenye tise eee eee ipshuneess ec seme een eee TR 1859
Marin PAULO n= sca 2 acien ens Clarianillepeeneaeeee eee Red MRANMOL hae eek coe oe DR; 1871
MelchentyaWilliam’: 22. - 52. BOGrNO te eases eee ene Venda eee eo eee ee TR 1872
IREtLEESOny EKeG 2. ose ana SanvAnitomoro-nceeeceeeee iBGxapwsnd, & leaky tee oe tee BIPR | 1870
NUE O Cee ree oles icles cies LNG wall @rsneeeccnceo acer sATISTIN AS eemeae vere eee es TR 1872
SS CO Uusye leap ieee fener eas cy p JattvbnGls Saacssasoosease @ollinves aoe eres TR 1872
Simpson hy 22. eee. es aesee ese Oaisland’s Ae ace eee Coloradote=- eee eee TR 1872

WaneNostrands)essscen casas - yA Rinbies aa aes aes doaeesee ERTAVISERE ne Eee eee pee TR 1857
AAG Cy DRESS S55) eee eeee ena se McDadeies.ce ecco nee ee IB UAC sense eestousasee TR 1869
Nyahite mr eA gees sale ee Glintonss eee eee DOaWitie. ee ote eee TPR 1869
INVOOORTHE aliee seer ern = cee oe Mockharth- cere rc ee nee eee Caladwelleee Se = see eee 2 1268

UTAH.

Sallock=Mhomas! =p ceeeee reso Salt Wake Citye con ss-s2- | Salt Lake County..-...-.-- TR 1868
bari SOn why slash oe acven creer eee (6 (ie oe a aes ne eC Oe See OA aso eee eee ‘RR 1872
AGNVIS tO IMCS) =2.5- <2 aceee cee Harrisburohescs cease sesse WATS HINES PSY Soe caccesosce g 1867

VERMONT.
Ibveraiey 1D (Ce raat ENO a segacaaoe Pantonieersasc se ecetce ee PATdGISOn esse ee cee eens TR 1869
WassinowshdSoOnis:.cce sien erm IGanenburg hee cesar ESSER seers Sek eee BIPR | 1872
Giuttine Sr: soe. .< R os <2 oc] cea CORE ees cossce eee etloseeee Oz fcc eeeecneeeren BIR | 1859
Kennedy, James C ............. South VErOys- os eeeeeoecel Orleansicc<sacqsecemsseeece TR 1870
Normalischool <<< io-s<2ccccc-- GCastletone ose ane ‘Rutland ec sse- secre teres BIPR |} 1852
Paine wo narlesisinccacc oa. ccesce Hast betheleese eer ee ease WWHNdSODS ae oee eee ern TR 1866
helps samuel... .-------- 5. NOnWIChE beer eeeeo Pe eee alee eae dossiers TR 1871
\WiGlIGY, ING JOR Sees aseeeeeeeeec North Craftsbury. .------- Orleans:...-. 2c asecenaaeses TR 1867
Wangs iMinerva di. 5- <2 ..<.- 6: West Charlotte. -..-+---- Chittenden! ==s-eeeereeeree TR 1868
Woodstock Academ Yiree eceimaaen Wioodstecl: Soeeeeee ee ese- WHNUSOD Sere aeeeeeeere TR 1868

VIRGINIA.
Bowman, George A .-.-....-..--- WON hs. cen cecce ee eee eee Mairfax....cJesecsmesetias TR 1870

Brown, Rev. James A.......--. Wiytheville 3.2. ss canoer Wiythe iu). tscecceccesacsse BTR | 1868
Chamberlin, Mrs. 8. E....-..... IWisIbETLOLG acco eece eee eeeee MOU d OWE eecenee a eee TR 1871
Clarke, Dr. and Miss Belle ..-.! Mount Solon.............. AONStAE.<tasceeeeeree eee TR 1855

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

=~]
part

Name.

VirGinra—Continued.

Covell JiC ea: S2eeeese es eaeniek
Gillingham, Chalkley ---.-.--.--.
HormaCaptain) bres
Martimt) WalllinmiwAyeee es...
Merriwether, Charles I ..-.----.-
IMOOTEs CAR sees as te een
earls 10) SoecoeecontGeHecorE scr
Shriver Howardes.--- 4 - -s- =<.
Shumiansdamest Mite ce. secs
Mayloepbidwardelene r= ===
Townsend, Emma C -......-----
United States Hospital .--...-..
iWin ContaGel Cerra se. 5 =
Williams, Franklin --.....--.-.
AWaillitsim@S Hel 2iacm cos Se ties oa

WASHINGTON.

iIMc@ally' Charles: -< = <.<<-2=-2--
Sampson, Alexander M ..-.. ee
Whitcomb, Thomas M...-......

WEST VIRGINIA.

Rone Charlesmy 22—-ss.s5 5-----
Stevens, Professor S.G.--....-.

WISCONSIN.

Beloit] College sos eee eae
Benton wlio thE so. a2 ase ese
IBLECUs IemEVCl Ub ce mint ators ial
CUEDISIAWUW, osias ee seoees a
DO y Ser SOUN Eases Beatie
Dwi, Akolbhal Ib; oa Asoecesadesee
Joppa TE IN JUIby IDS Shee
Lups, Jacob and Miss Clarina. .
Mao ninen elise =ieee see eee oe
IN (Genel lela (Cheek a5 oaneeesceuseoe
iPinneyeNins | CeO cece nce a=
Shintiswbentryidiesse eee oe
State University. 2: ------..-.
RatewAMmareweesonaseee a hemes
NAVE MEH IY boil OAs Se eee ae

DW kubtin oy! Wie EE Seer se aie = erate

WYOMING.

Thewiss1George: Hy <2)... 55h

Town.

Wroodilawaeks es s552-55e
CedarsHill a ss-se5-62622
Mechanicsville... ...=.....-
Hoync bib une bese eeee aaeee
Johnson Lown -=...--.=.--
Markbam Station......---.
Wiythevillescese.sesee- = —-

Nica Ricdmontuercesseseae
INGal) Valennaeeerece sec oe

Cathlametipess-eeee eee
PortpAngelos)s222)45 s4-05-2
Winiony ide errerseeseaeeee

sHINDarrass eerie cae aera
Rocky Rune seeee eee

Niewaluisbonie=--ssseeen aoe
IManyamIKeOie oes eanese es ae
IMIERITION AG eabee aaeeooeece

County.

Instruments.

menced.

When com-

INOEANS EC) sooonshooosAeceSGoe
Wainlaxs sss vee macs
Allpemarleyae sass sacs
INGE -anecaoeapaeasoas

Northampton ......--..---
MAU QULeL 2 seater ae

Blizabeth asses eee eee
Northampton. sees sss

Haq mleniee pees ee eeecee

iWiaupacays.. ssace-e ee aae
Columibiaiees eee
Sheboyean=--- se. seseeses=

SturseoneBayieeeae en seae

1868
1870
1871
1869
1868
1868
1871
1872
1869
1849
1871
1868
1872
1869
1869

1870
1869
1871

1865
1872

1871
1872
1864
1859
1868
1867
1849
1857
1870
1863
1870
1867
1869
1267
1864
1863

1872

@Z METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

3 Bala | 7. etait mey eal

one = PS | Se es ere anes | eae
s¢ 2 | 2 S2(Se laa le S| ue
q “iD | Ox, ¢ Sor | Og °°
State. Fin fs we lad State. Helwola®lag|
Ze 25/28 8 | 2a eialiee oe
ae pala ga las|ae les | ge

i Ss 68 5 Se)/eq/ ea =|

5 BIoniiS = a 2 =O =}

A Aa A |4 |e 14 A
| — paseo Se
Aa DAMS seats eee eee 7 2 6 1 i Montanaaeeeeaeecr sea. 3 1 3 0 3
ATIGANSAS ete se seers 10 0} 10 i) S10} || Nebraska semecasee < i 0 7 0 7
Gator Titer 2.2 se) cameo - 9 3 9 2 7 | New Hampshire .--.-..-. Bs ail 7 0 a
Woloradozes. 22 = c.ss- 4 0 4; 0 4 || New Jersey....-...-.-. 14 6| 14 3 14
€onnecticut.-.---..---: 6 3 Cue el 6) | New Works seen ases- 44/ 17] 41 8 38
Dakotas. sec ct crscrems's 3 2 2 0 0 | North Carolina.....--. 21 3a eh 0 18
WMelawarves == oo o2c2-o=. 2 0 2' 0 2: |) OHIO Geaae ee nee teenies 36) 17 || 36 8 35
Oni day se ses oa eeice = ei 12 nal ae a 24> 10) (Oregons caeepsaeeesee 4 2 3 0 3
(COON aa eeeee sees 11 OF aL 0} 10 || Pennsylvania.-.-.---- 44} 13} 44 6 41
MN OIS)2 45-5 =) s-scec ee 27 | 2%) 95>), 920)! Rhode Island =222222—- 1 0 1 0 1
ndianaeees- conor oeeee 17 Sie 5 | 17 | South Carolina........ 5 1 By 5
GWA ees seca eseeseeee 28 G28 Sa 28 |e hennesseeyeesseee eens 15 Shale ales] 15
Kansas’. 222: ss2ces Soa4 | ee!) Dy 200 hi) 200i Rexasys2so5.ccneesece 15 del) 140) 2 14
AMENbUCKY a2. << eo secoe 7 4 7 2 6) MU tahieee tee eee 3 0 ae © 3
Mowisiang.<.ss2cos-cecs|) 5 6; 3 Woy; Mermonts--.6-1- ee aoe 10 3 | 10 2 10
MAING Scene ce esccste ee 7 Sy || ley 2 ia Need ase eeeee eee 19 6 | 19 2 19
Whar EME Seno Gesasose 13 (|) 3133 2) 13 | Washington Ter..-.-. 3 0 3 6 3
Massachusetts ..-.-.-..- 19} 10] 19 4) 18 || West Virginia ..-...-- 2) 1 2 0 2
Michiganive...so-52--22 13 5} 13 3 | 13 || Wisconsin .-.........- 16 4} 16 2 14
Minnesota .....-.------ il 31 rt i) LE | WWiayomin cee sncem cee | eed 0 1} 0 0
iMGSSISSIppl. --s--ee~ i 2 ae a 7 |i —<—— = = =
Mussounise--oAssecesen. 15 6 14 3 14 | otal co sceeseeos- 536 48 | 524 79 504

Besides the observers making monthly reports upon Smithsonian
blank forms, the institution receives regular returns from—

The Chief Signal Officer, United States Army, daily records, including
weather maps.

From the Central Park observatory, New York, weekly.

From Chas. G. Ewing, San Francisco, newspaper slips from the Alta
California, containing meteorological observations, monthly.

Some of the observers furnish, in addition to their reports, more
detailed descriptions of various meteorological phenomena.

Miller, Dr. k., Theological Seminary, Carthagena, Ohio, monthly.

Williams, Rev. k. G., Castleton, Vermont, hourly meteorological ob-
servations, observations on magnetic variations, &e.

Wing, Miss M. E., West Charlotte, Vermont, manuscript notes on the
winds and the weather in general, record of periodical phenomena, &e.

Printed summaries or abstracts from newspapers or agricultural pub-
lications are mentioned in the list of additional meteorological mate-
rial.

BRITISH AMERICA.

Nova Scotia :
Acadia College, Wolfville, King’s Province, BTR; D. F. Higgins, the
present observer. The college has sent observations since 1854.
NEW BRUNSWICK:
Murdock, Gilbert, St. John, BTPR ; since 1850.
CANADA:
Stewart, James, Province Manitoba, Selkirk County, BTPR; since
1869.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

=~!
(SS)

NEWFOUNDLAND :

Delaney, John, Saint John’s, BTR, 1871.
Clift, Henry A., Harbor Grace, remarks on aurora, &c., in MS., 1872.
Munn, Archibald, Harbor Grace, TR; 1872.

QUEBEC:
Gilmour, Arthur H. I., Stanbridge, Missisquoi County, TR; since 1868.
ONTARIO :

Wylie, Wm., Mount Forest, Wellington, and Grey Counties, BTPR.
Reports of Mount Forest Grammar School, weekly, 1872.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents respectfally sub-
mit the following report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the
receipts and expenditures for the year 1872, and the estimates for the
year 1873:

STATEMENT OF THE FUND AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 1873.

Amount originally received as the bequest of James Smith-

son, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the United

States, in accordance with the act of Congress of August

HOSA SAG! oct.) Bos ee eee Ud eens 6 eee $515, 169 00
Residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867.....-.-.. 26, 210 63
otal bequest of Smithson <2202 o-oo ee eee eee 541, 379 63

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States as
authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of
PTUVESGINCTMES 2 osc ee ores ere ee ens cer ert eres ene ee eee 108, 620 37

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the

United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable

Sem-annually im sold... 2% Soa ante eee cee eee see Sane 650, 000 00
In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund

from savings, &c¢., in Virginia bonds, at par aoe

$88,125:20 mow walued at: eases oe eee ee ee ee 37, 000 00
Cash balance in First National Bank, Ist January, 1873... ~ SA StieoG

Total Smithson funds Ist January, 1873-..-....-.- 704, 811 36

The Virginia stock has risen in value during the past year, and as
the prospect is that the legislature of the State will make provision for
the regnlar payment of the interest, the probability is that this stock
will continue to rise.

During the past year, the Institution has received from its agents,
Messrs. Riggs & Co., on account of back interest on Virginia bonds,
after deducting expenses, $3,004.90, in regard to which a detailed account
is given in a communication of ine Secretary to the Board at its meet-
ing of January 16th.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 15

The balance at the beginning of the year, $17,811.36, as given in the
foregoing statement as a part of the Smithson fund, has not been invested
because it is required to pay bills as they become due, previous to receiv-
ing the semi-annual income at the end of June, 1873, or, in other words,
to support the Institution during the accumulation of the first half
year’s semi-annual interest.

STA'TEMENT OF RECEIPTS FROM THE SMITHSON FUND FOR 1872.

Interest on $650,000, at 6 per cent. in gold.............. $39, 000 00
Premium on gold June and December, (133 and 113).-.... 4,911 55
Interest on Virginia stock, less commissions............. 3, 004 90
SUCRE 2° SCN) OS ee Sao ec re eee eer eee 46,916 45

Total expenditures from the Smithson income during 1872,
as Shown by the detailed statement given below........ 45, 420 11
alawMcer mune pened ts ahr oA at aes StS ae 1,496 34

The above balance is added to the uninvested savings from previous
years, viz, $16,315.02, making the $17,811.36 found in the preceding
general statement of the condition of the funds.

EXPENDITURES FROM THE SMI'I'HSON FUND FOR 1872.

Building.
Reconstruction and repairs..-...-.:--+.--- $6, 672 35
PuarMitare and. T1xtuTese= 2075.22 32222. O25 737
———— $8, 298 22
General expenses.
Meetingsiof the board 242 /2s.24.526 445--- $155 50
Lighting the building, exclusive of Museum. 217 67
Heating the building, exclusive of Museum. 754 00
Postage, exclusive of Museum.....-.....-... 320 73
Stationery, exclusive of Museum..._...-.- 541 62
Incidentals, exclusive of Museum.......... 525 62
Salaries, clerk-hire, and labor............. 11,153 83
— 13, 668 97
Publications and researches.
Smithsonian Contributions, quarto.......-. $6, 394 17
Miscellaneous Collections, octavo.......--. 1, 661 99
Amma FeEpOrts, OCtAVO: =. tacths eee i: 527 50
IBReTEOROLOR Y=. ne sce ume Eo a eee ei 2,550 00
ECP URAGUS, 2s Sits Sahat hes erat hie oe deen 645 00
HeaeReabenyr sas l 2 2 eI ae). sig eee 169 87
MECHIRES foots as RS Es sp A 600 00

SESH) DFAS SHS
16 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Hachanges.

Literary and scientific exchanges through agencies’ in
London, Paris, Leipsic, Amsterdam, Stockholm, &c...

Museum.

Salaries, preservation of collections, &c., paid from the
Smithsonian income in addition to the sums drawn from
the appropriations by Congress.-..............--...--

Total expenditure from the Smithson fund in 1872,

$5, 870 32

5, 034 07

45,420 11

During the past year the Institution has advanced money for the
payment of freight on specimens, the purchase of apparatus for Govern-
ment expeditions, &e., the repayments of which, together with the amount
received for sales of publications and old material, have been deducted
from the several items of the foregoing expenditures, as follows:

From museum, for repayments for freight.......... ..-.-..
From exchanges, for repayments for freight...... --.....-.
From apparatus, for instruments for expeditions... .....-.
From lectures, for advance for scientific course........-...

From Smithsonian Contributions and Miscellaneous Collee-

tions, for copies sold: <=.22 ooo e Sie ae Pare Sore
From building and incidentals, for sale of old material... ...

~

Total repayments and miscellaneous credits in 1872. .

The estimates for the year 1873 are as follows:
ESTIMATES.
Receipts.

From interest on the permanent fund, in gold, to be re-

COLVER "DUNG GOMIST OO ea. 2yce fe see ae ces ol eee
To be received December 31, 1873
Probable premium on gold at 10 per cent................
Krom interest on: Virguiia Stock 253052225 2:32 Scene =

Total Teceipts!-a loses ee ae od nnn iake (eR I

GE MOU ONS ot? 218 ke Ue oS ae oe ee
Bomeeneraliexpenses':: .: 22 sears tec es set ee eee
For publications and researches .+ 222222 -:..02225252 s224
HP OPVEXCHAMOeS 26 eo lid. oe 52 eigenen ee ee
MOL ICOUTA SC CNCIOS sce. 2 hot -i. oo ci ene e oleaetoee a

68

3,113.38

$19, 500 00
19, 500 00
3, 900 00
1, 700 00

44, 600 00

$3,000 00
13, 000 00
20, 000 00
7,000 00
1, 600 00

44, 600 00
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTES. a

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Until the year 1870, the support of the National Museum had princi-
pally devolved on the Smithsonian Institution, only $4,000 having been
annually appropriated by Congress for this purpose. Since that date,
however, Congress has indicated the intention of providing for the full
support of the Museum, as is evident from the following extracts from
the annual appropriation acts:

Smithsonian Institution: For preservation of the collec-
tions of the surveying and exploring expeditions of the
Government, ten thousand dollars.....:....-...-..... $10, 000 00
41st Cong., Sess. II, Chap. 292, Stat. at Large 1869-
71, p. 295. Act (July 15, 1870) making appropria-
tions for sundry civil expenses, &e., for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1871.

Smithsonian Institution: For preservation of the collec-

tions of the surveying and exploring expeditions of the
Government, ten thousand dollars..:..2.222.-.......-. 10, 000 00

41st Cong., Sess. ITI, Ch. 114, Stat. at Large 1869~71,

p. 500. Act (March 3, 1871) making appropriations

for sundry civil expenses of the Government, &c., for

the fiscal year ending June 30, 1872.

Smithsonian Institution: For preservation of the collec-
tions of the surveying and exploring expeditions of the
Government, fifteen thousand dollars...............-. 15, 000 00
42d Cong., Sess. II, Ch. 415 Stat. at Large 1871-72,
p. 361. Act (June 10, 1872) making appropriations for
sundry civil expenses, &e., for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1873. |

It should be noted in regard to the above appropriations that the fiscal
year of Government is not the same as that of the Institution, the
former ending on the 30th of June, and the latter on the 31st of Decem-
ber. From this fact it follows that although the last appropriation of
Congress is $15,000 for the care of the Museum, yet the amount available
from this appropriation, in 1872, was only $7,500, or the first half of
the appropriation for the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1873.

Besides this, however, there was drawn the whole appropriation for
the fiscal year ending 30th of June, 1872, viz, $10,000, the first half of
which should have been drawn the previous year, and thus have dimin-
ished the expenditure from the Smithson income for the Museum in
1871.
78 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The following is therefore a statement of the receipts and expenditures
for the care of the National Museum in 1872:

Appropriation by Congress for the first half of the fiscal
year ending 30th June, 1872, viz, July to December, 1871. $5,000 00
Appropriation by Congress for the first half of the fiscal year

ending 30th June, 1872, viz, January to June, 1872......- 5, 000 00
Total for fiscal year ending 30th June, 1872.......... 10, 000 60

Appropriation by Congress for the first half of the fiscal year
ending 30th June, 1873, viz, July to December, 1872... -- 7,500 00
Total from congressional appropriation....... .-.- ee. 1:7,000°00

Also from Smithson income for 1872, as shown in the eee
Ing Statemeniter th cis-cse lan +e = wee i see oe ae eee ol 5, OB4 OF
Making a total for the care of the Museum.......... 22,534 07

This large expenditure was necessary for the preservation of a num-
ber of perishable specimens, the mounting of the large casts of fossils
presented by Professor Henry A. Ward, of Rochester, N. Y., the prepa-
ration of numerous skeletons, the transfer of the Mineralogical and Geo-
logical Museum of the Government from the General Land- Office to the
Smithsonian building, and the preliminary examination of the speci-
mens of which it consisted.

The cost of the reconstruction of the building after the fire of 1865,
exclusive of furniture, was $136,000, the whole of which was paid from
the funds of the Institution for restoring the main building, and not for
fitting up the rooms wanted for the further extension of the Museum.
For the latter purpose Congress has made provisions in the following
acts:

Smithsonian Institution: Toward the completion of the
hall required for the Government collections, ten thou-
sand, dollarst. eos e 2 hee ern he ied. ee A eee $10, 000 00
41st Cong., Sess. IT, Ch. 292, Stat. at Large 1869~71,
p. 295. Act (July 15, 1870) making appropriations
for sundry civil expenses, &c., for the fiscal year end-
ing June 30, i871.
Smithsonian Institution: For the completion of the hall
required for the Government collections, ten thousand
POM ATS Ushi hc o/h ot, ee ee eee, Ol). OR 10, 000 00
4ist Cong., Sess. III, Chap. 114, Stat. at Large
1869-71, p. 501. Act (May 3, 1871) making appro-
priations for sundry civil expenses of the Government
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1872
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. f(s)

Smithsonian Institution: To commence the proper fitting
up, in a fire proof manner, of the vacant apartments in
the Smithsonian Institution building, for the proper dis-
tribution and exhibition of the Government collections
of natural history, geology, and mineralogy, five thou-
Sandi dollansaeee a ees oie. ales oheees ee eas $5, 000 00
42d Cong., Sess. I, Ch. 172, Stat. at Large 1871~2,
p. 131. Act (May 18, 1872) making appropriations to
supply deficiencies in the appropriations for the service
of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1872, and tor former years.
Smithsonian Institution: For the completion of the hall
required for the Government collections, ten thousand
CICLIETIS. . Sete tid reba olla ree Pi See Phiiais Miriae Sn) se eer eee 10, 000 00
42d Cong., Sess. II, Chap. 415, Stat. at Large, p. 361.
Act (June 10, 1872) making appropriations for sundry
civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1873.

Of these appropriations, $20,000 were expended in 1871 on account
of ceiling, flooring, plastering, and finishing halls for the extension of
the Museum; and in 1872, $2,962.50 for cases for the geological hall,
leaving available for the first half of 1873, for finishing these cases, and
for commencing those for the large hall in the second story of the main
building, $12,037.50.

The foregoing expenditures for fitting up rooms for the Museum,
$2,962.50, as well as those for the care and preservation of the collee-
tions, $17,500, have been accounted for to the Secretary of the Interior,
as In previous years.

The Executive Committee have examined thirteen hundred and ninety-
five receipted vouchers for payments made during the four quarters of
the year 1872, both from the Smithson fund and the appropriations
from Congress. In every voucher the approval of the Secretary of the
Institution is given, and the certificate of an authorized agent of the
Institution is appended, setting forth that the materials and property
and services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the
purposes stated.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger
have also been examined and found correct, showing a balance in the
First National Bank, Ist of January, 1873, of $17,811.36.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
W. T. SHERMAN,
Haxecutive Committee.
JANUARY 20, 1873.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

THURSDAY, January 16, 1873.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was
held this day, at 6 o’clock p.m. Present: The Chancellor Chief Justice
Chase, Hon. 8. Colfax, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. J. W.
Stevenson, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. L. P. Poland, General Sherman,
Professor Agassiz, Hon. Peter Parker, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, and Pro-
fessor Henry, the Secretary.

The Chancellor being unable to be present at the beginning of the
meeting, Hon. Mr, Hamlin was called to the chair.

The Chancellor arriving at 7 o'clock, assumed his official position as
presiding officer of the Board.

The Secretary informed the Board that since its last meeting the death
of Hon. Garrett Davis of the United States Senate had occurred, and that
the vacancy thus created in the Board of Regents had been filled by the
appointment of Hon. J. W. Stevenson, a Senator from the State of
Kentucky; whereupon, on motion of General Garfield, the following
resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents have heard the announcement
of the death of their highly esteemed colleague, Hon. Garrett Davis, of
Kentucky, with deep and sincere regret.

Resolved, That in the death of Mr. Davis the Smithsonian Institution
has lost a warm friend, an efficient supporter, and judicious adviser ;
and the country a patriotic, virtuous, and influential citizen.

Resolved, That these resolutions be entered upon the journal, and a
copy of them be transmitted to the family of the deceased.

The Secretary presented to the Board an exhibit on a large diagram
of the condition of the funds on the Ist of January, 1873, and of the
receipts and expenditures during 1872.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, these exhibits were referred to the Execu-
tive Committee.

Hon. Peter Parker, in behalr of the Executive Committee, made sub-
Stantially the following preliminary report:

‘The Secretary, who by law is the custodian of the Smithsonian funds,
has presented to the Regents an ocular exhibit of the present condition of
these funds, and the Executive Committee have, at the present time, to
state that they have been laboriously engaged for several days in exam-
ining 1,395 vouchers for the expenditures of the Institution for the past
year; and comparing these with the bank account, as well as the appro-
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 81

priations from Congress, find the whole in accordance with the statement
in the diagram submitted by the Secretary, there being a balance now
on handin the First National Bank of $17,811.36. At the next meeting
the committee will present a detailed statement of all the accounts, with
estimates of the receipts and appropriations for the year 1873.”

The Secretary presented the following statement relative to the inter-
est on the Virginia stock held by the Institution, as furnished by Riges
& Co.:

1870. Jan. 16. 2 per cent. interest on $53,500, less $5.35 .......... $1,064 65
1872. June 21. %of $1,761 coupons, $1,174, less 4, $4.40.......... 1,169 60
Aug.2. of $1,761 coupons, $1.174, less + and tax, $77.77.. 1,096 23
——— $3,330 48
1871. Dec. 23. Tod per cent. commission on funding, $88,125 20.... $220 31
1872. Jan. 12. To 4 per cent. commission on $58,700, conversion of
MEMISHELE CN LOT COM PON VONG See aaae eee ee eae eee UB) Ml
June 21. To express charge on $58,700, bonds sent to Richmond
for affixing State seal, inadvertently omitted ..-. 29 20
Aug. 2. To express on $1,761 coupons to Richmond-......---- 1 20
Aug. 2. Toexpress on $1,761 coupons to Richmond.--...-..--. 1 50
—_——— 329 58
1872. Nov. 9. Baiance paid by Riggs & Co. to the Institution -..-.-.........3,004 99

This communication was referred to the Executive Committee.

The subject of the deposit of the articles of fine art belonging to the
Institution in the Corcoran Art Gallery was presented by the Secretary;
and, on motion of General Garfield, it was

Resolved, That the Executive Committee and the Secretary report as
to the character and organization of.the Corcoran Art Gallery, and the
plan to be adopted by the Smithsonian Institution in co-operating with
that establishment and in depositing articles with it.

Dr. Maclean presented a statement relative to the claim for the por-
trait of Washington, and stated that a report would be presented on the
subject by the Executive Committee at the next meeting.

The Secretary presented the part of his annual report of the operations
of the Institution during 1872 relative to original researches, viz : the
planet Uranus; the tides; altitudes of over 16,000 different places in
the United States; isothermal map; rain tables; winds and under-
ground temperatures.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet on Monday, January 20, at
7 o'clock p.m.

MonpDay, January 20, 1873

A meeting of the Board was held this day at 7 o’clock p. m.
Present: The Chancellor Chief Justice Chase, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon.
J. W. Stevenson, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. L. P.

658
82 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Poland, General Sherman, Hon. Peter Parker, Professor L. AgassiZ,
Rey. Dr. John Maclean, and the Secretary, Prefessor Henry.

The Chancellor took the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Uxcuses for non-attendance were received from Messrs. Colfax, Cox,
and Cooke.

Hon. Peter Parker submitted the report of the Executive Committee,
which was read, and, on motion of Mr. Poland, was accepted.

Dr. Maclean, from the Executive Committee, presented a report ad-
verse to the claim for a portrait of Washington painted by C. W.
Peale.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, the report was accepted, ordered to be filed,
and a copy to be furnished to the claimant.

The Secretary stated that during the last session of Congress, mainly
through the efforts of Mr. Hamlin, the following provision had been
adopted in regard to postage facilities:

“All publications sent or received by the Smithsonian Institution, marked on each
package “ Smithsonian Exchange,” shall be allowed to pass FREE IN THE MAIL.”

[New Postal Code, 6th Sub-div., 184th Sec., June, 1872.

This does not provide for letters, nor specimens of natural history;
and since the transfer of the museum of the Land-Office to the Institu-
tion, the postage on minerals sent by the United States surveyors had
become a considerable item of expense. The Secretary of the Interior,
however, had offered to receive for the Institution all such specimens, if
sent by mail to that Department. ;

Mr. Hamlin stated that a bill had passed the House of Representa-
tives abolishing the franking privilege, and if it passed the Senate the
Institution would again have to pay postage.*

The Secretary stated that the New York, Newfoundland, and London
Cable Telegraph Company, and the Western Union Telegraph Company
had liberally granted the privilege the Institution had requested, to
transmit without charge between Europe and America announcements
of astronomical discoveries, such as planets, comets, &e.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution be tendered to the New York, Newfoundland, and
London Telegraph Company, and to the Western Union Telegraph
Company, for their grant of the free transmission of telegrams relative
to astronomical discoveries.

The Secretary stated that Mr. George Catlin, the Indian traveler and
student of ethnology, who had exhibited his sketches of Indian life in
the Institution, died in December last, and as it was very desirable that
his valuable ethnological collection should be preserved, and, if possi-
ble, secured by Congress, it was proper that the Board of Regents
should take some action in regard to the matter.

* This bill has since become a law.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 83

Professor Agassiz commended the collection as of great ethnological
value, and expressed the opinion unhesitatingly that it ought to be
purchased by the Government.

On motion of General Garfield, it was resolved that the Executive
Committee ascertain from the heirs of Mr. Catlin the terms on which
his Indian paintings, sketches, specimens, &e., can be procured, and
furnish the information, with such recommendation as they think pro-
per, to the Library Committee of Congress.

General Garfield presented the subject of the proposed endowment of
agricultural colleges in a bill which had passed the Senate and was
now before the House, and expressed the hope that some action could
be taken to secure the benefit of the act to the Smithsonian Institution.

Professor Agassiz remarked that there were other institutions in the
country that were well worthy to share with this Institution any ben-
efits which might be derived from the distribution of the proceeds of
the sales of the public lands; especially the Museum of Comparative
Zoology in Cambridge. This museum now contains the largest collec-
tion of specimens for the illustration of some departments of zoology of
any in the world, and has been supported at an annual expense of from
fifty to sixty thousand dollars, principally raised from donations of the
friends of the establishment. Professor Agassiz also observed that he
thought Professor Henry, in the distribution of specimens abroad, ought
in all cases to ask for a return of an equivalent in kind. By not doing
so he interfered with the growth of other establishments of a similar
character in this country, and especially with the museum at Cam-
bridge.

In reply Professor Henry stated that the policy of the Institution
from the beginning had been of a most liberal character; that its motto
was ‘ co-operation, not monopoly ;” that it had endeavored to co-operate
with all institutions in this country and abroad; that the bequest was
for the benefit of men, not for men of this country alone, butof every coun-
try. Whenever specimens have been wanted for scientific research, these
specimens have been sent as far as the means of the Institution would
allow, and in cases where specimens were required for special investiga-
tion in this country, the Institution has endeavored to procure them for
the object required. It is true a return in kind has not been asked for
because the appropriation from Congress for the support of the museum
has not been more than one-fourth of the actual cost, and the Institu-
tion has not had the means to pay for transportation of the specimens
and the care of those not immediately wanted for research. It has,
however, in all cases distinctly announced, in presenting specimens to
foreign institutions, that suitable returns would be expected trom the
duplicates in their collections whenever the Institution might desire to
obtain them.* The Institution has in this way a large accumulation of

84 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

more liberal provision for the support of the National Mnseum, it may
begin to ask for specimens in return, and in doing so may harmoniously
co-operate with the Museum of Comparative Zoology by procuring speci-
mens for it, and in receiving from the latter others in return. -

At the request of the Board, Professor Agassiz then gave an
acecount* of his late expedition from Boston through the Straits of
Magellan to San Francisco, in the steamer Hassler, of the United States
Coast Survey, after which the Board adjourned to meet at the call of
the Secretary.

WEDNESDAY, February 13, 1873.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at 7 o’clock p.
m. Present: Chief Justice Chase, Chancellor, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon.
L. Trumbull, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. Peter Parker,
Hon. H. D. Cooke, and the Secretary, Professor Henry.

The Chancellor took the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Dr. Parker presented the following report of the committee relative to
the Corcoran Art Gallery :

The committee to whom was referred the subject of inquiry into the
character and organization of the Corcoran Art Gallery,t and the pian
(if any) to be adopted by the Smithsonian Institution in co-operating
with that establishment and in depositing articles with it, and report
thereon, have to state: They learn that the Corcoran Art Gallery was
incorporated by act of Congress on the 24th of May, 1870, [as appears
from Statutes at Large, Forty-tirst Congress, second Session, chapter 3,
page 139,] and is in no way connected with the District or territorial
government of Washington.

Your committee have conferred with Mr. W. W. Corcoran, and learn
from him his desire 1n relation to the art gallery bearing his name is to
make it one of very high order of art, and, with some exceptions which
he specified, he is of the opinion the specimens of the Smithsonian will
not come within the scope of his design. The proffer of the aid of the
Smithsonian Institution, through its extensive foreign correspondents
and agencies, in collecting valuable works of art from abroad, will be
highly appreciated by Mr. Corcoran and the Directors of the Corcoran
Art Gallery.

PETER PARKER,
W.T. SHERMAN,
Committee.
FEBRUARY 13, 1873.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, the following resolution was adopted :
Resolved, That the report of the committee be accepted, and, in view
of the facts stated, no further action in the premises is required, except

*See Appendix “A” to Journal of the Board.
tSee Appendix “C” to Journal of the Board.

re
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 85

so far as relates to co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution in obtain-
ing for the Corcoran Art Gallery contributions from abroad when re-
quested by the directors and at the expense of the corporation.

The Secretary announced the death of Professor James H. Coffin, who
had for many years been associated with the Institution in its meteor-
ological work, and had nearly finished a very elaborate paper on the
winds of the globe, prepared from material furnished by the Institution,
and to be published as a Smithsonian Contribution to Knowledge. He
spoke in the highest terms of the character of Professor Coffin as a scien-
tific investigator, an able ‘eacher, and exemplary Christian.

On motion of Hon. Mr. Trumbull, the following resolutions were
adopted :

fesolved, That the Board of Regents have heard with profound sor-
row of the death of Professor James H. Coftin, of Lafayette Coilege,
Haston, Pennsylvania.

Resolved, That in the death of Professor Coffin the Smithsonian Insti-
tution has lost a valuable collaborator who has assiduously labored in
connection with it in the cause of science for more than twenty years;
the country has lost an efficient teacher, an honest, truthful, and indus-
trious man, and the world an original contributor to the science of the
day.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the fam-
ily of the deceased.

The Secretary stated that since the last meeting he had received a
telegram from Dr. C, H. Peters, of Clinton, New York, announcing the
discovery of a new planet, and that he had availed himself of the facili-
ties offered by the Cable and Western Union Companies, and had sent a
dispatch in regard to the discovery to the European observatories.

The Secretary informed the Board that JAMES HAMILTON, of Carlisle,
Pennsylvania, recently deceased, had left- a legacy of one thousand
dollars to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, the
interest to be ‘‘appropriated biennially, either in money or a medal, for
such contribution, paper, or lecture on any scientific or useful subject as
the secretaries may approve.” Action on this subject was postponed
until more definite information had been received.*

The Secretary stated that an amendment had been offered in the
House of Representatives, but not at the instance of the Institution,
to Senate bill 693, “to provide for the further endowment and support
of colleges for the benefit of agriculture, &¢., &e.,” as follows:

“And it is further provided, that the share allotted to the said District
of Columbia shall be apprepriated to the Smithsonian Institution, to
be expended under the direction of the Board of Regents of said Insti-
tution, for the support of the National Museum, and in distributing
specimens and publications to the colleges named in this act and to
other institutions.”

*See Will in Appendix “EF” to Journal of Board.
86 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

By this bill the Secretary of the Treasury is to invest annually one-
fourth of the net amount of sales of the public lands for each year, in
United States bonds, bearing five per cent. interest, and is to give to each
State and to the District of Columbia an equal share of this interest, pro-
vided that the appropriation for any one share shall not exceed in a
single year the sum of $50,600.

The opinion was expressed by the Regents that the bill might pass,
although it was believed that the income to be derived from the sales of
the public lands would be inconsiderable for many years.*

The Secretary stated that the plan of the Smithsonian Institution for
increasing knowledge had met with such favor, that other persons, in
imitation of James Smithson, had established foundations to advance
science, and gave an account of the bequest of the late Professor ALEX-
ANDER DALLAS BACHE; the foundation for lectures by Dr. J. M. TONER,
of Washington, and the gift of Professor TYNDALL of the proceeds of his
recent lectures in this country.

In each of these eases, Professor Henry had been made the chairman
of the boards of trustees appointed to carry out the wishes of the donors.

On motion of General Garfield, it was

Resolved, That a full account of the Bache, Toner, and Tyndall sei-
entific foundations, or trusts, be published in the annual report of this
Institution, together with a letter from Professor Tyndall to Professor
Henry.t

The Seeretary stated that he had transmitted to Congress the annual
report of Professor J. W. Powell, relative to his geological and trigono-
metrical survey of the Colorado of the West and its tributaries.

The Secretary presented his annual report for the year 1872, which
was read in part, when, on motion of Dr. Parker, it was

Resolved, That the further reading of the report of Professor Henry be
dispensed with, and that it be submitted by the Secretary to Congress.

On motion, the Board then adjourned sine die.

* This bill did not pass the House of Representatives.
+See Appendix “B,” ‘D,” “E” to the Proceedings of the Board.
APPENDIX TO THE JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD
OF REGENTS.

A.
PROFESSOR AGASSIZ’S NARRATIVE.

‘*[T was invited by Professor Peirce to take passage in the Hassler,
while she was going to the field of her duty on the coast of California, as
surveying vessel, provided that my expenses were borne by other par-
ties so that the Coast Survey should not be put to any additional outlay.
In consideration of this proposition, my friends in Boston liberally sub-
scribed $20,000 to enable me to make as thorough a series of investiga-
tions of animal life and other physical objects as possible, and a little
more than this sum was expended.

“We left Boston on the 4th of December, 1871. Our first observations
of much interest were upon the Gulf weed, with its well-marked varieties
distinguished by differences of stem and leaves. We made large col-
lections of the hydroid communities inhabiting the sargossum, and
also of the small fishes, crustacea and other animals finding shelter
within its branches. I saw no reason to suppose that the sargossum
originates as a floating-plant. On the contrary, all the masses we found,
however large, bore marks of having been torn from some attachment.
I have already given an account of the nest of the chironectes built of
gulf weed, and picked up by us.

‘Our first port was Saint Thomas, where we anchored on the 15th
of December. Here we made very large collections both of marine and
land animals, fish, corals, sea-urchins, star-fishes, and ophiurans, crus-
tacea, shells, lizards, snakes, toads, and frogs, insects and birds. We
shipped from Saint Thomas alone eleven barrels and boxes of speci-
mens. Barbadoes was our next collecting-ground. There we made our
first cast of the dredge and with remarkable success. The collections
forwarded from this port were not so large, but were perhaps more in-
teresting than those of Saint Thomas. The fauna upon the shoals off
the Island of Barbadoes strangely resembles that of a past geological
time. The comatule, pedunculated crinoids, pleurotomariz, sipho-
nie, and cnemidia found upon these shoals recall forms which belonged
especially to the Mezozoic ages. This dredging was also rich in corals,
sea-urchins, starfish, and ophiurans, and in a great variety of beautiful
and rare shells. Insome notes handed to me by Count Pourtalés, he says of
this same dredging, December 29th and 30th off Barbadoes, about six miles
north of Bridgetown, numerous casts of the dredge were taken in depths
varying from 17 to 120 fathoms with very rich returns in mollusea, crusta-
88 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL

cea, echinoderms, polyps, and sponges ; many of them were new to science,
others either very rare or of much interest on account of their geograph-
ical distribution. Pleurotomaria is an example of the former; asthen-
osoma, ceraiophozus, rhizocrinus, and other echinoderms, of the latter.
Deep sea-corals were obtained in considerable quantity, but none appear
to be identical with those of the North Atlantic; they also seem to differ
more from those of ilorida than would have been expected.

‘‘ Between Barbadoes and Brazil we had little opportunity for observa-
tion, except upon the motions of the flying-fish, the habits and appear-
ance of the physalia, &c. But we had an interesting dredging about a
day’s sail south of Pernambuco in 500 fathoms, from which we obtained,
besides other specimens, a living shell, closely allied to the Pecten para-
doxus, as described by Goldfuss. Another cast, about 40 miles east of
Cape Frio, in 45 fathoms, gave us a new crustacean, singularly like the
ancient trilobites. With reference to temperature off the coast of
Brazil, Count Pourtalés’ notes give the following details: ‘ Off Maceio,
Brazil, January 17, in latitude 9° 45’S., longitude 35° 0’ west, the surface-
temperature was 80°.5. At 100 fathoms it was 67°; at 485 fathoms,
449.5; at 556 fathoms, (a few miles farther west,) 429.5; in latitude
11° 49’ south, longitude 37° 10’ west, surface, 809.35 ; at 613 fathoms, 39°.
A number of dredgings were taken on the same parallel, but nearer
shore, with moderate success.” He adds that subsequent casts of the
dredge were taken at various points along the east coast of South
America, and in the Strait of Magellan, but almost always in depths
less than 50 fathoms where temperature presented no particular interest.

“A delay of three weeks at Rio de Janeiro interrupted our work at
sea, but I made use of it to collect largely in the market of Rio de
Janeiro and in the neighboring rivers and brooks. The most valuable
contribution to science made there, however, consisted in preparations
of large numbers of fish-brains, both marine and fresh-water.

“Our next port was Montevideo. Here, however, the quarantine pre-
vented us from entering the city, but L had an opportunity of studying
glacial phenomena on a hill in the harbor, where I was allowed to land
and where I found erratic material of an unquestionably glacial char-
acter, and other evidences of glacial action. Indeed, the most striking
fact of all is that the hill itself is a true ‘roche moutonnée.” On leaving

tio de la Plate, February 22, we dropped the dredge in some seven
fathoms, and it came up laden with valuable specimens. Among other
things this cast gave us a large voluta and the egg of a voluta, (of which
we found many afterward belonging to different kinds of volutas,) many
olivas, serulas, renillas, crustaceans and echinoderms. It is not worth
while to record all our dredgings; they were frequent, sometimes very
remunerative, and sometimes not at all so. One dredging, of especial
value for its rare mollusks and echinoderms, was taken off the mouth
of the Rio Negro.

“The next point of great interest was the gulf of San Mathias, at the
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. 89

head of which is the so called Port San Antonio. In this region our
coliections were very large and various. Among our treasures was a
very interesting collection of tertiary fossils in this bay. The cliffs
were largely composed of them. My original programme had included
a reconnoissance of the rivers Negro and Santa Cruz, and a visit to
the Falkland Islands, where I was especially anxious to have a look at
the so-called “rivers of stone,” believing, as I do, that they are of
glacial origin. But the circumstances of the vessel and the lateness of
the season made it important to hurry on, and I reluctantly relin-
quished this part of my scheme. We touched, therefore, at no other
point between the gulf of San Mathias and the strait of Magellan,
though we paused for a cast of the dredge off the gulf of St. Georges,
and were rewarded by some superb star-fishes of immense size, (astro-
phlyton or basket-fish,) besides other valuable specimens.

‘¢ We rounded Cape Virgins on the 13th of March, and made our first
anchorage at Possession Bay. My published reports have already given
some account of our work in this region. The most important results
obtained in this locality were Count Pourtalés’ discovery that Mount
Aymon is an extinct voleano, with a very perfect crater, and forming
the nucleus, as it were, of a cluster of smaller voleanoes; beside some less
striking geological observations of my own. In the strait of Magellan,
and in Sinythe’s Channel, we passed three weeks, anchoring every night.
The zoological results throughout this region were very satisfactory.
We made large collections; chiefly marine, of course. But the glacial
phenomena here interested me more deeply than the fauna. From the
character of the drift, and the constant presence of erratic materials,
evidently quite foreign to the soil, and recurring along the Patagonian
coast throughout the strait of Magellan, and, as I afterward found,
high up on the Chilian coast; from the glacier-worn surfaces on the
two sides of the strait, as compared with each other, and on the walls
of Smythe’s Channel, I satisfied myself that there has been a move.
ment of ice from south northward, preceding all local glacial phenom-
ena, the latter being indeed only the remnant of the former.

‘Leaving Smythe’s Channel we kept along the coast to the southern
end of Chiloe Island, making a run up the gulf of Corcovado in the
hope of passing through the archipelago of Chiloe. As we had no
charts, however, the captain feared to attempt the inside passage, and
after making some collections in Port San Pedro we returned to the
open sea, and reached San Carlos de Ancud, at the northern end of the
island, on the 8th of March. Here I found again the erratic of the
straits and of the Patagonian coast resting upon the breccia of Ancud.
showing the chronological relation of the volcanic formations of this
region to the glacial phenomena. From San Carlos we proceeded with
no pause (except at Lota for coal) to the bay of Concepcion. Here we
remained a fortnight, and at no point did I make more full and valuable
collections. From Concepcion Bay the Hassler went to Juan Fernandez,
90 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

but as I wished to see something of the geology between the coast and
the Andes, I proceeded by land to Santiago. My observations here con-
firmed my previous impressions as to the glacial phenomena. There is
very little evidence of local action proceeding from the Andes, but the
whole Chilian valley lying between the coast-range and the Andes
proper has been modeled in a south-northerly direction by ice. The
valley is, in short, a glacier bottom.

‘At Valparaiso we joined the vessel again, andI add some notes from
Count Pourtalés concerning temperatures based upon soundings, &e.,
taken on their voyage to and from Juan Fernandez: ‘In the Pacitic
Ocean soundings were taken between Talecahuana, Chili, and Juan Fer-
nandez. The hundred-fathoms line was found to be about 35 miles off
shore. Ata distance of 52 miles the depth was 1,006 fathoms. In lati-
tude 35° 30’ south and longitude 75° 11’ west the depth was 2,410 fath-
oms, temperature 35°. Mud and fragments of a delicate sponge were
obtained by the lead; but the dredge-line having been damaged by
dampness, parted when hauling up. About two miles north of Juan
Fernandez, surface temperature 61°; at 377 fathoms, 41°.5; at 656
fathoms, bottom temperature 61°. The dredge brought up only a few
small stones. About three miles off the northwest corner of the same
island the depth was 1,144 fathoms, bottom temperature 36°. The
dredge brought up nodules of clay, pebbles, worm-tubes, and a small
isis. About 25 miles north of the island a depth of 2,214 fathoms was
found, with a bottom temperature of 36°; bottom of reddish mud. The
dredge was lost again, with a large quantity of line. On the way from
Juan Fernandez to Valparaiso a cast of the lead was taken in latitude
33° 33/ south, longitude 77° 2/ west; depth, 1,585 fathoms, bottom tem-
perature 36°; fine white globigerina mud. The hauling up of the line
took more than six hours, on account of the constant precautions needed
to prevent it from parting. Further attempts were thereafter given
up.’

“From Valparaiso we proceeded up the coast, touching at all the prin-
cipal points, and collecting everywhere. One of our richest collecting-
grounds was Parraca Bay, where the fauna was of astonishing richness
and variety. The geology was also exceedingly interesting, and I was
indebted to Lieutenant Murray Day for a very detailed map of the drift-
formation in that region.

‘rom Payta we struck off to the Galapagos, where we arrived on the
10th of June, and remained till the 19th, touching at Charles Island, Albe-
marle, Saint James, Jarvis, and Indefatigable Islands. The zoology of
these islands is intensely interesting, not only from the peculiar character
of the fauna, but also from the physical conditions in which it occurs, all
these islands being of such recent voleanic formation as to preclude the
idea of a migration of animals from the mainland, and their subsequent
adaptation to new circumstances. Our collections in the Galapagos
were exceptionally large. Iguanas, both marine and terrestrial, (the
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. 91

two species of amblyrhynchus, first made known by Darwin,) lizards,
birds, seals, turtles, besides a great variety of fishes, crustacea, mol-
lusks, and radiates.

“T'rom the Galapagos we proceeded to Panama, where we arrived on
the 25th of June. We were detained here for three weeks, but they
were very profitable weeks for the collections. The loss of the greater
part of our dredging-apparatus between Juan Fernandez and Valparaiso
had indeed made dredging in deep waters impossible, but we were the
more industrious in collecting in shoal waters along shore and on land.
Our next port was Acapulco, where we arrived on the 4th of August,
and remained for some days. There, also, we were successful in col-
lecting, and not less so in Magdalena Bay, where we passed two days
in drawing the seine. We made no pause between Magdalena Bay and
San Diego, where we arrived on the 18th of August. In the Bay of San
Diego we added very considerably to our collections, Here, and in-
deed all along the coast from Valparaiso northward, we found many
specimens of cetaceans and selachians. We gathered a large number
of cestracions alone.

‘* Leaving San Diego on the 28th of August, we reached San Francisco
on the 31st. Here our voyage ended, but I remained in San Francisco
for some weeks for the sake of completing collections formerly made for
me in this region. Both there and in Sacramento, with the aid of
friends, I succeeded completely in my object.

‘Tt would be impossible for me now to give you more than a very vague
and imperfect idea of the extent and value of the collections derived from
this voyage. Indeed, I do not fully know it as yet myself, the unpack-
ing being but just begun. The number of barrels and cases, however,
forwarded to Cambridge during the ten months of our absence was
265—almost a barrel a day. It would have been simply impossible for
me to collect on this scale, but for the cordial assistance I received from
the captain and officers of our ship, and, under their direction, from the
men, who were always cheerfully ready for the work of the seine and
dredge. I was also greatly indebted to Dr. Hill and Dr. White, the
physicists of the expedition, who, whenever not engaged in their own
duties, were ready to aid me in every way. I should not forget to men-
tion that Dr. Hill made, also, a most valuable and admirably preserved
collection of marine plants, gathered at every anchorage where time was
allowed for landing. As to the special work of the chemical and phys-
ical departments, under the charge of Dr. Hill, ex-president of Harvard,
and Dr. White, of Philadelphia, I can give you little information. You
could, no doubt, learn all details respecting this part of the work by
application to these gentlemen, or to the Superintendent of the Coast
Survey.

** My own special party for zoological work consisted of Count Pourtalés,
Dr. Steindachner, and Mr. Blake. Count Pourtalés, while sharing in all
the general work of the expedition, had special charge of the dredging
9% APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

operations. Dr. Steindachner, although an admirable collector in all
departments, was especially engaged in the care of the ichthyological
collections. His great knowledge and untiring industry made his
assistance invaluable. Indeed, without him I could not have carried out
the comprehensive scheme for collecting which I had laid out. Mr.
Blake had special charge of the mollusks, and his time was chiefly em-
ployed in the drawing of perishable specimens. As I cannot give you
an accurate summary of the zoological collections, I will give youa
slight sketch of my general scheme, alluded to above, that you may
understand their significance as a whole.

‘“T have endeavored, in the first place, to collect as many specimens of
the same species as possible, in every stage of growth and every con-
dition of development, in order to ascertain the range of variation in
each species. My second object was to learn the boundaries of the dif-
ferent faun, especially along the Pacific coast from the strait of
Magellan to California. In this I have included, wherever it was pos-
sible. the fishes from the rivers on the western slope of the continent,
for comparison with those on the eastern; but this part of my plan was
difficult of execution, because I had not the means of collecting in land.

‘* During our whole journey I was careful to make, or to have made,
large numbers of anatomical preparations of such parts of marine ani-,
mals as can rarely be well studied from alcoholic specimens. The most
valuable of these preparations are those of fish brains.

‘T need hardly add that we owed the great opportunity for scientific
investigation afforded by the voyage of the Hassler to the liberal policy
of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, who is ever ready to com-
bine the larger interests of science with the special work of the survey,
when it can be done without detriment to the latter. I should add,
however, that the means for making the zoological collections were con-
tributed by gentlemen of Boston, who raised nearly $20,000 for the pur-
chase of alcohol, jars, and otherapparatus for collecting on a large scale,
and tor charges of freight in forwarding the specimens from foreign
ports. The latter charges were, however, comparatively small, owing
to the liberality of both railroad and steamship companies, of the com-
manders of our naval forces in various ports, to whom I had special
recommendations from the Secretary of the Navy, and of the captains of
vessels employed upon whaling voyages or in private mercantile euter-
prises.”
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. 93
Be
BACHE FUND.
Hetracts from the will of Alexander Dallas Bache. Dated March 18, 1862.

Item. As to all the rest and residue of my estate, including the sum
of five thousand dollars placed at the disposal of my wife, in case she
should not desire to make any disposition of the same, I direct my ex-
ecutors, hereinafter named, to apply the income thereof, after the death
of my wife, according to and under the directions of Joseph Henry, of
Washington, Louis Agassiz and Benjamin Peirce, of Harvard College,
Massachusetts, to the prosecution of researches in physical and natural
science, by assisting experimentalists and observers in such manner and
in such sums as Shall be agreed upon by the three above-named gen-
tlemen, or any two of them, whom I constitute a board of direction for
the application of the income of my residuary estate, for the above ob-
jects, after the death of my said wife. The class of subjects to be se-
lected by this board, and the results of such observations and experi-
ments, to be published at the expense of my trust estate, under their
directions, out of the income thereof, but without encroaching on the
principal.

In case of the death or inability to act of all or any of the three gen-
tlemen I have named, in my wife’s lifetime, my will is that she shall
supply their places in the board of direction by an instrument of writ-
ing, either testamentary or otherwise, desiring that in the selection of
the persons to administer the income of the trust funds hereby created,
she will have regard to the selection of persons whose attention has been
directed to the same branches of science as those I have named, and so
that each of the departments of physics, mathematics, and natural his-
tory shall be represented in the board. In case of any vacancy occur-
ring in the board of direction after its organization, and after the death
of my wife, by reason of the death, inability, or refusal to act, or resig-
nation of any of the members, my will is that the surviving er remain-
ing member or members for the time being shall have power to fill va-
cancies so occurring in the board by the selection of other person or
persons to fill such vacancies, and so on, from time to time, as vacancies
shall cecur.

My intention being that the board of direction shall have power to
continue its existence, and to filling all vacancies occurring in their
body from time to time.

I direct that a minute of their proceedings be kept, and that the ap-
pointment of any member by the board shall be notified in writing to
the trustees for the time being of my residuary estate.

In the event of any failure of the board for the time being to direct
the application of the income of my said residuary estate, or to continue
its existence by filling vacancies occurring in their body, my will is that
94 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

the application of the income thereof, for the purposes and objects de-
clared in this clause of my will shall be made by the trustees, under the
direction of the American Philosophical Society, of Philadelphia.

Patract from the codicil to the will of Alexander Dallas Bache, dated July
15, 1865.

Item. My will is that upon the death of my wife all the rest and resi-
due of my estate shall be paid over to and rest in the corporation of
“The National Academy of Sciences,” incorporated by act of Congress
passed the third day, of March, A. D. 1863, whom I hereby appoint
trustees in the place of my said executors, under the fourth clause of
my said will, to apply the income according to the directions in the
said clause contained, to the prosecution of researches in physical and
natural science by assisting experimentalists and observers in such
manner and in such sums as Shall be agreed upon by the board of di-
rection in the said clause named.

My will further is that in case of any failure of the board for the time
being to direct the application of the income of my residuary estate, or
to continue its existence by filling vacancies occurring in their body,
the application of the income thereof for the purposes and objects de-
clared in the said clause shall be made under the directions of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, instead of the American Philosophical So-
ciety, of Philadelphia. In all other respects the said application of the
income to the purposes aforesaid to be made by the same persons, and
under the same rules as I have prescribed in the said clause of my will.

C.
CORCORAN ART GALLERY.
Letter from Mr. Corcoran to the Trustees.

WASHINGTON, May 10, 1869.

GENTLEMEN: It is known to you that the building at the northeast
corner of Pennsylvania Avenue and Seventeenth street was designed by
me for the encouragement of the fine arts, as is indicated by the dedi-
‘ation upon its front.

The work was begun in the year 1859, and was prosecuted with the
heartiness naturally incident to such an undertaking, until it was inter-
rupted by the breaking out of the late civil war, when the public exi-
gencies led to the immediate occupation of the building for military
purposes ; and to these uses it has been devoted ever since, until, being
no longer required by the War Department, it is about to be restored to
my possession.

It was my cherished hope to have placed the proposed establishment,
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. JD

complete in allits appointments, in successful operation before divesting
myself of the title by any formal instrument, but the years which have
thus passed away, and the accumulation of other cares and duties, warn
me no longer to indulge the pleasing anticipation.

I have, therefore, not doubting your general interest in the subject,
taken the liberty of executing to you, as trustees, a deed, which I here-
with deliver, sufficiently defining the trusts which I ask you to accept.

In addition to the title to the property itself, you will observe that
the instrument vests in you, for the purposes of the trust, the right to
receive the rents, wholly unpaid, for the period during which it has
been occupied by the Government, now nearly eight years, which will
doubtless be adjusted with you, in the absence of any special agreement,
upon fair and, perhaps, liberal terms.

As soon as the interior of the building shall have been completed ac-
cording to the original plans, (which will be placed at your disposal.)
for which the rents in arrears will more than suffice, I shall ask you to
receive as anucleus my own gallery of art, which has been collected at —
no inconsiderable pains, and I have assurances from friends in other
cities, whose tastes and liberality have taken this direction, that they
will contribute fine works of art from their respective collections.

I may add, that it is my intention to provide further endowment of
the institution in such manner and to such extent as may consist with
other objects which claim my attention; and I venture to hope that,
with your kind co-operation and judicious management, we shall have
provided, at no distant day, not only a pure and refined pleasure for res-
idents and visitors at the national metropolis, but have accomplished
something useful in the development of American genius.

Tam, gentlemen, with great respect and regard, your obedient ser-
vant,

WwW. W. CORCORAN.
To JAMES M. CARLISLE, JAMES C. HALL, GEORGE W. RiGGs, AN-
THONY HYDE, JAMES G. BERRET, JAMES C. KENNEDY, HENRY D.
CooKE, JAMES C. MCGUIRE, WILLIAM T. WALTERS.

Reply of the Trustees.

WASHINGTON, May 10, 1869.

DEAR Sir: We have accepted the trusts confided to us by your deed
of this date, in the formal manner indicated by the deed itself.

But we desire, individually and collectively, to add the expression of
our personal appreciation of the privilege of endeavoring efiiciently to
administer such an institution, projected spontaneously by your liberal
mind and securely founded by your sole munificence.

While we cannot doubt that, at least in the time of our successors, all
your anticipations will be realized, we sincerely hope that you may
96 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

yourself live to enjoy the high and pure gratification of witnessing the
complete success of your generous intentions.
With great respect and warm regard, we remain, very truly, yours,
J. M. CARLISLE.
J. C. HALL.
GEO. W. RIGGs.
A. HYDE.
JAMES G. BERRET.*
JAMES C. KENNEDY.t+
HENRY D. Cooke.
J. C. MCGUIRE.
W..T. WALTERS.
WILLIAM W. CoRCcORAN, Lsq.

Deed of gift and trust of the Corcoran Art Gallery.

This indenture, made this tenth day of May, in the year of our Lora
eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, by and between William W. Corcoran,
of the city of Washington, District of Columbia, of the first part, and
James M. Carlisle, James C. Hall, George W. Riggs, Anthony Hyde,
James G. Berret, James C. Kennedy, Henry D. Cooke, and James C. Me-
Guire, of the city of Washington, and William T. Walters, of the city
of Baltimore, State of Maryland, of the second part, witnesseth :

Whereas the said William W. Corcoran, in the execution of a long-
cherished desire to establish an institution in Washington City to be
‘“‘dedicated to art,” and used solely for the purpose of encouraging
American genius, in the production and preservation of works pertain-
ing to the “ fine arts,” and kindred objects, has determined to convey to
a board of trustees the property hereinafter described, to which he may
hereafter make other gifts and donations, to be held by said board, and
used for the purposes aforesaid: Now, therefore, the said William W.
Corcoran, in consideration of the premises, and of the sum of $1,
current money of the United States, to him in hand paid by the said
parties of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged,
hath granted, bargained, and sold, aliened, enfoeffed, and conveyed,
and by these presents doth grant, bargain, and sell, alien, enfeoff, and
convey unto the said parties of the second part, and the survivors of
them, and the heirs and assignees of such survivor—

Lots numbered 5, (five,) 6, (six,) 7, (seven,) and 8, (eight,) in square
numbered 167, (one hundred and sixty-seven,) in the city of Washington,
and District of Columbia, as the same is laid down and distinguished
upon the public plat of said city, fronting 196 feet 9 inches, more or less,
ou President’s Square, and 160.17 feet, more or less, on Seventeenth
Street west, together with, all and singular, the buildings, improvements,

*H. C. Matthews has been elected a trustee vice J. G. Berret.
t Prot. Jeseph Henry has been elected a trustee vice J.C. Kennedy.
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. / OG

hereditaments, and appurtenances thereto appertaining, or in any wise
belonging, and all the estate, right, title, and interest of the said party
of the first part in and to the same:

To have and to hold, all and singular, the lots and parcels of ground,
and premises aforesaid, with the appurtenances, unto and to the use of
them, the said parties of the second part, and the survivors and sur-
vivor of them, and the heirs and assigns of such survivor, in trust,
nevertheless, and to and for the intents and purposes hereinafter ex-
pressed and described, that is to say:

First. That the said parties of the second part shall, without unnec-
essary delay, after their acceptance of this trust, to be signified by their
signing and sealing the memorandum to that effect hereunder written,
organize themselves into a permanent board of trustees, with such
officers to be selected from their own number as to them may seem nec-
essary or convenient for the orderly management of this trust, and the
more efficient attainment of the ends and objects designed by the said
party of the first part, as indicated by his general intent, to be gathered
from this instrument in all its parts and provisions, and with the same in-
tent and for the same ends and objects, shall make, and as often as may be
necessary from time to time, make, alter, amend, repeal, and re-enact,
in whole or in part, all necessary by-laws, rules, and regulations in the
premises, in execution of, and not inconsistent with the provisions and
true intent of this instrument; in all which they shall act by the con-
currence of a majority of the whole number of trustees.

Secondly. That when the number of the said original board of trus-
tees, being the said parties of the second part, shall, by death, resigna-
tion, or inability, to be ascertained by a resolution of the said board
acting by a majority of the whole number, shall have been reduced
below the number of nine members, the remaining members shall elect
suitable persons, in their discretion, from time to time, as often as may
be necessary, so that the board shall always be composed of nine mem-
bers.

Thirdly. That all the property, real, personal, and mixed, rights,
credits, choses in action, or other valuable thing whatsoever hereby
conveyed or intended to be conveyed, or which may hereafter be con-
veyed, given, or transferred and assigned and delivered to the safd
board of trustees, whether composed of the said parties of the second
part or of their successors, chosen and elected as hereinbefore provided,
whether in whole or in part, shall be held, managed, limited, used, and
devoted to executing the trusts, and giving effect, according to the best
judgment of the said board of trustees, from time to time; and all legal
rights and titles in the premises shall be taken and held in such manner,
and with such legal forms, as shall serve the trusts, intents, uses, and
purposes declared or plainly indicated or implied in and by the terms of
this instrument. ;

Fourthly. The property as received and held, or which may be received

and held by the said board of trustees, shall be held, used, managed,
7s
‘98 ‘ APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

and disposed of by them and their successors and assigns, whether
under this instrument alone or under any act of incorporation hereafter
to be procured, for the perpetual establishment and maintenance of a
public gallery and museum for the promotion and encouragement of the
arts of painting and sculpture, and the fine arts generally, upon such
system and with such regulations and limitations as the board of trustees
may, from time to time, whether corporate or incorporate, prescribe,
limit, and ordain: Provided always, That the gallery and museum shall
be open to visitors, without any pecuniary charge whatever, at least two
days in each week, for such convenient and customary hours as shall be,
from time to time, prescribed and made public, and at such other times,
not being such public days as aforesaid, such moderate and reasonable
fees for admission may be prescribed and received, to be applied to the
current expenses of preserving and keeping in proper order the building
and its contents.

Fifthly. While the officers necessary or appropriate to the organization
of the board of trustees shall be elected from their own number, it is
understood that the board shall and may, at its discretion, at all times,
employ other persons to be the officers, agents, and servants of the
board, for the orderly and efficient management and conduct of the
institution. :

Sixthly. The system and the appropriate measures for increasing the
collection of paintings, statues, and kindred works of art, of which the
private gallery of the party of the first part will form the nucleus, and
such other voluntary donations as the trustees may from time to time
receive, are confided to the direction and judgment of the trustees, as
is also the management generally of the institution.

Seventhly. The general intent of the said party of the first part be-
ing expressed in general terms in the premises and recitals of this in-
strument, and further indicated, with certain specifications, in the afore-
going articles, numbered from one to six, inclusive, it is hereby declared
that, all and singular, the gifts, grants, conveyances, and assignments
herein expressed and set forth are, to and for the trusts, intents, and
purposes .so as aforesaid expressed, implied, set forth, or indicated,
and to none other whatsoever; and that, while it is the intention
of the grantor and donor herein that no unruly, technical, or
formal breach of, or departure from, the terms and conditions of this
trust shall operate as any forfeiture or defeasance in favor of his heirs,
or of any claiming in his right, it is hereby declared, and these presents
are upon the express and strict condition, that these presents, and
every matter and thing hereinbefore contained, and every estate,
right, title, interest, and power thereby given, granted, conveyed,
and limited, shall cease and determine, and become utterly void and of
no effect, whensoever it shall be decreed, adjudged, or declared, by the
highest judicial authority having jurisdiction, upon a proper proceed-
ing, in law or in equity, to be instituted by the heirs, devisees, or assigns,
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. 99°

of the said party of the first part, that the real estate hereinbefore con-
veyed shall have been diverted from the purposes of this trust, to be
gathered from this instrument in all its parts and provisions, so as
substantially to defeat or plainly to be inconsistent with and repugnant
to this trust, construed and interpreted in a liberal and sensible spirit ;
and thereupon, as in case of a breach of a strict condition-subsequent,
the heirs, devisees, assigns, or other proper legal representatives in the
premises of the said William W. Corcoran, shall be entitled to re-enter
upon the said real estate as of his, the said Willim W. Corcoran’s, right
and title prior to the execution of these presents, and as if the same
had never been executed ; and in like manner all and every other estate,
property, chattel, or valuable thing, the title to which shall have pro-
ceeded in the premises from the said William W. Corcoran to the said
trustees or their successors and assigns, shall, as far as may be consist-
ent with the rules and principles of law and equity, revert and be re-
vested in right of the said Corcoran or his proper legal representatives
therein. °

Highthly. That the said board of trustees may at any time hereafter,
in its discretion, apply for and accept an act of Coigress incorporating
them and their successors, so as to facilitate the execution of this trust,
by vesting the same in a perpetual body-corporate, with the like pow-
ers and for the same trusts, intents, and purposes herein declared, ex-
pressed, or indicated, but for no other trusts, intents, or purposes what-
soever; such act of incorporation to refer to this deed, and to be expressed
to be in execution of the trusts thereof; and thereupon the said parties
of the second part, and the survivors and survivor of them, or the heirs
and assigns of such survivor, shall execute such conveyances as may be
necessary to transfer the whole property of this trust to such corpora-
tion, upon the trusts of this deed.

And whereas the lots of ground and improvements hereinbefore de-
seribed and referred to have, by reason of the exigencies of the public
service of the United States, been rented and oceupied for the public
use, without any special contract, but subject to the constitutional pro-
vision that ‘‘ private property shall not be taken for public use without
just compensation,” which just compensation for the whole period of
such occupation by the United States now remains to be paid; and
considering the same properly to belong to this trust, as being of the
rents, issues, and profits of the ground and buildings which he had here-
tofore, and as early as the year 1859, devoted and dedicated to the trusts
and purposes hereinbefore formally declared : Now, therefore, in consid-
eration of the premises, and of the sum of $1 by the said parties of
the second part to him in hand paid, le, the said party of the first part,
hath assigned, transferred, and set over, and by these presents doth assign,
transfer, and set over unto the said parties of the second part and the sur-
vivors and survivor of them, and the executors, administrators, and
assigns of such survivor, all and singular the rents, issues, and profits
of the lots of ground and improvements hereinbefore described, for and
100 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

during the whole period of the occupation and possession of the same
by the Government of the United States, and all the just compensation
which may be due from the United States for the public use of the same,
hereby authorizing and empowering the said parties of the second part,
or a majority of them, either by themselves or by any substituted
attorney or attorneys, to be named and appointed by them, or a majority
of them, to acquit and release and receipt for the same in any sufficient
legal form of acquittance which may be according to law, as fully as he,
the said party of the first part, could personally release and acquit the
same.

Which rents, issues, and profits, and just compensation for the public
use of the said property shall be received and held by the said parties
of the second part for the same uses, intents, and purposes hereinbefore
declared; but shall, as far as may be necessary, be applied, before all
other ruleaess to fhe completion of the interior of said building, and to
putting it in a condition to be immediately applied to the primary in-
tents and purposes of this trust, as expressed in the recital in the
premises of this deed.

In testimony whereof the said party of the first part hath hereunto set
his hand and afiixed his seal, the day and year first hereinbefore
written.

W. W. CORCORAN.

Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of—

JOHN HUNTER.
A. T. BRICE.

We jointly and severally accept the trusts of the aforegoing deed.

Witness our hands and seals the said ae day of May, eighteen
hundred and sixty-nine.

JAMES M. CARLISLE. GEO. W. RIGGS.
JAMES G. BERRET. HENRY D. CookR.
W. T.. WALTERS. Je 6: CELA.
ANTHONY HYDE. JAs. C. KENNEDY.

JAS. C.- McGuIRE.

District of Columbia, County of Washington :

I, Whitman C. Bestor, a notary public in and for Washington County
aforesaid, do hereby certify that William W. Corcoran, the party of the
first part to a certain deed, bearing date the tenth day of May, A. D.
eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, and hereto annexed, personally
appeared before me, in the county aforesaid, on the day of the date
hereof, the said William W. Corcoran. being personally well known to
me to be the person who executed the said deed, and acknowledged the
same to be his act.

Given under my hand and notarial seal this tenth day of May, eighteen

hundred and sixty-nine.
WHITMAN C. BESTOR,
Notary Public.
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. LO

1D:
TONER LECTURES.

Deed of conveyance from Dr. J. M. Toner to five trustees, instituting the
Toner lectures at the city of Washington, and establishing a permanent
and increasing fund for their support and continuance annually.

This indenture, made this thirteenth day of April, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two, between Dr. Joseph
M. Toner, of the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, of the
first part, and the Secretary or chief scientific officer of the Smithsonian
Institution, (for the time being Professor Joseph Henry;) the Surgeon-
General of the United States Army, (for the time being J. K. Barnes,
M. D.;) the Surgeon-General of the United States Navy, (for the time
being J. M. Foltz, M. D.;) the president of the Medical Society of the
District of Columbia, (for the time being Grafton Tyler, M. D.;) of the
second part, ali at present residing in said District of Columbia:

Whereas the said party of the first part, believing that the advancement
of science—that is, a knowledge of the laws of nature in any part of
her domain, and particularly such discoveries as contribute to the ad-
vancement of medicine—tends to ameliorate the condition of mankind,
hath determined to convey and transfer to the said parties of the see-
ond part, and their successors forever, in their several oificial positions
as aforesaid, the hereinafter described real and personal property,
amounting in value to about $3,000, ninety per cent. of the interest of which
is to be applied for at least two annual memoirs or essays by different
individuals, and, as the fund increases, as many more as the interest of
the trust and revenue will in the judgment of the trustees justify, rela-
tive to some branch of medical science, to be read at the city of Wash-
ington at such time and place as the said parties of the second part and
their successors as trustees may designate, under the name of “The
Toner Lectures ;” each of these memoirs or lectures to contain some new
truth fully established by experiment or observation, and no such
memoir or lecture to be given to the world under the name of “The
.Toner Lectures” withqut having first been critically examined and ap.
proved by competent persons selected by said trustees for that purpose.

It is further provided, that such of the said memoirs or lectures as
may be approved shall be published in such manner and through such
channels as said trustees may determine.

And, in order to carry out the intentions hereinbefore expressed, the
said party of the first part hath associated with himself the said other
parties of the second part, each in his official character as hereinbefore
named, with this provision: that upon removal from official position of
any one of said parties of the second part, by death or otherwise, his
successor in said position shall succeed him as one of the trustees of
“The Toner Lectures;” and that upon the death, resignation, or removal
of said party of the first part, or his successors, the other trustees
102 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

surviving shall, within a reasonable time thereafter, elect to succeed
him an active and energetic member of the regular medical profession
in good standing and practice in the city of Washington, who shall
upon his acceptance thereof be and become one of the trustees of ‘‘ The
Toner Lectures.” And if the Medical Society of the District of Colum-
bia shall at any time hereafter be dissolved, so that there would no
longer be a president thereof, then and within a reasonable time there-
after the other trustees shall elect to succeed the said president, as trus-
tee in this behalf, an active and energetic member of the regular medi-
cal profession in this District, in good praetice and standing, who shall
upon acceptance thereof be and become one of the trustees of ‘“ The
Toner Lectures ;” and so on from time to time, soas to continue to have
five trustees, who shall serve without compensation. And to carry out
the hereinbefore-expressed intentions these presents are made.

Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth that the said party of the
first part, for and in consideration of the premises aforesaid, and, fur-
ther, the sum of one dollar, lawful money of the United States, to him
in hand paid by the said parties of the second part, at and before the
sealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, bath granted, bargained, sold, aliened, enfeoffed, and
conveyed, and doth by these presents grant, bargain, sell, alien, enfeoff,
and convey unto the said parties of the second part, the survivor or
survivors of them, (and their associates duly elected,) and to their heirs,
executors, administrators, and assigns, according to the quality of the
estate granted, the following described real estate in the said city of
Washington, known and described as being lots numbered six (6) and
seven (7) in Clark’s recorded subdivision of square north of square num-
bered three hundred and thirty-four, (334,) and“also money and private
securities amounting to the sum of $1,100; together with all the im-
provements, ways, easements, rights, privileges. and appurtenances to
the said real estate belonging, or in any wise appertaining, and all the
remainders, reversions, rents, issues, and profits thereof:

To have and to hold the said real and personal estate or private securi-
ties unto and to the use of the said parties of the second part, together
with the said party of the first part, their heirs, executors, administra-
tors, and assigns, in and upon the trusts, nevertheless, hereinafter men-
tioned and declared—that is, whenever it seems to them that the pro-
ductiveness of the fund will be increased thereby, to sell the said real
estate, and the same to convey in fee simple to the purchaser thereof;
and to convert the said personal estate or private securities into money,
and the proceeds of said sale and conversion to invest, re-invest, from
time to time, and to keep invested in some safe public or private securi-
tiesin the name and for the use of the trustees of ‘The Toner Lectures,”
who shall apply ninety per cent. of the interest thereof annually to de-

fraying the expenses of said ‘Toner Lectures,” and the publication thereof —

whenever the publication thereof is deemed advisable. The remaining

APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. 103

ten per cent. of the said annual interest from the whole fund, as well as
any additional gift or unexpended balance at the end of each year, they
shall from time to time invest, and the same shall be and become a part
of the principal, for the steady increase of the permanent and producing
fund of said “‘ Toner Lectures.” It is hereby provided that the said
trustees shall hold at least one regular meeting annually ; keep a cor-
rect record, in a book for the purpose, of all proceedings and actions as
trustees, with a statement of the expenditures of the revenue, and the
condition of the fund, where and how invested ; all of which they may,
from time to time, at their pleasure make public, and be governed in all
matters relating to the general execution of the trusts and intentions
herein expressed and declared, and in the investing and disbursing of
all trust-moneys, by such rules and regulations as may from time to time
be adopted by them for their own government, with this express con-
ilition, however: that for the election of any new trustee to fill a va-
eaney, for the sale of any property or stocks or securities, or the invest-
ment of any funds, the approval of a majority of said trustees, in writing
or by their votes at a meeting of the trustees, shall be absolutely neces-
sary.

And it is further provided, that in case of the failure at any time of
the purposes for which this trust is created, or in case of the failure of
the trustees to act for three successive years, or in case of the total fail-
ure of the trustees to give effect to this trust, then, and in any such
contingency, the fund hereby provided for and created shall revert to
the said party of the first part and his heirs or personal representatives.

In testimony whereof, the said party of the first part hath hereunto
set his hand and seal on the day and year first hereinbefore written.

J. M. TONER.

Signed, sealed and delivered before Edward Clark, justice of the
peace, in the presence of—
S. H. KAUFFMAN,
G. B. GOFF.

We hereby accept the foregoing trust.
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Snuthsonian Institution.
J. K. BARNES,
Surgeon-General United States Army.
J. M. FOLTZ,
Surgeon-General United States Navy.
GRAFTON TYLER, M. D.,
President Medical Society of the District of Columbia.
JOSEPH MEREDITH TONER, J. D.
104 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

E.

THE TYNDALL TRUST FOR THE PROMOTION OF SCIENCE
IN THE UNITED STATES.

Letter from Professor Tyndall to Professor Henry.

NEw York, February 7, 1873.

My DEAR PROFESSOR HENRY: I have made my “will” in due form,
and signed it in the presence of witnesses.

My desire and intention in accepting the invitation of my friends
were, as you know, to hand over the proceeds to Chicago. But the re-
covery from calamity is quick in this country, so that Chicago not only
does not need my feeble aid, but would be willing of her abundance to
add to my wealth.

My disbursements, as I told you, are heavy. Living I have found to
be exceedingly expensive in the United States; hence the balance which
I am able to hand over to the board of trustees is not so large as I
could wish it to be. It, however, amounts to a little more than thirteen
thousand dollars.

I have bestowed some care on the accounts, and do not think I carry
home with me a single cent of American money. But I carry home
what is to me incomparably more precious, and that is the assured good-
will of the American people.

The instruments that I take home with me I intend to present to the
Royal Institution, where they will be turned to good account. My

hands will be then entirely clean, and no foreign element will mingle -

with the bright memory of the time I spent here.
* * * * * * *
Ever yours, faithfully,
JOHN TYNDALL.
Professor JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Instiiution, Washington, D. C.

THE TRUST.

I, John Tyndall, professor of natural philosophy in the Royal Institu
tion of Great Britain, having, at the solicitation of my friends, lectured
in various cities of the United States, find the receipts and disburse-
ments on account of these lectures to be as follows:

I.—Receipts.

Promuhoston, for six lectures = 222 hese. see eee eee $1,500 00
Frome niladelphia, for six lecturessses=.-< 6. seer eee 3, 000 00
H2ommesaliimore, tor three lecturessseee = =a ar hea a 1, 000 00

eS ee
APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. 105

Brom, Washing toneton ste lCCGURES). 02 2-2) sane 2: os. s 2 2 a8 $2, 000 00
Biron Newr Ors iOrsierlCCbUKCS)2 5/02 0 Seas ates). AS 8, 500 00
Bron Brooklyniorsieleetures, 9-5. 12.2 css es = SS. 6,100 00
Krom New Haven; for two lectures: ..-.:..--25. 4222+) ---'.. 1, 600 00

Motalwecenpise a treeless ose a ames 205 LOO LOO

IL.— Disbursements.

Before leaving England: Wages of assistants during the
preparation of the lectures; work of philosophical instru-
ment maker; new apparatus; sundry items for outfit;
traveling expenses of myself and two assistants from
London to New York, make a total of £671 6s. 8d., which,
at the rate of $5.50 per pound, amounts to......-.-.-.... $3, 692 31

In the United States: Hotel and traveling expenses for myself
and two assistants; other expenses incidental to lectures in
Boston, Philadelphia,* Baltimore, Washington, New York,
Brooklyn, and New Haven, covering a period of four
months, plus traveling expenses of myself and my assist-

ant from New York to London, make a total of......---- 4,749 35
iPfesemtaca Vales Sciemtine Clubs: - 222 osse eyes. 552 2. 250 00
Salaries to assistants for four months, £250, which, at $5.50

PEL POU Cs AMOUMESALO. c's sas <2 stops Se sels to do s.ecise ae are 1,375 00

Making the total disbursements .......--.-..--..... 10, 066 66

10UL
Pee COLA TE CENDUS: AYO 22% ute oc iclane sine7ste yates «: oim a/atsla fret te $23, 100 00
AC RcO bale CIS DUTSEMENUS </'-. 5 4.4c70es- =) ters ss Sele eig) erare fen ae 10, 066 66
Making the net proceeds of lectures ...........--.. 13, 033 34

As an evidence of my good-will toward the people of the United
States,.I desire to devote this sum of thirteen thousand and thirty-three
dollars to the advancement of theoretic science and the promotion of
original research, especially in the department of physics, in the United
States.

To accomplish this object I hereby appoint Professor Joseph Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington City, D. C., Dr.
i. L. Youmans, of New York, and General Hector Tyndale, of Philadel-
phia, to act as a board of trustees to take charge of the above sum—to
carefully invest it in permanent securities; and I further direct that the
said board shall, for the present, appropriate the interest of the fund

*At Philadelphia I had no hotel expenses, but was most comfortably lodged at the
house of my kinsman, General Hector Tyndale. He, I may add, paid his own hotel
expenses wherever he accompanied me.
106 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

in supporting, or in assisting to support, at such European universities
as they may consider most desirable, two American pupils, who may
evince decided talents in physics, and who may express a determination
to devote their lives to this work. My desire would be that each pupil
should spend four years at a German university—three of those years to
be devoted to the acquisition of knowledge, and the fourth to original
investigation.

If, however, in the progress of science in the United States, it should
at any time appear to the said board that the end herein proposed
would be better subserved by granting aid to students, or for some
special researches in this country, the board is authorized to make the
appropriations from the income of the fund for such purposes.

I further direct that vacancies which may occur in said board of
trustees, by death or otherwise, shall be filled by the president of the
National Academy of Sciences.

If in the course of any year the whole amount of the interest which
accrues from the fund be not expended in the manner before mentioned,
the surplus may be added to the principal, or may be expended in addi-
tion to the annual interest of another year.

If at any time any organization shall be established, and money pro-
vided by other persons for the promotion of such original research as I
have in view, I authorize the said board of trustees to exercise their
discretion as to co operating in such work from the income of this fund.

Tn witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal this 7th of
February, 1873, in the city of New York.

JOHN TYNDALL. [SEAL.|
In presence of—
}. BURRITT WAITE.
L. EH. FULLER. :

F.
BEQUEST OF JAMES HAMILTON.
Letter from the executors. .

CARLISLE, PENNSYLVANIA, April 17, 1873.

DEAR Sir: Inclosed please find printed copy of the last will and tes-
tament, and codicil thereto, of James Hamilton, esq., late of this place,
deceased. by which we notify you of the bequest made to your board by
said last will and testament.

As certain legal questions will have to be decided by the courts before
we will feel justified in paying over eleemosynary bequests, it would be
well for your board to be represented by counsel.

One of the religious associations have employed Henderson and Hays,
who, we understand, are making preparations for a case.

APPENDIX TO JOURNAL. 107

We give you early notice that you may act accordingly, and all legal
difficulties be removed at as early a day as practicable.
Our post-office address is Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Yours, respectfully,
JOSEPH H. STUART,

ABRAM BOSLER,
Executors of James Hamilton, deceased.
Professor JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

—_——

Extract from the will of James Hamilton, dated November 20, 1871.
®

“Jn the name of God, amen. I, James Hamilton, declare this to be
my last will and testament, with respect to my personal property :
* * * * * Ke ¥*

8. I give one thousand dollars to the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution, located at Washington, D. C., to be invested by said
regents in some safe fund, and the interest to be appropriated bienni-
ally by the secretaries, either in money or a medal, for such contribu-
tion, paper, or lecture on any scientific or useful subject as said secre-
taries may approve.”

G.

CIRCULAR SENT WITH SPECIMENS PRESENTED TO INSTI-
TUTIONS.

The following is a copy of the circular sent to foreign museums on
the presentation to them of specimens from the collections of the insti-
tution; which was alluded to by the secretary in his remarks at the
meeting of the Board on the 20th January, 1873:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., , 187-.

DEAR Sire: In behalf of the Smithsonian Institution, we have this
day forwarded by the specimens mentioned in the accompanying
receipt—a present from the Institution, upon the following conditions:

1, That an acknowledgment be made to the Secretary of the Institu-
tion immediately on receipt of the specimens, by signing and returning
the accompanying blank.

2. That full credit be given the Institution for the donation, on the
labels of the specimens, in published reports, and under all other cir-
cumstances.

3. That free access to and use of these specimens be allowed, under
the proper restrictions, to all persons engaged in original investigations
requiring such material.

108 APPENDIX TO JOURNAL.

4. That suitable returns be made from the duplicates in the collee-
tions under your charge, whenever the Institution may desire and call
for them.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary S. I.

[To be signed and returned prepaid to the “ Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Washington.” |

187-
y) ’ .
YT have received from the Smithsonian Institution, through
, in behalf of , the following collections, subject to
the conditions mentioned in the accompanying circular-letter.

2

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO

THE SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1872.
The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the
Institution by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as
well as to furnish information of a character suited especially to the
meteorological observers and other persons interested in the promotion
of knowledge.

EULOGY ON AMPERE.
BY M. ARAGO.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

GENTLEMEN: It is my duty to-day, in accordance with an article of
the academic regulations dating back to 1666, and which during this
long interval of time has always been faithfully executed, to bring be-
fore you the labors of one of our most illustrious associates, and at the
same time to cursorily glance at his life.

These biographical sketches have not always preserved the same
characteristics. Before the judges of the eighteenth century, Fonte-
nelle himself, the ingenious Fontenelle, ventured to refer so briefly to
technical points that his eulogy on Newton oceupies only about thirty
pages inoctavo. If you will open this master-piece of delicacy, elegance,
und atticism, you will find the celebrated “Treatise on Optics” confined
to a few lines, and the title of the “‘Universal Arithmetic” not even
mentioned. In proportion as the sciences progress the ancient bounda-
ries of the academic eulogies should be enlarged, and, in fact, we having
atlastreached a period when the crowds are largely pressing to expositions
of the mathematical and natural sciences with which our vast lecture
rooms daily resound, the secretaries of the academy have begun to feel
that it is time to rid themselves of the restraints which their illustrious
predecessors had imposed upon themselves, that henceforth they might
here, at the public sittings, speak of the labors of their associates in the
terms hereafter to be used by the historians of the sciences. This new
course has already several times received your kind approbation. The
idea of departing from it has never even suggested itself to my mind, as
indeed, a little reflection would have reminded me, when M. Ampere
was removed from our midst, of the impossibility of examining his
works, and of making the analysis of his complete encyclopedia, with-
out departing from theusual limitsof our eulogies. I must acknowledge,
too, that a close intimacy, an intimacy without a cloud for more than
thirty years, has also contributed to extend this biography, and to ena-
ble me to give importance to certain details that one indifferent to him
would have passed by unnoticed. If an excuse be necessary, gentlemen,
I will give it to youin aline in which a great poet has defined friendship

“The only passion of the soul in which excess is tolerated.”
112 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

INFANCY OF AMPERE, HIS EXTRAORDINARY MEMORY, HIS PRECO-
CIOUS TALENTS, HIS FAVORITE BOOKS—HE WRITES ON THE PRIMI-
TIVE LANGUAGE.

Andre Marie Ampére, the son of Jean Jacques Ampére and Jeanne
Antoinette Sarcey de Sutieres, was born at Lyons, in the parish of Saint
Nizier, on the 22d of January, 1775.

Jean Jacques Ampere was well educated, and highly esteemed. His
wife was also generally beloved for the uniform sweetness of her dispo-
sition and a beneficence, ever on the watch for occasion upon which to
exercise itself. A short time after the birth of their son, M. Ampere
abandoned commerce and retired with his wife to a small estate in Poley-
mieux-lez-Mont-d’Or, near Lyons, and here in an obscure village, without
the assistance of a teacher, began to dawn, or,as I should say, to be de-
veloped that wonderful intellect, the brilliant phases of which I am about
to unfold.

The first talent shown by Ampére was that for arithmetic. Before
even understanding figures, or knowing how to form them, he made
long calculations with the aid of a limited number of pebbles or beans.
It may be he had fallen upon the ingenious method of the Hindoos, or,
perhaps, his pebbles were combined like the corn strung upon parallel
lines by the Brahmin mathematicians of Pondichéry, Calcutta, and
Benares, and handled by them with such rapidity, precision and accur-
acy. As we advance in the life of Ampere we shall find this supposi-
tion gradually losing its apparent improbability. To illustrate to what
an extraordinary degree the love of calculation had seized upon the
young student, being deprived, by the tenderness of his mother, during
a serious illness, of his dear little pebbles, he supplied their places
with pieces of biscuit which had been allowed him after three days
strict diet. I shall not dwell longer on this illustration, as I am far from
wishing to give it as an unanswerable or incontestible indication of the
future vocation of Ampére. There are children, I know, whose apathy
nothing seems able to arouse, and others, again, who take an interest in
every thing, amuse themselves with even mathematical calculations
without an object. You object to this assertion, charge it, perhaps, with
exaggeration, and class numerical calculation with those distasteful
tasks which duty and necessity alone can induce one to undertake. My
answer is ready, and I will cite, not mere school-boys, but a distinguished
savant, who, perceiving my astonishment at seeing him, during a public
meeting of the academy, undertake the multiplication of two long lines
of figures, said to me at once, ‘ You forget the pleasure it will give me
directly to prove this calculation by division.”

Young Ampere soon learned to read, and devoured every book that fell
into his hand. History, travels, poetry, romances and philosophy inter-
ested him almost equally. If he showed any preference, it was for
Homer, Lucian, Tasso, I'énélon, Corneille, Voltaire, and for Thomas,

EULOGY ON AMPERE. PES

whom it is surprising to find, notwithstanding his unquestionable talent
in so brilliant acompany. The principal study of the young student of
Poleymieux was the encyclopedia in alphabetical order, in twenty vol-
umes in folio. Hach one of these twenty volumes had separately its
turn, the second after the first, the third after the second, and so on to
the end, without once interrupting the arithmetical order.

Nature had endowed Ampere, to an extraordinary degree, with the
faculty Plato so aptly, and not too extravagantly, describes as “(a great
and powerful goddess.” Thus this colossal work was completely and
deeply engraved on the mind of our friend. Each one of us has heard
this member of the Academy of Sciences, at a somewhat advanced
age, repeat, with perfect accuracy, long passages from the encyclopedia,
relating to blazonry, falconry, ete., which a half century before he had
read amidst the rocks of Poleymieux. His mysterious and wonderful
memory, however, astonishes me a thousand times less than that force
united to flexibility, which enables the mind to assimilate, without con-
fusion, after reading in alphabetical order, matter so astonishingly ya-
ried as that in the large dictionary of @’Alembert and Diderot. I will
ask you to glance with me over the first pages of the encyclopedia. I
mention the first pages as I prefer not to choose, that our admiration
may be spontaneous.

To begin: The preposition a fills the reader’s mind with nice gram-
matical distinctions; ab transports him to the Hebrew calendar; abadir
to the midst of the mythological histories of Cybele and Saturn. The
word abaissement (depression) carries him at times into algebra, to the
reduction of the degrees of equations; into one of the most difficult
problems of geodesy and the nautical art, when required to determine the
depression of the horizon at sea; and to heraldry, when abatement desig-
nates the peculiar signs added to the arms of families when necessary
to debase their bravery and dignity. Turning the page the article abbé
will enlighten you as to all that is fickle and capricious in the ecclesias-
tical discipline. The next word, abscess, carries you into surgery. To
the description of the anatomical organization of bees, (alcelles,) of their
mode of living and reproduction, of their habits, of the hierarchical or-
ganization of the hive, succeeds almost immediately the explanation of
the immortal and subtile discovery of Bradley; of those annual move-
ments of the stars, which, under the name of aberration, demonstrate
that the earth is a planet. Some lines further on you fall into the abyss
of cosmogony. Abacadabra plunges you into necromancy.

This, then, is the kind of reading that a child of thirteen or fourteen
undertook, or rather planned, for himself without finding it too severe
a task. I shall have more than one example to give of the strength of
Ampere’s mind. None, however, more remarkable than the one I am
about to relate.

As the modest library of a retired merchant could no longer satisfy
the young student, his father took him from time to time to Lyons, where
114 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

he had access to the rarest books, among others the works of Bernoulli
and Euler. When the puny and delicate child first asked the librarian
for these works the good M. Daburon exclaimed, ‘ Do you understand
the works of Bernoulli and Euler? Reflect, my little friend. These

vorks rank among the most abstruse the human mind has ever pro-
duced.” ‘I hope, nevertheless, to be able to understand them,” replied
the child. ‘ You are aware, I presume, they are written in Latin,” added
the librarian. This revelation for a moment disheartened our young
and future associate; he had not yet studied the Latin language. It
is unnecessary to tell you now that at the end of a few weeks this obsta-
cle was removed. What Ampére sought above all things were ques-
tions to fathom and problems to solve, even in his earlier studies. The
word tongue or language (langue) in the ninth volume of the encyclo-
pedia transported him to the banks of the Euphrates and to the Tower
of Babel of biblical celebrity. There he found men speaking all the
same language. A miracle related by Moses suddenly produced the
confusion. Each tribe spoke from that time a distinct language. These
languages mingled and became corrupt, and lost by degrees that char-
acter for simplicity, regularity, and grandeur which distinguished the
common stock. To discover this original language, or at least to recon-
struct it with its ancient attributes, was a problem certainly very diffi-
cult, but the young student did not consider it beyond his powers.

Great philosophers had already been engaged in this work. In order
to give a complete history of their attempts, it would be necessary to go
back to that King of Egypt, who, if we can believe Herodotus, caused
two children to be brought up in absolute seclusion with only a goat as
nurse, and who then had the simplicity to be astonished that these chil-
dren should bleat. The word bécos proceeding more or less distinctly
from their mouths, he considered the Phrygeans, in whose language is
tound the word beck, (bread,) best qualified to be thought the most
ancient race of the world.

Among the modern philosophers who have interested themselves in
the primitive language, and in the means of restoring it, Descartes and
Leibnitz occupy, incontestably, the first places. The problem, as these
men of genius treated it, was not merely to improve the musical qualities
of modern languages, to simplify their grammar and to banish from them
all irregularities and exceptions. They supposed it to consist especially
of a kind of analysis of the human mind, of the classification of ideas,
and of the complete and exact enumeration of those which should be con-
sidered elementary. By means of a language built upon such a founda-
ion, “the peasants,” said Descartes, “ would be better judges of the truth
of things than are the philosophers now.” Leibnitz expressed the same
idea in different terms, when he wrote that ‘ the universal language
would add more to the powers of reasoning than the telescope to the
eye, or the magnetic needle to the progress of navigation.”

No one would be so presuming as to affirmthat young Ampére treated

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 15

the question of the universal language with the Same comprehensiveness
and the same research as Descartes and Leibnitz, but it ean be said, at
Jeast, that he did not banish its solution, as the first of these philoso-
phers did to the land of romance. Nor did he confine himself as the
second did, to dissertations on the marvellous fitness of the future in-
strument. This instrument he created! Several of Ampére’s friends
have. had in their hands a grammar and dictionary, the fruits of
his indefatigable perseverance, containing the almost finished rules
of the new language. Some have heard him recite fragments of a
poem composed in this new tongue, and can testify to its harmony, the
only thing, to tell the truth, of which they could judge, as the meaning
of the words was unintelligible to them. Who, besides, among us does
not remember the joy experienced by our associate, when, in glancing
over the work of a modern traveler, he discovered in the vocabulary of a
certain African tribe several combinations, which he had himself formed.
It will be remembered that a similar discovery was the chief cause of
Ampere’s warm admiration for: the Sanscrit.

A work which has reached such a degree of advancement, should not
be condemned to oblivion. The carrying out by Ampére of an idea of
Descartes and Leibnitz will always interest philosophers and philologists
in the highest degree. The manuscripts of our brother are fortunately
in hands eminently qualified to bring out all that could contribute to
the advancement of science and letters.

AMPERE’S AFFLICTION DURING THE TERRIBLE REVOLUTION—SUSPEN-
SION OF HIS INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL FACULTIES—RECOVERY—
BOTANICAL STUDIES—HIS MEETING WITH THE LADY WHO AFTER-
WARDS BECOMES HIS WIFE. ;

The revolutionary tempest in 1793, during one of its most violent con-
vulsions, penetrated as far as the mountains of Poleymieux, and Jean-
Jacques Ampere becoming alarmed, in order to escape a danger which his
parental and marital solicitude had, perhaps, greatly magnified was
guilty of the fatal steps of Jeaving the country and taking refuge in
the city of Lyons, and of there accepting the office of justice of the
peace.

You will remember, gentlemen, that after the seige of that city, Collot-
de Herbois and Fouché perpetrated there, under the unfortunately spe-
cious name of reprisals, the most execrable butcheries. Jean-Jacques
Ampere was one of the first of their numerous victims, less on account
of holding the position of magistrate during the trial of Chalier, than
on account of the hackneyed charge of aristocrat with which he was
branded, in the writ of arrest, by the very man, who, a few years later,
had engraved on the panels of his carriage, the most brilliant coat of
arms, and who signed with the title of duke, the conspiracies he was
plotting against his country and his benefactor.
116 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

The day he was to ascend the seaffold, Jean-Jacques wrote to his
wife a letter full of the most sublime simplicity, resignation and heroic
tenderness, in which you willfind these words: “Say nothing to Josephine
(the name of his daughter) of the unhappy fate-of her father; try to
keep her ever in ignorance of it. As to my son, I expect everything of
him.” Alas! the victim deluded himself. The blow was too severe, it was
beyond the strength of a young man of eighteen; Ampére was com-
pletely paralyzed by it. His intellectual faculties, so active, so ardent
and well developed, seemed suddenly to degenerate into a complete
idiocy. He would pass whole days mechanically contemplating the
skies and the earth, or in heaping up little’piles of sand. His anxious
friends, fearing his symptoms gave indication of a fatal and rapid de-
cline, tried to entice him into the neighboring woods of Poleymieux, to
arouse him, if possible, from this lethargy, where ‘“ he was,” (I use the
very words of our associate,) a mute witness, ‘an observer without eyes
or thought.”

This torpor of all feeling, mental and moral, lasted for more than a
year, when the botanical letters of J. J. Rousseau falling into his hands,
their clear, harmonious language seemed to penetrate into the very soul
of the afilicted youth, and in some degree to restore tone to his mind,
as the rays of the rising-sun pierce the thick fogs of the morning and
bear lifeinto the bosom of the plant that the “numbecold night” had
rendered torpid. About the same time a volume, accidentally opened,
brought to his notice some lines from the ode of Horace to Lucinius.
These lines seemed to convey no meaning to our friend, to him who had
merely learned Latin with sufficient accuracy to enable him to read essays
on mathematics ; but their cadence charmed him, and from this time,
contrary to the principles of the moralist who declares the human mind
incapable of entertaining at the same time more than one ardent pas-
sion, Ampere gave himself up with unrestrained zeal to the simulta-
neous studies of plants and the poets of the Augustan age. A volume
ot the Corpus Poetarum Latinorum accompanied him in his herboraza-
tions, as well as the works of Linneeus, and the meadows and hills of
Poleymieux resounded daily with declamations from Horace, Virgil,
Lucretius, and especially from Lucian, in the intervals of his dissections
of a corolla or the examination of a petal. The quantity of the Latin
words became so familiar to Ampere, that forty years after, he com-
posed one hundred and fifty eight technical lines ina post-chaise dur-
ing a tour of inspection of the universities, without once referring to
the Gradus.

The botanical knowledge he acquired in these solitary studies was as
protound as it was lasting. It is my good fortune to be able to cite on
this point the unexceptionable and striking testimony of our colleague,
M. Auguste de Saint-Hilaire.

The genus Begonia was among the number of those classed by
the illustrious de Jussieu under the head of incertu sedis, because he
EULOGY ON AMPERE. Ly

had not succeeded in discovering their natural relations. On reaching
Brazil, where alarge number of the species of this genus is found, M. de
Saint-Hilaire examined them with the scrupulous care which gives so
much value to all his labors, and discovered their true afiinities. Some
time after his return to France, M. de Saint-Hilaire, meeting M. Ampere
in society, after the usual interchange of civilities was addressed by him
in the following terms: ‘I found yesterday, while walking in a garden,
a begonia, and amused myself examining it. With what family do you
classify it?” ‘Since you have examined it, permit me to ask you how
you would classify it?” “I would place it in the adjoining group or
dnagraires,” replied M. Ampere. And, in fact, this was precisely the
idea a thorough examination, made on the very spot where the plant
grew naturally and in the open air, had suggested to M. de Saint-Hi-
laire. But our two colleagues were guilty of the error of not publish-
ing to the world the solution of a problem whose diiiiculty is de-
monstrated by the hesitation concerning it shown by de Jussieu. Ten
years later, after his own investigations, Lindley assigned to the genus
Begonia the place it should properly occupy—the place first indicated
by Ampére and M. Auguste de Saint-Hilaire. Does it not surprise you,
gentlemen, to find the name of a geometer thus associated with those
of distinguished botanists ?

Before the bloody catastrophe of Lyons, Ampére, then but eighteen
years of age, made a careful examination of his past life, and discov-
ered, he said, but three prominent points, but three circumstances,
whose influence on his future life was important and decided; these
were, his first communion, the reading of the eulogy of Descartes by
Thomas, and finally—I foresee your surprise—the fall of the Bastile.

From his first communion, our associate dates the existence of fixed
religious feeling; from the reading of the eulogy of Descartes, his
taste, or rather his enthusiastic love for the study of mathematics,
physics, and philosophy; and from the fall of the Bastile, the first
exultation of his soul at the names of liberty, human dignity, and phi-
lanthropy. The terrible death that snatched from the worthy family
of Poleymieux its venerated head was calculated to deaden for a time
the faculties of our associate, but there was no change wrought in his
convictions. From the moment his intellect was aroused from its sluin-
ber, that devotion of mind and heart to the cause of civilization resumed
itssway. Hescornfully rejected the idea that the fury of a few demons—
that crimes—from which he had so cruelly sufiered could arrest the pro-
gressive march of the world.

The fertile mind with which nature had endowed the student of Poley-
mieux had been active from his earliest infancy; but such, however,
had not been the case with his senses. Those powerful instruments of
pleasure and of study were revealed to Ampere at a much later date—
at leastin all the fullness of their power—and then by akindof sudden reve-
lation; which, on this account, seems not unworthy of being classed with
118 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

Chesselden’s history of the man blind from his birth and suddenly restored
to sight by the removal of acataract. Ampere was extremely near-sight-
ed; objects only slightly distant seemed to him but confused and undefined
masses. He could form no idea of the pleasure manifested in his pres-
ence by the hundreds of people at various times descending the river
Saodne between Laneuville and Lyons. One day there chanced to be on
the boat a traveler as near-sighted as himself, and with glasses which
proved to beof anumbertosuithiseyes. He triedthem, and as if by magic
all nature assumed a different aspect, the smiling woods, picturesque
country, graceful, gently undulating hills, rich, warm, harmoniously
blended tints, spoke for the first time to his imagination, and a torrent
of tears proclaimed his deep emotion.

Our associate was then but eighteen, and from that time was
keenly alive to all the beauties of nature, J have been told that, in
1812, while traveling along the Mediterranean shore of Italy, a view
from certain points of the celebrated Corniche on the coast of Genoa
threw our friend into such an ecstacy of admiration that instant death
in the presence of that sublime picture was all he desired.

Were it needful to show how profound were these impressions, and
to what extent Ampére could make them available in coloring the
most common-place scenery he desired to embellish, a striking proof may
be found ina letter dated January 24, 1819.

At this time our ‘friend was living in a modest house he had pur-
chased at the corner of the streets Fossés-Saint- Victor and Boulangers.
The garden, more unpretending still, contained not more than ten super-
ficial meters of unproductive land, recently spaded. Several terraces
were succeeded by a steep and tortuous trench, crossed by two or three
narrow planks over the deepest parts, the whole surrounded by a very
high wall. But, you exclaim, you are describing the damp, gloomy yard
of a prison. No, gentlemen; I am describing the plan and appearance
of a garden where Ampere, in-the middle of January, in the street des
Boulangers, was already dreaming of—I had almost said was absolutely
seeing—green grass, trees in full leaf, and beautiful flowers, filling the
air with their delicious perfumes; and clumps of shrubbery beneath
whose shade he could revel in the delightful task of reading letters from
his Lyonnese friends, where a bridge thrown over the valley formed
a picturesque object.

Pardon ine, gentlemen, for having anticipated the order of time—for
having selected from the life of our friend the only circumstance, per-
haps, where his imagination has not been a source of sorrow to him.

Jt was not only the emotions of beauty, grandeur, and sublimity with
which the hearts of most men are inspired by the view of rural and
mountainous scenery to which Ampére had been suddenly awakened.
The musical sense was also of sudden birth. In his youth Ampére
had given very serious attention to acoustics. He had taken great
delight in studying the manner in which waves of air are created
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 119

and propagated; the different vibrations of a stretched cord; the
curious periodic changes of intensity, designated as beats, &e. But
music, properly so-called, was to him a sealed book.

The day finally came, however, when certain combinations of sounds
were to Ampére something more than mathematical problems—some-
thing more than the monotonous tinkling of bells.

In the thirtieth year of his age he accompanied some friends to a con-
cert on one occasion, where, in the beginning, the scientific, animated,
and expressive music of Gliick was alone performed. The discomfort
of Ampére was apparent to all; he yawned, twisted himself, arose,
walked about, halted, walked again, without aim or end. From time to
time (and this with him was the last stage of nervous impatience) he
would place himself in one of the corners of the room, turning his back
on the whole assembly. Finally, ennui, that terrible enemy our acade-
mician had never learned to control, from not having been, as he said,
at school in his childhood, seemed to ooze from every pore. Now, the
scientific music of the celebrated German composer was succeeded un-
expectedly by some sweet, simple melodies; and our associate suddenly
felt himself transported into a new world, and his emotions betrayed
themselves again by copious tears; the chord uniting the ear and heart
of Ampére was struck, and made for the first time to vibrate in unison.

Time made no change in this peculiar taste. During his whole life
Ampere showed the same fondness for simple, unaffected songs; the
same distaste for scientific, noisy, labored music. Can it be true that
in the beautiful art of such masters as Mozart, Chérubini, Berton,
Auber, Rossini, and Meyerbeer there are no fixed rules by which to
distinguish the very good from the very bad; the beautiful from the
hideous? At all events, may the example of the learned academician
render us indulgent to the champions of the ruthless war between the
Gluckists and Piccinists witnessed by our fathers; and may it induce us
to pardon the famous mot of Fontenelle, “Sonate, que me veux tu ?”—
(“Sonata, what have you to do with me?”) As we have just seen, Ampere
was almost blind to one of the fine arts until eighteen, and almost deaf
to another until thirty. It was during this interval—that is, when about
twenty-one—that his heart suddenly opened toa new passion, that af love.
Ampere, who wrote so little, has left some papers, entitled Amorum,
to which he confided, day by day, the touching, artless, and truly beau-
tiful history of his feelings. The first page begins thus; ‘‘One day
while strolling, after sunset, along the banks of a solitary stream,”
The phrase remains unfinished. I will finish it with the aid of the
memory ofsome of the early friends of the learned academician.

The day was the 10th of August, 1796.

The solitary stream was not far from the little village of Saint, Ger- .
main, a short distance from Poleymieux.

Ampere was botanizing. His eyes, in perfect condition to see since
the adventure on the barge of the Sadne, were not now so exclusively

120 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

fixed on pistils, stamens, and nerves of leaves that he was unable to
observe at some distance two young and pretty girls, of modest de-
meanor, who were gathering flowers in a vast meadow.

This accidental meeting decided the fate of our associate. Until then
the idea of marriage had never even presented itself to his mind. You
faney, perhaps, the idea will quietly take root there, and germinate by
degrees; but romantic imaginations do not proceed in this way. Am-
pere would have been married that very day. The woman of his choice
—the only one he ever would have married—was one of those two young
girls seen in the distance, with whose family he was not acquainted, of
whose name he was ignorant, and whose voice had never reached his
ear. But the affair was not so speedily disposed of. It was not until
three years afterward that the young girl of the solitary stream and
meadow, Mademoiselle Julie Carron, became Madame Ampere.

But Ampére was without fortune, and before giving their daughter
to him the parents of Mademoiselle Carron prudently exacted that he
should consider the expenses entailed by marriage, and, as is commonly
said in the world, establish himself in some business. You will smile,
I am sure, to hear that, entirely engrossed by his passion, Ampére
allowed them seriously to propose his applying for a position in some
shop, where, from morning until night, he would unfold and foid and
unfold again the beautiful Lyonnese silks; where his duty would con-
sist principally in detaining the purchasers by engaging them in agree-
able conversation, in adhering strictly to a fixed price, but without
impatience; in descanting at large on the quality of the fabrics, the
taste of the trimmings, and the fastness of the colors.

Ampere, without having taken any part in the discussion, escaped
this great danger. Science winning the day in a family council, he lett
his beloved mountains and proceeded to Lyons to give private lessons
in mathematics.

AMPERE, PRIVATE PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AT LYONS—CHEM-
ICAL STUDIES—MARRIAGE—A CHOSEN PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS AT
THE CENTRAL SCHOOL OF BOURG.

The period now reached in the life of Ampére is marked by more
than one memorable event. In this he formed those intimate friend-
ships which stood the test of, without being shaken by, the political
crises and disorders of more than half a century. The new friends,
animated by the same tastes, met every morning, at an early hour, at the
house of one of the number, M. Lenoir, who cannot be described more
clearly than as one of the best, gentlest, and most benevolent men who
-bas ever honored the human race. There, in the Place des Cordeliers,
before sunrise, in the fifth story of the house, seven or eight young men
compensated themselves, in advance, for the weariness of the day de-
voted to business, by reading aloud the chemistry of Lavoisier; a work

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 1Ak

in which the severity of the method and the clearness of the exposition
seemed to vie with the importance of the results, and, which excited in
the mind of Ampére the most genuine enthusiasm. The public, a few
years later, were surprised to find a very profound chemist in the pro-
fessor of transcendental analysis in the Polytechnic School; but at that
time nothing was known of the private readings in the Place des Corde-
liers in Lyons. On examining the matter closely, you will find it rare, not
to be able to discover in the lives of all men the thread, sometimes
highly attenuated, connecting the excellences and tastes of a riper age
with the impressions of youth.

The marriage of Ampére took place the 15th Thermidor, i in the year VII,
(the 2d of August, 1799.) The family of Mademoiselle Carron sane
no faith in the sworn priests, the only ones then recognized by the civil
law, considered it necessary to have the religious ceremony performed
secretly. This circumstance, as will be readily understood, made a pro-
found impression on the mind of the learned geometer.

Ampére, now enjoying the fullness of a happiness which alas was
destined soon to end, quietly divided his time between the pleasures of
family and friendly intercourse and the direction of the mathematical
studies of his private pupils. The 24th Thermidor, in the year VIII,
(8th of August 1800,) his happiness was increased by the birth of a
son, who, though still young, ranks high among the élite of French
literary writers, and bears with distinction an illustrious name.*

Our friend, now feeling the responsibilities of paternity, could no longer
remain satisfied with the precarious living derived from the position of
a private teacher; and, obtaining the chair of physics in the central
school of the department of Aix, in the month of December, 1801, he
repaired to Bourg, with asad and sorrowful heart at the separation
from his family, being forced to leave his wife, then seriously ill, at
Lyons.

AMPERE’S MEMOIR ON PROBABILITIES.

The studies, plans, and investigations of M. Ampere up to this time
had never been given to the public, but remained confined to the limited
circle of a few friends.

It seems unnecessary to make any especial exception of the two man-
uscript memoirs addressed to the Academy of Lyons. Now, however,
the young savant began to reveal himself to the public, and, as might be
expected, the first occasion was the discussion of a complicated and
controverted question of most difficult solution.

The vast field of mathematics embraces on one side abstract theories,
and on the other their numerous applications. In the last form they
interest the generality of men in the highest degree; whom we see, in
all ages, seeking, suggesting, and proposing new applications, founded
on observations of natural phenomena or the necessities of every-day
life, thus giving the mere amateur the privilege of having his name hon-
orably inseribed on the records of science.

* Since dead.

- $23 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

Hiero, King of Syracuse, suspecting the honesty of a goldsmith, and
desiring, without injuring his crown, to determine the purity of the
gold, applied to Archimedes, who thus, through his instrumentality,
discovered the fundamental principle of hydrostatics, one of the most
brilliant discoveries of antiquity.

The curioso who asked, after having observed the seven bridges be-
tween the two branches of the river Pregel and the island of Kneiphof,
whether it were possible to cross them successively without passing
twice over the same, and he who wished to know how the knight could
move over the sixty-four squares of the chess-board without returning
twice to the same square, became involved in that geometry of position, _
(glanced at by Leibnitz,) which never makes use of the magnitudes of
quantities.

Finally, the speculations of a gambler, belonging to the aristocratic
circles, the Chevalier de Méré, first suggested, in the reign of Louis
XIV, the calculation of probabilities, or at least directed toward it
the attention of Pascal and Fermat, two of the most wonderful
geniuses of whom France is so deservedly proud.

This last branch of applied mathematics, although called, by an illus-
trious geometer, “‘ common sense reduced to calculation,” was not received
without opposition.

Even now public opinion will scarcely admit that analytical formulas
are capable of determining the secret of judiciary decisions; or of giv-
ing the comparative values of judgments pronounced by tribunals dif-
ferently constituted ; it unwillingly adopts, also, the numerical limits in
which have been included the mean result of several series of distinct
and more or less concordant observations. When there is a question
of an order of problems less subtile, all understanding play require
but the most ordinary intelligence to see at a glance that the aid of
algebra can here be satisfactorily called in, but even here are met,
in the details and applications, real difficulties, requiring the skill of
professional men.

Every one readily understands the danger, the stakes being equal,
of playing when the conditions of the game give to one greater chances
of winning; every one sees, too, at the first glance, that if the chances of
the two players are unequal, the stakes should be so too; that if the chances
of one, for example, are tenfold those of his adversary, the respective
stakes, the sums risked upon the game, should be in the proportion of
ten toone; that this exact proportionality of the stakes to the chances
is the necessary and characteristic rule, sufficient for all fair play.
There are cases, however, where, in spite of the observance of these
mathematical conditions, a prudent man would decline to play. Who,
for instance, with a million of chances against one in his favor, would
risk a million to gain one france?

In order to explain this anomaly, this disagreement between the re-
sults of calculation and the inspirations of common sense, Buffon found
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 123

it would be necessary to add a new condition to the principles which
had seemed to satisfy all but himself. He referred to moral considera-
tions. He remarked that we could not, unless by instinct, prevent our-
selves from acknowledging the effects, the loss or profit attached to the
proposed games would have on our social position and habits; he ob-
served that an advantage derived from a benefit could not be measured
by the absolute value of that benefit, separated from the fortune to
which it was about to be added. The geometrical relation of the increase
of fortune to the primitive fortune seemed to him to lead to considera-
tions much more in accordance with our mode of life. By adopting
this rule you understand at once, for example, that with a million of favor-
able chances against one single adverse chance, no man, in the full
possession of his senses, would consent to play a million franes against
one.

The introduction of moral considerations into the mathematical theory
of play has undoubtedly detracted from its importance, its clearness, and
vigor. It should be regretted, then, that Buffon has used them to reach
the conclusion, given in these words: “A long series of chances, is a
fatal chain: whose prolongation leads to misery,” in less poetical terms,
a professional player ends in certain ruin?

This proposition is of the highest social importance, and Ampére was
anxious to demonstrate it without borrowing the conditions used by
the distinguished naturalist, and the not less celebrated Daniel Bernoulli.
Such was the principal object of the work, which appeared in Lyons in
1802, with the modest title of ‘‘Considérations sur la théorie mathématt-
que du jeu”—“ Reflections on the mathematical theory of chances,” in
which the author proves himself an ingenious and practiced calculator.
His formulas, full of elegance, lead to purely algebraic demonstrations
of theorems, seeming to require the application of the differential
analysis. The principal question, moreover, is found completely solved.
The course followed by Ampére is clear, methodical, and faultless.
He first established that, between two persons, equally rich, the mathe-
matical principle of Pascal dnd Fermat, the proportionality of the
stakes to the favorable chances should inevitably be the rule of the
game; that inequality of fortunes should give rise to no change in this
general rule when the players have decided to play but a limited num-
ber of games, so few that neither shall be exposed to the total loss of
all his fortune; that the question is changed if there should be an in-
definite number of games, and a possibility of continuing the play a
longer time, thus giving to the richer player an incontestable advant-
age, which rapidly increases, in proportion to the difference of fortunes.

The disadvantage of one of the players becomes immense if his ad-
versary be very much richer than he, which is always, and very evi-
dently, the case of the professional player, who plays with every one.
The whole number of players against whom he plays is to be considered
aS one single individual endowed with an immense fortune. In games
124 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

where the chances are equal, and where skill is not required, the pro-
fessional player may be sure, in due time, of certain ruin—a fact estab-
lished beyond dispute by the formulas of Ampere.

The empty words “good luck,” “chance,” “lucky star,” ‘lucky run,”
can neither hasten nor retard the execution of a sentence pronounced in
the name of algebraic authority.

There is a school, calling itself the utilitarian, which has inscribed
on its banners three formidable words, A quoi bon? “Of what use ?”
and which, in its bitter warfare against what it calls material and intel-
lectual superfluities, would commit to the flames our fine libraries and
splendid museums, and reduce us to the necessity of eating acorns as
our fathers did. These adepts would now ask me, How many gamblers
have Ampére’s calculations reclaimed?

I confess now, in advance, with all humility, and without intending
to reflect upon the memory of our colleague, that the work just analyzed
in detail has not, perhaps, reclaimed one single individual infected
with the inveterate mania for play. The remedy has not taken effect;
but can it be proved it has often been applied? Have there ever been
professional players sufficiently versed in algebra to understand the
formulas of M. Ampére, and to appreciate their perfect accuracy? You
would be sadly mistaken, too, if you fancied that the certainty of losing
would deter every one from gambling. My doubt seems paradoxical,
certainly; I will endeavor to justify it.

Some years since in Paris, I made the acquaintance of a distinguished
foreigner, of great wealth, but in wretched health, whose life, save a few
hours given to repose, was regularly divided between the most interest-
ing scientific researches and gambling. It was a source of great regret
to me that this learned experimentalist should devote the half of so
valuable a life to a course so little in harmony with an intellect whose
wonderful powers called forth the admiration of the world around him.
Unfortunately there occurred fluctuations of loss and gain, momentarily
balancing each other, which led him to conclude that the advantages
enjoyed by the bank were neither so assured nor considerable as to pre-
elude his winning largely through a run of luck. The analytical formu-
las of probabilities offering a radical means, the only one perhaps of
dissipating this illusion, I proposed, the number of the games and the
stakes being given, todetermine in advance, in my study, the amount, not
merely of the loss of a day, nor that of a week, but of each quarter.
The calculation was found so regularly to agree with the corresponding
diminution of the bank-notes in the foreigner’s pocket-book that a doubt
could no longer be entertained.

Did the learned gentleman renounce gambling forever? No, gentlemen;
for a fortnight only. He declared that my calculations had completely
convinced him; that he would no longer be the ignorant tributary
of the gaming-houses of Paris; that he would continue the same
kind of life, but without the mad excitement of hope and fear that led

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 125

him on before. ‘I shall no longer,” he added, “ be in ignorance of the
fact that the 50,000 francs of my fortune consecrated to play will pass
into other hands. Jam resigned to it perfectly; but I shall no longer
be, in the eyes of the world, the dupe of an absurd delusion. I shall
continue to play, because the superfluous 50,000 franes expended in any
other way would be unable to excite in my feeble frame, undermined by
suffering, the lively sensations alone aroused by tke various combina-
tions, fortunate and adverse, displayed every night on the green carpet!”

A little reflection will prove that these words are not a mere para-
phrase of the well-known witticism of a celebrated statesman: “After
the pleasure of winning, I know none so great as that of losing.”

It would be doing injustice to mathematical science if I attempted to
defend its formulas against the reproach of not having foreseen that
the passionate storms, resulting from play, which sweep the bosom would
not always prevail over the soft and touching gratification men of means
might daily enjoy in applying their wealth to the alleviation of human
misery. The passions, although of divine institution, as a woman of
the world once said, are so protean that it would be a vain effort on the
part of mathematics to entwine them in their regular and methodical
meshes. But, again, if science has failed in such a task, the misfortune
is shared by the dialectics of the moralist, the eloquence of the pulpit,
and even by the sweet persuasions of the poet. I haveread somewhere
that Colbert on one occasion wished to dissuade the monarch whom he
had never failed to serve with devotion and ability from undertaking a
certain war. Boileau, promising to aid him in his effort, addressed to
Louis XIV that beautiful letter containing a seductive picture of the
delights of peace, and, among other remarkable passages, the lines on
the Emperor Titus, that live in the memory of every one:

Qui rendit de son joug univers amoureux ;
Qwon n’alla jamais voir sans revenir heureux ;
Qui soupirait, le soir, si sa main fortunée

N avait par ses bienfaits signalé sa journée.

\
Who led the world captive, yet charmed with its chain,
From whom no one could part without joy in his breast,
Whose evenings were saddened and shadowed with pain,
When closing a day that his hand had not blest.

These lines touched the heart of the king. He caused them to be
read aloud to him three times, then ordered his horse to be saddled, and
straightway joined the army.

AMPERE’S POETICAL COMPOSITIONS.

Ampére composed, in his early youth a tragedy on the death of Han-
nibal, in which are to be found some excellent poetry and the noblest
sentiments. I must add here, that during his sojourn in the principal
town of the department of Ain, his mind was not so completely ab-
sorbed in science, that he could give no time to the study of literature
126 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

and the higher kinds of poetry. Take for example a letter handed to
me recently, by our learned colleague M. Isidore Geoffroy, from Bourg,
and read by him, the 26th germinal, year XI, before the Emulation
Society of Ain, beginnin’g thus:

Vous voulez, done, belle Emilie,
Que de Gresset ou d’Hamilton
Dérobant le leger crayon,

b) J’aille chercher dans ma folie,
Sur les rosiers de ’ Hélicon,
S’il reste encor quelque bouton
De tant de fleurs qwils ont cueillies;
Souvent mes tendres réveries, ete.

Then, wouldst thou, fairest Emily,
Have me steal the pencil free
Of Gresset or of Hamilton;
And wend my way to Helicon,
To see if on the rose trees there
Some buds remain, they well could spare
From all the flowers they have culled
To glean some bud they well could spare
To be for thy soft bosom pulled.

I am not sure that the beautiful Emily was not one of those imagi-
nary beings so lavishly invested by poets with perfections of their own
creation; but the friends of Ampére will remember that the eminently
good, beautiful and distinguished woman, who had united her destiny
with his, had often inspired his muse; many will recall some lines,
whose first appearance excited no little sensation ;

Que j’aime 4 m’égarer dans ces routes fleuries,
Ou je t ’ai vue errer sous un dais de Lilas;

Que jaime a répéter aux nymphes attendries,
Sur Vherbe ot tu t’assis, les vers que tu chantas.
* * * * * * *

Les voila ces jasmins dont je t’avais parée,
Ce bouquet de troéne a touché tes cheveux, etc.

’Tis sweet my wandering steps to lose
Along the path of flowers,

Where lighter feet were wont to choose,
Their way mid lilac bowers:

And on the turf that thou hast prest,
To breathe forth once again,

The song that made the wood nymphs blest,
Thine own enchanting strain.

They lie around, those jasmins fair
With which I deck’d thy brow;

That privet, it hath touched thy hair,
To me ’tis sacred now.

A certain mathematician once made the sad mistake of publishing
some verses, faultless as to measure and rhyme, but without other
merit. A witty lady, hearing them read, remarked that the author
of the lines, after the example of M. Jourdain, wrote prose without
knowing it. Many writers, called poets, though never having passed
through a course of geometry, have fallen into the same error. A
satirical remark, however, cannot revive the so often silenced question
of the chilling influences of scientific studies. Such names as those of

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 127%

Plato, Lucretius, Descartes, Pascal, Haller, Voltaire, and of J. J. Rous-
seau, effectually settle it; and should the discussion be ever renewed,
Ampeére’s letter, several lines of which I have just quoted, could be
cited with advantage, ‘and his name added to the distinguished list.

You may think, perhaps, gentlemen, and not without reason, that I
have lingered too long over the poetical works of Ampere. I would
like to remind you of the four lines, not more, addressed to the cele-
brated Ninon de l’/Enclos by the great geometer Huygens, and so
uncharitably revived by literary writers. The law of retaliation
authorizes me to contrast, with this unlucky quatrain, the scientific
errors of different poets. Boileau might figure in our polemics, if we
thought it advisable, as but a sorry votary of the learned Urania,
proved by these two lines from his Satire on Women:

Que Vastrolabe en main, une autre aille chercher,
Si le soliel est fixe ow towrne sur SON AXE—

‘‘ Let another try to discover, with the astrolabe in hand, whether the
sun is fixed or whether it turns on its axis.”

The worthy Abbé Delille did not prove himself more orthodox, when
he attributes, in a passage in his inaugural, the more brilliant coloring,
rapid growth, and greater fragrance of the tropical productions to the
fact that the Sun warms them from a nearer point.

This remarkable instance of scientific knowledge is worthy of being
ranked with that conveyed in the line of a man, who surely had never
doubled Cape Horn, nor even read Cook’s voyages ; a line which should
have suggested to the writer to knock from beneath him the Parnas:
sian ladder —

From the frozen to the burning pole!

But it seems to me, gentlemen, that within these walls instead of
looking for poets who are not savants, it would be better to cite savants
who have been something of poets.

AMPERE, SUMMONED TO PARIS, BECOMES TUTOR, AND AFTERWARDS -
PROFESSOR OF ANALYSIS, AT THE POLYTECHNIC SCHOOL.

Lalande and Delambre were delighted with the analytical. work of
the young professor of Bourg on the calculation of probabilities; they
summoned him to Paris, and gave him the position of tutorin the Poly-
technic School, where he acquitted himself with great credit, but not
without encountering many trials, results of the retired life he had pre-
viously led. Badly advised by friends ignorant of the customs of the
place, Ampere made his appearance before his classes, in a school almost
military, dressed in a fashionable black coat, miserably made by
one of the most unskillful tailors of the capital; and for several weeks
this unlucky garment was a source of such distraction to more than a
hundred young men that they were unable to attend to the treasures of
science falling from the lips of the savant.
128 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

Tne tutor, fearing the characters on the black-board are not sufficient-
ly distinct to be seen by the more distant members of the class, very
naturally endeavors to remedy the evil by increasing their size. In
the discussion which usually follows the lesson, with the young men
gathered around him, several of them, in a spirit of mischief, exagger-
ating their want of sight, induce the benevolent professor to increase
the size of the figures by degrees, until the immense black-board, far
from affording room for intricate calculations, can scarcely give place to
a few figures.

Absorbed finally in the elucidation of a difficult theory, in the heat of
demonstration he mistakes the rubber covered with chalk for his hand-
kerchief. The account of this. certainly very innocent mistake, amplified
and magnified, passes from rank to rank, until, when he appeared again
before them, he was no longer the learned analyst of their admiration,
but the innocent object of their mirth; his moments of abstraction, so
eagerly watched for, being but signals for ridicule too long anticipated
to be willingly relinquished.

You now know, gentlemen, the rocks upon which the knowledge and
zeal of the worthy professor were so often wrecked.

PSYCHOLOGY, METAPHYSICS, AMPERE’S PASSION FOR THEM.

At the same time as geometrician and metaphysician, Ampére,
from his first arrival in Paris, moved in two distinct societies; the only
feature of resemblance being the celebrity of their members. In one.
were to be found the first-class of the ancient Institute, the professors
and examiners of the Polytechnic school, and the professors of tbe col-
lege of France. In the other, Cabanis, Destutt de Tracy, Maine de
Biran, Degérando, &ce.

Here the effort was to fathom and analyze the mysteries of the mind.
There this mind, in such measure as nature has bestowed it, and as edu-
cation has improved and enlarged it, was each day producing new
marvels. The psychologists sought the paths that lead to discovery ;
the geometers, chemists, and physicists were actually making discover-
ies. Without devoting too much time to the manner in which it was
done, they discovered sometimes the analytical formule now actually
including the laws of the movements of the stars; sometimes the sub-
tilerules of molecular actions, which, while giving‘us the clue to the causes
of a great number of natural phenomena, throw light upon the operations
of art, and developed national wealth. They made themselves mas-
ters finally, ofthe new properties oflight, electricity and magnetism, which
have given so much brilliancy to the first years of this century. Vibrat-
ing between these two schools, if the term may be allowed, Ampere’s ar-
dent imagination daily endured the severest trials. I am not able to
say, with any certainty, how the exact sciences were regarded by meta-
physicians; but I know that geometers and chemists held in very slight
esteem, investigations purely psychological.

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 129

This error, for I am very much inclined to believe this was an error,
will be somewhat lessened in the eyes of these who will take into con-
sideration that in metaphysics every thing is connected, linked and
bound together like the meshes of the most delicate tissue, in such a
manner that a principal cannot be detached from the whole number of
definitions, observations, and hypotheses from which it emanates, with-
out losing most of its apparent importance and perspicuity. When
Ampeére, still warmly excited by the conferences he had just held with
the psychologists, strove madly, I mean without preparation, to hurl
Pémesthese, for example, inte the midst of a reunion of geometers, phy-
sicists, and naturalists, when still under the influence of his enthusiasm,
he maintained that an obscure word, or at least one not understood, con-
tained the most beautiful discovery of the century, was it not natural
he should encounter skeptics? This would have been of no conse-
quence if the extreme amiability of our associate had not allowed the
skeptics whose role is to ridicule, to usurp the place cf those whose
doubts were serious,

I find in the manuscript correspondence, to which I have access
through M. Bredin, that Ampére had contemplated while in Paris the
publication of a book which he intended to call “ Introduction to Phil-
osophy.”

The famous anathema of Napoleon against ideology did not disceur-
age him; it seemed to him rather to contribute to the propagation of
this kind of studies than to its suppression. Our associate continued
to elaborate his Theory of Relations, his Theory of Lvistence, of Subjec-—
tive and Objective Knowledge, and of Absolute Morality.

He considered himself incapable of throwing sufiicient light on sub-
jects so difficult to treat without submitting them to animated verbal
discussions. Unfortunately the so ardently desired opportunities were
not to be found in Paris at that time. Maine de Biron had returned to
Berjerac, and among the remaining inhabitants of that immense capital,
not one seemed to feel any interest, from a metaphysical point of view,
in subjective, objective, and absolute morality. Ampére then tarned
his eyes in the direction of the friends of his youth, and resolved to re-
turn for a short time to Lyons. The terms of the visit were strictly
arranged; a certainty of at least four afternoons a week devoted to dis-
cussions on ideology, a formal promise that each day should be read
and examined with a view to correction in composition and perspicuity,
the subjects of each day’s study. Although I have not at hand the text
of the repliesreceived by AmpéreI have every reason to believe they were
far from giving him satisfaction. ‘ How wonderful is the science of psy-
chology !” he wrote to M. Bredin, “and most unhappily for me, you uo
longer feel an interest in it, is it necessary, besides to deprive me cf all
earthly consolation, he said, to know we no longer sympathize on meta-
physical subjects. * * * About the only thing which interests me,

ds
130 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

you no longer think as Ido. * * * This creates a frightful void in
my soul.”

Ampére’s friends in Lyons had found his psychology somewhat dry
and minute. They tried to induce him to return to the exact sciences,
but our associate replied to them in a lyrical strain, ‘‘ How can I abandon
2 country full of flowers and fresh, running waters; how give up streams
and groves for deserts scorched by the rays of a mathematical sun,
which, diffusing over all surrounding objects the most brilliant light,
withers and dries them down to the very roots? * * * How much
more agreeable to wander under flitting shades than walk in straight
paths, where the eye embraces all at a glance, and where nothing seems
to fly before us to incite us to pursue !”

It was my desire to seek the fresh groves discovered by Ampére and
to try to persuade you to enter them wifh me; but, alas! accustomed
by your advice and example to prize above all things in matters of sci-
ence, straight and well-lighted paths, my dazzled eyes found but pro-
found darkness where the piercing eyes of our ingenious friend were
privileged to see brilliant semi-tints. Without the guide of Ariadne’s clue
it would be in vain to attempt Ampére’s manuscripts, I should be afraid, I
mustacknowledge, of being forced, as Voltaire was formerly, to place atthe
end of each metaphysical proposition the two letters N. L., traced by the
style of the Roman magistrate, when the cases seemed too obscure to
allow a well-grounded judgment. But non liquet, (it is not clear,) too fre-
quently repeated, in spite of perfect sincerity, would have worn an air
of affected modesty to be avoided at any price.

Is my extreme diffidence to be condemned? It would not be difficuit
te justify it by pointing alone to the arrogant contempt each psychologi-
cal school casts upon its rival, and that throngh the organ of its most
eloquent propagandists.

isten to what I will read to you from the lectures of one of its most
celebrated teachers, Laromiguiéere, “ What is a science which has
neither fixed nor invariable methods; which changes its nature and its
form at the will of those who profess it? What is a science which is
no longer to-day what it was yesterday; which by turns boasts as its
oracles Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Locke, Leibnitz, and so many others
whose doctrines and methods seem to have nothing in common? Ina
word, what is a science, not only whose existence, but whose possibility
is questioned ?”

But Ampére bespoke in advance all my reserve when he exclaimed,
These last have only uttered what is eminently just and true, when in
comparing the true metaphysicians of the schools of Kant and Schel-
ling with the followers of Reid and Dugald Stewart, they said, the last
are to the first what good cooks are to chemists.

I will leave to the most competent judges of future times to assign to
Ampere a place amongst psychologists. Nevertheless, 1 may now affirm
that the wonderful powers of penetration and the rare faculty of reach-

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 18t

ing wide generalizations from minute detail must have distinguished
his metaphysical researches, since it shone with such brillianey in
works on physical mathematics the most solid, or, if you prefer, the
most generally recognized and the most indisputable foundation of his
scientific fame at the present day. Ampére, in metaphysics, as nearly as
the subject would permit, approximated to the experimental method. It
certainly is not from his mouth that proceeded those incredible words
attributed to a psychologist, ‘I despise you as I do a fact.”

He, on the contrary, held facts in the highest favor. Heshowed great
fertility in combining them with his theories. When, though rarely his
efforts in this line were fruitless, theories were immediately changed or
abandoned. Amongst my hearers there are probably some to whom
these words will recall both the first ideas of our associate on the instinct
of animals and the manner in which he modified them. The cireum-
stances of this sudden change seem to merit being preserved.

Among the most prominent of the many vexed metaphysical ques-
tions is, whether animals possess the powers of reasoning. or are solely -
guided by instinct—a question which will, perhaps, be better understood
by presenting it in these terms: Must we, with Aristotle, concede only
feeling and memory to the brute creation? Is it true they are without
the faculty of comparing their actions and drawing conclusions? Am-
peére, avowing himself on this point a decided peripatetic, in the pres-
ence of several of his friends, one of them a in opposition to his
views, tbe following anecdote :

oe Beis overtaken one night, not far from Montpelier, by a violent
storm, I took refuge in an inn, in the first village I found on my road.
The death of a lean chicken was the immediate result of this unex-
pected visit. The cook, placing the almost fleshless fowl on the spit
immediately tried to seize a terrier, which, when introduced into a
rotatory drum of quite large dimensions, under the mantel-piece, was to
perform the office of moving the combinations of weights, springs, and
cogged wheels now found in the humblest kitchen, but then, in the
center of France, a great rarity. The terrier absolutely refused to per-
form the duty assigned him; he would yield neither to blows, threats,
nor caresses. So much firmness, resolution, and courage attracting my
attention, I inquired if the poor beast were making his first trial.
Poor beast! some one replied, ill-naturedly and roughly, he does not
deserve your pity, on my faith; for such scenes take place every day.
Do you know why this fine gentleman refuses to turn the spit? Because
he has decided, in his head, that he and his comrade must divide the
labors of roasting exactly regularly between them. I now remem-
ber he was the last to turn the spit, and he now concludes this is not his
turn to work.

“The words, it is not his turn now, seemed to me to include a world of
meaning. At my request the stable-boy was sent into the street to
fetch the second dog. This one showed the most exemplary docility ;
132 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

the rotatory drum received him, and he would soon have finished the
task if, wishing to complete the experiment, I had not caused him to be
removed in order to give the refractory dog a newtrial. The refractory
dog, whose turn had now come, obeyed the first signal of the cook, entered
the rustic turn-spit without resistance, and went to work like a squirrel in
its cage.

“ Does it not follow from this, my dear Ampere, that dogs can have
the consciousness of the just and the unjust, leading them to lay out a
rule for themselves, and to endure corporal punishment rather tha:
allow any violation of it?”

Ampeére’s features so keenly expressed the interest he took in the
recital that you might have fancied he was about to exclaim with Lac-
tance, ‘‘ Except in matters of 1eligion, the brute creation skare all the
advantages of the human race.” However, our associate did not press
the matter as far as the Christian Cicero. While modifying his former
views on instinct, he merely admitted that animated beings, taken in
‘the aggregate, exhibit every possible degree of intelligence, from the
lowest up to that which, to adopt the expression of Voltaire, might in-
spire with jealousy the familiars of Jove himself.

I shall not leave this subject without giving another example to show,
in spite of his extreme animation in discussion in the main, how
true and tolerant Ampére was, and how free from the malevolent pas-
sions that unconceived ideas and conceit usually bring in their train.
In some manuscript notes of a professor of Lyons, M. Bredin, with
whom Ampere studied the metaphysical doctrine of the absolute, I find
these exact words: “Very animated discussions daily arose between us,
and in them originated that holy and indissolubie friendship which hus so
jirmly united us.”

A writer of romance would faney he was doing violence to proba-
bility by placing friendship among the possible consequences of heated
discussions. A presumption so unparalleled could only be tolerated in
the land of fable.

MATHEMATICAL LABORS OF AMPERE.

Such a man as Ampere often puts the self-love of his biographer to a
severe trial. I was obliged just now to shrink from psychological
researches whose importance and depth I could not reach; and here
again [ am forced to confess that an intelligible analysis, in common
language, of the works of our associate on pure mathematics, is beyond
my powers. Nevertheless, as in these works figure the memoirs
which, after the death of Lagrange in 1813, opened the doors of the
Academy to our friend, they ought to be mentioned, if only by their
titles.

The adventurous mind of Ampére was always fond of questions that
the fruitless cfforts of twenty centuries had pronounced insoluble; he

yas never happier, if I may be allowed the expression, than when
EULOGY ON AMPERE. Heyes

upturning the principles of science. I must acknowledge I was not a
little astonished not to find him struggling with the quadrature of the
circle. This inexplicable hiatus, in the youth of our associate, has just
been filled. A manuscript note from the secretary of the Academy of
Lyons apprises me that, on the 8th of July, 1788, Ampére, then thir-
teen years of age, addressed to that learned body a paper relating to
the celebrated problem just mentioned. Later during the same year
he submitted to the examination of his compatriots an analogous memoir,
entitled ‘ The rectification of any are of a cirele less than the semi-circum-
ference.” These memoirs have not reached us. If the manuscript note
sent to me can be relied upon, young Ampere, not only did not think
the problem insoluble, but flattered himself he had almost solved it,
Seruples, respected by me without being shared, demanded the sacri-
fice of this anecdote. It certainly would have been avery small saeri-
fice, but I did not consider it consistent with my duty to make it. The
scientific weaknesses of men of a very bigh order of intellect are lessons
quite as useful and profitable as their successes, and the biographer has
no right to cover them with a vail. Is it quite certain, too, that there is
anything here to excuse or conceal; that a geometer need blush for
efforts made in his childhood, or even at a riper age, to square the cir-
cle geometrically ?. To sustain, however, such a proposition, we have
only to recall the fact that antiquity presents to us, as deeply engaged
in this problem, Anaxagoras. Meton, Hippocrates, Archimedes, and
Apollonius; and to these we may add the modern names of Snellius,
Huygens, Gregory, Wallis and Newton; and, finally, that amongst those
whose sagacity the quadrature of the circle has set at defiance—I mean
who have been involved by it in palpable errors there are many who
have, in other respects, rendered genuine service to science ; for example
J. B. Porta, the inventor of the camera-obscura; then Grégoire de
Saint Vincent, the Jesuit, to whom we owe the discovery of the won-
derful properties of hyperbolic spaces terminated by asymptotes; Lon-
gomontanus, the astronomer, &e., &c.

If your mind is engrossed with the idea that, in order to justify their
efforts to square the circle, others will cite hereafter, to their advan-
tage, the attempts of a child of thirteen, I reply unhesitatingly—for my
academic duties bring me frequently in and personal relations with the
squarers of the circle—that authorities have absclutely no weightin their
eyes; that they have long since entirely separated themselves from every-
thing that bears or has borne the name of geometer; that Euclid himself,
in his principal theorems—for example, that of the square of the hypothe-
neuse—seems to them scarcely worthy of trust. If a mania—I was on
the point of saying a furor which manifests itself especially in spring,
as proved by experience—could ever be amenable to logic, it would be
necessary, in order to battle it successfully, to distinguish more carefully
than has ever yet been done the various aspects under which the prob-
lem of the quadrature of the circle ought to be considered. An example
13 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

of cure under my own eyes might give me some confidence in this mode
of treatment.

The first, according to date, of all the mathematical memoirs of Am-
pere, printed after his arrival in Paris, relates to a question of elemen-
tary geometry. This memoir, presented to the Academy of Lyons in
1801, appeared in the publication of the correspondence of the Polytech-
nic School in the month of July, 1806. A few words will suffice to de-
scribe the end Ampére proposed to himself.

There is in elementary geometry a proposition so evident that it may
properly be regarded as an axiom. It Is this:

If two lines situated in the same plane are parallel, or, in other words,
if, prolonged indefinitely, can never meet ; and if a third line, forming an
angle at any point with the first of the two parallels, be indefinitely ex-
tended from the point of intersection, it will cut the second. No one can
feel a doubt about this theorem, although all the efforts of the most cele-
brated geometers, the Euclids, the Lagranges, the Legendres, &e., to add
to its natural evidence by way of demonstration, properly so-called, have
been fruitless.

The geometry of solid bodies, had offered, up to the present time, a
proposition whose truth was quite as evident, and that, nevertheless,
had never been demonstrated. I refer to the equality of volume of sym-
metrical polyhedrons. Two oblique polyhedrons have the same base
situated on a horizontal plane; one is entirely above the plane, the
other entirely below. Their faces are similar and of the same’ length ;
moveover, their inclinations correspond exactly to a common base. To
give the same idea in different words—one of the two polyhedrons being
considered as an object, the other would be its image reflected on the
plane of the common base, if that plane were a mirror.

The object of Ampere’s treatise is to demonstrate the equality of these
two polyhedrons; and it can be affirmed that, on this point, in the sci-
ence of geometry there is nothing more to desire.

In 1803 M. Ampere addressed to the institute a very finished work,
which, however, was not given to the public until much later, (1808,)
entitled “* Treatise on the advantages to be derived, in the theory of curves,
from due consideration of osculatery parabolas.” We also find a treatise by
Ampere dated the 26th florial year 11 which was published in the first
volume of the collection of the foreign savants of the Academy of
Sciences. This is its title “ Investigations on the application of the gen-
eral formulas of the valeulus of variations to problems in mechanics.”

The formulas of equilibrium, given by the immortal author of ana-
lytical mechanics, have a form analogous to that of the equations that
the calculus of variations furnishes for the determination of the max-
ima and minima of integral formulas. Ampere thought that this simili-
tude of form, previously noticed by Lagrange, would afford him the
means of avoiding, in the solution of questions in statics, the trouble-
some integration by parts. The analogy is not as complete as might be
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 135

thought at first sight. The ordinary formulas require to be changed
in order to be used in the solution of problems of mechanics. Ampére
gives these transformations and applies them to the ancient problem of
the eatenary.

This problem, which consisted in determining the curve formed by an
inextensible chain of uniform weight when attached to two fixed points,
is famous under more than one name. Galileo tried, ineffectually, to
solve it. His conjecture that the curve sought might be a parabola,
was found false, in spite of all the paralogisms accumulated by Péres
Pardies, and de Lamis to prove its accuracy to the singular adver-
sary who brought to oppose them proofs from mechanics. In 1691
Jaques Bernoulli challenged the scientific world with the same problem.
Only three geometers had the courage to take up the gauntlet—Leib-
nitz, Huygens, and Jean Bernoulli, who, we may remark in passing, at
this time, evinced the first symptoms of his jealousy of his master, bene-
factor, and brother; thus demonstrating that the love of fame is capa-
ble of becoming the most ungovernable, most unjust, and blindest of
the passions. ‘The four illustrious geometers were not content to give
the true differential equation of the curve; they also pointed out the
consequences deduced from it. Everything now seemed to authorize
the belief that the subject was exhausted; but this was a mistake. The
treatise of Ampere contains, in fact, new and very remarkable properties
of the catenary and its development. There is no small merit, gentlemen,
in discovering hiatuses in subjects explored by such men as Leibnitz,
Huggens, and the two Bernoullis. I must not forget to add that the
analysis of our associate unites elegance with simplicity. Ampere
gave, moreover, a new demonstration of the celebrated mathematical
relation known as Taylov’s theorem, and calculated the finite expression,
neglected when the series are arrested at any term whatsoever.

alled to the chair of mathematics at the polytechnic schoc , Ampére
could not fail to seek a demonstration of the principle of virve'al veloci-
ties, disengaged from the consideration of infinitesimals. Such is the
object of a treatise published in 1806, in the thirteenth number of the
journal of the schocl.

Whilst candidate for the position left vacant by the death of La-
grange in 1813, Ampere presented to the academy, first: General con-
siderations on the integrals of equations of partial differences; and
afterwards, an application of these considerations to the integration.of dif-
ferential equations of the first and second order. These two treatises give
superabundant proof that analysis, in its most difficult form, was per-
fectly familiar to him.

Ampere was not inactive after becoming a member of the academy ;
he busied himself with the application of analysis to the physical
sciences. Amongst these productions we may cite:

1. Demonstration of the laws of mariotre, read at the academy Jan-
uary 24, 1814.
136 _ EULOGY ON AMPERE.

2. Demonstrations of a new theory, from which can be deduced all the
laws of refraction, ordinary and extraordinary ; read at the academy
March 27, 1815.

3. A memoir on the determination of the curved surfaces of luminous
caves in a medium whose elasticity differs in three dimensions ; read at the
Academy of Sciences August 26, 1828.

AMPERE’S RESEARCHES IN THE SCIENCE OF ELECTRO-DYNAMICS.

Amongst the works of our friend there is one which excels all the oth-
ers 5 it constitutes, in itself, a beautiful science, and its name, “‘ Hlectro-
dy Pics will ever beinseparably linked with that of Ampére. Instead
of presenting to your thoughts twenty different subjects in succession,
permit me to concentrate them for a time on the vast and teeming con-
ception of our friend, happy if I succeed in disengaging it from any
appearance of obscurity and ambiguity it may have presented up to
this time, and thus show the elevated rank which will entitle it,
with the most beautiful discoveries of the age, to the gratitude of pos-
terity. While so many of the ancient and modern sciences were making
rapid and momentous progress, the science of magnetism had remained
almost stationary. We have known that, for centuries at least, bars ot
iron, and more especially of steel, freely supported, turn toward the
north. This curious property has given us the two Americas, Austra-
lia, the numerous archepelagoes, and the hundreds of isolated islands of
Oceanica, &c.; it is to it this, in cloudy and foggy weather, the mariner,
plowing the mighty oceans, has recourse, to ¢ enide and aneey his ships
no truth in physics has had results so ane Nevertheless, until the
present time, nothing had been discovered regarding the nature of the
peculiar modification undergone by a bar of neutral steel during the
mysteriqus had almost said, cabalistic—operatious which transform
it inte a hoence

The whole phenomena of magnetism, the diminution, the destruction,
the inversion of the polarity of the needle of the compass, occasioned
sometimes on ships by violent discharges of lightning, seemed to estab-
lish some intimate connection between magnetism aa electricity. Nev-
ertheless, the labors, ad hoc, undertaken at the request of several acad-
emies inorder to develop md strengthen this analogy, led to so few
decisiveresults that we read, ina programme by Ampére himself, printed
in 1802 :

‘The professor will demonstrate that the electrical and magnetic phe-
nomena are owing to two different jfiuids, which act independently of
each other.”

Sciences had reached this point when, in 1819, the Danish physicist,
(Ersted, announced to the learned world a fact, wonderful in itself, but
more so especially from the consequences deduced from it; a fact the
memory of which will be transmitted from age to age, as long as science is

|
EULOGY ON AMPDRE. 137

honored amongstmen. I will try to give a clear and exact idea of this
most important discovery.

The voltaic pile is terminated at its extremities, or, if you prefer as
ah expression more suitable, at its two poles by two dissimilar metals.
Let us suppose, for example, the elements of this wonderful apparatus
to be copper and zinc; if the copper is at one of the poles the zine
will inevitably be at the other. The battery, with the exception of some
slight traces of tension, is, or at least seems to be, completely inert as long
as the extreme poles are not put into communication by means of a sub-
stance conductive of electricity. A metallic wire is generally used to
connect the two poles of the battery, or, which amounts to the same
thing, to put the app aratus in action. This wire is then called the con-
junctive wire.

A current of electricity passes along the whole length of the con-
duetor, and circulates uninterruptedly through the closed cireuit, result-
ing from the union of the wire and the battery. If the battery is very
powerful, the current will be equally so.

Physicists had for a long time known how to impart to an insulated
metallic wire a large quantity of electricity in repose, or electricity of ten-
sion, as it is calledin treatises on physics; they also know how to trans-
mit electricity along wires not insulated in very large quantities ; but in
this ease the passage was sudden and instantaneous. The first means
of combining intensity with duration in currents of electricity is fur-
nished by the galvanic battery, with which a discharge, more powerful
than could be produced by the largest ancient machines for the millionth
part of a second, is here given for hours together. Does the con-
junctive wire, the wire along which a quantity of electricity passes wn-
interruptedly, acquire, in consequence of this movement, any new prop-
erties? To this question the experiment of Grsted replies affirmatively
in the most striking manner.

Let us place a wire of a certain length, of copper, silver, platina, or
any other metal without appreciable magnetic action, above a horizontal
compass, and parallel to its needle. The presence of the wire will have
no effect. Make no change in the first arrangement, but join, either
directly or by intermediary long or short wires, the two extremities of
the parallel wire to the two poles of a voltaic pile; or in this way let
us transform the insulated wire into a conjunctive wire, along which a
permanent current of electricity passes, and at that very instant the
needle of the compass will change its direction; if the battery be feeble
the deviation will be inconsiderable; but if the battery be very streng,
notwithstanding the action of the earth, the magnetic needle will form
an angle of nearly 90° with its natural position.

[ have supposed the conducting wire above the magnetic needle,
placed below the phenomenon would be the same with regard to quantity,
qut exactly opposite as to the direction of the deviation. The conjune-
tive wire above would impel the north pole of the needle toward the
138 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

west; the deviation would be toward the east when, the conditions
being the same, the wire is below. It is necessary to remark here that
the wire preserves absolntely none of that deviating power the moment
it ceases to be a conducting wire, or to join the two poles of the battery.
It would indicate a total want of scientific perception not to understand
how extraordinary and important are the results I have just announced;
not to observe with surprise an imponderable fluid imparting for the
moment to the slender wire along which it passes, properties so powerful.

These properties, studied in their specific characters, are not less
wonderful.

Even a child knows it would be useless to try to turn a horizontal
lever around a pivot on which its center rests by pushing or pulling it
lengthways—I mean, following the line leading to the center of rota.
tion. The force must necessarily be transverse. The perpendicular to
the length of the lever is, no matter in what direction, that which
requires the least force to create a given movement. The experiment
of M. GQirsted is directly opposed so these elementary rules of mechanics.

Please then to remember, when the forces developed by the passage
of the electrical current in each point of the conducting wire are found
to correspond vertically with the axis of the needle itself, either above
or below, the deviation is at its maximum. ‘The needle remains at rest,
on the contrary, when the wire is presented to it in a direction nearly
perpendicular.

Such is the strangeness of these facts that, in order to explain them,
various physicists have had recourse to a continued flow of electrical
matter circulating round the conducting wire at right angles to it, and
producing the deviations of the needle by way of impulse. This was
nothing less, on a small scale, than the famous vortices contrived by
Descartes to account for the general movement of the planets around
the sun. Thus a physical theory which had been abandoned for more
than two centuries was recalled by the discovery of Girsted.

We have already mentioned the important remark of the celebrated
Danish physicist, that the deviations of the needle of a horizontal
compass approach nearer and nearer 90 degrees in proportion to the
increase of the power of the battery during the connection of the two
poles by the wire. Feeble batteries, on the contrary, produce only
searcely sensible movements. What is the part played by that myste-
_Tious power, seeming to reside in the arctic regions of the globe, to at-
tract magnetic bodies in a certain way, and repel others?) What part
does it perform in lessening the deviations when the battery has little
power?

Ampere perceived the importance of this question at the very first
glance; he saw it was not a mere nice and subtle refinement without
bearing; he understood that the solution of the problem would stamp
with characteristic features the forces brought into play by the experi-
ment of Girsted; but how get rid of the attraction of the earth; how

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 139

eliminate it; how intercept it? I see some smile at my question, and
hear them exclaim, Do not mariners cover with pieces of canvas or pea-
jackets the iron cannon in the neighborhood of the compass, when-
ever they wish to obtain exactness in their bearings? Screens, then,
ought effectually to furnish the means of protecting the needle from
terrestrial magnetism. As to that, a glass sphere, inclosing the com-
pass, would answer.

A single word will dispel this illusion. No substance, thick or
thin, has yet been discovered through which magnetic action, like that
of gravity, does not exert its full force, without any abatement. The
custom of covering cannon, balls, and anchors, with sails, tarred or un-
tarred, or with anything else, to prevent their action on the compass,
belongs to the thousand and one usages recorded in treatises on naviga-
tion before science had diffused its light around it. Even when ex-
posed, such usages diffuse and perpetuate themselves, and are the blind
powers which govern the world. The researches of Ampére did not abso
utely require (which, in fact, would have been an impossibility) that his
apparatus should be completely free from the attraction of the earth; it
was sufficient that this attraction should not counteract the movement
of the needle; and this simple reflection became the ray of light that
guided the illustrious physicist, and gave rise to a kind of compass
never before thought of.

To understand the invention of Ampere by which a magnetic needle
could be so arranged as to be free to obey the action of a galvanic ecur-
rent, and undisturbed by the magnetism of the earth, suppose an ordi-
nary dipping-needle apparatus so placed that its graduated circle shall
be perpendicular to the magnetic meridian of the place, and then so
inclined to the horizon that the graduated circle and the needle within
it shall be at right angles to the direction of the magnetic dip of the
place where the experiment is made. In this condition the magnetism
of the earth will act perpendicular to the direction of the needle and be
opposed by the pivot on which the lower point of the axis rests. It will
therefore be free to take any position in the plane of the divided circle
which an extraneous force may give it. Ampere was therefore quite
right in calling his new instrument an astatic compass.

Ampere’s astatic needle, placed before a conducting wire, takes a
direction exactly perpendicular to that wire, neither one second more nor
less; and, a very remarkable circumstance, avery feeble electricity pro-
duces as much effect as a current of sufficient intensity to reduce metals
to a state of incandescence. Here, then, is one of those simple laws that
science loves to record, and the mind receives with confidence, and be-
fore which false theories will inevitably disappear.

The discovery of Girsted reached Paris through Switzerland. At our
weekly meeting on Monday, September 11, 1820, a member of the
academy from Geneva repeated before you the experiment of the Dan-
ish savant. Seven days later, on the 18th of September, Ampére pre-
140 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

sented to you a much more general fact than that of the physicist of
Copenhagen.

In that short interval of time he had conjectured that two connecting
wires, two wires traversed by electrical currents, would act on each
other; he had devised extremely ingenious arrangements to make these
wires movable without the necessity of detaching the extremities of
each from the respective poles of their batteries. He had embodied
these conceptions in instruments capable of acting; he had, in fact,
reduced his wonderful idea to a decisive experiment. I do not know
whether the vast field of physics ever exhibited so beautiful a dis-
covery conceived and consummated with so much rapidity.

This brilliant discovery of Ampere may be summed up in these words:
Two parallel connecting wires attract each other when the electricity
traverses them in the same direction ; on the contrary, they repel each
other when the electric currents move in opposite directions.

The connecting wires of two batteries similarly placed, of two bat-
teries whose copper and zine poles respectively correspond always,
then attract each other. There is in the same way always repulsion be-
tween the connecting wires of two batteries when the zine pole of one
is opposite the copper pole of the other.

It is not a necessary condition of these singular attractions and re-
pulsions that the wires in operation should belong to two different bat-
teries. By bending and rebending a single connecting wire such an
arrangement may be made that two of its portions, opposite to each
other, may be traversed by the electrical current either in the same or
in opposite directions. The phenomena, then, are absolutely identical
with those which result from currents proceeding from two distinet
sources.

The phenomena of Cirsted, from their origin, had been called, very
appropriately, electro-magnetic. To those of Ampere, in which the
magnet plays no distinet part, the more general name of electro-dyna-
mies has been applied.

The experiments of the French savant did not escape at first those
criticisms which envy reserves for all things possessing novelty, im-
portance, and a future. Men were unwilling to see in the attractions
and repulsions of these currents anything more than a hardly appre-
ciable modification of the ordinary electrical attractions and repulsions
known since the time of Dufay. On this point the replies of our friend
were prompt and decisive.

Bodies similarly electrified repel each other ; similar currents attract
each other. Bodies in an opposite condition of electricity attract each
other; unlike currents repel each other.

Two bodies similarly electrified repel each other from the moment of
contact ; two wires traversed by similar currents remain together like
two magnets, if brought into contact.

No subterfuge in the world could resist this close argumentation.

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 14}

Another class of critics embarrassed our associate more seriously.
These last acted apparently in a charitable spirit. ‘To believe them, they
invoked with all their hearts, but without hope, the solution of a grea
difficulty ; it pained them deeply, they said, to see the glory with which
these new discoveries would have surrounded the name of Ampécre
vanish so rapidly. This is somewhat the manner in which the insur-
mountable difficulty was formulated. Two bodies which separately
have the property of acting on a third cannot fail to act on each other.
The connecting wires, according to the discovery of Cirsted, act upon
the magnetic needle, then two connecting wires ought to influence each
other reciprocally ; hence, the movements of attraction and repulsion,
when brought together, are deductions, necessary consequences, of the
experiment of the Danish physicist; hence, it would be wrong to rank
the observations of Ampére among the primordial facts which open to
science entirely new paths.

Action and reaction are equal. There was in the phraseology just
cited a false air of that incontestible principle of mechanics which misied
many minds. Ampere replied by challenging his adversaries to deduce
with any degree of plausibility the resultant direction (le sens) of the mu-
tual action of two electrical currents ; although he made the demand with
much spirit, no one acknowledged himself defeated.

The infallible means of reducing this violent opposition to silence, of
sapping its objections to their foundation, was to cite an example where
two bodies which would act separately on a third would, nevertheless,
not act on each other. <A friend of Ampere remarked, that magnetism
exhibited a phenomenon of this kind. He said to the benevolent an-
tagonist of the great geometer: ** Here are two keys of soft iron; each of
them attracts this compass; if you cannot show that, placed near each
ther, these keys attract and repel each other, the point of departure of
all your objections is false.”

From that moment the objections were abandoned and the reciprocai
actions of electrical currents took definitely the place belonging to them
among the most beautiful discoveries of modern physics.

Once disembarrassed of the charges of originality and priority, always
more painful when implied than when openly made, Ampére sought with
zeal a clear, vigorous, and mathematical theory, which would embrace,
under a common head, not only all the phenomenaof ordinary magnetism,
but also those of electro-dynamic phenomena. The investigation bristied
with all kinds of difficulties. Ampére overcame them with methcds ou
which the genius of invention shone at every step. These methods will
remain as one of the most precious models in the art-of investigating
nature; of seizing in the midst of the complex forms of phenomena the
simple laws which govern them.

Dazzled by the éclat, grandeur, and fertility of the law of universa:
attraction—that immortal discovery of Newton—persous little conversani
with mathematics imagine that, in order to introduce the planetary
142 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

movements into the domain of analysis, it would be necessary to sur-—
mount obstacles a thousand times greater than those met by the modern
geometer, when he wishes, with the assistance of mathematics, to follow
in all their ramifications the various phenomena discovered and studied
by physicists. However general this opinion may be, it is not the less
an error. The smallness of the planets, when compared to the sun; the
immensity of the distances; the almost spherical form of the celestial
bodies; the absence of all matter capable of offering any sensible resist-
ance in the vast regions where the elliptical orbits are described, are so
many circumstances extremely simplifying the problem, and bringing
it within the abstractions of rational mechanics. If, instead of the
movements of the planets—I mean of distant bodies capable of being
considered reduced to simple points—the only guide had been the
phenomena of attraction of irregular polyhedrons, acting on each other
at short distances, the laws of universal gravity would remain yet to be
discovered.

These words will suffice to give an idea of the real obstacles which
render the progress of mathematical physics so slow. No one need,
therefore, be surprised to learn that the propagation of sound, or of
Inminous vibrations; that the movement of the light waves ruffling
the surface of liquids; that the atmospheric currents caused by irregu-
larities of pressure and temperature, etc., are uch more difficult to
calculate than the majestic course of Jupiter, Saturn, or Uranus.

The phenomena of terrestrial physics Ampere proposed to unravel
were certainly among the most complex. The attractions and repul.
sions observed between conducting wires resulted from the attraction
and repulsion of all their parts. Now, to pass from the whole to the
determination of the numerous and different elements which compose
it, or in other words to the investigation into the manner in which the
‘mutual actions of two infinitely small parts of two currents vary, when
their relative distances and inclinations are changing, offered unwonted
difficulties.

All these difficulties have been overcome. The four conditions of
equilibrium, which have rendered so much assistance to the author in
developing phenomena, will be called the laws of Ampere, as the three
great consequences, deduced by that celebrated genius from the obser-
vations of Tycho, are called the laws of Kepler.

The oscillations, turned to so great profit by Coulomb in the measure-
ment of small magnetic or electrical forces, imperatively exact that the
bodies for experiment should be suspended by a single film without tor-
sion. The conducting wire cannot be placed in such a position, as it
would be in danger of losing its virtue unless in permanent communi-
cation with the two poles of the battery.

Oscillations give very exact measurement, but coupled with the
express condition of being numerous. The conducting wires of Ampére
never fail to be at rest after a very small number of oscillations.

EULOGY ON AMPERRE. 143

The problem appeared truly insoluble, when our associate perceived
he couid reach his object by observing different conditions of equilib-
rium between conducting wires of certain forms placed one before the
other. The choice of these forms was the essential point; and itis here
the genius of Amp¢tre displayed itself in the most marked manner.

He first enveloped with silk two equal portions of the same conduct-
' ing wire; he bent this wire so that its two covered portions should be
ib juxtaposition, and traversed from opposite sides by a current from
the same battery ; he was satisfied then that this system of two equal
but opposite currents exercised no power over the delicately sus-
pended conducting wire, and thus proved that the attractive force of a
given electrical current is perfectly equal to the force of repulsion it
exercised when the direction of its course is mathematically inverted.

Ampere then suspended a very moveable conducting wire, exactly
between two fixed conducting wires, which being traversed from the
same side by one and the same current ought to repel the intermediate
wire; one of these fixed wires is straight, the other bent and twisted,
presenting a hundred smali sinuosities. The communication necessary
to give play to the currents being established, the moveable intermediate
wire will stop exactly between the two fixed wires, and if moved from
its position will return itself to the same place. From this it follows that
if a straight connecting wire and a sinuous connecting wire, though
their unfolded lengths may be very different, exercise powers exactly
equal if they have extremities common to both.

In a third experiment Ampere established undeniably that no closed
current whatever could cause a circular portion of connecting wire to
turn round an axis perpendicular to that one are passing through its
center.

The fourth and last fundamental experiment of our associate is an
instance of equilibrium, involving three suspended circular circuits
whose centers are in a straight line, and whose radii are in a continuous
geometrical proportion.

Our associate made use of those four laws to settle what he had al-
lowed to remain arbitrary in his analytical formula, conceived in the
most general terms imaginable to explain the mutual action of two in-
tinitely small elements of two electrical currents.

A skillful comparison of the general formula with the observation of
the four cases of equilibrium shows that the reciprocal action of the
elements of two currents is exercised in the direction of the line uniting
their centers; that it depends on the mutual inclination of these ele-
ments, and that it varies in intensity in the inverse proportion of the
squares of the distances.

Thanks to the profound researches of Ampere, the law, which governs
celestial movements, the law, extended by Coulomb to the phenomena
of electricity at rest or in tension, and then though with less certainty,
to magnetic phenomena, becomes one of the characteristic features of
144 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

the powers exercised by electricity in motion. The general formula,
which gives the value of the mutual actions of the infinitely small ele-
ments of currents, once understood, the determination of the combined
actions of limited currents of different forms becomes a simple problem
of integral analysis. Ampére did not fail to follow out these applica-
tions of his disceveries. He first tried to discover how a rectilinear
current acts on a system of circular closed currents, contained in planes
perpendicular to the rectilinear current. The result of the calculation,
confirmed by experiment was, that the planes of the cireular currents,
would, supposing them movable, arrange themselves parallel to the rec-
tilinear current. If like transversal currents pass over the whole length
of a magnetic needle, the cross direction which, in the experiment of
(Hrsted, completed by Ampére, seemed an inexplicable anomaly, would
become a natural and necessary fact. Is it not evident, then, to ail how
memorable would that discovery be that would rigorously establish the
fact that to magnetize a needle is to excite, to put in motion around
each molecule of the steel, a small, circular, electrical vortex? Ampére
fully realized the wide reach of the ingenious generalization that had
taken possession of his mind; and he hastened to submit it to experi-
mental proofs and numerical verifications, which, in our day, are the
only processes considered entirely demonstrative.

lt seemed very difficult to create an assemblage of closed. circular
currents capable of great mobility. Ampére confined himself to an
imitation of this composition and form, by causing a single electrical
current to circulate through a wire enveloped in silk, and coiled like a
helix in very compact spires. The resemblance between the effects of
this apparatus and those of a magnet was very striking, and encouraged
the illustrious academician to devote himself to a difficult and minute
calculation of the actions of closed circuits perfectly circular.

Starting from the hypothesis that like currents exist around the par-
ticles of magnetic bodies, Ampere, recognized, in elementary actions,
the laws of Coulomb. These laws treated with the most consummate
skill by an illustrious geometer have explained all the known facts of
the science of magnetism; the hypothesis of Ampére represents them
with equal accuracy.

The same hypothesis, finally applied to the investigation of the action
which a rectilinear connecting Wire exercises over a magnetic needle,
leads analytically to the law that M. Biot has deduced from extremely
nice experiments.

If, with the almost entire body of ancient physicists, it is thought ad-
visable to consider steel as composed of solid molecules, in each of
which exist two fluids of opposite properties, fluids combined, and neu-
tralizing each other when the metal is not magnetic, fluids move or less
separated when the steel is more or less magnetized, the theory will
cover all that is known at present, even in the most subtle numerical
particularities of ordinary “yagnetism. This theory is silent, however,

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 145

with reference to the action of a magnet on a connecting wire, and still
more silent, were it possible, as to the action that two of those wires ex-
ercise upon each other.

If, on the contrary, we take, with Ampere, the action of two cur-
rents for the primordial fact, the three classes of phenomena will depend
on one principle, one single clause. The ingenious conception of our
associate possesses thus two of the most salient characteristics of a
true laws of nature, simplicity and fertility.

In all the magnetic experiments attempted before the discovery of
(irsted the earth had acted like a largeloadstone. It was tobe presumed,
then, like a magnet, it would act on electrical currents. Experiments,
however, had not justified the conjecture. Calling to his aid the electro-
dynamic theory and the talent for inventing apparatus, so brilliantly
displayed by him, Ampere had the honor of filling the inexplicable
hiatus.

For several weeks native and foreign physicists crowded the humble
study in the street Fossée-Saint- Victor to witness with amazement a con-
necting wire of platina take a definite direction through the action of
the terrestrial globe.

What would Newton, Halley, Dufay, Aupinus, Franklin, and Cou-
lomb have said if it had been announced to them that a day would
come when, in default of a magnetic needle, navigators would be able
to guide their vessels by observing electrical currents, electrified wires ?

The action of the earth on a conducting wire is identical in all the cir-
cumstances presented by it, with that which would proceed from an as-
semblage of currents, having its seat in the depths of the earth, south
of Europe, aud whose movements would be like the diurnal revolutions
of the globe from west to east. Let it not be said, then, that, the laws
of magnetic action being the same in the two theories, it is a matter of
indifference which to adopt.

Suppose the theory of Ampere true, and the earth, as a whole, inev-
itably a vast voltaic pile, creating currents moving in the direction of
the diurnal revolution ; and the memoir in which is found this magnifi-
cent result will take rank, without disadvantage, with the immortal
works which have made of our globe a simple planet, an ellipsoid flat
tened at the poles, a body formerly incandeseent in all its parts; incan-
descent still down in its depths, but retaining on its surface no appre-
ciable trace of this original heat.

It has been asserted that the beautiful conceptions of Ampere, of
which I have just given a detailed analysis, were coldly received ; it has
been said that the French geometers and physicists showed themselves
little inclined either to recognize or study them; that the academy, with
the exception of one single member, swayed by its prejudices, refused
for a long time to yield itself to unexceptionable proof.

These charges reached the public through an eloquent and eminently,

honeraile organ. I cannot, therefore, pass them by without notice.
Ss
146 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

The experiments of Ampére, from their first appearance, were the ob-
ject of the severe criticism just cited, and, soon after, of universal ad-
miration. The only competent and capable judges of intricate and
scientific calculations of nice theoretical deductions of whose almost
boundless range I have just tried to give you an idea, were of necessity
geometers. Nowis it just to say the French geometers found fault with
our distinguished associate, when, a short time before the discovery of
electro-dynamics, M. Savary was found completing a very important
point of that theory; when M. Lionville was trying to simplify its bases
and render them more rigorous; when, in the compilation of the most
difficult parts of his grand memoir Ampere found in M. Duhamel an
earnest collaborator ?

Is it true that Ampére’s formula displayed no features likely to
occasion astonishment amongst geometers ? Would not the curiosity of
those most familiar with Newtonian theories be awakened by observing
the introduction of general expressions of the mutual action of these
elements, trigonometrical quantities relative to the respective inclina-
tions of the infinitisimal elements of the electrical currents? Was not
some hesitation natural when new theories seemed to depart so com-
pletely from beaten paths? There was nothing extraordinary, excep-
tional, nor extravagant on the part of the savants who experienced this
hesitation. A few years before the transversal waves of light of Fresnel
had created the same doubts, the same uncertainty, and in the minds of
the same individuals, although they seemed a still more evident conse-
quence, a more direct and immediate translation and one easier to verity,
of the facts of interference exhibited by polarized rays.

Let us not complain in general terms of the worship rendered usually
by men to the ideas under whose influence their minds have been devel-
oped. In such cases it is just, natural, and proper to make no change
of views without a thorough investigation. From a scientific point of
view, the criticisms and difficulties, so frequently overwhelming innova-
tors, are substantially useful. They arouse the idle to triumph over
indolence; even jealousy, with its cruel and hideous acuteness, becomes
an incentive to progress. It can be relied upon to discover gaps, blem-
ishes, and imperfections that even the most careful author allows un-
avoidably to escape him. The control it exercises over him who dis-
dains not to profit by it, is worth ten-fold that of the best friend. It
commands no gratitude either, for its services are involuntarily rendered ;
and on the other hand it would be a weaknessto sympathize too warmly
with the vexations it causes in men of genius; for fame and peace of
mind rarely bear each other company. He who is ambitious of high
place in the world of matter or of ideas, must expect to find as adver-
saries those already occupying the highest places. Small minds aim at
trivial objects, and alone are privileged to reach, at will, insignificant
points, whose possession no one dreams of disputing with them.

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 147

AMPERE TAKES PART IN A CELEBRATED DISCUSSION BETWEEN GEORGE
CUVIER, AND GEOFFROY SAINT-HILAIRE ON THE UNITY OF STRUC-
TURE IN ORGANIZED BEINGS.

This discussion rested on some very nice considerations. If it were
desired, for instance, to trace the resemblance between the arrange-
ments of the viscera of a cephalopodic mollusk and those of man, it
would be necessary to fancy the latter bent backwards from the line of
the navel, so that the pelvis and lower limbs should be joined to the
nape of the neck; it would be necessary, moreover, to imagine man
walking on his head. Other comparisons required that one of the two
animals should be reversed like a glove; that the bony structure should
pass from within to without, that the enveloped should become the en-
velope, ete., etc. The members of the mathematical department of the
college could take no part in this subtle debate; they were satisfied to
be attentive listeners. Ampere alone threw himself headlong into the
arena. But it was found that the views so warmly opposed by Cuvier,
and so decidedly sustained by our honorable colleague, Geoffroy Saint-
Hilaire, were those entertained by Ampere in 1803.

Cuvier, the learned secretary of the academy, when concluding his
course on the history of the sciences of the nineteenth century, was
naturally led to allude to the German school known under the name of
Philosophers of Nature.

The principles of the philosophers of nature, at least those referring
to the unity of structure in animals, appearing to him erroneous, he
undertook to oppose them. Ampére was one of the auditors of our illus-
trious colleague. If, as at the Normal Convential School, the students
had the right to challenge the professors, each lecture of Cuvier’s course
would assuredly have ended in an animated and instructive debate ;
but the regulations imperiously forbade such an innovation. Ampére
was not the man to be discouraged by difficulties. Custom denying
him permission to speak in the arena where Cuvier was unfolding his
views, openly without leaving the precincts of the college founded by
Francis the First, if not on the same day, at least during the same week,
when delivering his course onMathésiologie, Ampere broadly announced
himself, with reference to the chief point of philosophic zoology, the
declared adversary of the first naturalist of Europe. In each of his lec-
tures he gave a minute and detailed criticism of the preceding lecture
of Cuvier. Butin return, Cuvier regularly used an analysis of Ampére’s
argument, made by his brother Frederic, who attended the course on
Mathésiologie, as the text for each succeeding one of those lectures,
whose glorious memory will long be preserved by the College of France,
and in which shone in the same high degree, his talent for explaining,
his knowledge of facts in detail, and must it be avowed, his art of ren-
dering sarcasm cutting without overstepping the limits of a well-bred
critic. Hach week Ampére would seem felled by the blows of the new
148 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

Hercules, and each succeeding week, like Anteus in the fable, he would
be found prepared to sustain a new contest, not, however, without
having changed ground, though very slightly and skillfully between the
successive assaults.

In order to assume that Ampere considered this contest an ostenta-
tious tourney without consequences, it would be necessary to admit,
contrary to all reason and probability, that voluntarily closing his eyes,
he did not perceive that even blunted weapons in Cuvier’s hands could
inflict painful wounds. We will hasten to announce that Ampere was
fully conscious of how formidable was his adversary ; and if in spite of
this, he continued his course, it was to fulfill what he considered a con-
scientious duty. In July, 1824, our associate sent to the press, but with-
out giving his name to the publication, atheory of the organization of
articulated animals. In this work, after making himself master of a
single type, he followed it up amidst a thousand ¢isguises, through the
multitude of species of which the animal kingdom is composed. He
sought, for example, how the fragile butterfly could be traced to the
clumsy toad, the toad to the colossal whale. The criticisms of Cuvier
were then addressd as well to Ampére as to the philosophers of nature
or Geoffroy Saint Hilaire; and our friend decided to sacrifice all personal
feelings tothe interests of science and surrender the privileges of anonym-
ity. He fullfilled this obligation without bitterness, but with firmness; he
utterly disregarded the many annoyances incident to the position forced
upon him by circumstances, and allowed nothing to turn him from his
purpose, not even what Frenchmen dread the most, ridicule.

1 still remember a dialogue that took place on one occasion, in my
presence, between M. Ampére and an academician, who was the declared
adversary of the unity of structure, and whose witty sallies were not
only dreaded by his antagonists but often by his friends also. I will
reiate the beginning:

“Well, M. Ampére, do you hold, from an anatomical point of view,
that Master Crow perched on a tree, did not differ from the crafty, cun-
ning animal who carried off his cheese ; and do you believe that

‘The heron with the long beak set upon the long neck,’
is but a simple modification of the gossip carp he so foolishly disdained
to eat for his dinner? And again, do you think the fabler was guilty of
a heresy in natural history when he said:
‘A rat to prove he was no elephant,
Came out of his cage in less than an instant?”

“Yes, sir; yes,” said Ampére, ‘I admit as facts all you have just
enumerated as impossibilities. Further details on the subject would be
superfluous. After the most conscientious study, I shall remain firm to
a principle, apparently singular, but which time will establish; to the
principle that man is formed after a model found in all the animal cre-
ation, without one single exception.”

‘*Wonderful, M. Ampére, your theory has one rare and incontestable

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 149

merit; it is clear and categorical. Je vous attends a Vescargot,” (I shall
wait to see you a modified snail.)

Ampere entered, for a few moments very good naturedly into the
gaiety provoked in all present by this sally; but he soon began to treat
seriously the laughable question just proposed to him; his manner of
handling it showed the most profound research, and the most compre-
hensive knowledge of anatomy and natural history, and where the
first step seemed to lead to absurdities, he pointed out resemblances
and analogies so ingenious that we were surprised to find ourselves not
regretting that the term of comparison offered to Ampére had been se-
lected so far down in the scale of animal life.

ESSAY ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE SCIENCES.

The literary life of Ampére began by the study of the Encyclopedia of
the Highteenth Century, and was closed by the compilation of a plan for
anew encyclopedia. The most essential feature of this vast scheme
was a Classification of all human knowledge.

Moliére formerly, through the medium of one of the characters of his
immortal comedies, asked whether it were more correct to speak of the
figure or the shape of a hat; which was equivalent to asking whether
hats should be classed as to shapes or figures.

The abuse of classification could not possibly be described at the same
time more profoundly and more ludicrously. To go back to the time of
Moliére, or even to the early part of the eighteenth century, you will see
the great poet was not attacking a vain phantom, and you will be struck
with the strangest association of ideas; you will find the classifiers
yielding to the most truly absurd analyses and comparisons; for ex-
ample, in the Society of Arts, created by a prince of the blood, Comte
de Clermont, a society embracing the sciences, belles-lettres, and the
mechanical arts, the historian is classed, in all seriousness, with the em-
broiderer, the poet with the dyer, ete., etc.

In all things abuse is not use. Let us see, then, whether Ampere
paused at the use, in the work, still only partly published, which he
composed at the close of his life, and entitled, Hssay on the Philosophy
of the Sciences ; or Analytical Exposition of a Natural Classification of
all Human Knowledge.

Ampere proposed to undertake the vast and celebrated problem whose
solution had already been attempted by Aristotle, Plato, Bacon, Leib-
nitz, Locke, D’Alembert, &e.

The unsuccessful efforts of so many men of genius are a convincing
proof of the difficulty of the question; do they also completely prove
' its utility?

Aristotle claimed that all subjects could be included in ten categories.
If I should recall the number of times they have been rearranged, the
reply would very reasonably be, these were the necessary and foreseen
consequences of the progress of the human mind. I should then, un-
150 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

doubtedly, propose a still more embarrassing question, by asking, of
what use have the categories been ?

It has already been shown what Moliére thought of them. Here is
the opinion of the celebrated author of the Logic of Port Royal: “The
study of the categories cannot but be dangerous, as it accustoms men
to be satisfied with words, and to believe they know everything, when
they are only acquainted with arbitrary names.”

To this extravagant criticism, if it had fallen under his eyes, Am-
pere would have replied: That a natural classification of the sciences
would be the model on which the sections of an institute claiming to
represent the universality of human knowledge, should be scrupulously
formed: That a natural classification of the sciences would indicate
the proper omissions in the subjects of a well-arranged methodical
encyclopedia. That a natural classification would control a rational
distribution of the books in large libraries, a matter of so much im-
portance that Liebnitz devoted to it much thought and labor: That a
natural classification of the sciences would create a desirable revolution
in the art of teaching.

All this is just and true. But, unfortunately, the principles which
a priori seemed to lead to natural classifications, have assimilated,
grouped, and united the most incongruous subjects.

If you take the encyclopedical tree of Bacon and D’Alembert, which
is founded on the hypothesis, against which no objections have ever
been raised, that the human mind can be reduced to three faculties—
memory, reason, and imagination,—you will be led in the large division
of knowledge depending on memory to classify the history of minerals
and vegetables with civil history; and in sciences belonging to the do-
main of reason metaphysics will be associated with astronomy, ethics,

and chemistry.
_ Follow Locke, or rather Plato, and theology and optics will be found
side by side. Divide, as the schools of Rome do now, all knowledge
into three kingdoms, the sciences of authority, of reason, and of obser-
vation, and anomalies almost laughable will arise at every step.

These serious defects are not found in the classifications of Ampére.
All analogous subjects are classed together ; all that differ are separated.
The author does not create at the will of his imagination pretended fun-
damental faculties for the basis of a system without solidity. His two
chief points, his two kingdoms, are the study of the world—cosmology ;
and the study of the mind—ontology. .

The cosmological sciences are divided, in their turn, into two sub-king-
doms, namely, the sciences which treat of inanimase objects; and those
which consider only animate objects. The first sub-kingdom of the
cosmological sciences is divided again into two branches—the mathe-
matical and physical sciences. By always following out this division
by twos, Ampére succeeded in forming a table in which the whole range ~
of sciences and arts is found divided—

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 151

Into two kingdoms;

Into four sub-kingdoms ;

Into eight branches;

Into sixteen sub-branches ;

ito thirty-two sciences of the first order;

Into sixty-four of the second order ;

Into one hundred and twenty-eight of the third order.

This is what it would be necessary to study in order to be perfectly
familiar with the whole range of human knowledge.

Ought not this large number to be at the same time a subject of
discouragement to individuals taken separately, and a just cause of
pride to the human race? Neither one nor the other. Ampere only
succeeded in finding one hundred and twenty-eight distinct sciences in
the accumulated labors of forty centuries by dividing and separating
what had until then been united; by changing into distinct sciences the
simple divisions of the complete sciences, and by applying to them names
which might well be objected to, such as canolbology cybernitics, ter-
pnognosy, technesthetics, etc., ete.

Tt now remains to examine whether the new divisions are not too
numerous; whether they would add to clearness—a quality to be sought
at any price—and whether they would introduce any facilities into the
art of teaching. There is scarcely a professor who does not understand
now that the most elementary course of astronomy should first present
to the student a description of the apparent motions of the heavenly
bodies ; that, on a second division, it is necessary to leave the apparent
for the real; and that a third division, finally, should be devoted to
the investigation and study of the physical causes of these movements.
Here are three parts of one and the same whole. I do not see, I
must confess, what would be gained by making, of the first section of
the first course of the subject or treatise, a distinct science, wranography,
and by dividing the second subject into two other sciences heliostatics
and astronomy.

Our illustrious associate banished from the course of general physics
the comparative study of the modifications experienced by phenomena
in different places and at different times. If this referred to profounder
study the thesis could be sustained. But on a contrary supposition, it
would be difficult to conceive how, after having announced that to-day,
at Paris, the north point of the magnetic needle declined 22° from the
north to the west, the professor could stop suddenly and leave to his
colleague, the professor of physical geography, the office of declaring, the
year after, perhaps, that at Paris, before 1666, the observers found no
declination ; that it is not the same at all places, and that at each place,
considered apart, it exhibits a diurnal oscillation around its mean posi-
tion.

Ampére found the union of the materia-medica and therapeutics in the
medical course inadmissible. It is very true that a knowledge of tie
152 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

properties of medicine is quite different from knowing how to apply
them; but when you consider that the properties in question would be
but little studied but for the purpose of relieving human suffering; that
their union under both points of view, abstract and practical, sustains
the interest and saves time, you return to what at first seemed defect-
ive. ‘ Life is short, and art is long.” These memorable words of Hip-
pocrates, let me add, whose truth has not been impaired by the mate-
ria-medica or therapeutics, unitedly or separately, deserve to be remem-
bered in the distribution of the studies of youth.

Ampere thought he had succeeded in avoiding entirely all repetitions ;
he flattered himself that henceforth each science could be studied with-
out any trace of syllogistic circles; that, while engaged in one study, it
would never be necessary to refer to the science coming after on the
synoptical table.

An illustrious metaphysician did not believe this metModical course
possible unless in the science of abstract mathematics. Readers, he
said, must trust; they must be willing to give credit for a time, if they
wish to be satisfied; for geometers alone always pay cash.

Could Ampére always pay cash, as Malebranche expresses it, even
in applied mathematics? If time permitted I could easily prove, I
believe, that on this point our illustrious colleague deceived himself.
In his table I see, for example, astronomy before physics; and, conse-
quently, before optics. How, then, in the first lessons of uranography
and the first study of the diurnal movements of the heavens, could the
professor explain the use of the telescopes, of the lines placed in the com-
mon focus between the object and eye glasses? What could he say,
without asking for credit of the atmospheric refractions which so percep-
tibly deform the circular diurnal orbits of the stars? All astronomers
would agree with me that it is very unnatural that heliostatics, or the
demonstration of the Copernican system, should precede the exposition ~
of the laws of Kepler, considered as simple results of observation.

I could multiply these remarks, but they would not prevent Ampére’s
classification from being very superior to all those preceding it; it would
require but afew suppressions and some rearrangement of points of
slight importance to make it as perfect as would be compatible with the
nature of the subject. It can be unhesitatingly affirmed that its various
parts bear the indelible stamp of an erudition as remarkable for its
extent as its profoundness.

Ampere had not only essayed the vast problem of a general classifi-
cation of the sciences, but had also been engaged in introducing classi-
fications into the physical and natural sciences separately.

The chemical classifications proposed by the learned academician
could even now be published with profit. They would prove—and how
strange the fact—that, during one of the last revolutions in the science,
Ampere, the geometer Ampere, was always in the right, even when his
opinions were opposed to those of nearly all the chemists of the world.

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 153

THE INFLUENCE EXERCISED BY A PRIVATE EDUCATION ON AMPERE’S
MIND AND MANNERS.

Ampére, enjoying the wide reputation we have indicated, suggests
in himself too striking a comparison between the advantages of a
private education and one acquired in the tumult of public schools not
to excite eager discussion. I only refer to this discussion, however, to
deny its utility. At the time of his departure from the mountains of
Poleymeux, our future associate possessed an immense amount of infor-
mation, an extraordinary memory, a strong intellect, and a rare aptitude
in mastering all subjects ; but who would dare affirm that these qualities
would not have been as well developed at a public school? An isolated
fact could lead to no positive conclusion on so nice a point.

The adversaries of private education remembered that Ampére con-
tracted in his secluded life habits which they. tax with singularity.
Amongst others is cited the impossibility he found in giving a clear ex-
planation, when professor, of subjects with which he was perfectly
familiar; without calling, as it were, to his aid peculiar movements of
the body. This is undeniably true. There was always, intellectually
speaking, a great difference between Ampére in repose and Ampére in
action. I, especially, have always sincerely regretted that the illustrious
savant, in his riper years, should have felt his eminent powers and all
enthusiasm decline as soon as seated at his desk, without having, how-
ever, the temerity to ascribe it to the solitude in which his youth had
been passed.

What is known, in fact, of the mental struggle accompanying the
birth and development of an idea? Like the first uncertain glimmer-
ings of a star, an idea begins its dawn on the very verge of the intel-
lectual horizon, at first so small and faint that its unsteady, wavering
light seems to reach us through an almost impenetrable mist. It in-
creases in size, until sufficiently developed to display a delicate outline;
and finally, its contour clearly defined, it stands sharply out from all
around—from all that is not itself. At this last stage language seizes it,
clothes and stamps it with the definite, the impressive form which will
engrave it indelibly upon the memory of future generations.

The causes accelerating or retarding the birth of a thought, and its
various transformations, are numerous and evanescent; and there is,
moreover, neither regularity nor consistency in their mode of action.
Paésiello composed wrapped up in his bed-covers. Cimerosa, on the
contrary, received the inspirations that gave to the world the beautiful
themes with which his operas abound in the midst of the mirth and
bustle of a crowd. The historian Mezérai wrote, even at mid-day in
the month of July, by the light of wax candles. Rousseau, on the
other hand, gave himself up to his most profound meditations in the
full light of the sun, while engaged in herborizing.

If Ampére were only inspired while standing and in motion, Descartes
154 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

required to be lying down immovable, and Cujas studied satisfactorily
only when stretched at full length on his face on the floor. We have
all, in our youth, had occasion to smile at the sight of lazy school-boys
gazing fixedly at the ceiling of the school-room, as if looking for the
lesson they no longer remembered. This was the position in which
Milton, his head thrown far back, always composed.

These facts seem singular; but what will you say of Guido Reni, who
was incapable of inspiration unless magnificently dressed ; of the mu-
sician Haydn, who declared himselfutterly unable to compose his grand
choruses without having on his finger the costly ring given him by
Frederick IL; of the poet Mathurin, who would stick a wafer on
his forehead between his eye-brows, as much to excite his imagination
as a signal to his servants not to interrupt him by questions.

The eyes, it has been said, are the windows of the soul. I am con-
vinced that it would be a mistake to generalize this remark too much by
extending it to gesticulations, or, if you please, to nervous action. The
arms of Napoleon’s chair were not hacked by a penknife in moments of
anger or deep preoccupation only ; joy and mirth also gave employment
to his instrument of destruction. If the questors of our legislative as-
semblies did not place discretion in the front rank of the good qualities
which distinguish them, they could tellus that some members do not
less actively destroy the mahogany of their desks on the days of stormy
debate than during the monotonous and drowsy operation of the call
and recall. Toes any one, while reading Glover’s ballad entitled the
Shade of Admiral Hosier, divine for a moment that the poet com-
posed it while unconsciously destroying with his cane a bed of tulips,
the especial delight of his friend, Lady Temple.

Uncomfortable and painful attitudes, so necessary to some, are not
the only conditions indispensable to the development of the higher in-
tellectual faculties. Addison mentions a lawyer who could never plead
without passing-the thumb of his left hand through a loop of twine,
which he would tighten to spur the thought or expression. One of our
most eloquent prose writers, who spoke as well as he wrote, was only
able to do so, however, when his right leg was twisted around the left,
like the serpent of Troy around the arms of the Laocoén. Let us re-
member all these facts. Their very singularity should induce us to do
so. But let us be careful not to draw from them any premature conclu-
sions against any particular mode of education ; for amongst the dis-
tinguished personages whose names I have just cited there are no two
who in their childhood were placed in exactly similar circumstances.

If necessary to enter more into detail, I should be less reserved about
other habits of our associate which have more or less influenced his
career. Had Ampere been sent to school in his childhood to the huin-
blest village school, his disposition and habits would possibly have been
somewhat modified. He would have learned that scissors were not in-
tended for making pens; that writing in large characters was not the

EULOGY ON AMPERE, 155

ultimate object of calligraphy. He would not have received from a for-
eign scientist, full of wit and waggery, after he became a member of
the academy, an invitation to dinner written in the first letter of his
signature. He would have known that to write a running hand rapidly
and easily, a movement of the fingers, and not the arm, is required
a knowledge which would have saved him, during his whole life, much
bodily exertion and intolerable annoyance. Ampere’s school-fellows,
much less forbearing than father or mother, would have roughly checked
his incessant restlessness. He would have learned to control those par-
oxysms of rage which, later in life, rendered him so unhappy—called by
his friends lamb-like wrath ; and which to excite was rather a subject of
congratulation, so spontaneous, candid, and unreserved was his repent-
ance. He would have known how to confine himself to regular work.
The necessity of performing his tasks at fixed hours would have taught
him, as an author very clever in such matters said, to make his
thoughts flow rapidly from the nib of his pen, and not to drown them
afterwards in an ink-stand. Borrowing the beautiful image of Cleanthe,
preserved by Seneca, Ampere’s thoughts, once repressed, would re-
semble the voice, which, confined to the narrow channel of a trumpet,
bursts forth at length the more clear and the more powerful. Compo-
sition would then have been of secondary importance to him, and he
could have exclaimed triumphantly with Racine, “My work is finished ;
nothing now remains but to write it out.” The success of this mode of
investigation would have induced him to give up handling a thousand
different subjects at once and yielding to the nervous excitement pro-
voked by it. If he had considered the time lost in useless discussions,
he would not now sadly exclaim with the poet cited not long since—

Je ne fais pas le bien que j’aime,
Kt je fais le mal que je hais.
(“I do ot do the good I love, but the evil that I hate.”)
Here I must stop; for instead of maintaining an even balance between
the two contrary systems, as I had intended, I find myself almost plead-
ing in favor of public education.

AMPERE AN ADEPT IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM.

Ampere often lent the aid of his imposing authority to the adepts of
animal magnetism. His imperfect vision, his want of bodily dexterity,
and his great credulity, rendered him a fitting subject for the tricks and
legerdemains which ought to have induced him to consider magnetism
a branch of the art of jugglery. At certain reunions, where the love of
the marvelous, a desire to fathom the mysteries of animal organization,
and especially the hope of discovering some new means of alleviating
human suffering, brought many estimable people together, Ampere was
often fascinated by legerdemains only suitable for the amusement of
children, such as the sudden increase of little balls, multiplied almost
156 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

infinitely, and passing successively into different boxes, at the will of
one of those individuals now called prestidigitators. It was in this way,
doubtless, that Ampere had been led to admit that, under certain
conditions of nervous excitement, a man might be able to see even at
great distances without the aid of his eyes; that he might, with his knee,
see stars ; follow the movements of actors on a stage with his back turned,
and read a note with his elbow. Is it not possible that we, who even
now have no faith in such marvels; we, who formerly opposed the convie-
tions of our friend with all kinds of arguments, even resorting to raillery,
might have carried this opposition too far on other points of animal
magnetism? Is an extravagant skepticism more philosophical than an
unlimited credulity? Have we any right, for example, to sweepingly
affirm that no man ever has or ever will be able to read, with his eyes,
in the profound darkness which reigns under a depth of twenty-nine
meters of earth and rocks—I mean at the bottom of the vaults of the
Paris observatory? Has it been well established that opaque bodies—
that is, those impermeable to light—allow nothing to pass through them
which could supply and produce vision? Do systematical ideas au-
thorize us to disdain any reference to experiment, the only competent
judge in such matters? I present all these doubts as a kind of repara-
tion and expiation offered to the manes of Ampere.

Pardon this digression, gentlemen, rendered necessary by circumstances.
Your indulgence will be the more precious to me for having possibly—
nay, I will say more, probably—displeased both the advocates and
antagonists of magnetism. The latter will blame the extent of my con-
cessions; the former, on the contrary, find me too skeptical. But, such
reproaches would not be very alarming; for has magnetism, unless in
some few isolated points, any real foundation? All that its advocates
can desire, all they can rightfully claim at present, are unprejudiced
judges, who will refuse neither to see nor to hear.

Is it necessary, on the other hand, to side with those who, fanatically
devoted to the experimental method, proceed exclusively by means of
direct corollaries, and who regard an idea unworthy of being followed up
which does not flow logically from a previous idea? I will also remark
that to deny, a priori, belongs to theory ; that negative theories are even
more to be condemned, as they provoke no trial, no attempt, and there-
fore reduce the mind to a state of quietude and somnolence from which
science would have much to suffer.

I cannot, besides, admit that there would be less pride in saying, not
only to the sea but to all nature, “ thow shalt go no farther.”

AMPERE’S CHARACTER.

The traits of character which, in the course of this sketch, are
found scattered here and there through the scientific analyses, would
amply suffice in the eulogies of a large number of the academicians.
But this would not answer in Ampére’s case. From an early period a
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 157

singular concourse of circumstances had initiated the public into all the
details of his private life. They interested themselves almost as much
in what they called his credulity, his eccentricities, his absence of mind,
and his very frequent alternations of wonderful activity and profound
apathy, to which he was subject, as in his brilliant discoveries. Our friend
gradually became the principal actor in a multitude of fantastic adven-
tures, creations of the imaginations of a few idle people. Calumny,
always on the watch for such opportunities, began early to exercise its
detestable role; and thus it is that I would not attain my end were I to
neglect to give a faithful sketch of the character and habits of Ampére.

I have just spoken of calumny, but am far from wishing to apply so
severe a term to those who do not share the estimate I have formed of
Ampere’s character. Philopcemin once “ paid the fine of his deformity,”
said Plutarch. Ampere also paid the penalty of certain manners and
habits which it is not my intention to extol. I freely acknowledge that,
with the kindest feelings in the world, no one could help admitting a
want of dignity in his too profound salutations.

We have passed over times in which a man of letters, a man of
science, such as Ampere, had any reason to fear that he would be
stripped of his office if not orthodox in matters of religion and a parti-
san of the political systems of the day. Perhaps, under such cireum-
stances, our associate recalled too vividly his responsibilities as the
father of a family; perhaps an ardent imagination painted in exagger-
ated colors the brutal condition to which such a deprivation would
reduce him; and he thus stooped to measures, such as visits and pre-
sentations, which can be legitimately and justly condemned. The right
of doing so, however, can only be conceded to those who have never
been guilty of like faults, and which I refuse unhesitatingly to those
functionaries, infinitely more numerous, whose only advantage over
Ampére is that of having discovered the secret of diverting atten-
tion. Besides, do not believe that the judgments and opinions whose
organ I shall be, and which it would give me so much pleasure to have
prevail here, rest on so unsound a foundation as rumor or the chit-chat
of society—but on acts misunderstood and susceptible of different inter-
pretations. I have formed an estimate and judgment of Ampére’s char-
racter from a private correspondence not destined to see the light—which,
indeed, in strict accordance with the express wish of our friend, should
have been destroyed. Insuch documents I could hope to find Ampére’s
thoughts free from all delusive alloy. It was while reading this precious
correspondence I learned more and more to love our associate. Are
there many men who would thus gain by being stripped of the mask so
generally worn in public? These reflections have occupied much time,
gentlemen. You will pardon me if Isay itis a mistake to consider them
a mere preamble; they are a direct refutation, and by way of anticipa-
tion, of the objections with which the last portion of this notice is
threatened, even before being given to the public.
158 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

Like Lafontaine, between whom there was more than one point of
resemblance, Ampére would remain sometimes unconscious of all
around him in the midst of a crowd; and from this proceeded certain
eccentricities, certain aberrations of language, of carriage, and dress,
difficult to be understood by those who have never known what it is to
be swayed by the tyrannical domination of an idea or of a sentiment.
Abstraction offends, where it does not excite laughter. Ampere’s obliv-
iousness was of the latter kind, and yet it must have offended some,
since it has been fancied, and even seriously maintained, that the many
instances of which we have all been witnesses were the result of affec-
tation. This serious charge has been too widely spread to allow me to
give a kind of assent by silence. I will refer, then, boldly to the con-
temptible circumstances which gave rise to it.

Tell us, for example, what advantage could Ampere expect the day
when, seated at the table of persons whom all his interest required him
to treat with deference, he exclaimed in a fretful tone, fancying himself
at home, “ What a vile dinner; will my sister ever understand that,
before engaging cooks, itis necessary to inquire into their skill ?”

Iam almost ashamed to have to stoop to such a justification; for,
after all, Ampere is not the only distinguished man subject to absence
of mind. Would you like to generalize the charge? I can at once cite
the instance of the celebrated astronomer, who, on being asked by his
hovse-keeper the exact number of minutes required to boil an egg,
foand with despair that his watch, of great value, and on which depended
the accuracy of all his labors, had been in the boiling water for a whole
minute, while the egg was in his hand. I can mention, too, the case of
the pious Father Beccaria, who, his mind filled with an electrical experi-
ment even while celebrating mass, shouted in his loudest tones, ‘D7éspe-
rienza é fatta,” when he should have chanted the Dominus Vobiscum; an
obliviousness, by the way, which, being reported to the ecclesiastical
authorities, resulted in the suspension of the illustrious physicist.

To transform an absent-minded man, by the system just alluded to, into
a sort of mixture of the impostor and the hypocrite, would be to foree
us to destroy some of the clever pages of La Bruyére, and to condemn
to the flames an agreeable comedy of Regnard. There is still another
consequence, which creates yet. more disgust: the inimitable fabler
would no longer be the worthy man, as Moliére baptized him. While
admiring his immortal works, we should be forced to deprive him of
that halo of respect and esteem—in fact, almost tender attachment—
with which so many successive generations have surrounded him. The
cause is lost, gentlemen, when it leads to consequences so violently irri-
tating to public feeling.

Ampere’s credulity had become in a measure proverbial. It induced
him to believe one after another the most extraordinary facts in the
political world and the most chimerical events in the intellectual. Still
this avowal can create no prejudice against the wide reputation of the
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 159

celebrated academician for perspicuity. Credulity usually implies a
want of intelligence. This, of course, was not the case in this instance
It often arises, too, from a general sluggishness of mind, and is well
described by a popular adage: “ I would rather believe than examine for
myself.”

Indifference, in order to escape the importunities and contentions it
so much dreads, sometimes wears the mask of credulity. But indif-
ference cannot be general. Though felt towards certain subjects, it
admits in others a wide field for active interest. Such was the case
with the grammarian to whom some one was describing the fancied
symptoms of a general conflagration in Europe. He admitted all, ac-
cepted all, without a frown or a word; and was about being set down
as one of the most. credulous men of the age, when he broke the silence
by exclaiming, “*‘ Happen what will, I have not less than three thoasand
verbs well conjugated in my lists.”

Ampere belonged to another class, infinitely more rare, with whom
credulity was the result of imagination and genius. When he heard
an extraordinary statement related, his first feeling was that of sur-
prise, undoubtedly ; but his penetrating and prolific mind, discerning
possibilities where ordinary minds discovered only chaos, would, with-
out interval or rest, persevere until he connected the strange phenom-
ena, by links more or less solid, to the principles of established science.

Should I fear being accused of misunderstanding the human heart
if I add that the merit of overcoming difficulties had its influence
on the tenacity of our learned associate in defending certain theories ?
On leaving Lyons, in 1805, Ampere had not weighed well all he was
relinquishing in the associations and friends of that city. Soon after his
arrival in Paris he was seized with an attack of genuine nostalgia—
home-sickness—from which he never entirely recovered.

In letters of 1813 and 1820, and even of a later date, his acceptance
of the situation connecting him with the Polytechnic School is described
as an act of egregious folly. His favorite dreams were combinations,
always impracticable, to restore him to the haunts of his childhood.
His griefs of all kinds always found expression in, ‘‘O, had I never
left Lyons!” This, then, gentlemen, gives the key to many circum-
stances in the life of our friend until now inexplicable.

Metaphysics, to which I have already referred, were constantly inter-
fering with the works on mathematics, physics, and chemistry, on which
our associate was engaged. They were suspended, but at short inter-
vals, in 1820, 1821, and 1822, during his electro-dynamic researches, the
results of which have already been shown.

In 1813 Ampere consulted his friends in Lyons as to a plan, (I give
his own words,) ‘“‘to devote himself exclusively to psychology.” He
fancied himself called “to lay the foundation of that science for all
ages.” He did not reply to a letter from Sir Humphry Davy on chem-
160 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

istry. “No longer having,” he said, “the courage to fix his thoughts on
that tedious subject.”

I will say no more, gentlemen, as I would be afraid by dwelling longer
on the harm done to physics by psychology, of exciting against the lat-
ter too violent an opposition. ;

Among the writers conspicuous in literary history for their invaluable
and indefatigable zeal, we shall find some profoundly pious, some in-
different, and others skeptical. Those, on the contrary, who all their
lives have been harassed by internal religious struggles, have rarely suc-
ceeded in accomplishing works of great magnitude. Ampere belonged
much more than we had suspected to the last class of savants.

Madame Ampére had early begun to instil into the heart of her son
the pious sentiments animating her own. A diligent study of the Bible
and the fathers of the church was the unfailing expedient of the young
geometer when his faith was wavering. Later in life this talisman lost
somewhat of its early efficacy, a fact revealed to me by some scraps of
manuscript, for during his life Ampére never allowed me to perceive the
eruel doubts which from time to time disturbed his mind. In glancing
over to-day his letters to the friend whom he had selected as the confi-
dant of all his mental struggles, the reader is surprised to find that he
has really before him an account of the excessive tortures experienced
by the author of the Provincials. “If this were true, however,” he
wrote on the 2d of June, 1815, ‘miserable creature that Tam. * * *
Former views have not the power to make me believe; but they still
have the power to strike terror into my soul. If I had only preserved
them intact, I would not now be ptunged into this gulf.”

By comparing dates, it is evident to me that these vicissitudes of feeling
were not unconnected with the political revolutions of France, or with
family afflictions. How readily it can be believed that the tears filling
the unhappy eyes do not alone change the appearance of the external
world!

In moments of religious excitement there was no literary sacrifice
Ampere would not have considered light. While at the central school
of Bourg, the young professor composed a treatise on the future of
chemistry. In it were some bold predictions, which at the time did not
alarm his conscience. The work was scarcely published, however, when

various circumstances threw Ampere into an extraordinary mystical
exultation. From that moment he fancied himself in the highest degree
culpable for having attempted to unveil prematurely a multitude of
secrets that future ages bore and still bear in their bosom; and seeing
in his work only the suggestions of Satan, he committed it to the flames.
The illustrious academican has since deeply deplored this loss in common
with all interested in the progress of science and the glory of the coun-
try. Religious doubts were not the only ones which perplexed Ampere.
Doubt, whatever the object, always disturbed his mind in the same
degree. “Doubt,” he wrote to a Lyonnese friend, “is the greatest
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 161

torment endured by man on earth.” Here is, among a thovsand others,
a question assuredly of doubtful solution, some would say quite insolu-
ble, which exercised the ingenuity of our friend, and permit me the
expression, almost transported him with enthusiasm. The study of fossil
animals shows that our globe was once the theater of several successive
creations, which by gradual progression at last reached the condition
of man. The earth, at first, presented no living thing, no organized
matter. Then were found traces of vegetation; then invertebrated ani-
mals, worms, and mollusks; later, fishes and sea-reptiles; later still,
birds; and finally mammifers.

‘‘Do you not see,” wrote Ampére to one of his friends in Lyons, “‘do you
not see the palwotheriwms, and the anoplotheriums repiaced by man. I
hope for my part, that after a new cataclysm, men, in their turn, will be
replaced by beings more perfect, more noble and more sincerely devoted
to truth. I would give the half of. my life for the certainty that this
transformation will take place. Would you believe it? there are peo-
ple stupid enough, (his own words,) to ask what I would gain by that.
Have I not just cause to be indignant at such a question ?”

It would not surprise me that any one, at the first glance, should
evince astonishment at my enumerating political events and passions
amonest the causes so frequently saddening and discouraging Ampére’s
heart, and interfering with his scientific labors. Was not I, his friend,
for thirty years, obliged to read his most private correspondence in or-
der to discover a trace of those political griefs hidden under an appar-
ent serenity, an outward show of gentle resignation.

The year 1815 was marked by events cruelly stamped on the life of
our associate. The Emperor had returned from the island of Elba;
and the clash of arms resounded throughout Europe; nations were hur-
rying to encounter each other on unknown battle-fields, and this terrible
shock might result in the subjugation of France and the world for
many long years. These thoughts threw the mind of Ampére into the
wildest state of confusion, and he then had the incredible misfortune
to become associated with those, and God grant I may never discover
any traces of them, with whom all he most dreaded was an object of
hope, in whom the most disastrous news excited transports of joy; who
thought that the death of half a million of our countrymen would not
weigh in the balance against the preservation of their rotten institu-
tions.

These hideous sentiments inspired our associate with a well-founded
and profound antipathy. Again, he found on the other hand, among
the Parisian populace many so violent that, without waiting for provo-
cation on the part of their antagonists, proposed putting all mercilessly
to the sword.

It was at this time that Ampere wrote, (I have the letter at hand) to
his friends in Lyons: ‘I am like a grain between two mill-stones.

No words can describe the anguish I feel; I have no longer strength to
lls
162 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

sustain life here, I must, at any cost, return to you, fiee from those who
say to me, ‘you will suffer no personal inconvenience ;’ as if I could
think of myself in the midst of such catastrophes.”

Would you not, gentlemen, have a bad opinion of a man who, under
circumstances so sad, could command sufficient tranquility of mind to
be able to combine formulas, invent apparatus, and make new experi-
nents ?

Ampere, from diffidence, carefully concealed the painful feelings in-
spired by public events. Twice, however, the measure of his grief was
full to overflowing, too full to be restrained. I can cite but one in-
stance of such despair as that experienced by our associate when in-
formed of the fall of Prague, and later of that of Warsaw, to be found,
too, among the former members of the Academy. It was that of Ruello,
who entering the room with his clothes in disorder, his face pale, his
features distorted, began a lecture on chemistry in these words, which
I prize as highly as the most beautiful experiment: “I fear I shall fail to-
day in clearness and method; I have scarcely strength to collect and
connect two ideas; but you will pardon me when you learn the Prussian
cavalry were passing and repassing over my body all night.”

The news of the battle of Rosback had reached Paris the evening be-
fore.

Once surrender yourself to the influences of mind, temperament and
heart in the contemplation of political events and the caleulation of
their importance and weight and you will find it difficult to confine your-
self to those of one period, even were it as fruitful in terrible catastrophe
as the close of the eighteenth and beginning of the nineteenth centuries.
Biographers relate that Lamothe-Levayer died, demanding in a faint
voice, ‘What news of the Grand Mogul?” With Ampere the Grand
Mogul was the whole world, time, past, present and to come. ‘The sut-
ferings of the subjects of Sesostris, Xerxes, and Tamerlane touched in his
heart as tender a chord as did those of the poor peasants of La Bresse,
among whom his youth was passed. ‘To use his own words, he took the
same strong interest in what might take place centuries hence, as in
what was passing under his own eyes. We still recognize in this the
horror of the doubt not long since alluded to, but now supported by
philanthropic sentiments.

“ Friends,” exclaimed Lord Byron, in a moment of ill-humor, “are rob-
bers of time.” <A great student said before him, but with less asperity,
“Those who come to see me confer an honor, those who do not come
confer a favor.” Such a thought, equally selfish, in either form, never
sullied Ampére’s heart. His study was open to all at all hours. But
no one ever left, we must confess, without being asked by our associate if
he understood the game of chess. 1f the answer were in the affirmative,
he would seize the visitor, and force him to play, willingly or unwillingly
for whole hours. Ampere was too unsuspicious to perceive that un-
skillful players, (several have themselves told me so,) knew an infallible
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 163.

way of winning; when fortune seemed against them, they would declare,
in very positive terms, that after very mature reflection it seemed to
them that chlorine was undoubtedly oxygenated muriatie acid; that
the idea of explaining the properties of the magnet by means of electri-
cal currents was truly chimerical; that sooner or later physicists would
return to the system of emission and consign luminous waves to their
place among the rusty old lumber of Cartesianism. Ampere had thus
the double vexation of finding pretended adversaries of his favorite
theories and himself check-mated.

Philosophers, even those whose whole lives have been passed in digest-
ing codes of wisdom for all the nations of the world, frequently, in regu-
lating their own lives, fail to steer clear of the shoals evident to the
eyes of the most casual observers. Ampére, for example, never seemed
to understand how much both his health and science would suffer from
the isolation to which he had condemned himself. He fancied he was
yielding to peremptory medical prescriptions, or to the urgent entreaties
of friendship, and he really believed he was resting his mind, when,
during the day, he passed several hours either in profound darkness, or
without book, pen, or pencil in hand. Such a delusion could not de-
ceive us; and it was not strange, therefore, that we desired to lure our
friend, for real distraction, to the Comedie-Frangaise ; we were anxious
that he, who, in his youth had composed tragedies, should partici-
pate in the pure and elevated pleasure excited by the master-pieces
of Corneille, Racine, Moliere, and at a time, too, when these im-
mortal poets had for interpreters such artists as Talma, Fleury, and
Mademoiselle Mars. Fearing our friend might be restrained by the
powerful influence of his religious scruples, we concluded to relate to
him the instance of the lady at the court of Louis XIV who, in con-
sulting her confessor as to whether she committed a sin in going to the
theater, received this reply: “‘ Madame, it is for you to tell me.” These
admirable words could not fail to make an impression on so quick and
discriminating a mind as Ampére’s. For a moment we thought our
cause gained; in fact, his mind and heart were convineed; but how could
we insist when we saw he hesitated from the very praiseworthy fear of
wounding the feelings of those whose opinions he regarded?

I shall have displayed a great want of skill, gentlemen, if in the char-
acter of Ampére, presented to you under so many different phases, I
have not seemed to offer, at least within certain bounds, a very natural
explanation of the despondency to which our friend so often abandoned
himself, and given the principal causes of the distaste so frequently inspired
by studies that a slight perseverence would have crowned with a bril-
liant success. A careful glance over the later years of Ampére’s life
will detect numberless instances of this despondeney and distaste.

He who in his youth had devoured books of every description, even
the twenty volumes in folio of the encyclopedia, after reaching a certain
age seemed no longer to have the energy to read. With only a few ex-
164 . EULOGY ON AMPERE.

ceptions the books of his library remained uncet. Here and therea few
leaves were found jagged at the edges like a saw, certain proof of their
having been separated by a misapplied finger. An author, even
amongst. the most celebrated, would have vainly sought for more numer-
ous and more manifest traces of the interest and curiosity of our friend.
With the single exception of the plan for a natural classification of all
human knowledge, .to everything in the scientific and literary world he
had become so indifferent that, as a proof, there now is in the hands of
geometers, and the students of our large schools, a treatise on the differen-
tial and integral calculus, without the name of the author, title, or table
of contents; the publisher, after many ineffectual attempts, was forced
to conclude that Ampére would never furnish the few lines necessary
to give the new book the form of all books since the time of Gutenberg.

Do not exclaim, gentlemen, at the singularity of this fact. I have, ac-
cording to my judgment, something still more extraordinary to relate.

Fresnel, that illustrious physicist, who carried the experimental art to
its utmost limits; who, in the discussions of the most complex phenom-
ena, succeeded, by the force of genius, in dispensing with those power-
ful but almost inaccessible aids found now in transcendental analysis—
Fresnel, by his death, left in the scientific world a great void, which, in
one respect at least, Ampere could have filled. Friends urged it; they
painted in brilliant colors the glorious future of fame and usefulness
which would be added to a reputation already European; but it was all
in vain.- Ampere was deterred by an incredible obstacle; he could net
accept the position offered, because, hesaid, it would place him under an
obligation to read two essays on the theory of waves, with which science
had just been enriched by M. Poisson. (The two essays were written
with the elegait precision which distinguishes all the works of that
illustrious geometer.) Ampécre’s excuse will astonish every one; but he
gave it in so feeling a tone that to show displeasure would have been
an act of barbarity. If great and small things may be compared, they
would remind me of the reply of the young and able-bodied workman
to this question of Marivaux, “Why do you not work?” “ Ah, sir, if
you only knew how lazy I am!”

The large share I have just ascribed to influence of character must
not divert our attention from a cause not less powerful, which has itself
greatly contributed to diminish Ampere’s works. If it is true that the
discoveries whose analysis I have just given, in spite of all they present
of the vast, the profound, and the ingenious, form but an inconsidera-
ble part of those which might have been the fruits of the powerful in-
tellect of our associate, the institutions responsible (solidaires) for so sad
a result merit the reprobation of every friend of science. I will follow,
gentlemen, by devoting a few words to the development of this idea, the
sensible advice of the author of the Essay on Eulogies: “ In describing
great men, whether you emulate the gravity of Plutarch or the pungent
good sense of Fontenelle, do not forget that your aim is to be useful.”
ye

ST ee a, ee Ne ee

eS

eS

EULOGY ON AMPERE. 165

Among the contemporaneous savants whose wonderful talents have
been misapplied, no name is more prominent than that of Ampere.

A statesman, celebrated for his witticisms, said of one of his political
adversaries: ‘His vocation is not to be minister of foreign affairs.”
And we, in our turn, might say of Ampére: “ His vocation was not te
be a professor.”

And yet he was forced to devote the best portion of his life to a pro-
fessorship, and to supply the deficiencies of his patrimony by paid
lectures.

A severe wound received in his arm in childhood had no little
share in impairing his manual dexterity. The first place, nevertheless,
that is given him is that of professor of physics, chemistry, and astron-
omy, at the central school in the department of Ain. The professor
of physics invariably fails in his experiments; the chemist breaks his
apparatus, and the astronomer can never succeed in bringing two stars
within the field of the telescope of the sextant or circle of reflection.
Are such the real difficulties encountered by the modern type of the func-
tionary called the administrator? He derives from his office the right
to appoint; a vacancy occurs; he fills it, and there is the end of it.

Ampere left Bourg to fill the chair of mathematics in Lyons, and
afterwards the office of master of analysis in the Polytechnic School at
Paris. In this new position he was not obliged to handle retorts, elec-
trical machines, and telescopes; more complete success might now be
expected; but he who undertakes the instruction of frolicsome, rest-
less, and petulant youth, quick to seize the slightest occasion of ridicule
to minister to their amusement, will find knowledge and genius not all
that is necessary for the task. To avoid giving occasion to their mis-
chievous acuteness, it is necessary to study, by living fora long time in
their midst, their tastes, their manners, their tempers, and their pecu-
liarities. The man whose character has been moulded by himself, who
has not been trained in public schools, lacks one of the elements of suc-
cess. If your bow is too profound, instead of receiving acknowledge-
ments for the deference, you excite peals of laughter. Eccentricities,
ignorance of the world, and what is called in our artificial society a
want of style, did not interfere with Ampére’s right to rank first among
the savants for perspicuity and ingenuity; but we must acknowledge
his lectures suffered in consequence. Butthe superior powers of a mar
of genius should have easily commanded a more judicious and useful
position; and science itself, with its exquisite sensibilities, must regret
that one of the noblest and most glorious of its representatives should
have been exposed to the jests of giddy youths and idle minds.

In the seventeenth chapter of his second book of his celebrated es-
says, Montaigne makes this confession: “‘I can neither calculate in my
head nor on paper; the greater part of our coins are unknown to me;
nor do I know one grain from an other, either in the field or in the
barn, unless the differenceis very apparent; nor can I distinguish cab-
166 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

bage from lettuce in my garden; and I understand still less of traffic;
and my knowledge of merchandise is more limited still.”

Ampére, who was avery skillful botanist, would never have confounded
cabbage with lettuce, but he was as little skilled as the philosopher of
Pingueux in traffic and merchandise, which is shown by the astonish-
ment he expressed when wishing to initiate himself somewhat into the
details of his little household; he saw fifty francs for parsley in the ex-
pense of a month, and six hundred franes for the whole year.

This, then, nevertheless, is the man who, for more than a quarter of
a century, received each year as inspector-general of the university the
mission of controlling the expenses of our principal colleges ; and think
not he was better qualified to examine the professors and scholars, for,
once excited, his ardent imagination would straightway overleap the
boundaries of classic theories. A word in jest or seriousness would
often hurry him into unknown paths, which he would explore with the
most surprising clearness, utterly unconscious of his surroundings. It
was in this way that year after year the theory of Avignon, the de-
monstration of Grenoble, the proposition of Marseilles, and the theorem
of Montpellier, enriched his public lectures delivered at the polytechnic

school and college of France; but this habit of our friend of distin- -

guishing each of his conceptions by the name of the place where it
originated, makes us fear that he did not give at Avignon, Grenoble,
Marseilles, and Montpellier that individual attention that duty required
of the examiner.

If Ampére little suited the office of inspector-general of the uni-
versity I can assert the office as little suited him, for his domestic re-
sponsibilities, a beneficence often exceeding the limits of prudence, at
times, too, when his friends were anxiously calculating how much his
wants exceeded his means, the extravagant habit of altering unnec-
essarily the proofs of the printing-office, his endless desire for the con-
struction of new apparatus for electro-magnetism, prevented Ampere
irom resigning the principal source of a modest income. So far from
this, every year when the offices were distributed in the bureaus of the
university, did we see our friend submit with resignation to the busi-
ness of a solicitor to obtain a position which might injure his health and
could not add more than a hundred francs to his domestic economy, and
waste in painful, humiliating, and frequently fruitless efforts his most
precious time.

Finally, he departs, and for three or four months the author of the subtle
theories of electro-dynamics goes from department to department, from city
to city, from college to college, contending with a parcel of wretched chil-
dren. Whole daysare passed hearing them decline, conjugate, and explain
passages from de viris and the metamorphoses, or in detaining them before
the so much dreaded black-board, where they stammer over the certainly
very harmless, but very prosaic, rules of multiplication, division, and
the extract of roots. The hour of return has also its tribulations of

nith i cis
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 167

a different nature, but not the less poignant. The portfolios of the

universities have hastily stowed away in their recesses minute lists of
the barbarisms, solecisms, and errors in calculation, which the inspector-
general must examine. Their gaping jaws also demand the accounts,
giving the expenditures for the bedding, furniture, and provisions of
thirty boarding-schools. It is in vain our friend, who has scarcely the
power to reduce his own favorite works to writing, is asked for such
accounts. In a letter, after enumerating the numerous and very
just causes of annoyance by which he was besieged, he gave the finish-
ing touches to this sad picture in these words: “The severest and
most painful of duties is to be seated, pen in hand, immoveable before
a desk.” Ampere would then have to submit to the demands of the
clerk, the head of the bureau, the chief of the division, and the minis-
ter, all leagued against him; and during these daily struggles, pro-
longed until the time for new inspections, he expended more time, more
ingenuity and thought, than were required to produce a chapter of his
theories of electro-magnetism. .

So miserable a prostitution of the highest intellectual faculties can
have no supporters within these walls nor anywhere else; but some one
asks, Where is the remedy? The remedy would not be difficult to find.
I-would suggest that the colossal budget should not forget that France
is covetous of all kinds of glory. I would suggest that it should guar-
antee an independent support to the limited number of men whose pro-
ductions, discoveries, and labors command the admiration and are the
characteristic features of all ages. I would suggest that these intellect-
ual powers as soon as discovered should be placed under the tutelary
protection of the whole country; that it should watch over their full
and complete development; that it should not permit them to be wasted
on common-place subjects. Any objections to which this plan could give
rise must be more specious than solid. I had summed them up and re-
futed them, but a want of time obliges me to defer this portion of my
work to another sitting. I intend to make it the subject of a special
proposition on which I shall ask the opinion of the public before sub-
mitting it to the decision of a legislative vote. There is, however, one
point about which, from this time, there could be no difierence of opin-
ion, for every one will acknowledge that, under the liberal regime I have
just sketched, Ampére would have been one of the first of savants to
feel the effects of his country’s munificence. Free, then, from all care
and anxiety, released from a multitude of laborious occupations, nig-
gardly details and petty services, our friend would have been able to
carry out with ardor, enthusiasm, and perseverance the thousands of
ingenious ideas with which his mighty brain was daily teeming. I re-
marked not long since that the discoveries and works which he has
left behind him, would occupy a distinguished place in the history of
science, and be honored by posterity, and I added, too, without the fear
of contradiction, that they were but a small portion of what there was
168 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

every reason to expect from one of the most subtle and profound minds
ever created from the so rare union of the spirit of detail with the
powers of generalization. This idea did not originate with me. I dis-
covered it sometimes unveiled, sometimes veiled, in every page of Am-
pere’s correspondence with tbe friends of his youth. Hach day our as-
sociate, unfortunately, weighed in the balance what he had done and
what he should have done, and each day the results of this examina-
tion increased his intense sadness.

You now know the secret of what embittered his whole life; of his
desire to have inscribed on his tomb the brief but most expressive epi-
taph, also selected by a celebrated Swedish minister—

Happy at last! (Tandem felix.)

DEATH OF AMPERE.

Ampére left Paris in a suffering condition, August 17, 1836. His
friends, notwithstanding, were full of hope and confidence, inspired by
the thought that a southern climate had once before restored him to
health. But M. Bredin, who had joined him at Saint-Etienne, did not
share this delusion. The learned superintendent of the veterinary
school of Lyons discovered in Ampere’s appearance unmistakable symp-
toms of decay; his whole face seemed changed, even the bony outline
of the profile. All that remained unchanged about him was, and this
was exerting the most fatal influence on his already shattered condi-
tion, the enthusiastic and absorbing interest he evinced in everything,
north, south, east, or west, that could possibly ameliorate the present
condition of the human race. The racking cough which was weakening
our friend by slow degrees, his painfully changed voice, his increas-
ing feebleness, all demanded silence and absolute rest, even those least
interested in him would hesitate to make him utter ten words ; yet when
M. Bredin declined to enter into a minute and difficult decision on the
proposed changes in the second volume of the Essay on the Philosophy
and Classification of the Sciences, Ampere became most violently excited.
“My health, my health!” he exclaimed. ‘To talk of my health! There
should be no questions between us but those of eternal truth.” These
exclamations were succeeded by a profound development of the delicate
subtle links, imperceptible to the generality of men which unite the dif-
ferent sciences. Then passing beyond the conditions at last conceded
by M. Bredin, Ampére, kindling with enthusiasm, summoned to his
presence, for more than hour, all who, in ancient or modern times, have
influenced, for good or for evil, the lives of their fellow-beings. This vio-
lent effort exhausted him, and increased his illness during the remainder
of the journey. On reaching Marseilles, the city of his affections, which
once before had restored him to life, and which had overwhelmed his
son withso many warm-hearted kindnesses, he seemed in an almost
hopeless condition. The tender and respectful attentions of all the
functionaries of the college and those of a skillful physician produced a

- *
EULOGY ON AMPERE. 169

Slight improvement. His want of great age, too, seemed a source of
hope, for no one recollected that Ampére might have said, with the Dutch
artist Van Orbeeck, “Count double, gentlemen, count double, for I have
lived day and night !”

Our associate did not share the hopes of his friends. When leaving
Paris he knew himself near death, proof of which I have found in a let-
ter recently sent to me, in his answer to the urgent exhortations of the
chaplain of the college at Marseilles. ‘Thanks, M. Abbé, thanks; before
starting on my journey I performed all my religious duties.” Ampére’s
resignation in his last moments astonished all who knew his excitable
disposition, his ively imagination and warm heart. No one ever ex-
pected to find him display the calmness of that ancient philosopher,
who, on the bed of death, requested to have all disturbing influences
removed, in order, he said, to be able the better to observe what would
take place at the exact moment of the separation of soul and body. A.
few moments before our associate lost entire consciousness, M. Des-
chape, provisor of the college of Marseilles, beginning to read in a low
voice the Imitation, Ampére remarked that he “ knew the book by heart.”
These were, I believe, his last words. In addition to the fatal chronic
affection of the lungs, he was now seized with a high fever; and on the
10th of June, 1836, at five o’clock in the morning, our illustrious associate,
sinking under the accumulated bodily and mental sufferings of sixty
years, aS Buffon so beautifully expresses it, ‘‘died before he had finished
living.”

The same day the wires of Marseilles transmitted the sad news te
Paris, where it excited, as you remember, the most profound and uni-
versal grief. And let no one think this swift eerial messenger dropped, in
this instance, its official role to intrude itself into the domain of private
life; for Ampere’s death was a public calamity.

[The following sketch, which was originally published in Blackwood’s Musrazine,
furnishes an illustration of some traits of the character of Ampere as prestinved by
Arago :]

Ampére, the friend of Davy, and whilome one of the great hatural phi-
losophers of France, is selected for this sketch, not from the space he at
present occupies in science, but for la petite comédie que voici,* and the
amiable old age he exhibits. You see a venerable octégenairet of small
stature, clad in a coat of grotesque cut, on which the marks of climac-
tercial decay are as visible as upon the excellent old man who has borne
it for a quarter of a century. He has parted with his teeth, his mem-
ory, and his elasticity of step, but he retains his bonhommie, his delight-
ful mannerism, and ever and anon exhibits some flickerings of that en-
thusiasm in the cause of science with which he began life and without
which nothing is to be done. I dare not, however, meddle with the
splendid fragments of that genius which so often startles you into the
conviction that a great man is addressing you. J have been present at

*The little farce which follows. tAn eighty year old.
170 EULOGY ON AMPERE.

several amusing little scenes enacted between himself and his pupils ;
and one or two are so illustrative of amusing simplicity and a not-to-be-
superannuated good-nature, that I shall venture to try their effect sec-
ond-hand. On the very first day I went to hear him, (it was an introduc-
tory lecture,) he had so filled the slate with first and secondary branches
of the goodly tree of science as to leave no room for more boughs,
unless by topping the head and abridging the undue growth of the origi-
nal shoots. Space was wanted, and the remedy should have been at
hand; but, lo! the sponge had disappeared, and could nowhere be
found, though the class showed much empressement in seeking it. At
last, with a look most comically solemn, the old gentleman drew out his
cotton representative for a foulard* and looking first at the slate and
then at the mouchoir,t plainly could not make up his mind to sully its
gaudy colors by exacting from it the office of the sponge. But while
necessity and reluctance were contending for the mastery on his features,
the sponge was picked up by one of the students and eagerly presented
to M. Ampére, whose delight and manner of expressing it were irre-
sistibly comic. Seizing it between both his hands, asif to be sure that
it was not the shadow of the veritable detergent, but the very substance
that he held, he hastened to the door, and putting his head out, called
to his assistant, @ la Moliére, in the happiest and most unconscious
imitation of the de Pourceangnac accent “Je Vai trouvé; cest a dire,
on Va trowwé—il wentend pas. [Aside:] Monsieur! Ecoutez donc!” Then
at the highest pitch of his voice, “Monsieur! ne vous donnez pas la peine
de la chercher; je Vai ici; on vient de la ramasser!” “I have found
it, that is to say, itis found. He doesn’t hear me, (aside.) Monsieur !
Isay, Monsieur, don’t trouble yourself about it; Ihave got it here;
they’ve just picked it up!” Then, quite regardless, and apparently un-
conscious, of what the French journalists call “une vive explosion @hila-
rité”i from the class, he resumed as if nothing had occurred. He had
been lecturing on the polarization of light and heat, and had assumed
a square ruler and a pasteboard almanac to represent a cylindrical ray
and a transparent medium of transmission, when gradually warming
with his subject, he began (as one is apt to do in lecturing) to describe
parabolas with his ruler, one of which encountered the tumbler, (which
is here @usage,)§ and broke the pieces of glass into his eau sucrée.|| (With-
out eau sucrée nobody could get on with a lecture at the College de
France or the Sorbonne, though law and physic lecture with unlubri-
cated fauces.) Out of this half-demolished glass, he was presently
prepariug to drink, when half a dozen voices at once called out, ‘“Jon-
sieur Ampere, ch, Monsieur Ampere, qu allez-vous done faire ?” “Monsieur
Ampere, oh, Monsieur Ampére, what are you going to do?” But he,
nothing heedful of these exclamations, raised the tumbler to his lips,
and began to sip its now dangerous contents. In an instant one of the

*A real bandana. § Customary.
+t Handkerchief. || Sugar and water.
{A loud burst of merriment.
EULOGY ON AMPERE. GL

foremost in the class springs forward and seizes the old man’s hand,
another wrests the tumbler from his grasp. A scene! Profound silence
in the class! The venerable man looks at them ironically. “ Thank
you, gentlemen! Very kind of you! But you are giving yourselves un-
necessary trouble! I took it for granted that my class understood the
laws of gravitation. With your permission, gentlemen, I will first drink
my eau sucrée, Which I want, and will then give you a hint, which you
appear to want.” He now drank without further molestation, and then
drawing in a long breath—“Eh! comment, Messieurs, voulez vous qvil
esten du danger! Ne savez-vous done pas que le verre est plus pesant que
Veau?” What, gentlemen! then you thought there was some danger!
But ain’t you aware that glass is heavier than water! And did you not
observe how careful I was to drink the contents of the tumbler at a rea-
sonable angle?” Then, taking up the tumbler, he continued to incline
it over the table till it was nearly horizontal, and so on, till the pieces of
glass fell out, and the class laughed. ‘ Ah! si je Vavais bu a cetie angle-'
la!—mais jai été plus adroit!” “Ah! if Lhad drunk at this inclination !—
but I was too knowing for that.” Here (for it was at the end of his lec-
ture that this little episode occurred) a bright-eyed damsel went up and
asked some question respecting the course of rays of light through cer-
tain media, but whether old Ampére referred her to his heart, as we
should have done, we could not hear. She colored, however; her eyes
seemed pleased with the interpretation given to her question, whatever it
might have been, and they walked out together—a “January and May”—
separated only by the insecure partition of the pasteboard almanac which
the elder of the months still kept in his hand.
THE SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET,*

By Dr. P. FISCHER.

The Geological Society of France has always paid due respect to the
memory of the men who have taken an active part in its transactions
and whose scientific reputation ought in justice to be perpetuated.
M. Gervais, president of the society, has already expressed the uni-
versal regret caused among us by the death of M. Lartet, and one of
his pupils may now be allowed to review the labors of the estimable man
whose loss we deplore.

Edouard Amand Isidore Hippolyte Lartet was born on the 15th of
April, 1801, in the department of Gers, at Saiut Guirand, near Castelnau-
Barbarens. He was descended from a family which had settled in the
country at a very early date. He was the youngest of five brothers,
with whom he was sent, for education, to the Lyceum at Auch, and he
was one of the three pupils who received the medals awarded to that —
establishment by the first Napoleon. His predilections were for history
and archeology rather than the judicial sciences, but, in deference to
the wishes of his father, after leaving the college of Auch he entered
the law-school of Toulouse, where he graduated in 1820. By a singular
coincidence, Cuvier, then counselor of state, signed, instead of the min-
ister of public instruction, the diploma of a youth afterward to be
distinguished in the path which this eminent scientist had opened to
paleontology.

In order to perfect him in the practice as well as the theory of his
profession, he was now sent to Paris, in company with an elder brother.
Here, while fulfilling the duties imposed upon him with that fidelity
which characterized him throughout life, he found time for his favorite
studies. After he had mastered the rudiments of these sciences, he
continued to pursue them, and as his store of books was not large he
sold those he had read in order to obtain others. When he returned to
Gers he was not only prepared for the practice of the law but for the
especial researches which afterward rendered his name illustrious.

M. Lartet, after completing his law education at Paris, settled in Gers.
The practice of his profession was, however, confined to giving advice to
the peasants, which was the more highly appreciated because gratuitous.
Frequent emanations of this kind from the kindness of his heart consti-
tuted a prominent trait of his character. Impelled by gratitude his
clients frequently brought him medals of Gallo-Romanic antiquity which

*A translation for the Smithsonian Institution of “Note sur Ja vié et les travaux
d’Ed. Lartet, par M. Je docteur Fischer, lu & la séance générale annuelle de la Société
géologique de France,” from “ Vie et travaux dEdouard Lartet: notices et discours
publiés & Voceasion des a mort,” pp. 39-55.
ee

SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET. a fics:

they had found accidentally, and such fossil bones as had attracted their
attention.* One of these gifts, the tooth of a mastodon, seems to have
determined his true vocation, and led to one of the most important dis-
coveries in geology, that of the contents of the marl-pit of Sansan. He
soon gave himself up entirely to the study of geology and comparative
anatomy. He made several underground explorations, and then, hav-
ing entered into communication with some of the savans of Paris—Blatn-
ville, Arago, Flourens, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Michelin, Desnoyers, &c.,
commenced the publication of his researches. From 1834 to 1870 he la-
bored unceasingly in the development of new and interesting results; but
in order to appreciate his investigations, it is, I think, necessary to group
them under three principal heads, and to examine in succession the pub-
lications relating to the fauna of Sansan, to tertiary paleontology, and
to the quaternary period.

I.—INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO THE MARL-BEDS OF SANSAN.

The existence of fossil bones at Simorre, in the department of Gers,
had been noticed in 1715 by Réaumur, but no one had described this de-
posit or studied its fauna. M. Lartet, who resided at a short distance
from Simorre, and who had discovered marl-beds much richer at Sansan,
was surprised to find that important differences existed between the re-
mains of vertebrata of these two localities. The fauna of Sansan pre-
sented a large number of new species of mammals, and was terminated
by the existence of a stratum containing numerous terrestrial and fluvial
molluscs. M. Lartet described the strata of Sansan in a letter ad-
dressed to Geoffroy Saint Hillaire in 1854. Encouraged by his dis-
coveries, he undertook a series of methodical researches, which were soon
to render famous the locality of Sansan as well as the name of the natu-
ralist who explored it. In 1837 the work was sufficiently advanced to
establish the general characteristics of the two fauna of Simorre and
Sansan. While at Simorre the dominant species were reduced to two
dinotheria, five mastodons, three rhinoceroses, one pachyderm resembling
the wild boar, one small stag, and one large ruminant; at Sansan the
dinotheria appeared to be wanting; the rhinoceroses were different—had
four fingers upon the fore feet. Among other mammalia was observable
one paleotherium resembling that of Orleans, one anoplotherium, one
animal similar to the anthracotherium, several stags, one antelope, one
sminall ruminant, one gigantic carnivore, its teeth indicating affinity with
the cat and the dog, one dog, one large cat, several rodents, &c. But
the two most remarkable specimens of the fauna of Sansan were un-
doubtedly a large edentate and a veritable monkey. The edentate
seemed to M. Lartet very similar to the gigantic pangolin of Cuvier,
but as its teeth were molars it could not be classed in the same family
as the pangolin. As tothe monkey, the lower jaw and its dentition

*The peasants suppose these specimens were the creations of the devil, who imitated
in the bowels of the earth the works of the Deity.
174 SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET.

were complete—four incisors, two canines, four false molars, six molars ;
in all, sixteen teeth in a continuous series—the dental formula of man
and of some monkeys.

M. Lartet comprehended immediately the importance of the discovery
of the monkey of Sansan, and the influence it would have upon the prog-
ress of paleontology. ‘‘We have here,” said he, ‘‘a mammal of the fam-
ily of monkeys, contemporaneous with the palceotherium and the ano-
plotherium, extinet genera long considered the most ancient inhabitants
of our continents. Types of certain genera are not, then, so recent as
has been generally supposed. Perhaps sooner or later further observa-
tion may teach us that this ancient system of nature, still so little known,
was neither less complete nor less advanced in the organic seale than
that in which we live. M. Lartet’s communication produced quite a
sensation in the Institute, and excited a discussion the interest of which
inay be appreciated when we recollect that at this time Cuvier’s “ Re-
searches on Fossil Bones” formed the alpha and omega of the paleontol-
ogy of vertebrates.

Cuvier, after a critical examination of the bones of men and of mon-
keys supposed to be contemporary with extinct species, proved that they
were not authentic. He then remarks upon the tardy appearance of the
monkey and man. It is astonishing, he says, that among all these
mammalia, the larger number of which have living representatives in
warm climates, not a bone or tooth of a monkey has been found. No
trace whatever of man—all the bones of the human species hitherto dis-
covered among the fossils were placed there accidentally. In thus as-
sociating the time of the appearance of man with that of the monkey
Cuvier gave great eclat to the happy discovery of the monkey of Sansan,
as it was very probable that the discovery of the fossil monkey would
be followed by that of the fossil man.

The caution of Cuvier in regard to the antiquity of man has been in
these latter days singularly exaggerated. Instead of blame he ought to
receive praise for the precision of his researches, the most important
result of which has been to compel the supporters of the antiquity of
man to bring forward positive and multiplied proofs in support of their
hypothesis instead of premature assertions. It would be well if some
of the advocates of tertiary man had possessed a small portion of the
critical acumen which was one of the most important characteristics of
the raind of Cuvier.

Blainville, who prepared the report of the communication of M. Lartet,
agreed with him, after the examination of the jaw, in the opinion that
it had belonged to a monkey of the old world—a monkey superior in
degree, an? that no living species was identical with it. From the above
conclasiens he proceeded to the discussion of trivial and unimportant
points of anatomy. He regarded paleontology merely as a description
of fossil animals compared with their living representatives. The idea
of a succession of living beings in order of time; of the diversity of
SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET. 175

tauna according to their geological periods; of their correlation with the
temperature, the extent, and the flora of ancient continents, did not
occur to his purely analytical mind. It was far otherwise with Geoffroy
Saint Hilaire, who, notwithstanding his errors, his obscurity, and the
affectation of his language, boldly sought to penetrate the mystery of a
science still in its infancy. Geoffroy called his articles Remarks upon
the singular and important fact in natural history of the existence of a
species of monkey found in the fossil state in the sowth of France. * It has
been asserted,” he says ‘ that the monkey of Sansan. is allied to the ape
of the Sunda Islands, and yet the animals thus related, the one so old, the
other now existing, are separated by thousands of centuries.” We would
suppose that, in contemplating fossil bones, the idea of their wonderful
antiquity would alone completely absorb the mind. ‘The discovery
of the fossil jaw of the monkey by M. Lartet seems to me to be the
commencement of a new era in the knowledge of the human species;
of new research into the distinguishing characteristics of the various am-
bient media; of closer approximation to the laws which govern those
grand domains of the universe, where from age to age the mutation of
things is accomplished.”

Certainly the successful labors of modern paleontologists in relation
to the climate, the fauna, and the flora of the tertiary and quarternary
periods, have realized the aspirations of Geoffroy Saint Hilaire. What
progress has been made in this difficult branch in less than thirty years,
and how much may be anticipated from the future of a science whose
development has been so rapid! It is easy to foresee the light it will
throw upon the history of the evolution of life upon our planet. But
Geoffroy Saint Hilaire went still further—the new facts disclosed by
paleontology he regarded as so many new arguments against the theory
of the fixity of species maintained by Cuvier. ‘The incessant muta-
tion of things,” he writes, “is a dominant fact verified by every new
geological discovery.” We see by a review of these discussions how
much the savans of the Institute were at that time engrossed with the
problems of paleontology. Blainville shortly after read before the Insti-
tute a report upon a new set of fossils from Sansan, which were described
by M. Lartet in a letter to Flourens.

M. Lartet observed a singular conformation in the stags of Sansan;
the horns seemed the same at every age, and to all appearances were
not dropped as those of living deer. M. Lartet proposed the name
dicrocerus for this group of ruminants. Blainville approximated them
to (C. muntjak) the genus cervulus, whose very prominent frontal pro-
longations are crowned by horns which are shed every year.

An accidental discovery, at this time, of a peculiarity in the denti-
tion of the ruminants of Sansan will be more fully described elsewhere.
The evolution of the second molars is quite complete before the loss of
the false molars or milk-teeth, while in living animals of the same group
the milk-teeth are replaced before the appearance of the last molar.
176 SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET.

The composition of the teeth is also not the same. Cortical or cement
was wanting in those of the ruminants of Sansan, although found in
the teeth of the fossil ruminants of Auvergne, most of which are more
recent.

These ingenious researches of M. Lartet formed the germ of a work
which appeared in 1868, in which he laid still more stress upon the dif-
ferences between the fossils of the same genus of successive geological
periods in regard to the structure of the teeth and the size of the
brain.

In 1839 M. Lartet published his first summary of the discoveries in
geology and paleontology in the department of Gers, with an appendix,
in which were described forty-four species of fossil vertebrates. Another
article, published in 1851, under the title, “‘ Description of the Hill of
Sansan,” was exclusively devoted to the paleontological examination of
this locality, and of the other fossiliferous deposits of Gers. The author, in
order to explain the richness of the fauna, and the profusion of bones
found, supposes that a lake existed at Sansan in which the lacustrine mol-
luses lived, and into which the vertebrates were thrown after their death.
He shows that great difference exists between the fossil and the living
fauna of Sansan, and will not admit that the existing animals descended
directly from the miocene animals reconstructed by himself. Finally,
he gives a complete list of all the vertebrates he collected, with the ad-
dition of a catalogue of the terrestrial and lacustrine moliuses described
by Saint Ange of Boissy, Noulet, and the Abbé Dupuy.

This list, after its publication, was modified to suit the changes in
nomenclature, and then confided to M. D’Archiac, to be inserted in his
report on the Paleontology of France, (1868, p. 360.) _ The fauna of
Sansan comprises seventy-one mammals, representing thirty-nine gen-
era, eighteen birds belonging to twelve genera, twenty-eight or thirty
reptiles, a few fishes, and forty molluses of twelve genera, the largest
collection of vertebrates in our country; and very few localities in the
world could show a similar accumulation of animals in as limited a space.
'.In 1845 M. Lartet sent a synopsis of his recent discoveries at Sansan to
the Institute. “About 8,000 or 10,000 remains have been collected,
among them the bones of a large fossil edentate or Macrotherium, and
enough parts of a dinotherium to convince naturalists that this ani-
mal is not cetaceous, but rather a terrestrial quadruped. There is
not a single species identical-with existing forms. This special point
on the earth’s surface known as Sansan, has, it seems, given birth to a
variety of mammals much greater than that now existing. Every de-
eree in the animal scale has been here represented, including the
monkey. A still higher type—that of man—it is true, has not been
found; but because he is wanting in these ancient formations we need
not conclude that he did not exist.”

These ideas in regard to the fossil man were singularly in advance of
the age in 1845. It almost seems as if M. Lartet had a presentiment of
SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET. Lad

the important part he was to take later in the scientific discussion of
the contemporariness of man and the large quaternary mammals.

Through the intervention of the professors of the museum, the ground
where the excavations had been made at-‘Sansan was purchased by the
government, and M. Lartet gave to the museum his rich collection of
fossil vertebrates, which may now be seen in the galleries of that estab-
lishment. In 1851 new excavations were made under the direction of
MM. Laurillard, Merlieux, and A. Milne-Edwards; and in 1869 M. Lartet
himself presided over some explorations, which led to the discovery of
some very interesting fragments of large mammals and numerous re-
mains of small vertebrates.

IL—INVESTIGATION IN REGARD TO TERTIARY PALEONTOLOGY.

The scientific activity of our lamented fellow-member was not confined
to the study of the fossil fauna of Gers. We are indebted to him fora
number of articles upon various subjects connected with paleontology.

In 1855, Constant Prévost announced to the Institute the discovery,
in the osseous conglomerate of Mendon, of the tibia of a bird, of a very
large size, called Gastornis Parisiensis. The zoological affinities of the
gastornis were warmly discussed. M. Hébert considered it a palmiped,
nearer a Swan than a pelican; M. Lartet, although he allied it to the
lamellirostral palmiped, thought that it came from a bird less essen-
tially aswimmer; Valenciennes compared it to the albatross, and Duméril
to the stork, while Richard Owen thought it resembled the dinornis
and large quarternary birds of New Zealand. At this day it seems
probable that the opinion of MM. Hébert and Lartet was correct.

Two years after M. Lartet described another, large bird, of the softened
miocene of Armagnac, the Pelagornis miocenus, distinguished solely by
a humerus a third longer than that of the albatross, and consequently
of all living birds. The pelagornis approaches the longipennate palmi-
peds.

The comparative rarity of fossil birds in the marl-beds surprised M. Lar-
tet. Itis possible that on account of their peculiar organization they may
have escaped more easily than other vertebrates the modifying influences
of physical changes. Hence the great interestin studying them is to prove
whether they are initially endowed with a specific power of longevity suffi-
cient to continue them, by successive generations, down to the present
time.

M. Lartet, after connecting his name with the discovery of the monkey
of Sansan, had the good fortune to describe a new fossil animal of
the same group, the Dryopithecus Fontant, found in the neighborhood of
Saint Gaudens by M. Fontain. It was represented by a fragment of the
lower jaw, and a humerus, and was found in a stratum with the macro-
therium, the dicrocerus, and the rhinoceros, similar to those of Sansan.

The dentition of the Dryopithecus places it between man and the ape;
123
178 SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET.

it ought, therefore, to be classed with the superior orders of the simian
group, which include the orang-outang, the chimpanze, the gorilla, the
ape, and the Protopithecus antiquus of Sansan.

In the same basin of Garonne, M. Lartet discovered a new species of
Sirenian fossil, the Rytiodus, whose enormously developed incisors seem
to be related to the means of defense of the dugong. The classification
of the fragments, collected at Sos (Lot et Garonne,) was attended with
great difficulties, which were, I think, very skillfully overcome.

The collections of our associate included numerous remains of probos-
cidian fossils, (dinotherium, mastodon, elephant.) He saw the necessity
of settling first their specific characteristics, and then of establishing
their stratigraphical age. His undertaking was laudable and of unques-
tionable utility, since the teeth of the proboscidians are almost always
found in the tertiary and quaternary deposits. It was first necessary to
elucidate an obscure system of synonymy; then to show the dental
formula of each species, to settle the question of the successive evolu-
tion of the teeth; to fix the time of the fall of the milk teeth, and finally
to give the characteristics of the persistent grinders. Such was the work
proposed by M. Lartet in his remarkable memoir‘upon the dentition of
the proboscidian fossils, and the stratigraphical distribution of their re-
mains in Europe.

He proves the probable existence of four species of dinotheria, notwith-
standing the large number of species described, and in opposition to the
opinion (heid by several naturalists) of the union of these species into
one. A beautiful fragment of a young dinotherium gave him an oppor-
tunity of observing the evolution of the teeth.

Among the six species of mastodons admitted by him he shows a new
form, the Mastodon Pyrenaicus ; the replacement of the teeth in the
mastodons was exhibited to him by the jaw of the Mastodon angus-
tidens. Among the elephants he recognizes four species identifying
the Hlephas priscus with the elephant of Africa.

The appearance of these fourteen proboscidians was anticipated in
Europe by that of the rhinoceros. The dinotherium and the mas-
todon are found in the miocene period; but, while the dinotherium
disappeared or becomes extinet in the miocene, the mastodon died out
in the pliocene. The elephant born in the pliocene disappeared from-
Europe probably after the establishment of man in that country.

In 1856, M. Lartet gave, conjointly with M. Gaudry, an account of the
fossil fauna of Pikermi. The importance of these collections of M.
Gaudry in Greece are now well known; fifteen species of vertebrates,
represented by thirty-three genera, have since been described in his
article upon the fossil animals and the geology of Greece, but in 1856
the classification of the fossils had hardly commenced. There were
“umerous remains of monkeys, a careful examination of which proved

hat the two species described by Wagner and Roth, under the names
|

SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET. 179

of Mesopithecus Pentelicus, and Mesopithecus major, were only the two
sexes of the same monkey.

MM. Lartet and Gaudry mention a large edentate of Greece, like the
macrotherium of Sansan; they also describe the Thalassictis robusta,
the Hystrix primigenia, and give details in regard to several other
species discovered by Wagner; but the most valuable facts brought to
light by their article relate to two fossil giraffes, one of which after-
wards became the type of the curious genus Helladotherium. They also
pointed out the analogy between the fauna of Pikermi and that of
Cucuron, and the excavations of M. Gaudry and Cucuron have since
confirmed their views in this respect.

M. Lartet observed that with the most ancient ruminants of the ter-
tiary period, that part of the molar-teeth which forms the enameled
crown above the socket was shorter and projected less beyond the edge of
the alveolus than with the quaternary ruminants or existing species of
the same family.

M. Lartet concluded from this that the tertiary lynx, whose molars
are not so long in the crown asin the animal now in existence, must have
been shorter lived, since the duration of life necessarily depends upon the
functional persistence of those indispensable organs of nutrition.

He also observed that in the old mammals the size of the brain was
small compared with that of the head. Cuvier had before been im-
pressed by the small relative volume of the brain of the anoplotherium,
and supposed in consequence that the animal had very little intelligence.

The examples presented by M. Lartet in support of his thesis are con-
elusive. Thus, the Brachyodon eocenus of the eocene, the lophiodons of
Issel, have brains smaller and less complicated than that of the Caenothe-
rium of the lower miocene of Allier; the brain of the Hipparion has
fewer convolutions than that of the horse; the wild-eat (Viverra antiqua)
of the miocene of Allier has a cranial bone less voluminous than that of
the living species, while its olfactory lobes are more developed,

The size of the cranium, considered in relation to the length of the en-
ameled crown of the teeth, induced M. Lartet to suppose that the longev-
ity of animals increases in direct proportion to the cerebral development,
and consequently the animals now existing ought to live longer than their
corresponding types in the ancient world.

I ought to mention among the researches of M. Lartet in regard to ter-
tiary fauna, his latest work upon the Trechomys Bonduelli, a rodent of
the size of a rat, from the upper marl of the gypsum of Pantin. Mo-
lars with a crown similarly formed may be found among existing ro-
dents of the American type. Among fossil rodents which have some
relation to the Trechomys may be mentioned the Theridomys and the
Isoptychus.

In the calcareous formations of Gironde, M. Lartet mentions the unex-
pected association of a rhinoceros with an anthracotherium and a paleo-
therium. These fossils were discovered by M. Delfortrie, of Bordeaux.
180 SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET.

The rhinoceros may be compared to the R. latidens ; the anthracotherium
to the Hippopotamus leptorhynchus, of Ronzon, near Puy-in-Velay ; the pa-
leotherium to a species of Paloplotherium of the calcareous deposit of
Ronzon. The existence of the rhinoceros is thus carried back to the
jtime of the paloplotherium. The same relations between these animals
Imay extend to the beds of Hempstead, in the Isle of Wight, where there
are hippopotamiand paleotherians ; also, to Bournocle Saint Pierre, where
the Rhinoceros Brivatensis has been found associated witha paleotherium.
Certain types of mammals which have been for a long time considered
as characteristic of distinct tertiary periods ought now to be examined
carefully with reference to the age of the deposits in which they are found.

IIIL.— RESEARCHES RELATIVE TO QUATERNARY FAUNA TO THAT OF
THE CAVES. AND TO THAT OF THE PRESENT TIME.

The researches of M. Lartetin regard to ouaternary fauna, to that of
the caves, and to fossil man, added greatly to his reputation, and placed
him among the most illustrious sarans of our country. He did not seek
celebrity ; modest, conscientious, and burdened with the heavy respon-
sibilities of an official position, he loved science for the pleasure it
gives its votaries. His amicable relations with most of the naturalists
of Europe was of great advantage to him, and his careful study of qua-
ternary and tertiary fauna prepared him tor the discussion of the great
question of fossil man. It was, therefore, not surprising that he should
have distinguished himself in this branch of natural science.

The memoir of M. Lartet upon the ancient migrations of the mammals
of the present time may be considered as an introduction to the consid-
eration of the fauna of the caves. According to his observations, the
quaternary fauna includes two distinct zoological groups: The first is
represented by the elephant of Africa, the two-horned rhinoceros, the hip-
popotamus, the lion, the panther, the serval, the striped hyena, the genet,
the wild boar, &c., animals now nearly all African, which lived in
Europe before, during, and after the great migratory phenomenon of the
north.

The second zoological group is composed of mammals of northern
origin, Elephas primigenius, Rhinoceros tichorhinus, and many species of
Europe. A few of its representatives, the musk-ox, the lemming, the
glutton, the reindeer, since the quaternary period, have migrated to subare-
tic latitudes ; others, such as the Hlephas primigenius, the Rhinoceros tich-
orhinus, Cervus giganteus, Bos primigenius, Ursus spelceus, &c., are gene-
rally becoming extinct, in accordance with the laws which control the
longevity of individuals, and so limit the duration of species.

Truly an examination of the quaternary fauna is not less important
than that of the periods which preceded and followed it, and we can
well comprehend M. Lartet’s opposition to the doctrine, then all-power-
ful, which reduced to a short period of physical convulsions, the time
during which the quaternary species were developed. ‘ This quaternary
SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET. 181

period,” he says, “‘ which is regarded by many as a sudden and violent
transition from geological to present times has probably witnessed the
development of millions of successive generations of the mammals
which now inhabit Europe, and the day may not be far distant when
the word cataclysm will be expelled from the vocabulary ot positive
geology.”

This theory in opposition to the great effect of cataclysms upon the
existence of species was elaborated and supported by incontestable facts
in “some remarks upon the geological antiquity of the human species, in
Southern Europe,” addressed by M. Lartet to the Academy in 1860, and
printed in the Bibliotheque de Geneve.

In regard to the discoveries of M. Boucher des Perthes, then oreatly
contested, M. Lartet considered that all doubt would be dissipated if
traces of human action could be found upon the bones of the animals
exhumed at the quartz works. He then sought for the quaternary
bones described or mentioned by Cuvier, and found upon them very
evident traces of the action of flint instruments.

The human race who worked the quartz of Amiens inhabited Eng-
land and France were the same. The two countries were then united ;
their separation did not take place until after the deposit of the diluvial
banks. After that event no great catastrophe occurred in Europe;
the water courses may have been more rapid, but they did not overflow
the limits of their present hydrographic basins. A dozen mammals,
more or less, disappeared by gradual and successive extinction, and the
greater part of the terrestrial population passed through the ordinary
supposed changes of this long quaternary period.

From 1860 M. Lartet was almost exclusively employed in the caves,
and we are indebted to him for interesting deseriptions of Aurignac, of
the Madeleine, of Laugerie, of the Eyzies, of Bruniquel, and of several
other celebrated localities. It is difficult to give in a limited space an
idea of the various matters discussed by M. Lartet in regard to these
caves; questions which belong to ethnology, anthropology, primitive in-
dustry and even history; but I cannot pass over in silence the oppor-
tune intervention of paleontology in the chronological classification of
the caves.

In looking over the list of the great quaternary mammals, it will be
seen that eight or nine extinct or emigrated species have been found
among the remains of the caves. Some of these have never been met
with except in the lowest strata of these caves, where they have been
succeeded by several zoological generations, while their presence, in the
oldest diluvium equally attests their age. Several successive periods
may thus be distinguished during the time of the caves.

For instance, the Ursus speleus seems to have appeared the earliest,
and to have become extinet before the animals associated with it. The
Elephas primigenius and its faithful companion, the Rhinoceros tichorhi-
nus, are found in the diluvium, but are wanting in the peat, the kitchen
182 SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LaRTET.

refuse, the lacustrian habitations, &e. The reindeer, on the contrary, are
still in existence, as also the urus or bison of Poiand.

M. Lartet divides the period of primitive humanity into four ages: the
age of the bear of the caves, the age of the elephant and of the rhinoce-
ros, of the reindeer and of the Poland bison or auroch, but these sys-
tematic divisions are applicable only to a limited region. In Lithuania,
the aurochs still exist, as in the time of Cesar the reindeer was still an
inhabitant of the hercynian forest.

Such were the facts disclosed by M. Lartet by his examination of
the eave of Aurignac. In his other excavations all his sagacity was
called into play by the figures of animals sculptured and engraved—the
first artistic efforts of the men of the caves. It would be unjust not to
mention in this connection the name of the English savan Christy, who
displayed so much zeal in the explorations of Périgord, and who pre-
pared, with M. Lartet’s assistance, a beautiful work entitled ‘ Reliquie
Aquitanice.”

It was in association with M. Christy, that M. Lartet calculated the
zoological population of most of the grottoes of Périgord. “ A race,
aboriginal or otherwise,” he says, “inhabited this region in the same
period with the reindeer, the bison, the wild goai, the chamois, animals,
some of which have now representatives only in extreme climates, while
a few descendants of others are found on the summits of the Alps and
the Pyrenees. These people were not acquainted with the use of metals,
they lived by hunting, and no animal was domesticated by them. Their
sculpture indicates great artistic feeling.”

We are indebted to this artistic talent for a very satisfactory repre-
sentation upon an ivory tablet of the Hiephas primigenius. This re-
markable specimen came from the cave.of the Madeleine. The figure
of the reindeer is found engraved upon many of the bones from Périgord.

All the facts relative to the caves of the southwest part of France
were to have been collected in a large volume by MM. Christy and
Lartet, but unfortunately this interesting book was not completed, in
consequence of the premature death of its authors. The parts published
are filled with original research in regard to the caves of the valley of
Vezere, the ancient fauna of Périgord, the grotto of Cromagnon, the
exploration of which was made by a son of M. Lartet, and the human
fossils of Cromagnon, We.

M. Lartet also examined the bones of the caves of the Maritime Aips
and of Herault. He found in the cave of Mars, about two miles from
Vence, a new species of bear, strongly resembling in some respects the
polar bear; this bear was associated with the leopard and the Rhinoceros
Merkii. From the rhinoceros M. Lartet endeavored to determine the
characteristics of the quaternary rhinoceros, of which the affinities are
very obscure.

In conclusion I would call attention to a memoir upon the fossil
musk-ox, a portion of the skull of which was found in the diluvium of
SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET. 183

Précy, (Oise.) There was nothing peculiar in the character of this
fossil; its classification was easily determined; but its presence in the
quaternary period was a fact worthy the consideration of paleontolo-
gists. M. Lartet mentions as analogous cases the reindeer found at the
foot of the Pyrenees; the sperm whale of the bone-pits of Montmo-
rency, and that of the caves of Perigord, which resemble the American
species; the bear of Canada, which is identical with the supposed
agouti of the caves of Liége; the antelope found at Perigord; the
desman, of Muscovy, in Norfolk, described by Owen under the name
Pr aleospalax magnus, &c. Were these consecutive changes of habite-
tion due to elective migration; to a forced retreat on account of the
invasion of man, or to a gradual reduction of the species destined to
become extinct?

This sketch of the works of M. Lartet, however incomplete, may give
some idea of the character of his mind. He was to the last degree
eareful and accurate in the examination and classification of fossil
specimens; but their character once established on a firm foundation,
his ingenuity, his patience, his originality, and power of close observa-
tion frequently from facts apparently the most sterile, developed very
unexpected and interesting results. The definition of genius, as
applied to a well-known naturalist, “genius is patience,” was fully
exemplified in him, and he was never more patient than during his
excavations in the caves, while in his application of paleontology to
the classification of the fossil specimens found there, he truly acted as
a pioneer in this branch of science.

In the latter years of his life M. Lartet, whose modesty equaled his
wisdom, received many marks of honorable distinetion. He was elected
to preside over the Geological Society in 1866 ; shortly after the Anthro-
pological Society gave him the same testimony of esteem. He was made
President of the International Archeological and Prehistoric Anthropo-
logical Congress, which was inaugurated at Paris in 1867, and which
claimed the honor of having originated theories in regard to fossil man.
He was appointed a member of the commission for the History of the
Transactions of the Exposition of 1867, and took an active part in the
organization of the very interesting anthropological galleries. He ren-
dered important assistance in the formation of the museum of Saint Ger-
main, and was made an officer of the legion of honor at time of its in-
auguration. In 1869 he was elected by the professors of the museum
to the chair of paleontology, made vacant by the death of M. d@’Archiac,
whose loss was deeply deplored and whose memory will always be vene-
rated by the Geological Society.

M. Lartet was sixty-eight years of age when he entered upon his pro-
fessorship ; he had never undertaken a course of public instruction, and
felt the importance of the task imposed upon him. He prepared a cer-
tain number of lectures, but unhappily, to his great regret, his health,
already impaired, prevented a full exposition of his views in regard to
184 SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF EDWARD LARTET.

tertiary fauna. His physicians soon interdicted all intellectual work
and recommended his return to his native air as the only hope of recovery.
He left Paris in the early part of August, a prey to the most gloomy
presentiments, and had hardly arrived at Gers, near Sansan, the scene
of his former labors, when he was heart broken by the national misfor-
tunes of the French, at the time of the foreign invasion; his strength
failed rapidly, and he expired on the 28th of January, 1871, less than
two years after his appointment by the museum, bequeathing to us an
example of a life honorable, disinterested, and entirely devoted to science.
THE SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS.

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT OF THE
WORCESTER (MASSACHUSETTS) FREE INSTITUTE OF INDUSTRIAL SCI
ENCE, JULY 31, 1872.*

By PROFESSOR ANDREW P. PEABODY, of HARVARD COLLEGE.

Many years ago there was a strong feeling throughout New England
in behalf of manual-labor schools (so-called.) I think I am right in
saying that the experiment, wherever tried, failed. The reasons are
obvious. The labor was not skilled labor, and therefore gave no mental
revenue, and very low wages. It was merely a clumsy endeavor to
enable poor young men to pay by the least remunerative kinds of work
for their board and tuition at a half-time school. The hand-labor not
only taught them nothing, but stupified those of them for whom that
work remained to be wrought. Most of them, however, started with
not a very large or active brain-capital; for so slow and limping a gait
had few attractions for youth of genius or ability.

This institution is at the broadest remove from those, in theory and
in practice. Its name soimplies. Itis an institute of industrial science.
Its labor is brain-work; its machine-shop is a recitation-room ; its me
chanical processes correspond to the collegian’s drawings on the black
board; its finished products, to his corrected and approved diagrams.
Its object is to train liberally educated mechanics and artisans—menr
who shall start in life with progressive ideas and the power of rapia
self-advancement; who shall diffuse intelligence while they create
values; who shall adorn as men the society which they enrich as opera-
tives; who shall have, independently of their callings, a selfhood im-
measurably more precious and more honorable.

In addressing the students, graduates, and friends of this institution,
I have chosen for my subject the worth of an extended education to
mechanics and artisans.

Suffer me to begin with the lowest consideration, that of money’s
worth—the lowest as it is commonly called, yet by no means to be
despised ; for though we have the best authority for saying that “the
love of money is the root of all evil,” this love and the sordid qualities
which it implies and engenders are, I think, oftener produced by pinch-

*Furnished by the author for publication by the Smithsonian Institution, at its
special request.
186 SCIENTIFIC 2DUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS.

ing penury than by earned and merited prosperity ; while the position,
influence, and capacity of usefulness which money confers are worthy
of every man’s strong desire and honest endeavor. Especially do they
suit the ambition of him who may hope to enrich himself by the crea-
tion of values, and not by speculating upon them.

Let us analyze the price of a finished commodity. Here is a lathe, or
an air-pump, or a steam-engine, held at a certain price, which, where
competition is free, very nearly represents its exact value. That value
is composed of three parts: the wages of labor, the wages of skill, and
the reimbursement and profit of capital.

The wages of labor, that is, of mere physical force, or of processes
which require no knowledge or discretion, constitute the smallest part
of this value. Labor can never earn more than a mere subsistence, nor
ought it to earn more. Left to itself, it cannot produce more than
enough to sustain a meagre, starveling life. The aborigines of North
America had dwelt on this soil for hundreds, perhaps thousands of
years, yet had not only accumulated no wealth, but were unable, ex-
cept at rare intervals, to secure a satisfying supply for the rudest wants
of nature. A New England farmer, even with the ownership of his
land, if he apply no skill or science to his farm, though he, his wife, and
his children toil incessantly, can obtain barely the necessaries, hardly
any of the comforts of life. Now, the wages of labor must be measured
by its products, and by this measure will generally fall short of the cost
of comfortable living. They somewhat exceed this standard in our
country at the present moment. The reason is that in the development
of our resources, the construction of railways, and the opening of fresh
soils, the demand for manual labor keeps a little in advance of the sup-
ply. But what mere bone and muscle can earn in an old and settled
community, what their earnings tend to become and may very soon
become here, may be learned by the wretched pittance of English opera-
tives, not sufficient to save their families from a death-rate which shows
that poverty is no less destructive than pestilence.

Moreover, low as these wages are, the tendency in a fully-settled
country is to a still farther decline. Though production may increase,
the demand for unskilled labor diminishes. The time was when all
work was done by hand. Now, machinery driven by steam or water-
power supersedes the greater part of hand-labor. All the strong men in
the habitable world could not exert the amount of physical power which
is at this moment at work in the little island of Great Britain. The
substitution of machinery for human strength is still going on. Steam
is replacing even the shovel and the pickaxe; and the time will come
when the Briarean steam-engine, with its fireman and feeder, will every-
where do the work which a hundred arms do now. The supply of labor
thus tending constantly to exceed the demand, its wages must sink
very nearly to the starvation point.

The second part of the price of a manufactured commodity is the
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS. 187

wages of skill. This is distributed among the workmen employed, in
proportion to their respective.degrees of skill. He who can work only
as a journeymen under the direction of others, or who can perform but
a single and not very difficult process in a complicated piece of work,
receives a somewhat higher compensation than he would get for carry-
ing a hod or shovelling earth, and this slight advance is the price of the
imperfect training and the moderate degree of brain-power which he
puts into his work. He, on the other hand, who understands every
part of. his business, who can knowingly direct the labors of others,
who ean insure for the articles of his manufacture the highest reputa-
tion, and can be relied on for the fulfillment of his contracts, can ob-
tain a price fully proportioned to his superior skill and ability. His in-
come is a compensation for the amount of labor which his skill super-
sedes. <A part of the saving inures, indeed, to the public in the cheap-
ening of the commodities produced, but a large portion becomes the
legitimate recompense of his own skill. Competition will prevent his
receiving more than he fairly merits. The master-machinist or manu-
facturer, who has some hundreds of operatives under his employ, even
though he have twice or three times the salary of the governor or chief
justice of the State, earns all that is paid to him, and is at the same
time a public benefactor to a very large extent; for the commodities
that he furnishes would, under a less skillful superintendence, be pro-
duced at a much greater cost. But for skill like his, clothing and fur-
niture, that are now within every one’s reach, would be too expensive
for the means of any save the richest purchasers.

But this skill, except in the rarest instances of mechanical genius,
is to be acquired by education alone, and not by the mere training of
the hand, but equally of the brain. The skilled laborer cannot dispense
with the knowledge of chemistry, physies, and mathematics. By chem-
istry he must learn the properties of materials, their proportions and
laws of combination, the action upon them of oxygen and hydrogen, of
heat, light, and electricity. By physics he must become acquainted with
the mechanical powers, the strength of materials, the effect of friction,
the constants and variables which must always be taken into the ac-
count to prevent either the deficiency or the waste of force. But physies
is a mathematical science, and chemistry has become one; indeed, till
it was one, it hardly merited the name of science. Without a very
thorough mathematical training, neither chemistry nor physics can be
so understood that the artisan can have a fair command of his mate-
rials, instruments, and forces ; can meet unexpected exigencies ; can avail
himself understandingly of improved processes; can calculate results,
economize resources, and give his products their highest degree of per-
fection. Then, too, the skilled artisan needs general culture. He is to
conduct correspondence, to treat on equal terms with men of intelli-
gence and education, to maintain in society a position worthy of re-
spect and confidence, to do his part toward raising his special calling to
4

188 SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS.

the rank of a liberal profession; for this is what the various depart-
ments of mechanical art ought to be, and they will be thus called and
recognized, so far as their professors show themselves men of liberal
nurture.

The third part of the cost of a commodity, is the reimbursement and
profits of the capital expended in buildings, machinery, and raw mate-
rials. Capital is, in fact, the accumulated savings of the wages of skill.
Labor creates all values. But, as we have seen, mere hand-labor can
no more than support the laborer; it leaves no surplus to be saved.
Skilled labor, on the other hand, creates more value than the laborer
consumes, and the surplus remains in hand—in the ruder states of so-
ciety, in such wealth as can be locked up in coffers, ward-robes and
granaries; in a more advanced community, in such forms as admit of
its expenditure in industrial operations. By laws, which I have not
time to expound, but as inevitable as those by which the little streams
of a valley lose themselves in the river that drains it, small capitals
tend to run together, and thus to form the large capitals, which are the
object of so much senseless jealousy and hostility. These large capi-
tals are indispensable to the stability of industrial operations ; for even
in the most lucrative descriptions of business there are not unfrequent
seasons of stagnation and reverse, which would be ruinous, were there
not capitals ample enough to keep the wheels of industry in motion
without immediate revenue.

Capital ought toearn much more than the mere support of its holders
and managers. It ought to have such profits as will lead to its own
large annual increase, which is needed, in part, to replace the immense
amount of property annually destroyed by fire, storm, shipwreck, and
disaster, and, in part, to meet the essential outlays for the industrial
demands of a population growing rapidly, both in number and in wants.
Here let it be remembered that all capital, in order to yield a profit, must
be used for industrial purposes. The hoarding of it is a mere fiction.
It must all be worked over, and the labor and skill which it employs
must be paid for before the capitalist receives the first dollar of his in-
come. It will be observed, also, that large capitals, so far from super-
seding, utilize, protect, and cherish small capitals, however invested,
whether directly in industrial enterprises, or indirectly through banks ;
and while the absorption of small capitals is constantly going on in a
healthy condition of society, their creation is more rapid than their ab-
sorption, as in a rainy season the brooks and streams receive from the
heavens more water than they can carry into the river.

Now the point which I wish to urge is this: By the education given
nere, the mechanic or artisan is enabled to secure for himself at once
the wages of labor which will feed and clothe him, the wages of supe-
rior skill which will yield him a surplus revenue, and the profits of
capital, by the investment of his savings year by year, and of the con-
stantly increasing income of those savings. This, indeed, is the proper
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS. 189

way of settling the conflict between Jabor and capital. Every skilled
laborer belongs to both parties, and in fighting against capital he is at
war with himself. If he begins life poor, nis interest may, indeed, then
seem to be on the side of labor; but with every year’s savings it is
more and more for his interest that capital should yield a remunerative
income, and the very measures which, if successful, would impoverish
the millionaire, would render his modest surplus earnings unproductive
and their investment insecure. The graduates of this institute may re-
gard themselves as capitalists in the near future; for the brain-power
that is furnished here is the very material from which wealth is created.
Were I familiar with the names in Worcester, I know that I could point
out to you not a few of the proprietors of these great manufacturing
establishments, who came hither with no resource except hands and
brain, and have fairly earned, by industry and skill, every dollar of the
tens and hundreds of thousands which it may be literally said they are
worth; for, though a man may not be worth all the money he has, he is
worth.all that he has honestly acquired.

But there are higher grounds on which institutions like this should
be cherished. We are training in our schools of industrial science dis-
coverers and inventors in their several departments—men who will
shorten and cheapen the labor of production, introduce new applications
of science to the useful arts, and add permanently to the wealth of
humanity by industrial improvements.

There are some families in the vegetable creation—dicecious, so
called—in which the fructifying pollen and the fruit-producing blos-
some are elaborated on different plants. Similar has been the case, for
the most part, in the industrial world. Inventions have generally been
the joint product of two very different classes of minds, neither of which
could have effected anything without the other; and, not unfrequently,
between the two an important invention has been kept for many years
in abeyance, and, when finally perfected, has been of doubtful or dis-
puted parentage. The germinal idea or principle has been conceived
and suggested by a man of learning, science, and studious and reflective
habits, but of no practical skill. He has tried in vain to embody it;
has encountered, it may be, ridicule, opposition, contempt. Perhaps,
after years of fruitless endeavor, he has lapsed into unhonored penury or
death. His idea has been taken up by some man who had the skill to
actualize what he had not genius or knowledge enough to originate,
and he has reaped the honor and the profit of his predecessor’s uncom-
pensated study and toil. As by the old slave-law the child follows the
fortunes of the mother, so the invention—the brain-child—is, by gen-
eneral consent, accredited, not to the fertilizing mind, but to the pro-
ducing hand.

An obvious instance may be found in the history of the application
of ether as an anesthetic agent. You know that Drs. Jackson and
Morton both claimed the invention, and both, I believe, with equal

190 SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS.

truth, though by the law which I have specified the right was Morton’s.
Jackson conceived the idea, for which Morton’s scientific knowledge was
inadequate. Morton contrived means for the successful experiment, for
which Jackson’s practical skill was inadequate. Had Jackson been a
practising dentist as well as a chemist, or had Morton been a scientifi-
cally educated man as well as a dentist, either might have borne the
undisputed honor of discoverer and inventor.

In a certain sense inventions are said to be the work of their age
rather than of individuais; but they have generally been a little behind
their age. A new and fruitful idea has commonly been current in the
scientific world for a generation or more, before it has been actualized,
and this for the simple reason that the scientific men have not had the
skill requisite for successful experiments, and the men of practical skill
have not had science enough to recognize and welcome the dawning of
any new light. Thus, an invention of prime importance has often hov-
ered long within the near reach of both speculative and practical men,
waiting for that conjunction of science and skill without which it could
not assume an available form; and when it has been at length brought
forth, many had approached so near it and had so distinetly antici-
pated it as to claim with entire honesty the merit of its inception.

The history of steam-power affords numerous illustrations of the prin-
ciple which I have enunciated. <A full century of experiments by spec-
ulative philosophers on steam as a working force had elapsed—with the
construction of various forms of machinery, which demonstrated its
potential efficacy, yet were too cumbrous, or too frail, or too restricted
in their range of work to be put to any use, except for pumping water
from mines—when the steam-engine, with its cylinder and piston sepa-
rate from the boiler, came from the hands of Newcomen, the blacksmith,
and Cawley, the plumber, about the beginning of the last century.
Some sixty years later, Watt conceived the idea-of a separate condenser,
to save the loss of power and the waste of fuel by the alternate heating
and cooling of the cylinder—a contrivance which alone and at once
placed steam in advance of all other mechanical agencies, and gave sure
presage of its enduring and world-wide supremacy. But he, though a
mechanical genius of the highest order, was hardly more than a self-
taught workman, having had but a single year’s apprenticeship to a
London mathematical-instrument maker. His conception and foresight
of his great invention were clear and vivid ; but his own working-power
was very limited, and in all Glasgow he could not find artisans capa-
ble of the delicate workmanship required, the collective skill of the city
not sufficing for the casting and boring of a cylinder, while a hammered
cylinder left fatal interstices between its inner surface and the piston.
After fourteen years of speculation and experiment he had got no
further than to show that he ought to have succeeded, and was yielding
to despair under the pressure of poverty and repeated failures, when he
entered into partnership with Boulton, a trained and skilled manufac-
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS. 191

turer in iron and steel, in Birmingham, the emporium of skilled labor
for the British Empire. Under these new auspices his progress was a
continuous triumph—a triumph which, however, was his, only because
his partner was a just and true-hearted man; for it is under precisely
such circumstances that in numerous instances the actual inventor has
succumbed to the skilled and able artisan, while Boulton left to Watt
the fame that was his rightful due, and took care that his long years of
toil and want should be crowned by an old age of ease and affluence.

Attempts at navigation by steam were made at intervals for a century
and a half, or more, but generally by men who had more science than
art; often by those who had neither, but only a vague conception of the
capacity and destiny of this mighty agent which was to inaugurate a
new era for human industry and enterprise. Some of these experiments
were partially successful, yet failed to combine the essential conditions
of power, speed, manageableness, and durability. Fitch, had he been
a well-trained mechanician, would undoubtedly have antedated by sev-
eral years the establishment of steam-navigation on our western waters.
But the glory was reserved for Fulton, who, though not educated as a
mechanic, had made himself one by taste, study, and matured practice,
and was as familiar with the details of material, method, and workman-
ship as with the scientific conditions to which all these are subservient.
Yet even he was retarded in the suecessful execution of his plans by
the fact that he was not by profession a machinist or a ship-builder.
The idea, full grown and available, preceded its final embodiment by at
least fourteen years, an interval in which he had experimented in France
under disadvantages and discouragements that would have been fatal
to the scheme, but for his indomitable elasticity and hopefulness. Had
he been master of a machine-shop or a building-yard of his own, he
would undoubtedly have launched the Clermont not later than the first
year of this century instead of the seventh, and would have been spared
the litigations with rival claimants which imbittered the residue of his
life, and hastened its close, leaving, as his biographer says, for ‘the only
patrimony of his children, the load of debt which their parent con-
tracted in those pursuits that ought to command the gratitude, as they
do the admiration of mankind.”

Of the disabilities under which an inventor may labor in consequence
of his not being an artisan by profession, we have a striking illustration
in Eli Whitney, the inventor of the cotton-gin. In his case the concep-
tion and the execution were united. He was a man of thorough literary
and scientific education, and at the same time of a native mechanical
genius, which attested itself in his very boyhood by the manufacture of
tools, cutlery, and musical instruments, of peculiarly good quality and
finish. After graduating at Yale College he went to Georgia under an
engagement as a teacher. Cotton was at that time almost worthless as
a staple of agriculture and commerce, as it could be cleaned from the
seed only by hand, at the rate of a pound of the gross cotton per day
192 SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS.

for each laborer. He saw at ence the possibility of performing this pro-
cess by machinery, and constructed a rude and imperfect model, worked
by hand, which turned out fifty pounds of the cleansed staple per day.
But he found in Georgia neither the workmen nor the materials for per-
fecting his invention or for multiplying his machines. It took him
years to get the manufacture well under way. Meanwhile, in the eager-
ness for the use of this wealth-yielding process, his patent-rights were
ignored; cotton-gins embodying his principle, with trivial variations,
were multiplied; the interest of intrusive manufacturers and that of the
planters who adopted their contrivances, and thus laid themselves open
to legal prosecution, were arrayed against him, and elicited a strong
public sentiment to his prejudice ; sixty suits were instituted before he
obtained a single legal decision in his favor; and his invention, which
at once raised the whole southern section of the country from thriftless
poverty to abounding opulence, was to him never worth the parchment
on which his patent was engrossed.

Now the effect of institutes like yours is to replace the diccious by
moncecious trees—to have the pollen and the fruit-buds grow on the
same stalk. You have here, students and graduates, all that careful
training can do for you to make you discoverers and inventors—to en-
able you both to initiate and to actualize industrial improvements, and to
reap, without hinderance or rivalry, your merited honor and recom-
pense. Moreover, nothing less than this training can put you on the
arena with the promise of success. No accurate practical results can
be reached without the most exact calculations ; for, whether man
know, or be ignorant of, the laws of number and proportion, all sub-
stances and forces in nature obey them, and man masters nature only
by making them his rule and measure.

Your literary education here tends in the same direction. Especially
is this true of the command you acquire of the French language. He
who would contribute to the industrial advancement of mankind must
know what others have thought and done, how far each separate art
and science has advanced, what unsuccessful experiments have been
made and therefore need not be repeated, and in what directions men of
learning and skill are looking for the new light of which they may uncon-
sciously be the harbingers; and the French has been for more than a
century the mother-tongue of science and the useful arts, abounding
equally in encyclopedic works and in monographs, and presenting the
most advanced views in every department of physical philosophy and
of practical technology.

With these exercises of the school-room you have the education of
the workshop, far more systematic, comprehensive, and exact than
could fall to your lot under the best private auspices. You thus will
be prepared to execute or direct your own plans, to embody your new
therght in wood, steel, or brass, and to insure for yourselves a fair
trial of whatever process or agency may seem. to you an improvement
on the past.
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS. 193

Think not that the canon of inventive genius is closed. It is but just
opening. Agents may be slumbering unrecognized that shall supplant
those now in the ascendant. Steam—the sovereign of our time—may
yield the sceptre to a mightier energy. The power now obtained by
the holocaust of forests and the disemboweling of the solid earth may
be replaced by some one of those elementary forces which ‘ spread
undivided, operate unspent.” The general use of condensed air for pur-
poses of locomotion by land and water is now as probable as that of
steam was a century ago; and Ericsson has advanced as far in the
former as all the predecessors of Fulton had done in the latter. How
know we that the electro-magnetic force which we have harnessed to
our thought may not one day be yoked to our railway trains? Who
can say that the pretended generation of light and heat for common
uses by the decomposition of water (the rumor of which, if I mistake
not, emanated from this very city,) while an audacious imposture, may
not have been an unintended prophecy? Who knows but that the still
deficient directing and impelling force may yet be so applied as to give
certainty and calculable utility to aerial navigation? Then, too, in
many of our established processes, machines, and modes of locomotion
there are still limitations, liabilities to accident, possibilities of added
speed or efficacy, in fine, a thousand directions in which inventive talent
may be fruitfully busy. Nor is there any invention, however insignifi-
cant it may seem, which multiplied, as it may be, by thousands or mil-
lions, and extending into an indefinite future, may not carry with it an
untold saving of cost and labor, and in many cases, even of life. The
invention which in the least degree facilitates industry, and increases
and cheapens its products, is a benefaction to society which will im-
measurably outweigh and outlast the most munificent gifts that wealth
can bestow. It is by such charities that many of you, I trust, will co
honor to your calling as liberally-educated artisans.

Permit me now briefly to advert to the need which our country has
of institutions like yours. Nothing is more evident than the over-
crowding, at the present time, of every department of commerce. Up
to a certain point commerce is, like the mechanic arts, a creative pro-
fession. A commodity is not a finished product till it is brought within
easy reach of its consumer, and the merchants—wholesale and retail—
who are needed for the successive stages between the producer and the
consumer are to that extent co-agents in the production, as are also the
bankers and brokers who supply the necessary funds and facilitate the
essential pecuniary arrangements. But when members of the merean-
tile profession are so needlessly multiplied that they create supernu-
merary stages in the passage of goods from the producer to the con-
sumer, interpose to arrest instead of facilitating their transfer, levy
black-mail on every commodity in the market, and get for themselves
the lion’s share in its ultimate price, they then inflict a grievous wrong
on both parties—they make their superfluous profit on the spoils of

13s
194 SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS.

both; on the one hand scanting the wages of productive industry, on
the other hand cramping the consumers’ purchasing power.

That this is the condition of things in our country at the present time,
there can be no doubt. The reason, too, is obvious. Our schools edu-
cate our young men to a point at which they feel that they sacrifice
their self-respect and sink beneath their proper level by becoming mere
laborers, or mere routine-mechanies, especially when they are thus
placed by the side of, or brought into competition with, the hordes of
uneducated and rude immigrants that crowd our labor-market. Those
who were themselves content with hand-labor are ambitious of a
higher destiny for their sons. Hence the rush into commerce. Hence
the scores of applicants for every vacant clerkship. Hence the spec-
tacle—equally ludicrous and sad—of hands that could wield the sledge-
hammer, measuring tape, drawing soda-water, and weighing sugar-
plums. Everything that can by the broadest construction call itself
trade or commerce deems itself respectable ; and therefore our towns
and cities are supporting twice the number of shopkeepers that they
need, and sustaining able-bodied men, too, in paltry commercial in-
dustries, which yet would give a competence to our thousands of starv-
ing women and girls.

To restore the deranged balance of society, its old honor must be
rendered back to labor. Industrial pursuits must be raised in respecta-
bility and dignity above the lower walks of commerce, and fully to a
level with its higher departments and functions. Both agriculture and
handicraft must be made liberal professions. This can be effected only
by stocking them with men of liberal culture; for it is not the profes-
sion that gives character and standing to the man, but the man to the
profession. Our agricultural colleges and our industrial institutes are
supplying the needed culture, and are going to replenish the field and the
workshop with a new order of large and high-minded operatives, men
of liberal tastes, pursuits, and aims, who will do honor to their respect-
ive callings, and make them seem worthy the noblest ambition of the
aspiring youth of the coming generation. The successful impulse has
been already given. It is already no uncommon thing for the graduates
of our best colleges to pass at once into the machine-shop or the factory,
and to go through the entire novitiate as a raw apprentice might. It
has, indeed, been demonstrated, and it will soon be made apparent to
the whole world, that there is no department of productive industry in
which genius, talent, science, and learning may not find fit investment,
ample room to grow, and adequate social position and honor.

There are other points to which I would gladly ask your attention
had I not taxed it so long. But I cannot close without reminding the
students and graduates of this institute that education has, or ought to
have, a higher use than what we call its use. We are too apt to think
of the course of early study and discipline, chiefly as a specific prepara-
tion for one’s business or calling in after-life, as the means of becoming
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION OF MECHANICS AND ARTISANS. 195

a good lawyer or physician, merchant, mechanic, or farmer. This, how-
ever important, is but a secondary purpose. You might better be, my
young friend, a beaver or a sparrow, if skill as an artisan or a fabricator
seems to you the great aim and end of life. Over and above your pro-
fession, exceeding it, mastering it, should be your selfhood, your man-
hood, your being as a thinker, a knower, a member of human society, a
child of God, an immortal soul. Your course of instruction here hasits
highest value in giving you real knowledge, materials for thought,
stimulants to mental activity, and, withal, food for your moral, spiritual
nature. In the laws of the material universe, and especially in the
necessary and eternal laws that underlie all mathematical science, you
enter into close contact—I would that you might ever know and feel
it—with the Infinite mind; you become conversant with forces which
are but the multiform, yet undivided, Omnipotence. In the study of
physical science you are within temple gates and on holy ground. Let
then these pursuits into which you are here initiated for a life-long self-
training, vindicate their claim to be regarded as liberal studies by the
breadth and depth of thought, sentiment, and character which they
inspire and cherish, by the high type of manhood which they foster, by
the nobie lives to which they give the impulse.

Remember, above all, that your ultimate success depends on charac-
ter. Genius and skill, unsustained by character, will but glitter and
vanish. Industry, probity, chastity, sober habits, a quick and healthy
conscience, are worth fully as much in the mere material interests of a
life of average duration as they are in the judgment of God and in the
esteem of good men. Young persons are very apt to discriminate be-
tween preparation for this world and preparation for the world to come.
To one who has lived as long as I have, the two seem identical. Could I
start at your age with the fruits of my three score years of observation
and experience, I should take precisely the same route to the surest and
highest earthly success, emolument, and honor, which I would take as
the nearest way to heaven.
ORGANIC BASES.

LECTURE DELIVERED BY PROFESSOR A. BAUER BEFORE THE VIENNA SOCIETY FOR THE DIFFUSION OF
SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE.

[ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

Although bodies having the properties of acids, as, for instance, tar-
taric, citric, and malice acids, had long been known to exist in certain
vegetable and animal substances, it was reserved for our century to dis-
cover bodies of alkaline or basic properties in the organic world. A
chemist, Sertiirner by name, first succeeded in isolating morphine from
opium, the long-known juice of the poppy, obtained by making incisions
into the capsules, and afterwards drying the product in the air.

Little attention was at first paid to this discovery, because all the
energies of chemists had been turned to the study of inorganic chem-
istry; it was out of the regular line of research at the time, and,
therefore, remained isolated and unappreciated. When, however, sev-
eral years later, Gay Lussac showed the importance of Sertiirner’s dis-
covery, and proved himself, in a dissertation published in 1816, that
morphine acted like an alkali in regard to vegetable colors and acids,
his work became the incentive to a search for similar bodies in such
plants as were known for their sanative or poisonous effects. In many
cases their active principle was found to consist in an alkaline substance,
combined with an organic acid, and hence called an alkaloid.

Pelletier and Caventon found alkaloids in Peruvian bark and in the

strychneacee, and in 1826 Unverdorben succeeded in artificially preparing
several alkaloids or organic bases by the dry distillation of horn, bones,
and other animal substances. These discoveries gained for organic bases
a place among the most important and interesting bodies in chemistry,
and many chemists devoted themselves exclusively to their study.
Theoretical considerations concerning the nature of organic bases
saused their more extended investigation. These theoretical considera-
tion were founded upon the interesting fact of the similarity of all
these bases to ammonia. In the natural alkaloids the similarity consists
chiefly in the chemical equivalents, but in. the artificial bases lately dis-
covered it is also exhibited in their physical properties.

These facts have led to the supposition that there exists an intimate
relation between the organic bases and ammonia. Berzelius, indeed,
suggested the probability of the pre-existence of ammonia in all these
bases; while Liebig, in the first volume of his Dictionary of Chemistry,
(Handworterbuch der Chemie,) developed a theory concerning their con-
ORGANIC BASES. 197

stitution, which forms the basis of our present views as to this interest-
ing branch of chemistry. He assumed that ammonia was the type of
all organic bases, and that it was itself such a base, of the simplest
composition. Ammonia consists of only two elements, containing one
atom of nitrogen and three of hydrogen in one molecule.* Liebig as-
sumed that, in the organic bases, a part of the hydrogen was replaced
by other radicals, composed of several elements; these bases might
therefore be considered as made up of a compound radical and a combi-
nation of one atom of nitrogen with only two of hydrogen, the other
atom of hydrogen being replaced by the new radical. The compound
thus formed is called amid.t Such a base is called an amid base.t

Liebig developed this idea in the clear and ingenious manner peculiar
to himself, and expressed his views concerning the probable nature of
compounds which could be formed from amid and the alcohol radicals.
Ten years later his ideas were verified by experiment. Ethylamine, and
a whole series of similar bases, were produced by Wurtz in Paris in
1849,

These discoveries of the celebrated French scientist justly excited un-
usual attention, which was still increased when A. W. Hofmann and
Wurtz demonstrated that not only one atom of hydrogen in ammonia
could be replaced by an alcohol radical to form amid bases, but that
compound radicals could be substituted for two, and even for all three,
atoms of hydrogen. These bases might be designated as primary, see-
ondary, and tertiary amid bases, according as one, two, or three atoms
of hydrogen of the ammonia have been replaced by compound radicals.
(In English treatises on chemistry they are usually designated as amid,
imid, and nitril bases.—The Translator.) Their chemical formule are rep-
resented by the following table, in which A, B, C, stand for the compound
radicals.

Ammonia base. Amid base. Imid base, Nitril base.
H ) A A) x
H >on H >n Bon 3 >on
1 HS H§ cS

As Hofmann has shown later that there is a series of compound rad-
icals which may replace two atoms of hydrogen in the doubled formula
of ammonia, producing a second extensive series of bases, whose com-
position is expressed in the following table, where A! B! and C! repre-
sent the compound radicals.

H, ? Al Al f Al ?
Hz >ng Hy png 3! Sno B! >ng
H, H, § Ea) ci 4

If we suppose only 52 such compound radicals capable of replacing
one atom, and 32 of replacing two atoms of hydrogen, we obtain
35,000 millions of possible compound organic bases.

*The symbol N, (nitrogen,) in chemical formule, means one atom of nitrogen, and
H one atom of bydrogen. The formula for ammonia is therefore: H-+--H--H-+-N= H3N.

+ The chemical formula of amid is therefore : Hy N.

t The formula for an amidogen base is: A+H.N, in which A stands for a compound
radical.
198 ORGANIC BASES.

This enormous number shows how impossible it is, in spite of the
most persevering labors, to become acquainted with more than a very
small proportion of these compounds. ‘This very number urges us to
study only the prominent representatives of whole series, and to give to
them our whole time and energies.

From what has been said in regard to the composition of organic bases,
it was thought evident that nitrogen would appear to be the component on
which their properties depend, for they all contain nitrogen. But we know
now whole series of analogous bases containing, instead of nitrogen,
some other element of similar properties. These also have the charac-
teristics of ammonia. As early as 1846, Paul Thenard had made phos-
phorus bases, which were more thoroughly investigated in 1855 by
Hofmann and Cahours. Analogous arsenic bases have been known
much longer. In 1760 Cadet prepared one, the composition of which he
could not, of course,explain. The investigations of Bunsen, from 1837 to
1843, shed more light on this remarkable class of organic bodies, and
the constitution of the arsenic bases was finally completely made clear
by the researches of Cahours, Kolbe, Riche, and especially Baeyer, in
Berlin. In 1850 Loéwig discovered antimony and bismuth bases, so
that we now have four other elements capable of forming whole series
of basic combinations like those of nitrogen. Compare these with the
above-mentioned number of possible nitrogen bases, and we will be con-
vinced that the chemist as well as the astronomer is able to astonish us
with magnificent numbers, and to call up before the mind’s eye endless
series of possible combinations, all producing bodies having special
qualities.

However much these researches have extended our knowledge, they
have but slightly improved our acquaintance with the bases and alka-
loids spontaneously formed in nature. The constitution and the rela-
tions of these natural alkaloids to tbe other bases and to other chem-
ical compounds are much less understood than the foregoing statement
would lead us to suppose. The causes of this are that the natural al-
kaloids are mostly very complex bodies, and that they suffer such com-
plete changes in most reactions, that it is difficult to study them, or
to form any conclusion as to the constitution they had before they were
decomposed. It must be left to the future to shed more light on the
nature of these bodies. Let us hope that it will be possible to make
those alkaloids synthetically which have hitherto been found only in
nature. We must not forget in this connection that most of the natural
bases contain oxy gen, which is not found in the ammonia bases. Although
the discovery of the so-called ammonium bases, and Wurtz’s beautiful
discovery of the behavior of oxide of ethylene to ammonia, have indi-
eated the way of preparing such oxygen bases artificially, there is ney-
ertheless a difficulty, which seems almost insurmountable. It is the
fact that most of the natural bases have optical properties, while we
cannot succeed with the aid of the above processes in preparing com-
pounds possessing similar properties from substances not originally
ORGANIC BASES. 199

possessing them. The discovery of methods for the artificial or syn-
thetic preparation of the alkaloids would not only be of high scientific
interest, but it would also greatly advance our material interests, for
there is scarcely another group of bodies of such manifold uses as the
organic bases.

Many of these alkaloids play an important part in the arts, others are
known as the active principles of stimulating articles of food, while the
great number of them are valuable as medicines. Many of them are ex-
tremely violent poisons, and have acquired an unenviable reputation
from cases in which they have been employed.

Poisoning by means of vegetable bases is rendered doubly dangerous,
because it is often difficult to prove with certainty the presence of the
poison in the corpse or the secretions by chemical analysis, while the
presence of mineral poisons can generally be detected with ready cer-
tainty. The reason of this is not difficult to understand. Weare but
imperfectly acquainted with the properties of the natural alkaloids.
They resemble each other very much. In cases of poisoning, they are
mixed up in the stomach or other parts of the body with many other or-
ganic substances, all containing carbon and having certain properties in
common with them. These organic substances are of course more akin
to the vegetable bases than to inorganic substances, such as the. com-
pounds of arsenic, which are not found in any part of the human body.
Metals are present only in insignificant quantities, and those which are
present are not at all similar to arsenic. Now the organic bodies pres-
ent all contain nitrogen and may have basic properties, both character-
istics of alkaloids. It is obvious that the detection and separation of
very similar bodies are much more difficult than the separation of dis-
similar ones, where the detection of a single property often suffices to
prove their presence with certainty.

If we consider furthermore that the alkaloids are very easily decom-
posed, and that in legal chemical investigations the bodies in which they
are to be sought forare generally in a state of putrefaction, 7. ¢., of contin-
ual active change, we will understand how impossible it is frequently
for chemists to separate the poisons in a state of purity from parts of
the body and to prove their presence with certainty. It is indeed some-
times possible to inject the substances which in cases of poisoning
must contain the vegetable base, into the blood of living animals or to
mix it with their food, and then to judge, from the physiological effects
on the animals, which poison was present. The changes produced by
certain alkaloids on the beating of the heart, on the general action of the
muscles, and on the nervous system, are frequently so characteristic that
we can judge of the presence of one or other alkaloid with as much cer-
tainty from these effects as from pure chemical reactions. Such proofs,
however, have not the full force of evidence in court, for in such cases
the separation of the pure poison must always be the chief aim of the
chemist.

Dangerous as our organic bases may become in the hands of the
‘

200 ORGANIC BASES.

murderer, they are highly salutary in the prescriptions of the physician,
who employs them with great success in the treatment of severe and
otherwise unyielding diseases. Peruvian bark owes its efficacy to the
alkaloid quinine which it contains together with cinchonine and chinidine
in varying proportions. Formerly, before these facts were known, there
was no standand by which the value of different specimens of Peru-
vian bark could be correctly jadged. Sometimes a certain kind of bark,
whose dose had been fixed by experience, acquired a much greater value
than others whose efficacy far surpassed it. Now the value depends on
the amount of bases contained in the bark and not on the color, shape,
or other external signs. Not the smallest piece of the bark is now al-
lowed to be lost on gathering it, because processes are known by which
even the smallest quantity of quinine contained in it can be obtained.
The same is true of different kinds of opium. Their medicinal value
depends on the amount of alkaloids they contain. These are morphine,
codeine, and narcotine, three beautiful crystallizable bodies, the latter of
which is distinzuished by the peculiar property of furnishing another
base, trimethylamine, when mixed with soda-lime and subjected to dry dis-
tillation. Chemists have proved the presence of trimethylamine in the
pickle of herrings. It is the cause of their peculiar odor. Urine con-
tains it also in small quantities, hence its smell of herrings when much
of it is evaporated down. The belladonna and the datura strammonium
contain the alkaloid atropine, whose terribly poisonous properties are
generally known, but which plays a very important part in treating
diseases of the eye. Applied to the eye in a dilute state, or rubbed into
the skin near the eye, it powerfully dilates the pupil and greatly facili-
tates certain operations on that organ. [rom all parts of the hemlock,
a colorless, transparent oil of penetrating odor can be obtained, which
is known under the name of coniine, and is one of the most poisonous
alkaloids. Either this or cicutine contained in the water-hemlock was
the cause of the tragical death of Socrates. In the St. Ignatius bean
and the nux vomica, strychnine is found along with brucine; it forms a
beautiful, erystallizable alkaloid, distinguished by its extremely bitter
taste and by its producing tetanic spasms when injected into the blood.
To this class of organic bases belong also those poisons which savages
use for steeping the points of their arrows. There are undoubtedly
several such poisons. It seems that the one used by the savages of In-
dia and Africa is essentially different from that used by the natives in
the northern part of South America. The former, called antia, imme-
diately stops the beating of the heart, while the latter, called curare,
first palsies the general muscular action and then stops the heart. Curare
is the better known of the two; it was first brought to Europe by Sir
Walter Raleigh in 1595. According to Humboldt, the preparation of this
poison resembles our vintage feast. The savages collect poisonous vines
in the forest, while the women prepare an intoxicating fermented liquor,
of which they all partake. When all are intoxicated and lie in deep
sleep, the master of the art prepares the poison by extracting the juice _
ORGANIC BASES. 201

of the vines and evaporating it down. Different travelers agree that
they also add poisonous ants and fangs of snakes. It would seem
therefore that curarin, the active principle of the arrow-poison or
curare, was a constituent of the juice of vines; but there is no certainty
on this subject, since travelers do not agree in their accounts of the
preparation of this interesting substance. Curare can be taken into the
alimentary canal without the slightest danger, and even the meat of
animals poisoned by it is innocuous, while it is certainly and often sud-
denly fatal when injected into the blood even in small quantity. When
introduced into a wound, this poison occasions no pain whatever. The
symptoms preceding death are very remarkable, as can be seen when a
very small quantity is introduced into the blood of alarge animal. There
is an immediate relaxation of the muscles. all voluntary motion ceases,
the animal sinks down powerless, but with its consciousness unimpaired,
and finally the respiration ceases and death ensues, without the presence
of any symptoms which would indicate excitement or a death-struggle.
It is a progressive palsy, ending in the brain.

A whole series of organic bases is esteemed on account of the pleasant
stimulating effect they exert on the body when in small quantities and
diluted with other substances. They belong to the category of luxuries.
Among them, nicotine, the active principle of tobacco, takes the fore-
most rank.

Pure nicotine is a liquid, which becomes brown in the light, has a to-
bacco-like smell and possesses very poisonous properties. The amount of
nicotine contained in different kinds of tobacco varies. Although it is
not exactly in the inverse, it is by no means in direct proportion to the
excellence of the tobacco. Fine brands, such as Havana and Mary-
land tobaccos, contain but very little; the former not quite two and the
latter from two to four per cent. Kentucky and Virginia brands con-
tain as much as from six to seven per cent., and some of the domestic
brands of Germany contain considerable quantities.

Besides nicotine, there are some other bitter principles contained in
tobacco, which are the chief cause of nausea in young smokers. These
are kept back by smoking pipes with long stems, which only allow the
gaseous bodies to reach the mouth. Besides carbonie acid and carbonie
oxide, tobacco smoke often contains as much as 3 per cent. of carbonate
of ammonia, (which causes the increased secretion of saliva,) and also
butyric acid, empyreumatic oils and resins, traces of sulphuretted hy-
drogen and even prussic acid, but no creosote.

Pepper owes its pungent taste to piperine, a crystallizable alkaloid.
Tea and coffee both contain the same organic base, theine or caffeine,
which are easily obtained from them in silky needles. <A solution of
this alkaloid neither has the taste nor the pleasant stimulating effect of
an infusion of tea or coffee. In these beverages, as in tobacco, the value
of the article used depends on other substances, which accompany the
alkaloid.
203 ORGANIC BASES.

Chocolate owes its value to theobromine, an alkaloid contained in
cacao. It has been lately found that iodide of methyl digested with
theobromine for some time in a sealed tube, at the temperature of boil-
ing water, will convert it into theine.

The excellent effect of pure meat broth on the system is due to krea-
tine and kreatinine, two bases contained in meat. Broth, therefore,
belongs to the same class as tea, coffee, and chocolate, and it certainly
deserves the preference when the system of the sick person requires a
stimulating and strengthening beverage.

Some organic bases have obtained a prominent place in the chemical
arts. It is only necessary to mention kyanole or aniline, which is ob-
tained in large quantities from coal-tar, and is used in the manufacture
of the finest colors. Aniline red is the chloride or acetate of rosaniline,
a colorless base obtained from aniline. Aniline violet must also be con-
sidered as an aniline base.

Two artificial bases, the amid bases of ethyl and methyl, which but
lately had merely been preserved in chemical collections as interesting
and rare substances, are now used instead of ammonia, in Carré’s ice
apparatus, in the artificial production of ice.

The description of the individual members of this extensive series of
organic bases or alkaloids could be considerably extended if our time
permitted, and if I did not fear to fatigue my hearers.

As I mentioned in my introduction, organic bases were a terra incog-
nita to chemists half a century ago. As you probably have gleaned
from my remarks, chemists have since diligently labored to explore this
region; but whenever they had succeeded in scaling a height, from
which they hoped to obtain a general view of what they had investigat-
ed, new and ever greater fields opened to their astonished eyes—fields
whose exploration will require the most diligent efforts of chemists for
many years.

Just asin the discovery of a new country the value of which the people
realize only when the plowshare has turned the new soil and when its treas-
ures have begun to circulate in the great commercial veins and arteries
of the world, it happens with our organic bases, which are generally
appreciated only as far as they are useful to commerce, the arts, or
medicine.

Let us not forget, however, gentlemen, that as the treasures of the
mountains of California and the products of India would never have en-
riched our country if it had not been for indefatigable travelers, who
wandered through unknown countries, impelled by a pure love of knowl-
edge. So we also owe our acquaintance with the organic bases to purely
unselfish and scientific investigations, which have taught us that
nothing is useless in science—a truth written in conspicuous letters on
every page of the book of nature, and which can only fail to be read
by the grossest ignorance.
THE NITROGEN BODIES OF MODERN CHEMISTRY,

A LECTURE BY PROFESSOR KLETZINSKY.
Delivered December 15, 1870.

[Translated from Aus der Natur for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

I have the honor to direct your attention this morning to a group
of compound bodies which are of the highest importance, whether we
consider them from a theoretrical or a practical point of view. They are
all the artificial products of the laboratory, and while the study of them
has led to the most interesting views of the constitution of matter, some
of them have found a widely-extended industrial application, and others
give promise of a brilliant future. They are what is called the nitrogen
compounds of modern chemistry :

Volume substitution is now accepted as the ruling principle of chemi-
cal combinations. All substances may be considered as combining in
certain definite volumes, and the unit adopted by science in this respect
is hydrogen. This atom, which in respect to weight and volume is the
chemical standard, we denote as unity, and all other atoms which enter
into the composition of bodies, and which require the same space as the
atom of hydrogen, can be substituted in the place of this unit.

Chemists have succeeded in substituting for the hydrogen in organic
substances radicals of hyponitric acid; that radical which is denoted by
the formula NOs.

This radical called nitryl, whose introduction into organic chemistry
led to the conception of the nitrogen compounds, is formed when we
unite one equivalent, of nitrogen having a combining power of 3 with
the weight 14, and two atoms of dxygen which is bivalent, that is,
having a combining power of 2 with the weight 16. This body is
therefore represented by the formula /”N’’O,, in which the dashes
(‘” “) represent the combining volumes. Since the nitrogen is trivalent
and the oxygen bivalent, and since there are two atoms of oxygen the
combining power of which is four, there evidently remains one unappro-
priated equivalent volume; and this free equivalent volume determines
the equivalence of the radical. On this ground we designate this radical
as univalent, or having acombining power of one; and as such it can
be in all cases substituted for the hydrogen monad.

Now, if this substitution of nitryl for hydrogen in organic bodies be
extended as far as the actual relations admit, we arrive at the formation
of the nitrogen compounds. For a complete exposition of our subject
204 NITROGEN BODIES OF MODERN CHEMISTRY.

~_

we have still to mention the quadrivalent atom of carbon. The carbon
atom requires four times the space of the hydrogen atom, and fills that
space with the weight 12. It bears the symbol /’’C.

The elements, then, with which we have to deal and effect our ex-
changes are represented as follows:

Fig. 1.
1. Hydrogen, @ EL,
2. Oxygen, Co #Q.

Spe Niirogent iG <0) taht.

4. Carbon, Cee® LAE Op

» The equivalence of the elements, 7. e., the proportion of their volumes
compared with hydrogen as a standard,is not an invariable quantity.
Expansion and contraction may take place in the atoms; within certain
limits these can increase or decrease in volume. But it is important to
observe that this expansion and contraction will always be bi-polar;
that is, if a univalent atom expand it will do this in both directions and
become, not bivalent, but necessarily trivalent. The trivalent nitrogen
atom may become quinquivalent, but not quadrivalent. Hence, we have
the simple rule that the character of the equivalence cannot change ; if
it is expressed by an even number it must still, though the atom con-
tract or expand, be expressed by an even number ; and reversely, if the
equivalence is expressed by an odd number it must in all cases be so
expressed. This will readily be understood if we suppose a unit volume
to be added to each side of the symbol oxygen, carbon, and nitrogen, as
given in Fig. 1. In this case the oxygen will become four, the nitrogen
five, &c. The trivalent nitrogen atom in some circumstances may
become quinquivalent. This expansion of atoms takes place when they
are subjected to peculiar chemical actions.

I now call your attention to a salt which is produced from acetic acid
and ammonia, and which is introduced into the pharmacopeia as the so-
called spirit of Mindererus, the acetate of ammonia, or acetate of oxide
of ammonium.

In the delineation of the formule of chemical compounds, without
which a clear understanding of the processes is impossible, this acetate
of ammonia is represented in Fig. 4:
NITROGEN BODIES OF MODERN CHEMISTRY. 205

Tt is necessary to state that in all acetic acid salts a radical called
acetyl is common. This radical is represented as follows, in Fig. 2:

Fig. 2.

LLL AS I ur @) te

or

In order to form the salt from this radical we need a link of oxygen,
which shall unite the radical of the base ammonium (//”N /Hy,) whose
equivalence is one, there being four atoms of hydrogen and one of pente-
valent of expanded nitrogen. This uniting oxygen is represented in
Fig. 3.

Fig. 3.

CO

Fig. 4.
MO, "As, “O; 4/0, UN (A= "C, “A, “Op Ny.
or

COCOCO
OOOCO <3

The oxygen, which is here (Fig. 4) somewhat more distinctly marked,
holds together the radical of the acid and the radical of the base, and
thus forms acetate of the oxide of ammonium.

Now, when, by chemical agency, we force the water from this salt,
as by a high degree of heat, by the action of chloride of phosphorus, or
an anhydrous acid, (chemists have many expedients for separating water
from organic compounds, forming it anew, and eliminating it again,)
when, therefore, we take from this compound two molecules of water,
2 (‘H, “O,) the nitrogen contracts from five to threefold equivalence,

and we have the following formation :
WII 7

— Fig. 5. Fig. 6.

a Coe eco CO
x O0@ECO S505

‘1

which represents the compound acetonitryl.
We obtain the same result if we saturate acetic acid with carbonate
of ammonia; evaporate the liquid and distill the salt with chloride of
206 NITROGEN BODIES OF MODERN CHEMISTRY.

phosphorus. The product thus obtained, the acetonitryl, furnishes a
starting-point for further transformations. Suppose, now, that for one
hydrogen atom we substitute the radical of unit equivalence, (/”N O..)

Fig 7.

CoC)
OOCCCO

33

Here we have a perfectly-linked atomic-chain, where everything fits, a
nitrogen body,
NY! (Org iH’, N’/ Ow
the nitro-acetonitryl.
If we substitute for the two remaining atoms of hydrogen one biva-
lent atom of mercury, (represented by the shaded circles in Fig. 8,) we
shall obtain common fulminate of mercury.

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

OO

This latter substance cannot, in fact, be obtained from acetate of am-

aN
