taabaad

9g mam@k « eaaet hak

" aly
Sei
Farce

ie

ma

:

Ni
oye

AS ise
2

eg Oe ag

.

a eS
Ch

.
.
4
Yat
u
4
*
J
- . F
cS
a
‘
a .
:
»
:
7 i
}

ll

a ep ie to a see F. ~ cas a ae, ied 7 ee he aia ‘ ca in _
» . ‘

wi

’

vt

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND. CONDITION
QF THE INSTITUTION

FOR THE

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1904.

eee Opie

OF THE

U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

sone E INca=

W ASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
(ROVORG:
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLIC PRINTING AND BINDING, AND THE
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS.

Approved January 12, 1895.

“Of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution, ten thousand copies; one thousand
copies for the Senate, two thousand for the House, five thousand for distribution by
the Smithsonian Institution, and two thousand for distribution by the National
Museum.”’

I
REPORT

OF THE

Pee NATIONAL MUSEUM,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ie et) Ack INI TIN GJ UNE 30,1904:

REPORT OF THE U.S. NATION ale ae FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1904.

SUBJECTS:

I. Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
with Appendices.
II. Papers describing and illustrating Collections in the U. S.

National Museum.
=
Unitep States NatronaL Museum,
UNDER DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, October 1, 1904.
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum, and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1904.
Very respectfully,
; RicHARD RATHBUN,
Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. S. National Museum.
Mr. S. P. Lane ey,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
a

_~

ss

_

ss.

CONTENTS,

Page

SUBTACUS o SS SSS SRSA GA Se Ss ae NE ae eta an rE TS Vv

aeRO MIN AINS MITER ANie ters Met arew tay et Soe hae oe eo Sa A VII

(CONTIN Sa sshs Se Seeds ben] See eee ee oe rs bh ya SERRE aS ty 1X

GE TeLO Hp GTEC SP UACIO Neste aoe vata ays G2 ise is oe ce ee he xa

PART I.
Report OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

ANS) Gh TODOS TUTTI OVE TREY EOS Te LD ee Ee a ar See uf

AMSG) MUSE Oi: HEREIRC) Op Sa ek ee a a ae ee Se Se ae em 9

AGPANRCT CA OMA MnMUSeUMNes ate eee eee. eee ey Sees sues. 10

RiTre MEW ATUMSe UMMM UN dines seams cate aes cee tito Sea chee ek eS eee 12

Croviunean deneedsolebhe mUseUMmesess «6s scoSo 22 2ccce$ occ occ ke scdence es 13

SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR.

AMP LOpriaiOnsanc CxPENCIUULCK Sco! 5 <ccc. cee eece cccn cess ewie ce swan eeesee 21

iSSUUTIKOUMFAYSAS! 2 wats 5 Ae eS eR 2 NO FS a a on me ee 22

Nol ciiionsscOutmecOllechlOng =. . se... eon, a2 etlctec ees casece we cce eee Oe! 25

BeMceemorkumpou the collections... 8...2issl2.252..-- fe. see sete ete sees 33

PMC Texd Oi OnNRCOMeGtONSe- sesseb ek = 8828 58 no cont oe cae s ote ce tenses 36

[GRETIREMES SE Sass LA Ses Dae a a a ee ee ter ge ee 38

Hep ORALONS eee = soe oe en ee ed ts Bo) thee Oe i See a ee ec 44

Diciwibuvionw amd exchange of specimens. ._-.....----------.--+-----2 <6 ee 46

WHstleOs ooo nico oe Gece ie pee RIT Ss SE gna ee eC 47

NIGER SAM Ome CHULES ee serie eae aot oho DERE cise ce acl Se a we eee 48

OTB RSTU ITU URIIVE 5 eal 10 ge Sl a ean a eo 49

Feely hecihl ON] Gmeneneneenee eR seereet s  B ge eee ese eens eee 49

ILNORBIAN 5 Sa ERE SS EERE SG SSE Se aa Pee 52

LOD ATGATET DS a ee ee ae en oe eee Pa tke 52

Cooperation of the Executive Departments of the Government. ----.-.-------- d3

JE SEfOOSMUNOMMS <2 Se eT LS Sa nm ee ee eta 53

Hiaiacetia MMe OMOTCRSES EL ok oS oe sek ow tein tee soto wisseeee eee ane ese 55

Mia inice nines ee hanigete ee eo oe oe ee ene SSE ee see Seems ae eeee 55

VaetiGlaniy 200 Joleen rr ee ne eer eg SRE a ae ee 56

Reports oF HEAD CURATORS.

Report on the Department of Anthropology for the year 1903-4 .........---- 61
(GHIUS: Cos cece Sos oe ee AES ee er nA Petes ere 61
PGURGLTES GS 21 cs ee ee Pe ge eRe Se TEC ree, es SP ce Se oe 6:
Bheaanietine eee mmr ase net cree VSS et bo als os Betsey enn ene 64
rANSteecranel Oncaea te So fos some Sue Se Rees Se Ree See 64
INDIO PAWIONGS SS BS 6-Ae es SS Beeps = ae Sere DOSE res CE oscar SH oasaS ames 66
x CONTENTS.

Report on the Department of Anthropology for the year 1903-4—Continued.
Care of the collections:* 2-54..3s2e eee nee eee eee ee ee ee
Hxhibition and study .series: - 2 5522. Se eee oe eee ee nee
Installation. .22.. 32 S285 Se Seas ae ee ee ee ee ee
Models‘and replicas: = = 5832 Gas ase Se ee ee ree ye

Resear chests ii Seta le See Seca el is ne See ee ee oe

Report on the Department of Biology for the year 1903-4 ..............- Le
Exhibition collections’ 22,52 222.4:< 25-5 eee ene eee ee

Work on-the:study series-. 2.2. 4222.56 one ee eee ee
Cooperation of specialists and loan of collections.................-------
Distrib utiomsoissump lis an aber alll pevese peace ae
Laboratory use of the collections by investigators. .............-..------

Scientific researches and investigations ...........-.-.--- ep De ao

Personnel? < sb ct Joe oot Sear ee eee ee
Report on the Department of Geology for the year 1903-4..........-..------
INGGOSSIONS). Vee 2555S 5.5 Siete Se ae eee ee ee ee
Division, of Geology. = ae ee ee ere oS eee
Division:of Minerallogyaens st seen See se oe ae eee
Invertebrate Paleontology £2425. soe ee eee en re eee eee
Vertebrate. Paleontology 22522 ast hee os he oe ne ee eee
Paleobotany 225.2 Ses ae Se yes erate eee eee
ESO UIT Gyo 5s Li re eR ea

T. “Phe Musewim Statin ase es ee er ee ea so rea
ID; List: of ACCESSIONS Sz Ss cee Sete er ree SP ea ee ee
TIE. Bibliography so5s-5, 2.580 ye.20 GaSe ee ee oe ee ee ee
IV. Report of Charles Schuchert, delegate of the Smithsonian Institution
and United States National Museum to the Ninth International Geo-
logical Congress, held at Vienna, Austria, August 20-27, 1903....-.-.---

AUR Ste

Papers DescriBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES
NationaL Museum.

Contributions to the history of American geology. By George P. Merrill ....
The 8. 8. Howland collection of Buddhist-religious art in the National Museum.

By Immanuel M5 \Casamowitz)-22 so25 en nese ee ee eee eae
Flint implements of the Fayum, Egypt. By Heywood Walter Seton-Karr ---

Page.
66
68

189

735
745
12.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

PLATES.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE History oF AMERICAN GEOLOGY. )

By GeorGce P. Merri...

Facing page.

. Maclure’s Geological Map of the United States. Reduced from original

in Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, VI, Pt. 2,
SO) Greiner pen N ae eee Ok a ela ase gas ad tociseeee Sete s
Portrait of Benjamin Silliman, professor of chemistry, Yale College. From
a steel engraving by W. G. Jackman (D. Appleton & Co.) -.---.------

Portrait of William Maclure, president of the Philadelphia Academy of

Natural Sciences. (After T. Sully.) Engaved by D. C. Hinman.-..-.-.
Portrait of Parker Cleaveland, professor of chemistry and mineralogy,
Bowdoin College. (After T. Badger.) Engraved by J. C. Buttre..--
Maclure’s Section across the Appalachians (colored). Reduced from
original in Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, 1818- --
Portrait of Amos Eaton, professor of natural science, Rensselaer Polytech-
nic Institute. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly,
DS SCS NG UE TST Da Ea a ee ee ag pee a oa

Portrait of Ebenezer Emmons, State geologist of North Carolina. From
a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLVIIT, 1896......---
Portrait of Gerard Troost, State geologist of Tennessee. From a wood
engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLV, 1894 .........-..--.------
Portrait of Samuel George Morton, physician and paleontologist From
BESCCMC UOT AVI E wer: Pees nie 2S St Sahel Lisa sls eee eee

. Portrait of Charles Thomas Jackson, State geologist of Maine, New Hamp-

shire, and Rhode Island. Redrawn from a w yoodeut by C. Weber -.-..-
Portrait of Lardner Vanuxem, geologist of New York State survey. From
a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLVI, 1895. .---------
Portrait of Edward Hitchcock, professor of geology, Amherst College.
From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, DENY MIE 1S}2)5) 5 ae =
Portrait of Henry Darwin eioeets: State geologist of Pennsylvania. From

a steel engraving by L.S ;. Punderson, in Annual ot Scientific Discovery,
1S) Se Re eee rat Lg IS be SE 2 Steere ES He ee eee eee

5. Portrait of William Williams Mather, geologist of New York State survey.

From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, X LIX, 1896_.--.-
Portrait of William Barton Rogers, State geologist of Virgima. From a
steel engraving by H. W. Smith, in Annual of Scientific Discovery, 1868 -

. Portrait of Timothy Abbott Conrad, paleontologist. From a wood engray-

ing in Popular Science Monthly, XLVII, 1895 ...-.-...----.---------

Portrait of David Dale Owen, geologist. Redrawn from woodcut in
Report on Geology of Wisconsin, [owa, and Minnesota -.-------------

. Owen’s Geological Sections (colored). Reduced from original in Report

of Geological Reconnaissance ot Chippewa Land District ....----------

20. Portrait of James Hall, State geologist of New York. From a photograph

iteylkeeray Tigm, TROT Se ee See ee ee ey ee ee he

. Portrait of James Dwight Dana, professor of geology, Yale College. From

BD WML MP Ea Me era ie ooh ie bac ada oo = saan mieies- ieee ete eee
River terraces and dritt bowlders in Massachusetts. From Hitchcock’s
iilistrations:ot suntace Geology, 18h7 22-22). =. .— = eae eae ee

. Portrait of John Strong Newberry, professor of geology, Columbia Col-

lege, and State geologist of Ohio. From a steel engraving. .----..-..--

189

215

218
XIT

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Facing page.

. Portrait of Alexander Winchell, professor of geology and paleontology,
University of Michigan, and State geologist of Michigan. From a steel
engraving in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, III, 1891---

5. Members of the geological survey of California, 1860. From a photograph.
. Portraits of James Richardson, Alexander Murray, and Sir William Logan.

From photographs .. 2. =. .02cdcege = ee ee ee

. Portrait of George Hammell Gobi State geologist of New Jersey. From

a photograph taken about ls/7 2-52.25. 22202 sees =) ee eee ae

. Portrait of Edward Orton, professor of geology, Ohio State University,

and State geologist of Ohio. Froma steel enordving jos sesc eee es

. Portrait of Sir William Dawson, principal of McGill University. From a

photograph, -..2..:22i0. Sines ttces cs oe eee ee eee

. Hayden field party at La Veta Pass, August, 1877. From a photograph. -
. Portrait of Ferdinand Vandiveer Hayden, director of U. 8. geological sur-

vey of the Territories. From a photograph taken about 1876......----

. Portrait of Fielding Bradford Meek, paleontologist. From a photoeree

by T. W. Gan ihnec 220 ee ol ar i ea ee ee a
Portrait of Clarence King, director of U. 8S. geological explorations of i
tieth parallels Hrom ai photographie: cease mene a aee eee eee eee
Portrait of John Wesley Powell, director of U. 8S. geographical and geo-
logical survey of the Rocky Mountain regions. From a photograph. ---

5. The Moody Footmark Quarry, South Hadley, Mass. From Hitchcock’s

lichnolosysotiNew in olan dS 5 Sie see eet ee

36. The Appleton Cabinet. From Hitchcock’s Ichnology of New England, 1858
. Portrait of Sir William Logan, director of the Geological survey of Canada.

Eroma photograph 2. o9<.2 2. aivcc sce ee ene eee ee eaten eae eee eee

Tue §. 8. Howianp CoLLEecTIon oF BuppHist RELIGIous ART IN THE NATIONAL

Museum.

By Ivmanvuet M. Casanowicz.

Facing page.
i. Atstandinehourevof Buddiha¥ 5253s es ancee cess ee eee ee eee eee 744
2. Buddha sittino inemeditanone=sr aes eeacee eee eee ae eee 744
3. Buddha seated upon a lotus) 2/222 5.35 Sebesee aren ese see eee 744
4, Buddha. reclinitige. hs ss22 5 aca sae = sae: ee See ee ee ee 744
5. Three figurines: of Buddha: 25:5: =-2 9a. a cose eee ee ee eee eee 744
6) Buddha; with artitemed autism ba rene ys a eee 744
7. The shrine closed 2s. 24... sse25 02 See ee esa ee ee 744
8. Two. Buddhist, saints ©. - 235036 62352 cee ee eee ee 744
9. Buddhist monk. 22.225 d.2- cocee Sos ae eee 744
10. Ornamental beggine bowl: 222 sossese see eee ee ee ee 744
li: Buddhist:sacred book... .. 22225. 2 Sees eee eeeee nt eee ee aoe aa eee 744
12: Prayer wheel; .<22./.- 22 53sec 550 eee See eo ee ee ene 744
13: A-pair of temple lamps. 2.225952 5 sneer fees
T4. A temple drum :.2: 2 2 ssc has eeee ace ee eee eee eee ee oe oe 744
ib. “Che: Chinese codloh wares -25. eee eee eee Suite Se eee eo tee 744
16. The Chinese god of peace ....------. Ten bee cost ees Se Se ee Ce ace 744
17. Lwo Japanese porcelain feunes 222e.5 422 eee eee eee eee eee 744
First IMPLEMENTS OF THE Fayum, Eaypv.
By Hreywoop WALTER Seron-Karr.

Facing page.
» Knives of fimt froma the ak aby, tara 5) ony, ieee 752

2, Arrowheads of new type: — Hayum), siloy pisses ees seeas ese eae 5

3.. Arrowheads of varied shape. Payumo, Weve sssee eee ee ee eee eee

ha

oO

Arrowheads of different forms. Fayum, Egypt....-----------.--- i Seesz

. Objects of worked flint... Payum, Woeypt 22 soee soe es oe eee

ot

J J) SI sI
or or
bo bo bo be
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XIII

Facing pag
6. Various types of flint implements. Fayum, Egypt...............-....-. 752
( euiiinaciplements.a Kayum, Neypt. 2222.25.52 enc h ue Bececcc te cee. 752
8. Arrow and javelin heads, saws, ete. ayum, Ey pt cet see Oa ee 752
9. Saws and other implements of flint. Bayume “Hey riire S252 tree ses 752
10. Arrowheads of remarkable form. Fayum, Egypt.............---------- 752
Hepoeravers, knives aris, ete. Fayum, Eeypt.....:-..... 2. <ss.c.2e.-ee- 752
12. Spearheads, sacrificial knives, etc. Fayum, Egypt.-..............-.-.-- 752

TEXT FIGURES:
CoNTRIBUTIONS TO THE History oF AMERICAN GEOLOGY.

By GrorGe P. Merri.u.
Page.

1. Portrait of Archibald Bruce. From American Journal of Science, I, 1819. 223

2. Portrait of Samuel Luther Dana. From a wood engraving in Popular
SerencerMonbmivapNalleNcn IS OG se wseto some acc les cee odee sees ecc cel ee 229

3. Portrait of Samuel Latham Mitchill. From a steel engraving by Gimber
STS) UD Eee Sik Sie 5 cc Se I i gg 231
ieMap donllustrave Mitchill’s theory of barriers......-.2.-..0....2...226--- 232

5. A geological transverse section, extending from Catskill Mountain to the
Atlantic. From Eaton’s Index to Geology of the Northern States, 1818. 235

6. Portrait of Henry Rowe Schoolcraft. From a steel engraving by Illman
JO SWIMS ISAS A S8 COANES SEES eae ee eee a 240
re Mapsaowimp cchooleratts route in 1820202. -2-.. 22.22.22 lees. 7. 241
Ba apotsenoolerait sitravelsin toe) o-oo 52c00022-. 2s cs ecace see c cee 242

9. Schoolcraft’s Section of Presque Isle. (Original colored.) From Narrative
VoOURMalsoteRrayvelsslS20 naam eee eee eee es ecscee 248

10. Map of Long’s expeditions, 1819-20. From an account of an Expedition
idm eitsburo to hoeky Mountains: 2621. 22..2.-.22.-26-sede-snecee 246

11. Geological Sections from the Allegheny to the Rocky Mountains. (After
Edwin James.) From report of Long’s expedition, 1819-20........-.- 248

12. Portrait of Horace H. Hayden. From a painting by permission of Mary-

lemder eo lovacalastinve vases se soe si xcwi Peete me Secs 2 oe eco s cee 259

. Portrait of Thomas Cooper at age of 70. From a steel engraving by

JN Bs IDO: 55 = Te a ee 8 a ener pe are De ee ae 261

. Supposed human footprints in limestone. (After D. D. Owen.) From

American Journal orecience, XLII, 1842.22.22. 25. oan bo see bocce 263
15. Portrait of Denison Olmsted. From a steel engraving by A. H. Ritchie.. 267
16. Map showing Routes of Long’s expedition of 1823. From Narrative of an

Expedition to the Source Gipstebaters River sc nesiacs wee eee 275
17. Sections of Snake Hill, Saratoga Lake. (After J. H. Steel.) From Amer-

LAMP OUMNAOMSCIENCe: (82-520 33-522. d2he2- sb cokes sasesseooeeeeece 277
18. Portrait of Elisha Mitchell. From a steel engraving.........----------- 285
19. Eaton’s Transverse Sections of the Globe. From Geological Text-Book, 1832 297
20. Portrait of George William Featherstonhaugh. From American Geolo-

Git, ATO TUS) ee ee ee Gea apres Sen nee Oo aaa 303
21. Portrait of Jacob Green. From a steel engraving..-...---.------------- 305
22. Folded axes. (After Edward Hitchcock.) From Final Report on Geology

Ole Vascrelicentswm lee S4 eo heer Leas ss Ae Leen conse eee ee 314
23. Portrait of Isaac Lea. From a steel engraving in the Annual of Scientific

IDiSGOWeRY, ISG) aSedeeee sons atoore dese tete] See eee a ecne enero eeoScc 320
24. Portrait of Juiius Timoleon Ducatel. From a painting, by permission of

Margiuneerolorieal survey 2. 222i 2222. 2 shoe Soe aan 323
25. Portrait of James Gates Percival. From an engraving ..-..------------- 329
26. Portrait of Samuel Prescott Hildreth. From a photograph---.---------- 331
27. Page from Mather’s Elements of Geology for the use of schools, 1833.

merremmaemcem@exach AIZe) < 22.252 bone 2 2 ee oc nso See eee eee ee 334

. Portrait of Abraham Gesner. From an engraving in Bulletin XIV, Natu-

ral History Society of New Brunswick, 1896.......-.-.--------------- 339
XIV LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

29. Portrait of Charles Upham Shepard. From a lithograph by Engelbach - -
. Portrait of James Curtis Booth. From a photograph taken in 1876 ..--.
. Portrait of Bela Hubbard. From an engraving in Magazine of Western

IIst0ry. =: 5-2 62 cscs ee onse Soo ee eee eee ee eee aero

. General section across the Western States. (After D. D. Owen.) From

Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, 1846.....------

. Portrait of James Hall. From a daguerreotype taken in 1843..........--
. Profile of the Island of New York. (After Issachar Cozzens.) From Geo-

logical History of Manhattan Island, 1843, (Original colored) ...-..---

. Portrait of Michael Tuomey. From a photograph taken about 1857 --.--
. Portrait of Charles Baker Adams. From an enlarged engraving in Amer-

ican=Geologist. X KOC 190355 - 50. aos peat ee ee ae eee

. Ideal section of the crust of the earth. (After C. B. Adams.) From First

Annual Report: Geolovistiof Vermomtml 84 eee 5 a eee ee

. Portrait of Zadock Thompson. From a steel engraving by J. C. Buttre--
. Richmond bowlder train. (After E. Hitchcock.) From American Jour-

Na]OMSGIGNCE, KONO NGIN CAG es Pek ee ae ear

. Portrait of Frederick Adolphus Wislizenus. From a photograph..------
. Portrait of James Dwight Dana. From a lithograph by R. Hoffman, 1857-
. Sketch map of Richmond bowlder train. (After E. R. Benton.) From

Bulletin of Museum of Comparative Zoology, V, 1878 ......-----------

3. Portrait of John Bulkley Perry. From an engraving by H. W. Smith...
: Map showing Stansbury 7s routes 1nhi849-50 ere eeee eee eee
. Map of areas surveyed by D. D. Owen in Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois in

1839 sand the Chippewarclandidistnich wm les jesss = eee ae eee

. Owen’s geological sections across Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois. From

Report of Geological Exploration of Part of Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illi-
MOiss L839) Wolke 2 se sac Sas ea eee eee ore eee eae

. Trap dikes on Lake Superior. (After D. D. Owen.) From Report of Geo-

logical Survey of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota, 1852.......-.-.---.

. Map showing area surveyed by Jackson, and Foster and Whitney, 1847-49.

49. Portrait of Louis Agassiz. From a steel engraving by C. H. Jeens in

Nature; Aspril US792e = Jes oo ae ete Sere eee ee ee eter te eee
50. Portrait of John Wells Foster. From a steel engraving -..-...----------
51. Portrait of Philip Thomas Tyson. From a painting, by permission of

Maryland: ceolocicall survey 22s. 22s fe eee eee ee

Portrait of Joseph Granville Norwood, aged 67 years. From a_photo-
graphs 2.2.02 Besse 5 es ce Pe ee en ee ee eee en

. Map showing routes of Marcy and Shumard, 1849-52.........--.-.-.----
. Portrait of Oliver Payson Hubbard. From a photograph -.--.-..-..------
. Portrait of John Boardman Trask. From a photograph ...----..-------
. Portrait of Garland Carr Broadhead. From a photograph ----....----.--
. Portrait of Oscar Montgomery Lieber. From a photograph -.-....-.-----
» Portrait of Jules Marcon. Krom’ a photoorip hve ssseee=se= === ae
. Map showing principal routes of exploring parties in connection with

Pacific railroad surveys 2.22: 4--Ve.0s- 22 oe eee ee ee

. Portrait of William Phipps Blake. From a photograph.-.--....--..------
. Portrait of Thomas Antisell. From a photograph -.....-.-..-----------
. Portrait of George Gibbs. From a photograph ...--.----.---- Sere is sia tiaee
. Portrait of James Merrill Safford. From a photograph --.-.-.-..----.-.---
. Section from the Cumberland to eastern base of Lookout Mountain..

(After J. M. Safford.) From a Geological Reconnaissance of Tennessee,

1855 .. 22..--- sso. odes eek vince ee de
65. Paradoxides harlani. From a photograph of one of Green’s casts. ----.--
66. Portrait of Richard Owen. From a wood engraving in Popular Science

Monthly, Li, 1897... 2052 2 See eee

. Map showing routes traversed by Newberry with Lieutenant Ives and

Captain Macomb, 1857-09: .--s25 ccntkc 20a eee ee aeiaa ae eee eran
fon)
ioe)

for]
ve)

SSI)
em oONW Re ©

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

. Portrait of Eugene Waldemar Hilgard. From a photograph taken Janu-

AIAG, WW Decsosod soos SSeS Rae OnE eee en ee, Saar e

. Portrait of Benjamin Franklin Shumard. From an engraving in Amer-

Ooih (SBOLUG LOY» USS 55 GE Sets eae a ates ese ees

. Portrait of Amos Henry Worthen. Froma photograph taken about 1863-
. Portrait of Leo Lesquereux. From a photograph taken in May, 1872...
. Portrait of Henry Engelmann. From a photograph --------.----------
. Portraitof Charles Henry Hitchcock. Froma photograph taken about 1879.
. Portrait of Thomas Sterry Hunt. From an engraving in American Geol-

CeSis BC ly Wee RE oes ee a ee ee

. Portrait of Raphael Pumpelly. From a photograph -........-.-..-----
. Portrait of Benjamin Franklin Mudge. From a photograph ----..--.---
. Portrait of George Clinton Swallow. From an engraving in American

(ECU D ETSY IDC ON ie ei eel ate a a eR

. Portrait of Charles Frederick Hartt. From a photograph-.-.-.-..---.----
. Portraits of Charles Abiather White, Rush Emery, and Orestes St. John.

Brome pao lorrapl takemin 1869... 2.222. 22. 2 Goins see aes ee

. Portrait of Thomas Brooks Brooks. From a photograph .--.-----------
. Portrait of Carl Rominger. From a photograph taken about 1879 .-----
2. Portrait of Charles Whittlesey. From a photograph taken in December,

LS neo eee Re eae SoS soe oS cic Sain Sie cisis Sioieie S's'ssle-c, 5S

. Portrait of Edward Travers Cox. From a photograph.'.-.-.-----------
. Portrait of Alfred Richard Cecil Selwyn. From a photograph ......---
) Portrait of George Little: From a photograph .-.-...-...-.------------
. Portrait of John Murrish. From a photograph ..-.--..- Sete ee ee ane
. Portrait of Othniel Charles Marsh. Froma photograph -.......-------
. Portrait of Joseph Le Conte. From a photograph.....-- + Pee SS se aes
. Portrait of Washington Caruthers Kerr. From a photograph -----.-.--.
. Portrait of Eugene Allen Smith. From a photograph .....------------
. Portrait of John Wesley Powell. From a photograph .....------------
. Ideal cross section of the Black Hills. (After Henry Newton.) From

Report of Geology and Resources of the Black Hills of Dakota, 1880--

. Portrait of Increase Allen Lapham. From a photograph taken in 1866- -
. Portrait of Thomas Crowder Chamberlin. From a photograph taken in

1S Seen Meer Beenie Se Loe Sos So ceiocerieeaceaioma eos

. Portrait of Roland Duer Irving. From an engraving in American Geolo-

25g, JIE SSE oan Se Se eee ee pene oem raer a=

. Portrait of J. Peter Lesley. From a photograph ........--.------------
. Maps showing routes of Raynolds’s expedition in 1859-60, and area coy-

Sredmiypiieiuaen a KOpONG: sc cee 22522552 s 2 sce scien ase esneene aces

. Portrait of Edward Drinker Cope, with a skull of Loxolophodon cornutus.

TP CySinGe 50) 1Y0) 2 0year 9 | eee a

. Portrait of Fielding Bradford Meek. From a photograph by Julius Ulke,

NR sche ceca se dae be Gee DAE SOR CnE Ree ee eee a Sea metric

. Portrait of Frank Howe Bradley. From a photograph .-..---.--------
. Portrait of Joseph Leidy. From an engraving in American Geologist,

TDA, IS ty bn SoS. 2 ee ie ee en ere

. Portrait of Frederic Miller Endlich. From a photograph -.-..---------
. Inverted beds of Jackass Creek. (After A. C. Peale.) From U. 8. Geo-

logical Survey of Montana, 1872......------------------------------

. Portrait of Albert Charles Peale. From a photograph taken in 1872.-.--
. Portrait of Archibald Robertson Marvine. From a photograph taken in

TS) Seabee bees See eer ABER EC COCE COE pono Be po reer cosinor

. Sections across the Sierra La Sal. (After A. OC. Peale.) From Report

U. 8. Geological and Geographical Survey, 1875 .....----------------

. Sections across the Sierra El Late. ( After W. H. Hoimes.) From Report

U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey, 1875 -..------------------

. Portrait of William Henry Holmes. From a photograph taken about 1878.
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

. Showing areas surveyed and mapped by the Hayden Surveys, 1870-78 --
. Portrait of Robert Parr Whitfield. From a photograph....-......-.-.---
. Map showing area covered by the Fortieth Parallel Survey -....-.--.-.---
. Portraits of Arnold Hague, Clarence King, and Samuel Franklin Emmons.

From ‘a: photopraplist.s-1. 222 scscc neem ace cee eee eee ere ee as

. Portrait of Grove Karl Gilbert. From a photograph taken about 1874. -
. Section of the Pahranagat range at Silver Canyon. (After G. K. Gilbert. )

From Geological Survey West of One Hundredth Meridian, III, 1875- -

. Portrait of Edwin Eugene Howell. From a photograph taken about 1875-
. Portrait of John James Stevenson. From a photograph --.-...---.-.----
. Map showing area surveyed and mapped by the Powell survey, 1875-80-
. Portrait of Clarence Edward Dutton. From a photograph ----..-.-----
. Laccoliths. (After G. K. Gilbert.) From Geology of Henry Mountains,

Uta 197 Zi cece ee 2 sik ee Soe ee ay ee

PPackam out oun ssc. so soe sere at eee ee eae eR ee eee eee ee
. Fossil footprints. (After Edward Hitchcock.) From American Journal

OL Science LBSGe ss Ae Pee ee eee Re Te ee

22. Portrait ou James Deanes (Hromiayphotographissses-ss-eer ee eae eee ee
23. Skeleton of Anchisaurus colarus Marsh. From American ‘Journal of

SCLEN Ces PRELAV ENTS Ot: Fee NE, PER Rete att St are pene

. Supposed fossil from Laurentian limestone. (After W. E. Logan.) From
Geology ofCanada, S650 s4ec 9 Nee ents eae eae eee eens

. Small weathered specimens of Hozoon canadense. (After J. W. Dawson. )

From: ©hainjoiwitens Geologicalllime === sameeren eee

. Magnified group of canals in supplemental skeleton of Eozoon. (After

J. W. Dawson.) From Chain of Life in Geological Time...--...-----

. Portion of Eozoon magnified 100 diameters, showing the original cell

wall, with tubulation. (After W. B. Carpenter in Dawson’s Chain of
Life in:Geolapical Mime) =. 22-2. 2 see0 eee 2. eee eee ee

. Magnified and restored section of a portion of Hozoon canadense. (After

J. W. Dawson.) From Chain of Life in Geological Time........-.---

9. Diagram of Eozoonal rock at Cote St. Pierre. (After T. G. Bonney. )

From GeolopricaleWarazine ii gS 95a se ee eee eee ae

. Map of original Taconic area. (After Ebenezer Emmons)..........----
. Section of Taconic rocks. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of

New Y orks: Pewee oe soso sae a 2 ee sae ee eee ae eee ee

32. Sections explanatory of the Taconic system. (After KE. Emmons.) From

Natural. History: of New. York) (Pt. 4-22. 62. so see eee ee

33. Altops trilineatus. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of New York,

I, pl. Vili: Sepsis Dae See ee i oe ee eee ee oe ae ee

. Elliptecephala asaphoides. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of

New ‘York, Tjplsicsce ecu aes on eek ee ee

5. Triarthrus beckii and eatoni. (After James Hall.) From American Jour-

nal of Science; XkOGNIE S83 7—88. pp. 140) sees aes ee ee

3. Olenus thompson. (After James Hall.) From Tenth Annual Report

Regents of the University of State of New York, 1857............:--:

. Olenus vermontana. (Atter James Hall.) From Tenth Annual Report

Regents of the University of State of New York -....--.-..---........

. Portrait of Elkanah Billings. Hromija; photosraphessseeeeeeee eae
9. Portrait of Charles Doolittle Walcott. From a photograph taken in 1891-
. Tabular view of Taconic strata as arranged by E. Emmons. (AfterC. D.

Walcott.) From American Journal of Science, XX XV, April, 1888 --

. Section of Bald Mountain from the south. (After C. D. Walcott.) From

American Journal of Science, XOXGX isskeien ane ee eee eee
Fiint IMPLEMENTS OF THE Fayum, Eq@ypt.
By Heywoop Watrter Seron-Karr.

Mapiof part.of Fayum Desert. 2270s: eespceae: eee ee Sa eee
Jegvee sii Bie Ee

REPORT UPON THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE
U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1904. -

RICHARD RATHBUN,

ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
IN CHARGE OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

NAT Mus 1904——1 i
ee

ae

4
4
A
:
4
>

\

i ove cid oo @ ml Sond &

UPON

THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1904,

. By Ricwarp RarTHeun,

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U.S. National Museum.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

The United States National Museum had its origin in the act of
Congress of 1846 founding the Smithsonian Institution, which made
the formation of a museum one of the principal functions of the
latter, and provided that— ;

Whenever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their recep-
tion, all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural
history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United
States, which may be in the city of Washington, in.whosesoever custody they may
be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents
to receive them, and shall be so arranged and classified in the building erected for
the Institution as best to facilitate the examination and study of them; and when-
ever new specimens in natural history, geology, or mineralogy are obtained for the
museum of the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate specimens, which the Regents
may in their discretion make, or by donation, which they may receive, or otherwise,
the Regents shall cause such new specimens to be appropriately classed and arranged.

The principal and accrued interest of the Smithsonian fund
amounted at that time to about $750,000, a sum considered ample to
meet the needs of the various operations in which it was proposed that
the Smithsonian Institution should engage. In 1846 probably not
more than one or two universities or learned establishments in Amer-
ica had so large an endowment, and it was apparently the idea of
Congress that the fund was sufficient both for the erection of a build-
ing and for the care of the collections which would be turned over
to it or acquired by the national surveys, and in other ways. The
Museum thus began as an integral part of the Institution, coordinate
with its library, and was required by law to provide for the Goyern-
ment collections which had previously accumulated, a duty which the

9
2
.

4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Institution did not see its way clear to fulfill until 1858, when Con-
gress began to make small yearly appropriations to aid in this purpose.
So inadequate, however, were the sums voted that for many years the
slender income of the Institution continued to be drawn upon to insure
the maintenance of what was then justly called the Smithsonian
Museum, since the building was paid for out of the Smithson fund, a
considerable portion of the collections was and still is the property of
the Institution, through exploration and gift, and a number of the offi-
cials connected with the Museum were employed at its expense.

The first scientific collection to come into the possession of the Insti-
tution—and, in fact, it accompanied the bequest—was the small but
valuable mineralogical cabinet of James Smithson, the founder, who
was himself a chemist and mineralogist of repute and a Fellow of the
Royal Society of London.

The nucleus of the National Museum was, however, virtually acquired
by the National Institute, a society organized in Washington about
1840, having for its avowed purpose the direction of the Smithson
bequest and the pursuit of objects in consonance with the terms of that
foundation. One of these objects was the gathering of historical and
natural history specimens from both official and private sources, most
prominent among the former having been the United States Exploring
Expedition around the world from 1838 to 1842. Rooms in the Patent
Office building were secured for the museum of the society, which was
practically recognized as the appropriate place of deposit for all Gov-
ernment collections retained in Washington. Another important serv-
ice rendered by the society was, as the late Dr. G. Brown Goode has
said, in the direction of educating public opinion *‘ to consider the
establishment of such an institution worthy of the Government of the
United States.” Failing, however, to secure the public recognition at
which it aimed, it became inactive upon the establishment of the Smith-
sonian Institution in 1846, and its charter, which expired in 1861, was
not renewed. The Government collections in its possession, which
came practically under the care of the Commissioner of Patents, were
turned over to the Smithsonian Institution in 1858. Other material
directly under the control of the National Institute remained at the
Patent Office until 1862, and a part of the historical objects were held
there until 1883.

Previous to 1858, however, important materials for a museum were
being accumulated at the Smithsonian Institution, at its own cost and
through the activities of its assistant secretary, Prof. Spencer F.
Baird, beginning even before his appointment to that office in 1850.
The personal bent of Professor Baird was toward the collection of
natural history specimens for purposes of study. With the approval
of Secretary Henry he put into operation plans for the accomplish-
ment of this object, which, fostered and encouraged, were soon yield-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5

ing regular and abundant returns. Professor Baird’s own vacations
were spent in field work. Officers of the Army and Navy and of other
branches of the Government service, fishermen, fur traders, private
explorers, and such powerful organizations as the Hudson’s Bay Com-
pany and the Western Union Telegraph Company, were enlisted in
the work and rendered valuable assistance. The influence exerted by
these beginnings has been lasting and widespread, as shown in the
extensive natural history operations of subsequent National and State
surveys, the organization of the Fish Commission and Bureau of Eth-
nology, and the support given to scientific collecting by many other
bureaus of the Government.

The discussion of plans for the organization of the Smithsonian
Institution, which devolved upon the first Board of Regents, led, in
January, 1847, to the unanimous adoption of the following resolution
expressing approval of the museum feature as one of its important
functions:

Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress establishing the Institution,
and in accordance with the design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will, that
one of the principal modes of executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of
collections of specimens and objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the
gradual formation of a library of valuable works pertaining to all departments of
human knowledge, to the end that a copious storehouse of materials of science,
literature, and art may be provided, which shall excite and diffuse the love of learn-
ing among men, and shall assist the original investigations and efforts of those who
may devote themselves to the pursuit of any branch of knowledge. @

The policy thus announced has prevailed to the present day.

In 1879, when most of the existing Government surveys, whose
work included the collecting of specimens in the field, had been estab-
lished, Congress deemed it important to practically reenforce the pro-
visions of the act founding the Institution, in order that there might
be no doubt as to the proper disposition of the material certain to be
derived from these various sources, by the following enactment in the
sundry civil appropriation act for 1880:

All collections of rocks, minerals, soils, fossils, and objects of natural history,
archeology, and ethnolgy, made by the Coast and Interior Survey, the Geological
Survey, or by any other parties for the Government of the United States, when no
longer needed for investigations in progress shall be deposited in the National
Museum.

Although the name ‘* National Museum” was sometimes used in the
earlier reports of the Smithsonian Institution, it did not appear in any
of the laws of. Congress until 1875. Its general employment may be
said to date from the time of the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition
of 1876, the first exposition in this country in which the Government
participated, and the first to make known to vast numbers of the
people of the United States the existence of national collections at

« Report of Committee on Organization, p. 20.
6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Washington, as well as new methods of installing and exhibiting
museum materials, differing radically from the older cabinets of col-
lege or local museums, which had prevailed up to that period. After
its close the Government exhibits brought back to Washington,
together with the extensive gifts made to the United States by private
persons and foreign governments, rendered necessary the early erec-
tion of a new and separate building, devoted entirely to museum
purposes. Since that time Congress has mainly provided for the
maintenance of the Museum, but its management remains, by the
fundamental act, under the authority of the Regents of the Smithso-
nian Institution, administered through their Secretary, who is ex officio
the keeper—a form of government insuring a consistent and uniform
policy and a nonpartisan administration of its affairs. The greater
part of the Smithsonian building is still used for museum purposes,
and the Institution, as well as most of the scientific bureaus at Wash-
ington, cooperate, both through men and material, in enlarging and
caring for the national collections.

The scope of the National Museum as defined by law comprises
practically all branches of science and of the arts which admit of
museum treatment. With exceedingly limited means for making pur-
chases, and therefore almost entirely dependent as to the character
of its collections upon Government explorations, personal donations,
and exchanges, its different departments have had a very unequal
growth. The subjects best represented are American ethnology and
archeology, geology, zoology, and botany. A fair beginning has been
made in the exceedingly important branches of the industrial arts
and American history, and scarcely more is required to place these
two departments on a proper basis than sufficient room to display
the necessary collections, which are certain to be received, in greater
part through gratuitous contributions, when it is known that the
Museum is prepared to care for them. In the department of the fine
arts the collection is still very small, but the subject is one which
must sooner or later receive earnest consideration by the Government.

The specimens in all branches are classified in two series; one, com-
prising the bulk of the material, being arranged for the purposes of
scientific research and reference in laboratories and storerooms, to
which students are freely admitted; the other, selected with regard to
their general educational value and public interest, and accompanied
by descriptive labels, being displayed in glass-covered cases in the
public halls. The duplicate specimens not required for exchanges
are made up into sets for distribution to schools and colleges, as
opportunity offers. Papers descriptive of the collections, both tech-
nical and popular, are published for gratuitous circulation to the
extent of three or more volumes yearly, and, finally, the Museum
has come to be regarded as a bureau of information in respect to all
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. fi

subjects with which it is even in the remotest degree concerned, the
correspondence which this involves now constituting one of its heaviest
tasks.

The history of the Museum, as pointed out by the late Doctor Goode,
may be divided into three epochs, which he characterized as follows:

First, the period from the foundation of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, dur-
ing which time specimens were collected solely to serve as materials for research.
No special effort was made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize them, except
as a foundation for scientific description and theory.

Second, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of the
‘“National Cabinet of Curiosities,’’? to 1876. During this period the Museum became
a place of deposit for scientific collections which had already been studied, these col-
lections, so far as convenient, being exhibted to the public and, so far as practicable,
- made to serve an educational purpose.

Third, the present period (beginning in the year 1876), in which the Museum has
undertaken more fully the additional task of gathering collections and exhibiting
them on account of their yalue from an educational standpoint.

During the first period the main object of the Museum was scientific research; in
the second, the establishment became a museum of record as well as of research,
while in the third period has been added the idea of public education. The three
ideas—record, research, and education—cooperative and mutually helpful as they
are, are essential to the development of every great museum. The National Museum
endeavors to promote them all.

In the same connection, Doctor Goode also detined the scope and
objects of the Museum in the following concise manner:

It is a museum of record, in which are preserved the material foundations of an
enormous amount of scientific knowledge—the types of numerous past investigations.
This is especially the case with those materials that have served-as a foundation for
the reports upon the resources of the United States.

It isa museum of research, which aims to make its contents serve in the highest
degree as a stimulus to inquiry and a foundation for scientific investigation. Research
is necessary in order to identify and group the objects in the most philosophical and
instructive relations, and its officers are therefore selected for their ability as investi-
gators, as well as for their trustworthiness as custodians.

It is an educational museum, through its policy of illustrating by specimens every
kind of natural object and every manifestation of human thought and activity, of
displaying descriptive labels adapted to the popular mind, and of distributing its
publications and its named series of duplicates.

AS A MUSEUM OF RECORD.

In its function as a museum of record the growth of the National
Museum has been unprecedented, due mainly to the rapid exploration
and development of a rich and extensive country under the liberal
and progressive policy of the Government. From scientific institu-
tions throughout the world, from foreign governments, and from indi-
viduals abundant stores of great value have been received, either as
gifts or through the medium of exchange of specimens, and a small
appropriation in recent years has permitted of some purchases to
supply desiderata.
8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

The principal sources of the collections may be briefly summarized
as follows:

1. The explorations carried on more or less directly under the
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, or by the Institution in con-
nection with educational institutions or commercial establishments,
and the efforts, since 1850, of its officers and correspondents toward
the accumulation of natural history and anthropological material.

2. The United States Exploring Expedition around the world from
1838 to 1842, the North Pacific, or Perry, Exploring Expedition from
1853 to 1856, and many subsequent naval expeditions down to and
including the recent operations in the West Indian and Philippine
waters.

3. The activities of members of the United States diplomatic and
consular service abroad.

4. The Government surveys at home, such as the Pacific Railroad
surveys, the Mexican and Canadian boundary surveys, and the surveys
carried on by the Engineer Corps of the U. S. Army; and the activi-
ties of officers of the Signal Corps, and other branches of the Army
stationed in remote regions.

5. The explorations of the U. S. Geological Survey, the U. S. Fish
Commission, the Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of American
Kthnology of the Smithsonian Institution, and other scientific branches
of the Government.

6. Donations and purchases in connection with the several exposi-
tions at home and abroad in which the Museum and Fish Commission
have participated, among these having been the Centennial Exhibition
at Philadelphia in 1876, the International Fisheries Exhibitions at Berlin
in 1880 and at London in 1882, the New Orleans Cotton Centennial
Exposition in 1884 and 1885, the Cincinnati Exposition of 1888, the
World’s Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893, the expositions at
Atlanta in 1895, at Nashville in 1897, at Omaha in 1898, the Pan-
American Exposition of 1901, and the Charleston Exposition of
1901-02. The returns from the World’s Fair in Philadelphia were of
greatest extent, comprising, besides the collections displayed by the
United States in illustration of the animal and mineral resources, the
fisheries, and the ethnology of the native races of the country, valuable
gifts from thirty of the foreign governments which participated, as
wellas the industrial collections of numerous manufacturing and com-
mercial houses of Europe and America.

7. Exchanges with foreign and domestic museums and with indi-
viduals.

Immediately preceding the Centennial Exhibition of 1876, when the
collections were entirely provided for in the Smithsonian building,
the number of entries of specimens in the Museum record books was
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 3

about 235,000. In 1884, when the additional room afforded by the new
building gave opportunity for taking a provisional census of the large
accessions received from Philadelphia and from other sources, the
number had grown to 1,471,000. At the close of the year covered
by this report the total number of recorded specimens was 5,898,493.

While these figures convey no impression of the bulk of the collec-
tions, when it is considered that by 1885 all of the space in both build-
ings was completely filled, and in fact so overcrowded that a third
building was already being asked of Congress, some conception may
be had of the conditions now existing. The storerooms are packed to
their utmost capacity, making it difficult to gain access to the speci-
mens or to provide adequately for their safety. For many years most
of the objects received have had to be stored in outside and unsafe
structures, where they are mainly piled up in the original packing
boxes, and where has already accumulated enough material of great
intrinsic and scientific value to fill an additional building as large as
that now occupied by the main collections.

AS A MUSEUM OF RESEARCH.

In order to permit of their examination and study, as provided in
the act of establishment, the collections of the Museum are, to the
extent of its accommodations, arranged systematically and in a manner
convenient for reference. Access to the reserve or study series, so
called, consisting of the main body of the collections and as complete
in all the groups as the accessions have made possible, is given to all
properly qualified persons engaged in original research. The oppor-
tunities thus afforded are widely availed of, the Museum being visited
every year by many investigators, some of world-wide distinction,
coming from the scientific centers of European and other foreign
countries, as well as from all parts of the United States. Material is
also occasionally sent out to representatives of other institutions hay-
ing the means of providing for its safe-keeping, when required in the
working up of special subjects, or for comparison in connection with
their own collections.

The custodianship of the collections being the first and most impera-
tive duty devolving upon the scientific staff of the National Museum,
its members find comparatively little time during office hours for
advancing knowledge, though they are mostly well qualified for such
work, being selected with special reference to their ability to identify
and classify the specimens under their charge in accordance with the
latest researches. As a matter of fact, however, the staff does pro-
duce every year a large number of papers descriptive of the collec-
tions, which together constitute an important contribution to scientific
literature.
10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Among the honorary officers having their laboratories at the Museum
are a number of assistants employed by other scientific bureaus to con-
duct investigations on material kept here in their charge, and in whose
results the Museum shares.

Many collections have, from time to time, bébn transferred by the
Geological Survey, the Fish Commission, the Department of Agricul-
ture, and other branches of the Government to the custody of the
Museum in advance of their final working up, in order to provide for
their safe storage and to secure the better facilities for study here
afforded. Under this arrangement the amount of research work car-
ried on in the Museum building has been greatly increased.

Though having little means to expend for field work, members of
the Museum staff are occasionally given opportunities to participate
in the explorations of other Government bureaus or of private expe-
ditions, in connection with which special researches may be carried on,
though the chief advantage results from the acquisition of new and
valuable material and a knowledge of the conditions under which it
occurred in nature.

AS AN EDUCATIONAL MUSEUM.

The educational side of the Museum is intended to consist mainly
of an exhibition of all the classes of objects which it represents, so
mounted, installed, and labeled as to directly interest and instruct the
general public. The principal difficulty incident to the proper instal-
lation of such a collection, conceding all the space required, lies in the
selection of its parts, so that while enough is displayed to convey the
amount of information which it is intended to impart, the visitor shall
not be overburdened or confused with details. While this policy is
being followed in the National Museum, so far as its means permit,
the lack of room has always prevented a complete or satisfactory
development of the plan, and.every succeeding year the conditions in
this respect grow worse instead of better, through the increased crowd-
ing of the halls. The advances in recent years have been chiefly in
the methods of display, in the character of individual and group
mountings, and in the labeling, in all of which directions exceptional
progress has been made.

Three years ago it was announced that all of the halls designed for
public use were then for the first time permanently open, though none
were above addition or improvement, while in some the arrangement
was entirely provisional. This was accomplished only by the transfer
of large quantities of material to outside storage, but it has unfortu-
nately been again necessary to shut off one or more of the halls from
time to time, in order to furnish increased space for workrooms.

In this connection it seems appropriate to refer to the work of
Doctor Goode, than whom no museum administrator ever had a better
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. di

understanding of the public needs. He labored earnestly and con-
scientiously to make this a museum for as well as of the people, and
the plans now being carried out are, in all their essential features, of
his making. While the assistants might be relied upon to arrange and
maintain the study series in a manner acceptable to the specialist, the
interests of the public always remained in his immediate charge. He
was ever occupied in devising ways for so presenting the features of
nature and the activities of mankind that by the very force of his sur-
roundings the visitor was bound to receive and carry with him some
definite impression, some new bit of knowledge. Doctor Goode’s
labors in this field ranged from the planning of the general scheme to
the most minute details of case architecture and fittings. His official
connection with nearly all the important expositions of the past quar-
ter of a century and his exhaustive studies of all the principal museums
of Europe and the United States gave him exceptional opportunities
for observation and experiment. Though a young man when he died,
none other had acquired so ripe an experience and none is more worthy
of being followed. .

An incidental, though very popular, educational feature of the
Museum, having for its purpose the promotion of scientific teaching
throughout the country, has been the distribution to schools and col!-

leges of its duplicate specimens, properly identified and labeled, and
put up in carefully selected sets. Inadequate means have prevented
this measure from being carried out on the scale which the resources
of the Museum would admit of, but many hundreds of such sets have
already been given away.

Searcely a year passes that some exposition, either at home or
abroad, is not occupying the attention of the Museum, and through
this means its existence and aims are brought constantly and promi-
nently before the public. These expositions have of late followed one
another so closely, and have required such extensive preparations, as
to interfere greatly with the ordinary work of the Museum, but the
practice of introducing new and varied features, of showing a fresh
series of objects or improved groupings in connection with each one,
insures a substantial gain, when the collections are returned to Wash-
ington, besides fulfilling the important function of making museum
methods known to the people of the United States and stimulating
the growth of museums in many quarters.

Though mainly technical and most useful to the investigator, the
publications of the Museum can be classed, in a general way, as
belonging to its educational side, being the medium through which
the nature and extent of its collections are made known. The Annual
Report, first printed as a separate volume of the Smithsonian Report
in 1884, and now in its twentieth volume, consists, besides the admin-
istrative part, mainly of semipopular papers on interesting portions of
1 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

the collections. The Proceedings and Bulletins are almost exclusively
technical, the shorter papers being assigned to the former and the
larger and more exhaustive works to the latter. Of the Proceedings
twerty-four complete volumes have been issued, and of the Bulletins
fifty-two numbers.

THE NEW MUSEUM BUILDING.

As stated in the last report, Congress, in its session of 1903, had
authorized the erection of an additional building for the National
Museum at a cost not to exceed $3,500,000, and the Board of Regents
had appointed a committee to have charge of this important work.
The superintendent of construction, Mr. Bernard R. Green, had been
designated in the act of Congress, and the architects, Messrs. Horn-
blower & Marshall, who prepared the tentative sketches, had been
selected by the Regents. ;

By the close of that year the architects had begun upon the elabora-
tion of their plans, a work of slow progress, since the building is not
for an object with which that profession, in any part of the world, has
had much to do. There is no fixed pattern to follow, but it is hoped to
correct some of the faults shown in buildings heretofore put up for
the same purpose; to correct them all is beyond expectation. It has
been the task of the Museum expert to explain his needs; it is now for
the architect to express them in a definite and practical form. It is
expected that this work will be satisfactorily accomplished, and a
building produced meeting the requirements of science and the arts,
as well as those proposed for architectural improvement at the national
capital.

It is still too early to discuss the details of the plans. It may be
said, however, that the building will be effective in appearance, sub-
stantial, and fireproof. It will have an abundance of light and be
well ventilated and well heated. The reserve collections and the labor-
atories of each division will be in relatively close proximity to the
corresponding exhibition collections, insuring convenience of study
and oversight. Several elevators will connect the different stories,
and the comfort of visitors will be fully provided for. Congress has
called for plans for a central power and heating plant for the buildings
on the Mall. The benefits of such a feature can not fail to be appre-
ciated, but as some delay must occur in carrying out this measure, it
is expected that the new Museum building will need. to have its own
separate plant installed in the basement to meet at least its preliminary
wants.

By the beginning of the calendar year 1904 tbe plans had been suffi-
ciently advanced to fix definitely the main lines, the general dimensions,
and the architectural design, though requiring still further study to
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ILS}

harmonize the parts and perfect the many details. At this stage they
were, on January 27, approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, with the advice and consent of the Chancellor of the Insti-
tution and the chairman of the executive committee, as provided by
the resolution of the Board of Regents. About this time also the
expert personal services of Prof. 5. Homer Woodbridge, of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, were engaged to plan the
mechanical equipment of the building, including the apparatus for its
heating, ventilation, and electric lighting.

The excavation for the building, the contract for which had been
awarded to the Cranford Paving Company, of Washington, was begun
on June 15,1904. The lateness of the season precluded the holding of a
formal ceremony on that occasion, but the first spadeful of earth was
turned by Secretary Langley in the presence of the superintendent of
construction, the architects, and the employees of the Museum and
Institution. Addressing the superintendent, Mr. Green, the Secretary,
remarked:

On behalf of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, with the consent of the
chancellor and of the chairman of the executive committee, I now authorize you,
in accordance with the act of Congress, to proceed with the construction of the new
building for the United States National Museum, designed to increase and diffuse the
knowledge of the arts and sciences among the people.

The site of the building was also inclosed with a’ high board fence
and a small frame structure was erected as the headquarters of super-
intendence. Immediately following the excavation, sometime during
the summer, the work of building the foundations will be begun.

GROWTH AND NEEDS OF THE MUSEUM.

On preceding pages a brief history and a summary of the objects of
the National Museum have been given. Becoming a prominent fea-
ture in the early programme of the Institution, the course of the
Museum ran smoothly as long as there was room for its development.
Its scope, defined by the organizing act of Congress, was as compre-
hensive as the sphere of human knowledge in so far as could be com-
passed by Museum methods. In the beginning its collections were
practically all of natural history. Then appeared ethnology and
archeology, and finally the arts and industries as exemplified in the
work of modern man. In fact, the Museum building proper was
intended mainly for the last-named subjects. So rapid, however, has
been the growth of the collections that some confusion has resulted in
their arrangement, and their appearance at present is no criterion of
the wealth of the Museum or of its scope and anticipations. The
Museum has back of it all the Government surveys, whether at home
or abroad—a guaranty of the value of at least a large proportion of its

14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

acquisitions. It has many friends, some the owners of large and
important collections, who have come to recognize that in an institu-
tion founded by the Government for all time their specimens will be
not only perpetually and securely cared for, but also at the service of
every specialist who needs to consult them. Officials of the Govern-
ment detailed for duty in the new possessions, rich in novelties of
nature and of culture, are giving thought to the wants of their National
Museum. By means of the duplicates, set aside as collections are
worked over, exchanges are made with other museums, whereby
important additions are obtained. The exhibition collections in some
branches, notably the historical, owe many of their most attractive
features to loans. These are not the property of the Museum and may
only remain in its possession for short periods; but the spirit of liber-
ality in this direction, long manifested, is growing steadily, until of
late it has sometimes been necessary to decline important deposits on
account of lack of room. This difficulty will be overcome upon the
completion of the new building, whose greater accommodations and
improved facilities will, it is hoped, prove an additional incentive to
the possessors of collections, large or small, which may be instructive
to the people.

In appropriating for the large expositions, of which many have
been held in recent years, there has been a general understanding on
the part of Congress that from the allotment to the National Museum
the Museum shall gain something of permanent value. By judicious
management, though the amounts have been small, the Museum has
secured many unique specimens which it could not have obtained in
any other way at its command. With several of the larger museums,
which are well supplied with funds, it is customary to send out
exploring expeditions even to distant regions, and some of these
investigations are conducted on a very extensive scale. They are an
lportant source of collections as well as of information, but the
National Museum has neither the funds nor a sufticiently large staff
to engage in such work except on a very small scale, generally in
connection with one or other of the Government surveying expedi-
tions, and with the object of obtaining material which these surveys
do not collect.

There is one method of obtaining collections in which the National
Museum has been weak, while by such means all of the larger
museums of the world, whether national, municipal, or private, have
acquired a large proportion of their treasures. This is in the direct
expenditure of money for purchases. The importance of this method
is not realized by Congress, though it might be, were the matter
given thorough consideration and were the proper relations of the
Museum to those bureaus of the Government which are charged by
Congress with the investigation of agricultural, mining, fishery, and
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 15

other like problems, better understood. The specimens resulting
from all Government surveys and investigations are transferred to the
National Museum as soon as the studies upon them are completed.
The Museum is, therefore, the depository for all Government collec-
tions. Those who wish to consult them, whether in the Government
employ or strangers to it, must come to the Museum. It is, there-
fore, to be concluded that the National Museum is not a passive body,
but one most actively concerned in the development of the welfare of
the country. Yet, in a general way, the investigators of practical
problems for the Government find here only what they themselves
have collected. They need more complete series of objects in order
that their studies may be more complete, and at least for the benefit
of the industries of the country the gaps in the series should be filled
up as opportunity offers. An expert set to work upon a problem of
far-reaching economic importance requires to have before him all the
material possible, that nothing bearing upon his subject shall escape his
observation. It is the province of a large central museum to possess
these extended collections, classified and arranged so that they may at
all times be accessible.

The curio shop of old has given way to the modern museum, with
its definite purpose based upon experience and the advance of knowl-
edge during many years. While the purpose may vary in accordance
with the character and advantages of a museum, none can doubt that
it should be the primary object of a great national museum like the
one at Washington to subserve the needs of the Government, to do a
large part toward promoting the material interests of the people.

It is in this spirit and with these objects in view that appropriations
are asked for the purchase of such specimens as can not be acquired
in other ways. To approach perfection in the rounding out of collec-
tions is in itself naturally very gratifving, but to do this for the pur-
pose of benefiting the practical investigations of the Government is
the chief aim of the National Museum. Private collectors and students
have spent their lives in bringing together special collections which
are often far more perfect than can be obtained through the means sup-
plied by the Government, and rare and unique objects of exceeding
value fall into the hands of individuals. The National Museum should
have the means of acquiring such of these as are required for the pur-
poses of the Government, and all this with the understanding that
the Museum is only a part of the system organized by the Government
for improving the condition of its people.

The collections are separated into practically two series, the so-called
reserve or working series being arranged for the convenience of inves-
tigators, while for the instruction and entertainment of the public
ample provision is made here as elsewhere, much more room, in fact,
having been allotted to. this than to other purposes. There is, of
16 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

course, a limit beyond which any display becomes bewildering and
tiresome, but that point has not yet been reached in this Museum.
The exhibition collections comprise selections from all the branches
represented, and only enough from each to serve the desired purpose.
In some branches, however, like history, nearly all the material objects
are appropriate for exhibition,and find their most appreciative critics
among the general public. In other branches, moreover, there are
many large objects which can best be cared for in the exhibition halls,
and are, therefore, nearly always seen there.

A third division of the collections, one prepared for general teachers
and young students, as suggested by Dr. F. A. Bather, of the British
Museum, might readily be arranged when additional room becomes
available, but there is less need for such in this country than seems to
be the case abroad, since nearly all the schools and colleges throughout
the United States have their own collections, especially of natural
history, supplied in part from the duplicates in the national collections.

It will thus be seen that the collections which come to the National
Museum are being utilized to the fullest extent and in a most liberal
manner. The reserve series, comprising the specimens which have
already been worked up and are held as records of past investigations,
together with those which still remain to be studied, constitute the
technically important part of the Museum, and alone justify its exist-
ence. The public collections, however, take the greatest amount of
space, require the largest expenditure of money, and demand the
most ingenuity in their selection and arrangement. There remain
the duplicates, only known to be such as the work of classification
proceeds, which serve the double purpose of securing valuable returns
through exchange and of promoting education by their gratuitous
distribution to schools and colleges. The amount of material used
for the latter purpose since this practice was established over half a
century ago, has been very great.

The greatest discrepancy to-day in the administration of the Museum
results, however, from an insuflicient staff, not as regards ethciency
but numbers. Only one who has had to do with the management of
such a large trust can fully appreciate the significance of this state-
ment, and those clothed with power to correct this condition have not
yet come to thoroughly understand the importance of the matter.
The responsibilities in administering upon a national museum of this
great and free country are probably much heavier than those in any
other land. The policy recognized in every branch of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and sanctioned by Congress, is to do
for the people whatever is possible. This Government is doing for its
people what no other government has ventured to attempt, and the
result is a condition of extreme prosperity and contentment. And
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 17

is no share of credit for this condition to be given to the National
Museum?’ It plays an important part in this great programme of
which it is: supremely proud, and while Congress may not yet fully
realize what it accomplishes in this respect, the public does, and
demands more than it can perform.

For the conduct of its technical work the Museum is able to employ
less than 35 persons of all grades. Nearly as many more employees
of the Government give as much of their time as can be spared in the
interest of the classification of the collections and their supervision.
For the proper installation and maintenance of the exhibition collec-
tions, in which Congress places much store, further skilled help is
required, and a supervision which has long been inadequate. The
force of watchmen employed for the safety of the collections, both by
day and night, would be scareely equal to the task of protecting, under
the same circumstances, even the contents of a large jewelry store.
The Museum contains objects whose intrinsic value mounts into the
hundreds of thousands of dollars, many of which are so small that
several could be carried away in a man’s pocket. In a jewelry estab-
lishment the valuables are packed away each evening in large safes.
Such a course is impossible in the Museum, owing to the number of
its treasures. They must be left in the cases, and yet the appropria-
tions permit of so small a force of watchmen that they are kept under
great and constant strain to prevent the abstraction of what could
never be replaced.

Beginning years ago Congress, in the interest of their constituents,
looked to the Museum for the analysis of mining products and for the
identification of objects of every kind. These demands have increased
rapidly, and their satisfaction has always been regarded as within the
legitimate province of the Museum. ‘The fact, however, is not appre-
ciated that work of this character requires the attention of trained
experts, and the time of the scientific staff is largely occupied in
complying with such requests. In preparing the letters of reply, in
registering the specimens received, in cataloguing, in taking down
the notes of investigators, in arranging and keeping track of the
collections, a comparatively large intelligent clerical force is required.
In the preparation of duplicate collections, in the shipping and receiv-
ing room, in the library, in the making of cases and the installation of
specimens, in the keeping clean of all the large halls, there must be
help, and at the minimum this is no small item.

The U.S. National Museum is like no other museum in this country,
and it has no parallel in the world. Elsewhere, with few exceptions,
museums exist solely for what may be termed museum purposes. They
promote science and they promote the arts. Many are powerful factors
in education and in the improvement of industries: The U.S. National

»
a

NAT Mus 1904
18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Museum attempts to do the same within the limits of its scope, but it has
an added function in that it shares a part of the executive work of the
Government. The correspondence with members of Congress and with
the Executive Departments is very large, but not nearly as extensive
as that with the public, and all is supposed to relate to business on which
the Museum only is in a position to furnish information. The fre-
quent expositions also greatiy increase the burden of work, for, though
special appropriations are made for them, it is necessary to call upon
the skilled employees of the Museum to a large extent. This means
that a proportionately larger force is required than in museums gener-
ally, and the increase is as necessary outside as within the scientific
staff.

It is not to be expected that a complete staff will ever be within the
means of the Museum—that is to say, a staff sufficient to do especially
all the classificatory work required. Such a staff bas nowhere been
assembled. In a proper organization, however, there should be an
adequate number of experts, some at least of the highest rank, to con-
trol and supervise the several subjects represented. In this respect
the National Museum is now far below the standard. The members
of its staff, while acting as custodians of the collections, should be
competent to assist extensively in their classification, should appre-
ciate their value and significance, and should have the faculty of
keeping order, so that any specimen in their care can readily be found.

The classification of collections must always be largely done by out-
siders, the result of the specialization of study, and this is the course
now almost universally pursued as a matter of necessity when large
collections are being worked up. In accordance with this plan, the
National Museum has now many experts at work on special parts of
its collections, most of them-connected with institutions in the United
States, but some abroad. In this way the collections are being classi-
fied in the most accurate manner possible. When they are returned
to Washington they need the same oversight as before, but their
value has been enhanced by the fact that the specimens are no longer
an uncertain quantity.

Other parts of the business of the Museum can not be carried on in
the same way—the administration, the correspondence, the care of
the ccllections and their installation for reference or exhibition, the
watch service, the skilled help m the mechanical departments and in
the preparation of specimens, and the labor required to keep the
buildings clean, to do the moving and lifting and to assist in every
branch of work—the workers in these directions can not be omitted
from the staff, nor can their labor be performed by volunteer assistance.

Among other important needs of the Museum are means for main-
taining its library on a better basis. The library is purely technical,
having no other use than to provide for the working up of the collec-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19

tions, but the small annual appropriation given for this purpose is
inadequate even to provide the current literature on the necessary
subjects, though the freest use be made of the Library of Congress.

There is still another subject to which it is desirable that reference
should be made—the extension of the hours of opening the buildings
to the public so as to include Sundays and evenings. A change in this
direction would be of inestimable value to the working people as well
as to visitors to the capital, and the extra expense would be small.

The writer desires to call attention in this connection to the part
now being taken by the Museum, in conjunction with the parent insti-
tution and its other bureaus, at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.
The Museum has had a jong experience in matters of this kind, begin-
ning with Philadelphia in 1876, and it is therefore to be expected that
some improvement would be shown at each succeeding exposition.
The display at the St. Louis Fair now in progress is more noteworthy
than anything that has preceded it, both in the novelty of the objects
exhibited and in the perfection and attractiveness of the installation,
which have already elicited much praise-
SurviEbe wre On Lh OPERATIONS OF THE
Y HAR.

APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES.

The total amount appropriated by Congress for the maintenance of
the National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1904, was
$269,400, as against $281,400 for the previous year. The decrease
was due to the omission of the appropriation of $7,000 for publishing
the ‘‘ Contributions from the U.S. National Herbarium,” and to the
fact that there was no necessity for renewing the item of $5,000
appropriated the previous year for the preparation of preliminary
plans for an additional Museum building. <A special appropriation of
$250,000 was made as the first installment of the cost of this building.

The expenditures up to the close of the year from the appropria-
tions for 1903-4 amounted to $254,286.59, leaving a balance of $15,113.41
to meet outstanding liabilities. During the same year $22,479.50
were disbursed from the balance of $23,408.14 of the appropriation
for 1902-3, on hand July 1, 1903.

The following tables show the expenditures during the year 1903-04,
under each item of appropriation:

Appropriations and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904.

Balance

Object. Su prone Expendi | J une 30,

u = | 22 EP | Eases 2

IPTENERY aUOUOMCOleChLONSHEL - 2 o4 Jolek aicns ace cdesesace ee ncess $180,000.00 | $173,860.01 | $6,189.99
MGR RMR Ha LTE eR RES eS Oe eee 22, 500. 00 | 19, 068. 02 3, 431.98
Heating and lighting ..... eer ag hteds SIT soo ek 18,000.00} 17,184. 42 815. 58
EXTECH Pane Pall CMe meena her Peete ais ee Sea a SIS Src inceete oes 15, 000. 00 | 12, 531. 68 2, 468. 32
Books, pamphlets, and periodicals.........--.------ eee 2, 000. 00 | 1, 227. 60 | 772. 40
PUNGhASclOuSPECIMCUS PEs ee tess n os css eee nee 10, 000. 00 | 8,517.73 1, 482. 27
RETO WORK SNODSE meme eer meee ete an rae 2 wo einwie oe -jceee co een 4, 400. 00 4, 399. 92 | . 08
Postage. ....- ere ee eas ete te os st tlh sek 500. 00 500. 00 | eeetans case
lenimai hee erave! | oney sie SAN Oa ee en eee er 17, 000. 00 | 16, 997. 21 2.79
QUOT 5 oe oinnd oes 8 Be ee BEE SEES eee ae 269,400.00 | 254, 286. 59 15, 113. 41

21

22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Disbursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1908.

| Baladee

Balance

Object. San Bapentt | We
Preseryationion colleetionsss-secenece a eee eee eee eee eee ee $9, 597. 20 | $9, 196. 97 $400. 23
Hnrmiture and: fxbures!. 5. 4.22.2 <i Sseaeecee eases ee ase | 1, 696. 24 | 1, 688. 66 | 12. 58
Heatinevandulishtinpass-peace es eereneste Ce ener eee eee 1, 962. 63 | 1, 950.77 | 11. 86
Building repairs:.).3 22c.. sen a2- leeeece hacen ee nates eee eres ees 1, 528. 97 1, 470. 95 58. 04
Books, pamphletey ete: 02. acae eae heen eee | 606.62 556. 86 | 49.76
Purchase olspecimens!see-.ce- sete eee seen eee ae 4, 000. 69 | 3, 690. 51 350. 18
RentiolL workshops fn -cacee see eee eee ee ee nee eee eee n OSS ace acter eee ee | .08
Publishing contributions from National Herbarium .......... | 3, 972. 51 3, 969. 80 | 2a
Plans fora ddinional ptt Gin oer e eee eee eee eee eee Ads 20 tse afters 43. 20

Nota hesass sau. cewus ohasscked ase aos scam cmesen cena 23, 408. 14 22,479.50 928. 64

Disbursements from the appropriation for 1901-02 were made as
follows: Preservation of collections, $100.52; books, pamphlets, and
periodicals, $165.89; purchase of specimens, $20, leaving balances of
$58.64, $32.38, and $35.26, respectively. These balances, together
with unexpended balances of the appropriation for furniture and
fixtures, heating and lighting, building repairs, construction of gal-
leries and rent of workshops, pee tts to $161.43, have reverted to
the surplus fund of the Treasury.

The regular appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1905,
are as follows:

Hurniture and fixtures. 225.2 22 dic ances classe see ee ee ee eee $22, 500
eating ‘and: lighting =~ 2. h2. aos Sc See ee eee 18, 000
reservation: of collections) 2.2228 2.22 eee 2 Sor ee ee eee 180, 000
Booksspamphietsvand) periodicals s=ses essen eer eee eee 2, 000
Building repairs 2222S S..0 ee ne he ee ee 15, 000
Rentioi workshops. s22 a. ose5- ese 22 aon So ease eee 4, 580
POSt8 9G) -j2i22 ous nee See eSie Sasise Soe Soe oe ee OC ee 500
Printing and“ binding’.. - 22. s.2.onche se ec eee ee ee ee 25, 000

Totals. ..dccdet Soca eee ee ee eee 267, 580

It will be observed that the item for printing and binding has been
increased from $17,000 to $25,000, and that for rent of workshops
from $4,400 to $4,580; while the appropriation of $10, 000 for the
purchase of specimens ee been omitted. With these exceptions the
appropriations are the same as for the fiscal year 1904.

BUILDINGS.

The progress made toward the construction of an additional building
for the National Museum has been described in a previous part of this
report. The architects’ plans had advanced so far that actual work
upon the site was possible by June 15, 1904, on which date the excava-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23

tion of the ground was started. The building of the foundations will
follow next, and should be completed before winter.

The very unsatisfactory condition of the roof of the present Museum
building has been repeatedly referred to, and attention has also been
called to the fact that any repairs which can now be made will be
essentially temporary, since the supporting iron framework over the
main halls lacks sufficient strength, and the slate covering can not be
made entirely tight, whereby leaks occur where least expected, damag-
ing the walls and at times even defacing the cases. The difficulty with the
slate results largely from the contraction and expansion of the frame-
work, due to changes in temperature, and heavy falls of snow have also
caused parts of the iron structure to buckle.

~The faulty character of the roof is undoubtedly due to the cheap
manner in which it was originally constructed. The only remedy
seems to be the substitution of a new roof, at least over the large halls,
courts, and rotunda. Such an extensive repair is impracticable at this
time, or until the new building is finished, as there is no place in
which the collections could be stored. In the meantime, however, with
the aid of experts, strong efforts are being made to render the roofs
effective for a few years longer without the necessity for constant and
unavailing attention. The “oie was started during last year and will
be continued during the present one.

The area of tin roofing around the rotunda and over the eight
ranges, which had greatly deteriorated, was thoroughly repaired,
all imperfect tin being replaced and many seams resoldered. The
rotunda roof was extended down over the old top gutters and new
overhanging gutters, and down spouts were added. The slate roof
over the east hall was, as an experiment, covered with a coating of
Bermuda asphalt, burlap, and slag, intended to fill the interspaces
between the slates and to present an unbroken surface for carrying off
the water. Up to the time of writing, this expedient seems to have
answered its purpose well, and should it continue to do so, the other
slate roofs will be treated in the same way. The work about the roof
has also included repairs to the skylights and to clear-story and rotunda
windows, the insertion of ventilator frames in many of these, and the
addition of skylights over two of the ranges, made necessary by the
construction of galleries.

The dilapidated platform in front of the main entrance has been
replaced with one of mosaic, consisting of large irregular marble frag-
ments, and the steps and side coping have been reset.

The repairs in the interior of the Museum building have been chiefly
of a minor character, though in the aggregate extensive. They have
related mainly to the floors and to the walls and ceilings. The sten-
ciling of the rotunda walls, which had been deferred until the roof of -
24 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

this part of the building had been made more secure, was also In prog-
ress at the close of the year. :

Many persistent leaks about the roof of the Smithsonian building,
which previous repairs had not corrected, were found to be mainly
due to the imperfect condition of the old tin gutters and down spouts,
which were reptired during the year, copper being generally substi-
tuted where a renewal of material was necessary.

Reference has been made in earlier reports to the unsafe condition
of the plastering in Archeological Hall, which began to show innumer-
able large cracks several years ago. At times smali pieces of the
plaster would fall, but in September, 1902, several such large masses
gave way from the ceiling as to damage the cases underneath and
emphasize the fact that the hall should he closed to the public. — It was
only during the past year that the damage could be repaired, and this
necessitated a very considerable undertaking. The entire area of
plaster was carefully tested and all loose parts were removed. ‘The
bare places were carefully pointed up, but the plaster cornices of the
large central panels were replaced by others of galvanized iron, as
being the cheaper method. Subsequently the room was painted in
water color, the walls green, the ceiling in light tints of green to ivory.
This extensive repair greatly disturbed the arrangement of the arche-
ological collections, and a considerable period will be required for the
renovation of the cases and the reinstallation of their contents.

The number of cases made during the year was 212, the number of
specimen drawers 3,378, these having been chiefly required for the
storage and arrangement of collections received from Government sur-
veys. A large part of the work done under the head of ‘* Furniture
and fixtures,” however, has consisted in the repair and renovation of
‘ases; the making and inserting of fittings in the exhibition cases,
including the shelving and their supports, and the tablets and other
devices on which the specimens are mounted; the more extensive
supports for the mounting of large exhibits, such as recent and fossil
vertebrates and ethnological and archeological objects; the making of
label-holders and the painting of large labels and signs for the cases
and halls, and the construction of laboratory and office furniture.

Rearrangements in certain parts of the building have necessitated a
few readjustments of the electric-light wiring, and there have been
some minor extensions of this system into storerooms and laboratories
not previously so provided. A small electric motor has also been
installed in the geological workshops in the Emery building.

The high-pressure steam boilers placed in the Museum building in
the summer of 1901 have continued to give satisfaction. From this
source both of the large buildings, as well as the several smaller ones
adjacent, are now heated. There has been the usual amount of repairs
in connection with the heating apparatus, and it has been found neces-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 95

sary to increase the number of radiators in some of the halls. Steam
was first raised in the boilers on October 10, 1903, and, with some
interruptions, continued to be maintained until May 38, 1904.

The fire apparatus was thoroughly overhauled during the year and
its condition greatly improved. Some of the extinguishers of old pat-
tern were replaced by others of more recent make and more effective
character.

The amount of labor involved in maintaining the cleanliness of the
buildings can scarcely be appreciated except by those who have the
matter in charge. Twenty-two exhibition halls, mostly of large size
and many containing galleries, and 89 laboratories, office rooms, toilet
rooms, ete., require to be swept and dusted every morning, and, for
the most part, before 9 o’clock. In this enumeration is not included
the outside buildings. The number of regular laborers and cleaners
amounts to only 22, and these same men are also fully occupied
throughout the day on other matters. The number of exhibition
cases of which the glass has to be kept clean and the woodwork free
from dust is over 1,300.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

The National Museum, as the legally constituted depository for the
science and art collections of the Government, has as its most constant
and important sources of supply the national surveys and explorations,
such as are conducted by the Geological Survey, the Bureau of Fish-
eries, the Biological Survey and Bureaus of Entomology and Plant In-
dustry of the Department of Agriculture, and the Bureau of American
Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution. But these are not the only
Government branches which conduct explorations. The Departments
of War and of the Navy sent out many important expeditions during
the early and middle part of the last century, and in connection with the
recent acquisition of new territory they have again furnished the oppor-
tunity for securing valuable collections. Interesting objects are also
sent home from time to time by members of the consular service of
the State Department. A large part of the additions to the Museum
are, however, received from individuals and private establishments,
through donation and exchange, and the exhibition series derives
many of its attractive features from loans or deposits. Field collect-
ing by members of the Museum staff is almost prohibited by the
scarcity of funds, and the acquisition of specimens by purchase 1s
seriously restricted because of the small appropriation for that purpose.

Appendix II of this report contains a complete list of the accessions
for the year, and the more noteworthy are described in the reports of
the head curators.

The number of separate lots of material received during the year

‘

was 1,703, as against 1,643 in 1903, aggregating about 241,527 speci-
26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

mens and thereby increasing the total number of specimens recorded
in all of the departments to approximately 5,898,493. Of these, nearly
4,200,000 belong to the Department of Biology, about 975,000 to
Anthropology, and about 730,000 to Geology.

The additions in anthropology during 1904 numbered 19,121 speci-
mens, of which the more important were many carefully selected
objects obtained by Dr. W. L. Abbott among the natives of the
Malay Peninsula, northern Sumatra, and the Mentawei Archipelago.
These, in conjunction with the previous generous contributions of
Doctor Abbott from the same and other parts of southern Asia, con-
stitute an exceedingly valuable and unique feature of the ethnological
collections, and are now being used as the basis for a monographic
report by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough.. The same explorer
also sent material bearing upon the physical characteristics of the
Moros, and of apes and monkeys.

Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. 8. Army, who has continued his scientific
work while on duty in the Philippine Islands, presented an especially
interesting collection made by him personally during a campaign
against the Moros of Mindanao. It is rich in weapons, basketry, and
tine brass work. Another Moro collection, received as a loan from
Dr. R. B. Grubbs, also of the United States Army, consists of edged
weapons, spears, armor, costumes, and other specimens of the handi-
work of those people. Several native Philippine Island firearms were
presented by the President of the United States.

Two totem poles and four house posts of large size and excellent
workmanship, taken from a Tlinkit village, were obtained through
Dr. George A. Dorsey, of the Field Columbian Museum, and a valu-
able lot of art objects from southwestern Alaska, consisting of carved
clubs, embroidered blankets, figures, knives, etc., through Lieut. G. T.
Emmons, U.S. Navy. Some important additions were made to the
already large collections of Indian basketry, musical instruments, and
folklore.

The large archeological collection which had belonged to the late
Dr. Thomas Wilson, curator of prehistoric archeology, and which
remained on deposit in the Museum during his lifetime, was purchased
during the year. It consists of over 19,000 pieces, of which somewhat
under two-thirds are of European origin, the remainder being from
North America. The European material covers a wide range, begin-
ning with the roughly shaped flint implements of the river gravels of
England and France, and ending with the more highly elaborated
objects of the polished stone and bronze ages. The American speci-
mens are mainly from Virginia, Tennessee, and Arkansas.

The very valuable collection of archeological objects obtained in
Porto Rico, Trinidad, Grenada, Barbados, Dominica, Cuba, and other
©

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27

West Indian islands, during the winter of 1903, by Dr. J. Walter
Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, has been transferred
to the keeping of the Museum. It contains a great variety of objects,
some of the most noteworthy being especially fine examples of stone
collars, tripointed stone zemes, earthenware bowls, carved stone faces,
amulets, etc., all of which were secured in the course of a thoroughly
systematic investigation of the island region between North and South
America. The same Bureau also deposited a large series of stone and
bone implements, pieces of pottery and woven work, and fragments
of animal and human bones, collected by Mr. E. H. Jacobs in caverns,
rock shelters, and village sites in the Ozark region of Missouri and
Arkansas.

‘By bequest of the late Mr. I. H. Harris, of Waynesville, Ohio,
there was obtained a large and varied collection of stone implements,
with some shell beads and carvings and a few copper implements and
ornaments, mainly from the Miami Valley of Ohio, and of typical
earthenware vessels from mounds near Charlestown, Missouri. Mr.
H. W. Seton-Karr, of England, presented an unusually interesting
series of Egyptian stone implements, mainly of a type peculiar to the
desert of the Fayum district, about 10 miles from the present limits
of cultivation. From Mr. Felix F. Outes were secured several earth-
enware vessels taken from aboriginal graves in the province of Cata-
marca, Argentina.

A number of casts of Assyro-Babylonian, Egyptian, and Greeco-
Roman sculptures were obtained by purchase, and several others by
donation from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. In this collection is
a stela engraved with the code of laws of the Babylonian King, Ham-
murabi. <A series of heliogravures of Hellenistic portraits was pre-
sented by Mr. Theodor Graf, of Vienna, Austria; and knives and flint
implements from the Temple of Osiris, Abydos, were received from
the Egyptian Exploration Fund.

To the recently established Division of Physical Anthropology there
were added more than 2,000 crania and skeletons by transfer from the
Army Medical Museum, 14 crania of Wasco Indians from the Fred.
Harvey collection, and other desirable specimens.

The additions to the historical collections included a valuable series
of relics presented to the Smithsonian Institution by Gen. John Watts
de Peyster, who has also made several large contributions of important
historical works; the gilt dress sword presented to Gen. Jacob Brown
by the State of New York, for services during the war of 1812, donated
by his grandson, Mr. Nathan Brown Chase; the sword and epaulets
worn by Gen. Alex. McComb, U. 8. Army, deposited by Mrs. F. C.
d’Hautville; a fine oil painting of George Catlin by W. H. Fisk, R.A.,
lent by his daughter, Mrs. Louise Catlin Kinney, and now hung in
28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

the midst of the famous Catlin collection of Indian portraits, and
numerous relics deposited by the National Society of the Daughters
of the American Revolution.

The technological exhibits have been materially increased, among
the accessions of special and to a great extent also of historical interest
being a collection of rifles, muskets, and other firearms, 615 in num-
ber, showing the improvements of many years and containing several
noteworthy pieces, deposited by the Bureau of Ordnance of the War
Department; a collection of sporting rifles of the kinds used in this
country prior to about 1850, accompanied by powderhorns, ete., lent
by Mr. Herman Hollerith; a finely finished .44-caliber rifle made by
Henry Deringer, of Philadelphia, and often used by David Crockett
in target practice, lent by Col. Wright Rives; a rare form of flintlock
pistol with folding bayonet, presented by Mr. Paul Beckwith; a col-
lection of Morse telegraph keys, insulators, and other electrical appa-
ratus in use about 1850, presented by the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company; a telegraph switch invented in 1855 by E. W. Culgan, of
Pittsburg, and generally employed down to 1865, donated by Mr.
C. 5S. Greer, of Zanesville, Ohio, and a collection illustrating the
development of the hand camera, contributed by the Eastman Kodak
Company.

The accessions to the Department of Biology embraced 151,273
specimens, or nearly 41,000 more than the previous year. The col-
lection of insects was increased by 58,953 specimens and the herba-
rium by 48,800, the remaining 48,520 specimens being divided among
the other divisions.

The most extensive of the zoological additions in point of number
of specimens consisted of about 40,000 insects collected in British
Columbia by Dr. Harrison G. Dyar, assisted by Mr. R. P. Currie and
Mr. A. N. Caudell. The Bureau of Fisheries transmitted large col-
lections of land and fresh-water shells, reptiles, and crustaceans from
Indiana and other States; a valuable series of marine mollusks, chiefly
from Alaska; the types of recently described fishes from Japan, the
Hawaiian Islands, etc.; fishes, crustaceans, and corals secured in con-
nection with the Alaskan Salmon Fisheries Investigation of 1903, and
461 plants from Alaska and Oregon.

Especially worthy of mention are important zoological contributions
from the Mentawei Archipelago, eastern Sumatra, and the various
islands off that coast, obtained and presented by Dr. William L.
Abbott. Thirty-one new forms of mammals, including one new genus
and two new species of gibbon and several new species of birds, are
represented in the collection from the archipelago, while that from
eastern Sumatra also contains very valuable material, among which
are numerous forms of birds and reptiles not previously represented
in the Museum. Several valuable lots of mammals, birds, and mol-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29

lusks from Minnesota and the Philippine Islands were donated ‘hy
Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army. A large number of mammals, birds,
reptiles, and fishes from the Bahama Islands were secured as the result
of the expedition sent out by the Baltimore Geographical Society, and
of which Mr. B. A. Bean and Mr. J. H. Riley, of the Museum staff,
were members. A valuable collection of birds’ eggs and reptiles from
Texas was transmitted by the Biological Survey of the Department of
Agriculture. Other miscellaneous lots consisted of birds, land shells,
and insects from the mountains of Venezuela, and of bats and birds
from Barbuda and Antigua islands.

Noteworthy among the mammals received were a specimen of a
remarkable species of bat, Huderma maculatum, presented by Mr.
E. O. Wooton, of Mesilla Park, New Mexico; the first authentic
specimen of a jaguar from the United States; a rare mouse-deer,
Tragulus stanleyanus, obtained from M. Emile Deschamps; a collec-
tion of Old World mammals, from Mr. W. Schliiter; a collection of
Japanese mammals, from Mr. T. Tsuchida; some rare forms of bats
from the British Museum; a collection of Colombian mammals from
the American Museum of Natural History, and a number of bats
from Cuba, the gift of Capt. Wirt Robinson, U. S. Army.

An interesting series of birds of the Philippine Islands was secured
by exchange with the museum in Manila. Mr. Homer Davenport, of
East Orange, New Jersey, donated a number of young pheasants, and
Mr. N. C. Brown, of Portland, Maine, a well-prepared series of birds
from South Carolina. Four species of birds-of-paradise, new to the
collection, were purchased. Dr. W. L. Ralph, of the Museum staff,
and Gen. J. W. Barlow made generous contributions to the collection
of birds’ eggs, and series of rare Mexican eggs and of the eggs of the
hoactzin were purchased.

A collection of Japanese reptiles was presented by Dr. Hugh M.
Smith, Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries, and some rare reptiles of
southern Florida by Mr. E. J. Brown, of Lemon City, Florida. The
Division of Fishes has received a large number of Japanese species
from the Leland Stanford Junior University, and a well-prepared
series of specimens from Puget Sound, donated by Dr. J. C. Thomp-
son, U. S. Navy. A specimen of the Japanese shark, M/tsuhkurda
owstoni, 11 feet long, was purchased.

Hawaiian land shelis and other invertebrates were received from
Mr. H. W. Henshaw, of Hilo, Hawaii; Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, associate
in zoology, now residing in Los Angeles, California, presented an
extensive series of west American shells, and Mr. H. N. Lowe and
Mrs. Blanche Trask several lots of Californian shells. Mr. E. J.
Court, of Washington City, donated a representative series of the
land shells of Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia; Mr.
Dwight Blaney, about 300 shells dredged near Mount Desert, Maine,
30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

and Mr. C. A. Davis, many Bermuda shells, including several cotypes.
Among the specimens obtained by purchase was a large collection of
Japanese land and marine mollusks, and land shells from the Pacific
coast and the islands off California. Rey. L. T, Chamberlain presented
a small collection of rare river mussels.

The division of marine invertebrates received a collection of Mex-
ican fresh-water crabs from the Biological Survey of the Department
of Agriculture; crustaceans from Catalina and San Clemente islands,
presented by Mr. H. N. Lowe; cotypes of a species of shrimp and of
a stomatopod crustacean from the National Museum of Brazil; several
beautiful specimens of four species of Japanese precious coral, from
Dr. K. Kishinouye, and a collection of sea urchins, chiefly from the
Gulf of Siam, from the Zoological Museum in Copenhagen.

The additions to the division of insects were numerous and valu-
able. Among those of greatest importance, next to the one already
mentioned, may be noted two lots of over 6,000 specimens from. the
Department of Agriculture; an extensive collection of Coleoptera,
Lepidoptera, etc., made by Mr. KE. A. Schwarz in Cuba; several lots of
Philippine insects from Rey. W. A. Stanton, of Manila, and one from
Mr. R. C. McGregor, of the Philippine Museum; a miscellaneous
collection from the grounds of the Washington Biologists’ Field Club
at Plummers Island; a valuable collection of Lepidoptera, from Mr.
KE. M. Anderson, of the Provincial Museum at Victoria, British Colum-
bia, and a large collection from Colorado and New Mexico from Prof.
T. D. A. Cockerell. From foreign sources the following collections
were received as gifts: Indian Hymenoptera from Maj. C. G. Nurse;
Indian spiders from Prof. N. Jambunathan; Venezuelan beetles from
Mr. Edward A. Klages; Peruvian insects from Mr. M. J. Pusey;
Norwegian Lepidoptera from Sir George Hampson, of the British
Museum, and Japanese Hymenoptera from Prof. S. Matsumura, of
Sapporo.

Of 555 accessions to the division of plants, the most valuable was
the deposit made by Dr. E. L. Greene of his very valuable collection
of about 60,000 sheets of plants and his entire botanical library, con-
sisting of about 3,000 volumes and pamphlets. Next in importance
was the gift by Mrs. T. A. Williams, of Memphis, Nebraska, of about
15,000 specimens from various parts of the United States. Mr. C. V.
Piper, of Pullman, Washington, presented 658 plants from that State,
and Mr. E. W. D. Holway, of Minneapolis, Minnesota, an interesting
collection of Mexican plants. Important exchanges were made with
the Philippine Bureau of Agriculture, the New York Botanical Gar-
den, and the Royal Gardens at Kew, England. Sixty-eight botanical
accessions were received from the Department of Agriculture, the
most important comprising specimens obtained in Texas by Mr. Arthur
Howell, in New Mexico and Oklahoma by Mr. Fred G. Plummer, and
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 31

in New Mexico by Mr. Vernon Bailey. Plants from Australia, Mexico,
Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and from several of the States were acquired
by purchase.

There were 690 accessions to the Department of Geology, the most
extensive coming, as usual, from the U.S. Geological Survey. Promi-
nent among them were about 40,000 invertebrate fossils, mostly named,
and including a large amount of material on which Dr. William H.
Dall and his assistants have been working for several years. The
Survey also transmitted a series of 1,932 tertiary insects, assembled
by Dr. Samuel H. Scudder, but in large part still unworked, together
with many hundred original drawings, a great part of which are
unpublished. The acquisition of these specimens is believed to make
the Museum collection of fossil insects the largest in the United
States, if not in the world.

To the division of physical and chemical geology there were added
a collection of platiniferous rocks from the Demidoff mines of Russia,
presented by Mr. Juarez Sponville; a series of rocks illustrating the
occurrence and association of diamonds at the De, Beers Consolidated
Mines, Kimberly, South Africa, donated by Mr. Gardner F, Williams,
manager of the mines; a beautiful nugget of native silver, from Mr.
A. L. Pellegrin, of Nogales, Arizona; a specimen of diamond-bearing
gravel from Minas Geraes, Brazil, to which a small diamond was
attached, from Dr. O. A. Derby, of Sao Paulo, arid a fine mass of
amethystine quartz, weighing about 400 pounds, taken from the ex-
traordinary geode discovered a few years ago in Rio Grande do Sul,
Brazil.

The division of minerals was enriched by a large collection illus-
trating the occurrence and association of zeolites and siliceous minerals
in the trap rocks of New Jersey, obtained through the assistance of
Dr. W. 8S. Disbrow, of Newark, New Jersey, who also transmitted
one of the first known crystals of American spodumene obtained in
the early part of the nineteenth century. Other important gifts
were a specimen of pink spodumene used as gem material, from Mr.
F. M. Sickler; a series of artificial stones used in the gem trade, from
Mr. Oscar T. Jonassohn; a cut turquoise from North Carolina, from
Mr. Eugene A. Smith, and some fine specimens of smoky quartz from
Montana, from Messrs. A. P. Pohndorf and J. R. Wharton.

For the meteorite collection specimens illustrating the Trenzano
fall, the Franceville, Missouri, iron, the Mukerop, South Africa, iron,
and the Finnmarken pallasite were acquired.

Of invertebrate fossils, the accession next in importance to those
transferred by the U. 8. Geological Survey was the last portion of the
E. O. Ulrich collection, containing about 15,000 specimens, including
500 lots of original types or of specimens that have been used for illus-
tration. A series of Lower Silurian fossils, selected by Mr. Charles
32 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Schuchert while in Russia, was presented by the Imperial Academy
of Sciences of St. Petersburg, through the cooperation of Dr. Fred-
erich von Schmidt, and a valuable donation consisting of nearly 600
specimens of Hamilton brachiopods was received from the Yale
University Museum. By exchange with the Zoological Museum of
the University of Copenhagen more than a hundred specimens of
identified European mesozoic and tertiary bryozoans were obtained.

To the collection of fossil vertebrates were added fine specimens of
pterodactyl, ichthyosaurus, and teleosaurus; some fishes from the
lithographic limestone, and a fossil skull of Béson allend from a placer
deposit of frozen gravel, 25 feet below the surface. The object last
mentioned is especially noteworthy as being the first specimen of the
species discovered in Alaska. It was secured through the efforts of
Gen. Timothy E. Wilcox, U. 5. A. (retired), and was presented to the
‘Museum by Mr. Donald McLean, of Rampart City, Alaska. .

One hundred and thirty-two fossil plants, collected from the higher
beds of the anthracite series, were donated by Mr. C. W. Unger, of
Pottsville, Pennsylvania, and 190 specimens of fossil plants from Ilh-
nois, Ohio, and other localities, forming part of the Carl Rominger
collection, were also obtained.

The approximate number of specimens received by the Museum
during the year and the total number in the possession of the Museum
at the close of the year are recorded in the following table:

| Number
| of speci-
Department. | mens _| Total.
| received |
in 1903-04

Anthpopology:

Bthnolopy. ol 05 Bon ee eG ee ee PPS ES 2,392 |. 480, 456
Historie: areheolosys .4s2 seth ee eee eee Ratti Roce eee eee 115 2,338
Hustoriemelisionsiss-s-te see eee eeeeee ic a eI So OR ae a Te eee 2,769
Prehistoric archeolopy> seceee eee eee eee eee eee See Seay ae eee ae 12, 474 387, 455
Technology? ook o's Sacer one eg ee 826 32,019
Graphi¢ arts.1<5 222.202 ASA Sees Sa a oe a eee ee [etioeae cons 8, 896
Medicine 2)... 308.05 ic See oe Rae oe Sees hee ee ee ert il 6, 890
HNStORy see een wSinsicieit hrocleins Seis Soe setae a aeee pees HOSE eee eee eene | 892 43, 940
Physical anthropology 2 52.2 vase. deen Sees cee Sale ae lee ee a ee eee 2,374 5, 144
Ceramics. .2:. =: -S35355.6ee a5 = ee ee ee 2 4,612
Photography: ..02 25 seca ci ee eo ee a ee eee | 28 | 1, 828
MUSIC. 223i wins oe 3 Saas Be ote ee ER ane OEE Se aoe ee eee years | 17 1, 642
Biology: : | |
Mammal s!s9sseesee eee tee h Spa Oe (8 dei ieey err es Senne eee ly 23970 84, 645
Birds” <3... 2s20,4.. 2 6s)c BB ee oe ee ee ee ene 2,591 136, 226
Birds" CG29'2. 0052.0 30655 Skee Oa eee nee ee eee | 1, 085 65, 150
Reptiles.and Datrachians 3.5. see ee Se ee ee eee 2, 308 46, 733
PISheS J0..2.ce5002- ie Soe eee ee Oe ee a | 4,000) 161,501
Miolitis ks 22.4262 sc/sS> ae ee EE rs Be ee Ros is Se nel Sei aaa el 30, 618 962, 655
DMSO CUS cated = oe c.eieya-n awe olen a ee ee eee 58,953 | 1,582, 637
Marine invertebrates... ....... 2:60 eS ee ee | 9465! 621,191
HMelminthology=.-\ = 52: :2a0Jcc00 cee ae ee eee ee eee 157 | 5, 894

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33

> t
Number
of speci-
Department. mens | Total
received
in 1903-4.
; ee wears
Biolog y—Continued. |
|
CoOMIpaAtAL ive ntO ATOM oe a see ele is cae cabin el ele sis kiwiete minitls orien Swececeesheemects 86 | 16, 031
Blamiisteyaase wen | ee PCE ARE Eat Vy Re Fc et ae. es | 43,800 608, 205
THOME TE 2) So oe ESS seto Senne BSUS SOR MOE REESE Se BEE ICE STEN CG tiie iene tits ete [re ee 749
Geology:
Phoebe iG e nem Calle are nace ecia Ses ,c c/s Dakin soe aa wiae anes che sevioceeee ses py Wal 80, 276
ManeralOmyily enter eee pce sheesh the ek emcee Bonde eee seo taeene ne 1, 020 36, 898
UEVETLEDrave pal ECONTOO RY a. ete eae ia Siacten wie oe saan cscs antes seen se GS; Q00r ae eees =
Mentebrateupal eOntolopny ase erceetas coca sa inns ine seceees sce egeeabecsincsauees 35 611, 733
TIE COGN Ge Chose ads Se eS Sts Re Siete eee ae ar eae Ss eae A BOL coe hese
Motalieess ss <>. t 8. Bes GS heros Soe LS Se Sane CH OA Spee aCe hee aera 241,527 | 5, 898, 493

The number of entries made in the catalogue books of the various
departments was 51,904.
The number of accessions received annually since 1881 is as follows:

!
Number of

Vian | prceeien accessions
| (inclusive). | fees

TISERUY. aes eget as oak vee Sens Se tgs ge ke re a gg | 9890-11000 | 1,111
SOE enlace A, eee Re aE ae gt 7 a | 11001-12500 | 1,500
AOE wees ese LR meh ec Se get ee 12501-13900 | 1, 400
IBRD Se yen dle Sd oe RR SR Rae le 13901-15550 | 1, 650
ieee eer Tureen ee ee tek Sa ke | 15551-16208 | 658
TNESB 53.5 Shas aek cach Ge ee es eee ee no ee | 16209-17704 1,496
USAT = Se Goce SE SS sae ase oe ie ed | 47705-19350 1, 646
USS 5. Sake sat AN eI IS saa re Re eee Oe | 19351-20831 | 1, 481
FUSE) ose ect os a es ie Sol | 20832-22178 | 1, 347
Pennies eee RT Rena er 5 pet oe as De eee oe ee A Dl 90179-08940 1, 162
Cite yh a eae ee Behe BE RO ea ee Se 93341-24597 | 1, 187
BED Pie cidned eiek tlhe eS Saale ae Ean ne, are i ee ean nee Sacer at | 24528-95884 | 1,357
LE) saa eek hg a Ue se ao tc 25885-27150 1, 266
TDS oe esos So cee Ne Re ga 27151-28311 | 1,161
it ae a ea ak ee FA re ei cE 28312-29534 | 1, 228
le Eee ap eit etek LP 5 5 ee ee oo 29535-30833 1, 299
inc Renee Rene ott oe on as oP Moor pe hue oe oe 30834-32300 1, 467
eR ERE ME Se Mie ie ui ole Le oe eS eet 32301-33741 1,441
LUNE) rk Sue aS Sige a a ee a a a eae SE | 33742-35238 1, 497
eh Ra ee, teeing fede Oe ec ED IAA ee | «85239-36705 1, 4€7
Ts eee renee Ati ac yen Ge = Te i a oe Oe SE er > 36706-38175 1,47)
110 eee Ne ee Maes te ie ES SG rc oe I wet aepre=s0ned"| 1, 40,
USER eh os hae VORB A ye | 39585-41227 | 1, 643
Eh Sy aE ye RS ts aN eae le Ne as ie A ee | 41228-42930 1, 708

GENERAL WORK UPON THE COLLECTIONS.

The primary work of the Museum staff is the care and preservation
of the collections. With the large accessions constantly received, this
is also the most important and the most onerous of all the duties

NAT Mus 1904——3
34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

devolving upon the employees. So diverse and so full of detail is this
branch of administration that it would be quite impossible to discuss
the subject adequately in this connection, but some idea of its extent
and complexities may be obtained from the reports of the head
curators.

The packages as received have to be unpacked and their contents
assorted in accordance with the departments or divisions to which the
specimens belong. A complete record of each accession is made and
retained in the office of registration. In the various divisions to which
they are then transferred the specimens are labeled, numbered, and
catalogued serially, after which they are arranged in cases or in stor-
age, their safety and convenience of reference being presumably
secured by these several acts. Unless they come identified they may .
be named at once, but the work of classification goes on slowly for
the most part, and years sometimes elapse before a collection can be
thoroughly identified and described, as noted under the head of
** Researches.”

Asa part of general museum work may be included the duties of
the preparators in preparing, poisoning, and mounting specimens; in
extracting fossils from their matrix, in cutting rock specimens to a
convenient size, and making thin sections to show their structure; in
modeling and arranging lay-figure groups, and in many other directions.

In the Department of Anthropology, where the objects average
larger than in other departments, there has long been greater need
for the use of outside storage, but during the year considerable inside
storage has been gained by the building of racks and shelves back of
exhibition cases. This has afforded some relief, and permitted the
overhauling and improvement of the reserve collection. Through
cooperation with the Bureau of American Ethnology, the work of
photographing, singly or in groups, the tiembers of Indian delega-
tions, which have lately been numerous, has been so increased as to
greatly enlarge the fine portrait series of American natives started
several years ago.

The Department of Anthropology has two preparators’ laboratories,
one for the making of models of objects of various classes, mostly
ethnologic, for filling out the Museum series of exhibits and for
exchange purposes, the other concerned with the making of replicas
of Museum specimens in plaster. During the year 45 models were
completed in the former, while in the latter an exceptionally large
amount of work was accomplished, the regular preparators being
assisted by two other skilled workmen especially employed in con-
nection with the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Molds of 120 of
the most important archeological objects in the National Museum
were made, and from these several sets of casts were obtained,
one, properly colored, being installed with the Museum’s exhibit at
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 35

St. Louis, the others held for exchange. These replicas are executed
with the utmost care, and one set has been photographed along with
the originals for distribution to the museums with which exchanges
are arranged. The same force of preparators also built models of a
number of the ruined buildings of Mexico and Yucatan, five of these
being completed and exhibited at St. Louis. In the same laboratory
there were also made during the year twenty masks, besides other
castings of Indians belonging to delegations which visited Washington
during the season, and from these castings a number of busts have
been prepared, both for the Museum and for exchange.

In the several divisions of the Department of Biology not only has
the material obtained during the year received the attention required
to insure its safety, but much has also been done toward improving
the condition of older parts of the collections. The staff is, however,
altogether too small to handle these large collections satisfactorily,
and the limited storage and laboratory quarters prevent that arrange-
ment of specimens which would make them readily accessible for
reference or study. The latter difficulty is soon to: be overcome, and
it is hoped that the former also may. In the division of mammals
6,760 skulls were cleaned, a necessary preliminary to the study of the
specimens of this group. A large number of skins were made over,
and some additional cases for the arrangement of the reserve series
were provided. The entire collection of mammals is now in as good
condition as the means will allow, but very much remains to be done.
No special improvement is to be noted in the condition of the bird
collection, as the space allotted to it has long been overcrowded. The
identification, labeling, and cataloguing of specimens has continued.
Ina general way the same may be said of the other biological divi-
sions, but it should be recognized that in all the preservation of
specimens. has been as carefully looked after as the circumstances
permit, and practically everywhere their condition is good. The
mollusks, to which much attention has been given, are mostly labeled
and accessible. The collection of insects, one of the largest and most
valuable in the world, was never so well preserved and arranged as it
is at present, rapid progress having been made in the transfer of
specimens to the new hermetically-closing drawers. Much of the
work with this group is being performed by volunteers, members of
the entomological section of the Department of Agriculture, whose
assistance is to the advantage of both bureaus. The condition of the
varied collections in the division of marine invertebrates was greatly
improved, a large amount of cataloguing having been done, and many
sets of duplicates put up for distribution. The helminthological col-
lections, considered to be the finest in the country for study purposes,
has been maintained in good condition.
36 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

In the division of plants much activity has prevailed. Eighty-six
insect-proof cases were installed, increasing the entire number of this
kind to 841, all of which have been found to answer their purpose
perfectly. These additions and changes in furniture, which afford
secure storage for a very large proportion of the collection, have
necessitated an extended rearrangement of specimens, which is still in
progress. The number of specimens mounted during the year was
29,700; of sheets stamped and recorded, 21,000.

The collections generally in the Department of Geology are reported
to be in a fairly satisfactory condition, and not less than 100,000 speci-
mens have been put away in final Museum shape, but large accessions
have rendered it impossible to keep the numbering, complete labeling,
and cataloguing of material up to date. The working out of fossil
vertebrates from the rocks in which they are embedded has received
continued attention, but the progress in this direction has been neces-
sarily slow, and it is evident that the staff of preparators must be
increased if prompt results are desired. The entire lithological study
series has been overhauled and catalogued in card form, and upward of
300 thin rock sections have been made. Card catalogues of the entire
mineralogical and of other geological collections are in course of prep-
aration, and an annotated list of the types belonging to the Depart-
ment of Geology, several thousand in number, is also under way.

The preparation of 500 duplicate sets of fossil invertebrates, in
which not less than 60,000 specimens will be used for distribution to
educational establishments in the United States, was nearing comple-
tion at the close of the year.

THE EXHIBITION COLLECTIONS.

Tn the Department of Anthropology a few cases have been added in
the northwest court gallery for an exhibit of Indian baskets, this sub-
ject having gained special prominence through the publication of Prof.
O. T. Mason’s recent paper on ‘‘Aboriginal American Basketry.” ‘The
series of lamps, illustrating the development of means of illumination,
has also been extended. A beginning has been made toward illustrat-
ing the ethnology of the Philippines, in which has been utilized the
collection recently obtained by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army, on the
island of Mindanao, and the ethnology of Malaysia through the import-
ant contributions of Dr. W. L.. Abbott. The collection of musical
instruments, now. one of the most important in the world, has been
partly reinstalled. A typical series of muskets, rifles, and carbines,
mostly deposited by the War Department, and three table cases of
revolvers and pistols of various makes and dates, have been arranged
in the east hall.

A new mahogany case has been provided for the original Francis
life-saving car, an object of deep interest to all visitors, and in another
suitable case has been installed the cylinder of the Hornblower engine,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37

the first steam engine set up on the Western Continent, having been
imported from England in 1753 for pumping water from the copper
mines of Col. John Schuyler, Belleville, New Jersey. A very useful
addition to the time-keeping series consists of two clocks from the
Chelsea Clock Company, of Boston, which have been connected with
the service of the U. 8. Naval Observatory. Interesting historical
relics deposited by the Society of the Daughters of the American
Revolution have been added to the cases assigned to that society.

Several groups of ethnological lay figures returned from recent
expositions have been installed wherever a place could be found for
them, some haying been arranged in the lecture hall.

With a view to unifying the work of installation in the Department
of Biology, this entire subject was placed in charge of Mr. F. A. Lucas,
the curator of comparative anatomy. But little was done toward
preparing new exhibits in this department, however, owing to the
arrangements in progress for the St. Louis Exposition. Some of the
more valuable birds were remounted, and four groups of game birds
were installed in two new special cases at the entrance to the Smith-
sonian building. Additional casts of fishes for the series in the south-
east range of the Museum building are being prepared, and a beginning
has been made toward the installation of a series of specimens illus-
trating the mollusk fauna of the District of Columbia, one such case
having already been completed. The installation of the systematic
series of insects has been nearly finished.

A series of illustrations of corals and coral reefs from Saville Kent’s
work on the Great Barrier Coral Reef of Australia has been framed
and placed with the exhibition of corals in the west hall of the Smith-
sonian building. Many specimens in the different exhibition collec-
tions have been renewed, and there is a generally improved appearance
in nearly all the exhibits of this Department.

To the display collection in the Department of Geology have been
added skulls of Diplodocus, Trachodon, and of two genera of Ceratop-
sia, one being the type of Zr/ceratops calicornis and the other repre-
senting a new genus of the dinosaurs. The mounted skeleton of a
specimen of Syornis casuarinus from New Zealand has also been
installed.

A noteworthy addition to the exhibits in geology is a geological sec-
tion on a scale of 2 miles to the inch across the United States from the
coast of North Carolina to a point near San Francisco. This model
has been the work of two years. The specimens in all other divisions
of this department have been more or less overhauled during the
year, especially in the lithological and mineralogical series, and
improvements have been made in the exhibit of invertebrate fossils,
but lack of room prevents any noteworthy additions to or expansion
of these collections.
38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.
RESEARCHES.

Of the material which reaches the Museum a part has previously
been studied and a part not. The act founding the establishment
provides that the collections shall be arranged and classified, and there-
fore in selecting the care-takers, persons skilled in the various branches
represented are chosen. It is recognized that their first obligation is
to look out for the safety of the specimens, and as the technical staff
under pay is relatively small, attention to this duty consumes the
greater part of their time. About one-half of this staff consists of
volunteers employed in other bureaus of the Government on whom
the same demands can not be made, though some of these are equally
attentive to the routine work. The scientific results accomplished
each year by the paid employees of the Museum is, nevertheless,
relatively extensive, comprising mainly the identification, labeling,
and descriptions of specimens, and their classified arrangement in
vases and drawers so as to make them convenient for reference.

For a large part of the scientific work, however, assistance must be
obtained from experts connected with other establishments throughout
the United States and in Europe. Entire groups of specimens may
be assigned to individuals for study, or advantage taken of researches
in progress elsewhere to have material of greater or less extent iden-
tified, and visiting scientific men are often willing to spend some time
upon such parts of the collections as come within their knowledge.

It is impossible within the limits of this report to account for all
the work of this character carried on during the past year, but the
number of persons concerned, not including those on the Museum
staff, was in the neighborhood of 200, and over 20,000 specimens were
sent away for study. This cooperation is far greatest in connection
with the Department of Biology, whose varied collections have long
attracted a widespread interest and have led to many extensive and
important investigations.

In the Department of Anthropology considerable progress was made
by the Head Curator and his assistants in studying the ethnological
collections sent to the Museum during the past ten years by Dr. Wil-
liam L. Abbott from the southern part of Asia and its adjacent islands.
Mr. William H. Holmes has continued his work of monographing the
mines and quarries of the American aborigines. Dr. A. F. Hrdlicka
conducted extensive researches in different branches of physical anthro-
pology. Further investigations in the subjects of primitive heating,
illumination, cooking devices, etc., have been carried on by Dr. Walter
Hough. Mr. Paul Beckwith has begun the preparation of a descrip-
tive catalogue of the Grant relics in the National Museum and a

vatalogue of ancient coins. The collection of swords has also been
catalogued.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39

Mr. George C. Maynard has given much time toward unraveling
the history of the old locomotive Stourbridge Lion, and has also been
engaged on a history of firearms.

The collections of the Department of Anthropology have been
examined by many persons, some of whom have made important stud-
ies for official and other purposes. Among these investigators may
mentioned the Statistician of the United States Bureau of Immigration;
Prof. C. 5. Sherrington, of University College, Liverpool, England;
Miss Voorhees, of Indiana, who examined the prehistoric European
collections; Miss Marie Ruef Hofer, of Teachers’ College, Columbia
University, New York; Mr. John P. 8S. Neligh, Columbus, Georgia,
who is interested in the study of Indian textile art; Mrs. J. Wells
Champney, who is gathering information regarding the Abenaki tribe;
Judge James Wickersham, of Kagle City, Alaska, who is investigating
the industries and social customs of the Indians of that region; Mr.
Ole Solberg, of Christiania, Norway, who is making studies in prepara-
tion for an investigation of the social customs of the Hopi Indians;
Lieut. W. E. W. McKinlay, U. 8. Army, detailed by the Division of
Military Information to obtain data to assist in compiling grammars
and dictionaries of some of the Philippine languages; Mr. Stewart
Culin, Curator of Ethnology in the Brooklyn Institute, to whom speci-
mens were also lent for the purpose of reporting upon Indian games
for the Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. H. M. Whelpley, of St.
Louis, Missouri, who studied material for a paper on catlinite pipes,
and Mr. E. A. Forward, of the Victoria and Albert Museum, London,
who is interested in the history of the Stourbridge Lion already
referred to. :

In connection with the Department of Biology research work was
extensively carried on both by members of the Museum staff and by
others. Dr. F. W. True, the Head Curator, completed his important
monograph on the whalebone whales of the western North Atlantic,
which will appear in Volume xxxin of the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge, and he also published four shorter papers on ceta-
ceans. Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., assistant curator of mammals, has
continued his studies on Dr. William L. Abbott’s large collection of
mammals from the Malay Archipelago, having finished one paper on
the subject during the year, descriptive of 70 new species, including 1
new genus and 6 new species of monkeys, 2 new species of mouse deer,
and 6 new species of flying lemurs. He also prepared several smaller
papers and continued work on a new classification of the bats. Dr.
Marcus W. Lyon, jr., aid in mammals, completed a revision of the
hares and their allies, based upon a detailed study of their anatomical
and other characters.

Among those who had access to the mammal collections or to whom
specimens were sent for examination were Dr. J. A. Allen, of the
4() REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904. ©

American Museum of Natural History; Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of the
Philadelphia Academy of Sciences; Dr. D. G. Elliot, of the Field
Columbian Museum; Mr. Outram Bangs, of the Museum of Com-
parative Zoology; Prof. Burt G. Wilder, of Cornell University, and
the*members of the Biological Survey of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.

Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, continued with little inter-
ruption the preparation of his comprehensive monograph on the Birds
of North and Middle America, completing the manuscript for Volume
m1, and a large part of that for Volume tv, beside two small papers
on new genera and species of birds. In making the measurements of
specimens for his monograph he was assisted by Mr. J. H. Riley, aid,
who also published three notes on birds from the Bahama Islands.
Dr. Charles W. Richmond, assistant curator of birds, finished the
identification of the majority of the birds collected by Dr. W. L.
Abbott on the islanas off the western coast of Sumatra, prepared a list
of the species obtained by Doctor Abbott and Mr. C. B. Kloss on
Anambas and Tambelans islands, China Sea, and at Tringana, Malay
Archipelago, and was the author of several notes on zoological
nomenclature.

The collection of birds was consulted by Dr. R. M. Strong and Prof.
C. O. Whitman, of the University of Chicago; Mr. Elliot Blackwelder,
of Chicago; Mr. Jonathan Dwight, jr., of New York; Mr. Outram
Bangs; Mr. Frank Chapman, of the American Museum of Natural
History; the Biological Survey, and the Committee on Nomenclature
of the American Ornithologists’ Union.

Studies on the reptile fauna of eastern Asia were carried on by Dr.
Leonhard Stejneger, curator of reptiles, who also worked up the collec-
tion of reptiles brought from Japan by Dr. Hugh M. Smith, Deputy
Commissioner of Fisheries, and from the Bahamas by Mr. J. H. Riley,
as a member of the expedition of the Baltimore Geographical Society.
Doctor Stejneger likewise prepared a general account of the herpetol-
ogy of the Bahama Islands and several small papers, and, in conjunc-
tion with Mr. Vernon Bailey, identified the Museum collection of
reptiles from Texas. His report on the proceedings of the Fifth Inter-
national Zoological Congress at Berlin, during August, 1901, at which
he represented the National Museum, was received during the year.
Facilities were afforded Prof. W. P. Hay, of Howard University, for
studying the diamond back-terrapin for the Bureau of Fisheries.

Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of fishes, reported on the
fishes collected on the expedition of the Baltimore Geographical Soci-
ety to the Bahama Islands, comprising 165 species, identified the
specimens obtained by the Senff Expedition to the Nile in 1899, and pre-
pared notes on material from North Carolina and the Barbados. The
collections in this division were also consulted by Dr. Theodore Gill,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 4]

an associate of the Museum; Dr. David 8. Jordan and Dr. C. H. Gil-
bert, of Leland Stanford Junior University; Dr. C. H. Kigenmann, of
Indiana University, and the scientific staff of the U.S. Bureau of
Fisheries.

Among the results accomplished by Dr. William H. Dall, honorary
curator of mollusks, may be noted reviews of the nomenclature of the
Pupacea, and of the history and classification of the Tritons and Trog-
shells, a summary of the recent and fossil land shells of the Bahama
Islands, and a number of other papers, some prepared in conjunction
with Mr. Paul Bartsch, aid in mollusks. He also began upon a general
review of the land and fresh-water mollusks of Alaska and adjacent
regions. Mr. Bartsch continued work on the family Pyramidellidee,
and published descriptions of new species of Scissurella and Sonorella,
a note on Limax, andan account of the herons living in the District of
Columbia. The Pacific coast Pectinide were studied by Mr. Ralph
Arnold, of the United States Geological Survey, and the recent and
fossil Pleurotomide by Col. Thomas L. Casey, U. S. Army. The
collection of Achatinellas was sent to Prof. Alpheus Hyatt, of the
Boston Society of Natural History, and after his death was turned
over to Dr. A. G. Mayer, of the Brooklyn Institute, who is to complete
his investigation of this group.

The staff of the division of insects, including its honorary members,
has to its credit a total of 114 papers published during the year, but
not nearly all of these related to Museum material or were issued by
the Museum. The authors were Dr. L. O. Howard, honorary cura-
tor; Dr. W. H. Ashmead, assistant curator; Dr. H. G. Dyar, Mr. D.
W. Coquillett, and Mr. Nathan Banks, custodians, Mr. R. P. Currie, aid,
and Mr. A. N. Caudell. Doctor Ashmead continued his work on the
classification of the Hymenoptera and has published his generic revision
of the entire order except the ants, or superfamily Formicoidea, which
will probably soon be completed. He has also worked up all the
Japanese and Philippine Hymenoptera now in the Museum, and papers
on this subject will shortly appear in the Proceedings of the Museum.
His most important paper of the year was a classification of the Chalcid
flies. Among the thirty-one papers prepared by Doctor Dyar, the
most noteworthy was one of 160 pages on the Lepidoptera of the
Kootenai district of British Columbia. Mr. Coquillett’s researches
related mainly to the diptera, and those of Mr. Banks to the spiders.

Studies were made as follows by visitors to the Museum: On the
Lepidoptera, by Prof. J. B. Smith, of Rutger’s College, Dr. J. W.
Holland, of the Carnegie Museum, Mr. W. D. Kearfott, of New York,
and Mr. William Schaus, of London; on the Arachnide by Mr. J. H.
Emerton, of Boston, and Prof. R. V. Chamberlain, of Cornell Uni-
versity; on the Coleoptera by Mr. C. Schaeffer, of Brooklyn, Dr.
Henry Skinner, of Philadelphia, and others. Several physicians have
42 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.°

examined the collection of mosquito larve, and the Carnegie Institu-
tion has had the use of the specimens of /%//stes, a genus of social or
paper-making wasps. The number of loans of specimens was large,
the principal being of Coleoptera to Dr. F. E. Blaisdell, San Francisco,
California; of Orthoptera to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of the Philadelphia
Academy of Sciences; of Rhynchota to Prof. P. R. Uhler, of Baltimore;
and of Diptera to Prof. James 5S. Hine, of the Ohio State University.

Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of marine invertebrates,
continued his studies on the anomouran crustaceans, two papers, ¢
revision of the genus Lepidopa, and descriptions of new albuneids,
being published during the year. Miss M. J. Rathbun, assistant cura-
tor, completed the monograph of the fresh-water crabs (Potamonide)
on which she has been engaged for some time, and which is being
printed in the Archives of the Paris Museum of Natural History.
She also continued work on the crabs of Hawaii, preparing a paper on
this subject for the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, and one on the decapod
crustaceans of the northwest coast of North America for the Harriman
Alaska expedition. Dr. Harriet Richardson, collaborator in marine
invertebrates, also finished a report, published in the same series, on
the isopod crustaceans of the northwest coast, besides an account of the
isopods obtained on the Alaskan expedition of the Bureau of Fisheries
in 1908. She has since begun upon a manual of the North Ameri-
can Isopoda. Mr. T. Wayland Vaughan, custodian of madreporarian
corals, has made notable progress in the study of that group as repre-
sented in the Museum, having paid special attention to the collections
from the Hawaiian Islands. Dr. C. W. Stiles, custodian of the
helminthological coJlections, completed his investigation of the hook-
worm disease in the Southern States, and began upon a study of
**spotted fever” in Montana.

A number of specialists connected with other institutions are
engaged in working up several groups of marine invertebrates as fol-
lows: Prof. Charles L. Edwards, of Trinity College, Hartford, Connect-
icut, the pedate holothurians; Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, of Olivet
College, Michigan, the apodal holothurians; Prof. C. C. Nutting, of the
University of Iowa, the hydroids, of which reports on the Plumulari-
dx and Sertularide have been published; Dr. Charles B. Wilson, of
the State Normal School, Westfield, Massachusetts, the parasitic cope-
pods; Dr. K. W. Genthe, of Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut,
the free swimming copepods; Dr. R. W. Sharpe, of Wilmette, Illi-
nois, the Ostracoda; Dr. W. T. Calman, of the British Museum of
Natural History, the cumacea; Dr. H. Coutiére, Ecole Supérieure de
Pharmacie, Paris, the Alpheide. Besides material supplied to the
above, specimens from the collections made during the investigations
of 1903 by the Bureau of Fisheries into the Alaskan salmon fishery
and elsewhere have been sent out as follows: The parasitic copepods
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43

to Dr. Charles B. Wilson; the Pycnogonide to Dr. Leon J. Cole, of
Cambridge, Massachusetts; the Schizopoda to Dr. A. E. Ortmann, of
the Carnegie Museum; the Amphipoda to Dr. J. S. Holmes, of the
University of Michigan; and‘the Cirripedia to Prof. H. A. Pilsbury,
of the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences. A iarge number of Bering
Sea and arctic starfishes have been supplied to Prof. A. E. Verrill, of
Yale University, for examination in connection with a report on the
starfishes of the Harriman Alaska Expedition; several lots of actinians
to Dr. J. E. Duerden, of the University of Michigan, who is prepar-
ing a report on the Hawaiian species for the Bureau of Fisheries; and
specimens of echini and isopods to Dr. T. H. Mortensen and Dr.
H. J. Nansen, respectively, of the Zoological Museum of Copenhagen,
Denmark.

Mr. F. V. Coville, curator of the division of eS has published
several papers which are cited in Appendix III. Dr. J. N. Rose,
assistant curator, has continued his studies on eee and Central
American plants. He has also, in conjunction with Dr. N. L. Britton,
director of the New York Botanical Garden, conducted investigations
relative to the North American Crassulacev and has begun to work up
the cacti of North America, a research which is expected to occupy
four or five years. A preliminary paper on the Crassulaceze and one
by Doctor Rose on a new species of Begonia have appeared during the
year. Mr. W. R. Maxon, aid, has given special attention to the speci-
mens of ferns received from the Philippine Islands, and Mr. E.S
Steele, to the genus Laciniaria. Dr. E. L. Greene, appointed associate
in botany near the close of the year, has engaged in various lines of
systematic work. The Carices have been the subject of study by Mr.
Theodor Holm, of Brookland, District of Columbia, and the speci-
mens of the genus Plantago by Prof. E. lL. Morris, of the Washing-
ton High School. The collections have been frequently consulted
by several members of the botanical staff of the Department of
Agriculture. :

There were 43 loans of plants, aggregating 2,873 specimens, the prin-
cipal ones being as follows: A large collection from the Philippine
Islands to Dr. Janet Perkins, Berlin Botanical Gardens; a collection of
Mexican plants to Dr. B. L. Robinson, of the Gray Herbarium, Har-
vard University; specimens of pines to Mr. George R. Shaw, of the
Arnold Arboretum’ Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts; and specimens of
orchids to Mr. Oakes Ames, of the Ames Botanical Laboratory, North
Easton, Massachusetts.

The ead Curator of Geology, Doctor Merrill, has supervised the
work of an economic survey relating to the building and ornamental
stones of North Carolina, and as an expert special agent of the last
census has completed a report on stone quarries. A collection of rocks
brought from the Nugsuaks Peninsula, Greenland, and the occurrence
44 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

of unakite near Milams Gap, Virginia, have been described by Mr.
William C. Phalen, while many. rare minerals and a meteorite from
Persimmon Creek, North Carolina, have been the subject of study by
Mr. Wirt Tassin. Researches on the Rochester shale bryozoa have
been continued by Mr. R. S$. Bassler, and two papers on Paleozoic
bryozoa have been completed by Mr. KE. O. Ulrich in conjunction with
Mr. Bassler. An account of all the Middle Devonian crinoids in the
Museum collections has been prepared by Miss Elvira Wood, of the
U.S. Geological Survey.

Material from the collection of vertebrate paleontology has been
utilized by Prof. H. F. Osborn, of the American Museum of Natural
History, in his work on the Titanotherium; by Mr. J. B. Hatcher, of
the Carnegie Museum, in his study of Triceratops, and by Mr. F. A.
Lueas, of the National Museum, in connection with his researches on
Stegosaurus. Besides the investigations carried on by the paleo-
botanists of the U. S. Geological Survey, some studies have been
made on the fossil plants by Dr. Arthur Hollick, of the New York
Botanical Garden; the Rey. H. Herzer, of Marietta, Ohio; and Mr. E.
. W. Berry, of Passaic, New Jersey. Dr. Thomas L. Watkins, of
Denison University, Ohio, has made use of the collections in applied
geology.

Specimens in various branches of geology and paleontology have
been sent to the following persons to assist them in their investiga-
tions: Doctor Handlirsch, of the K. K. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum,
Vienna; Mr. John M. Clarke, of the New York State Museum; Prof.
W. B. Clark, of Johns Hopkins University; Prof. C. H. Hitchcock,
of Dartmouth College; Prof. Edwin G. Kirk, of Columbia University;
Dr. George F. Kunz, of New York City; Mr. P. E. Raymond, of New
Haven, Connecticut; Mr. Thomas L. Watson, of the Virginia Poly-
technic Institute; Mr. S. F. Emmons, of the U. S. Geological Survey,
and Mr. Frank Springer and Dr. H. N. Stokes, of the U. S. Bureau
of Standards.

EXPLORATIONS.

But few explorations were carried on last year by members of the
Museum staff. Dr. Walter Hough spent some time in Arizona and
New Mexico, where he made a large collection of ethnological and
archeological objects. Botanical field work was carried on in Mexico
by Dr. J. N. Rose, and in Jamaica by Mr. W. R. Maxon. The expe-
dition sent to the Bahamas during the summer of 1903 by the Balti-
more Geographical Society and Johns Hopkins University, under the
direction of Dr. G. B. Shattuck, was accompanied by Mr. Barton A.
Bean and Mr. J. H. Riley, who took an active part in the work of col-
lecting and obseryation. Dr. Harrison G. Dyar and Mr. Rolla P.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45

Currie were members of a party sent to British Columbia by the Car-
negie Museum, of Pittsburg, and returned with large collections of
insects. During a trip to Europe Mr. Charles Schuchert secured
some valuable fossils, and, while seeking material for the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition, Dr. George P. Merrill obtained for the Museum
many geological specimens on the Pacific coast and in Canada and
western Mexico.

Having been designated by the State Department and the Smith-
sonian Institution as delegates to the International Congress of
Zoology to be held at Berne, Switzerland, during the summer of 1904,
Dr. Leonhard Stejneger and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., left Wash-
ington in May, with the object also of making collections of mammals
and reptiles in Europe, and of identifying unclassified material by
comparison with specimens in certain European museums. A num-
ber of short collecting trips were also made by other members of
the staff.

There have been many explorations by private individuals and by
other Government bureaus through which the Museum has profited.
A few of these may be noted. Dr. William L. Abbott has continued
his field work in Sumatra, the Mentawei Archipelago, and along the
coast and on the islands east of Sumatra, and, as usual, has contributed
his specimens to the National Museum. In connection with the inves-
tigations of the Bureau of Fisheries, Dr. Hugh M. Smith has visited
Japan, and Dr. B. W. Evermann, Prof. Charles H. Gilbert, and
Prof. O. P. Jenkins have made extensive explorations in Hawaii.
The natural history bureaus of the Department of Agriculture, and
especially the Biological Survey, have made important collections in
different parts of the United States. Field work under the Bureau of
American Ethnology, productive of collections, has been carried on
by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes in the West Indies, and by Mr. James
Mooney, Mr. Gerard Fowke, Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, and Mr. J. R.
Swanton in the West. Reference should also be made to the impor-
tant work conducted in the Philippine Islands by Dr. KE. A. Mearns,
U.S. Army, one of the most frequent contributors to the Museum
collections. :

Collecting outfits were supplied to the following persons outside of
the Museum staff: Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, Woods Hole, Massachu-
setts; Mr. L. H. Aymé, New York City; Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, Bureau
of American Ethnology; Dr. Frank Baker, National Zoological Park;
Mr. O. M. Meyncke, Belfield, Virginia; Dr. S. P. Bartlett, Quincy,
Illinois; Mr. R. S. Johnson, Bellevue, lowa; Mr. Andrew Allison,
Iuka, Mississippi; Mr. E. R. Hodson, Jasper, Texas; Mr. H. D. Bur-
rall, Beaumont, Texas; Mr. Ward Nedwah, Lejolla, California; Dr.
J. C. Thompson, U. 5S. Navy, Bremerton, Washington; Mr. Richard
46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Willis, Olga, Washington; Mr. Alfred G. Maddren, Seattle, Wash-
ington; Dr. E. A. Mearns, Mindanao, Philippine Islands; Dr. J. R.
Harris, U.S. Army, Philippine Islands; Mr. Ehot Blackwelder, Tien-
tsin, China; Mr. William Brockway, Piedras Negras, Coahuila, Mexico;
Mr. E. A. Goldman, Tehuantepec City, Mexico, and the Rev. Samuel P.
Verner, Upper Congo Regions, Africa.

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS.

In the distribution of duplicate material to educational establish-
ments throughout the country a total of 20,010 specimens was used.
These contributions, chiefly to schools and colleges, were comprised
in 148 separate lots or sets of objects accurately labeled and adapted
for teaching purposes. They consisted of 55 sets of marine inverte-
brates, 35 of fishes, 10 of geological material illustrating rock weath-
ering and soil formation, + of casts of prehistoric stone implements,
and 44 of a special and miscellaneous character.

In making exchanges, for which an equivalent is obtained for incor-
poration in the national collections, 216 lots, aggregating 9,005 speci-
mens, were disposed of. The number of specimens lent to specialists
for study amounted to 20,535, comprised in 115 separate sendings.

Among the more important exchanges received from establishments
abroad were the following: From the British Museum of Natural His-
tory, London, England, a number of alcoholic bats; from the Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, England, a large collection of plants from
various localities; from the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France,
specimens of wasps of the family Vespidee; from the Royal Botanical
Museum, Berlin, Germany, 716 plants; from the Royal Zoological and
Anthropological-Ethnographical Museum, Dresden, Germany, 3 skins
of Sturnide; from the Zoological Museum, University of Copenhagen,
Denmark, about 100 species of European mesozoic and tertiary bryo-
zoans, and specimens of living echinoderms; from the First Zoological
Institute of the Imperial University, Vienna, Austria, fishes and rep-
tiles collected in North Africa, Asia Minor, and other localities; from
the K. K. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum, Vienna, a collection of mes-
ozoic and tertiary bryozoans and ostracods from eighteen European
localities; from the Kongelige Frederiks Universitet, Christiania,
Norway, specimens of reptiles and batrachians from Madagascar,
South Africa, Australia, and Formosa; from the Museum of the Impe-
rial University, Moscow, Russia, 5 casts of J/astodon borson’; from
the Royal Botanic Garden, Sibpur, Calcutta, India, 148 plants from
India; from Albany Museum, Grahamstown, South Africa, 2 elands;
from Hope Gardens, near Kingston, Jamaica, specimens of ferns
(Asplenium). i
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47

The material obtained in exchange from individuals abroad was as
follows: From L. Chevallier, Precigné, Sarthe, France, 342 Algerian
plants; from Dr. Aristides Brezina, Vienna, Austria, a fragment of
the Trenzano meteorite, weighing 164 grams; from Mr. Julius Bohm,
Vienna, Austria, a piece of meteoric stony iron from Finnmarken,
weighing 595 grams; from Mr. Cecil Seymour Browne, Anacapri, Italy,
a collection of Lepidoptera; from Mr. A. Berger, La Mortola, Venti-
miglia, Italy, 31 plants; from Rev. R. P. Longin Navas, 8. J., Colegio
del Salvador, Zaragoza, Spain, a collection of Neuropteroid insects
from Spain; from Maj. Charles G. Nurse, Nineteenth Bombay Infan-
try, Quetta, Baluchistan, India, 130 species of Hymenoptera; from
Prof. N. S, Jambunathan, Native College, Madura, India, 52 speci-
mens of spiders from India.

VISITORS.

The Museum building was visited during the year by 220,778 per-
sons, and the Smithsonian building by 143,988 persons, a daily aver-
age of 705 for the former and 460 for the latter. The decrease as
compared with the previous year is accounted for by the meeting of
the Grand Army of the Republic in October, 1902, during which
month alone the attendance amounted to 131,448.

The following tables show, respectively, the attendance during each
month of the past year, and for each year beginning with 1881, when
the Museum building was first opened to the public.

Number of visitors during the fiscal year 1903-04.

= — : — =—

Year and month. ee ee
1903
ADU Kieo: 5 Sede ae SARE Se et RO Sas NOE SPIRE ee ela ee a ae EE 19, 160 | 11, 359
PAMIONIS ete eps ee ee eee ae ae ge pays vs CRUE AC A a ee ae irk 25, 792 17,181
Septempberca a2 -e es - elie ee ae ae et ee Lee Ot Ao WE AN RAID. aL ae 2 PA 24, 408 | 14, 635
(CONG NEPA glk ou See aoa! See Sa ea ee Se ee eo 17, 453 } 12,7709
ISON ONE, Me he a cis eee oP cap Sa en ee ae gn 13, 783 11, 252
DROVE Cae Sse ae Se SoBe ee ARE peat Aer a ce 14, 634 11, 675
1904.
URL ET ype nee oS ME TD ie Sess eye ar! oe eS So a eee Os 12, 621 9, 674
TNE OPH ORAS Soe Rese Tee RTS SE oo Oe os Se re, 15, 202 8, 964
VET Cheer a mene Spey treat et atin ae wes yee Sn Em awe cota diocjiecna aoe tee 20, 375 10, 922
JADA Sg = oes ane ih ie SRI sha Spa RSS as 27, 838 16, 451
Minny Seen ree Penner. eet aang oe ee Sere) ye ee 16, 376 | 10, 497
AUNTS Ne a ee ee ee cre er ea ne es StS a ae aS RO 13, 136 | 8, 669
HOATIO ES 2 ee ee ey oh ca at a eae See ee ee 220, 778 143, 988
Approximate daily average........ noises BAS Se SR Se ei nyt Bs 2 eee eho 705 | 460
|

48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the opening of the
former in 1881,

Museum | Smithsonian

A Year building. building.
ABST Soe ese ts Satie ee Binh CAE Ay Ae EE EO AREA Ur reo OS 150, 000 100, 000
TSB2 nts: SSS ee Me otk See as eed oe ee er 167, 455 152, 744
HSE BY aie Oe Bere cis woe M ices Bae ara cr ee a crus nea Nee re a 202, 188 104, 823
1884 (half year)! ces. cack Pedtceeaee a ceee seca s sat oe Cece cee emeetne se eee 97, 661 45, 565
TSS42 8b ics h 8. ase We we aE See eee eee EC Neal eens SORES ey, ene 205, 026 105, 993
ASSH=BB ei Sar nce a ett EEE Se re ES ee ne en re 174, 225 §8, 960
ASSEB Tico sce aS hte ee Be ee ae LN ae the eee aes ae | 216,562 | 98, 552
ASS TERB ea. CM se aac erty eee eras SI wie x Sa ae So BS 249, 665 | 102, 863
BBS BOC eR acters Se ie) Fe REN ee ae ey ie ce em ne aca | 374, 843 | 149, 618
1889-0012 2m! we sabes Oi nee eRe one ay, eee at Ae eee ee | 274,824 | 120, 894
TI SOQ=O1 PI Aen soe ce cee nce ee ad RE Re Re ieee RO an oe eee 286, 426 111, 669
SOTO: Be sora, Re 7 ee eared Be ea Sra a ore | 269, 825 | 114, 817
I SODE GS cr cie ceAraceln, ob secrets me, Serco Re Re Sem ee tate a a 319,930 | -__ 174, 188
IRS SB IEOY ape NO en Mims ok ORE Oe A ay PL ae BE oe Poe CS gou cokes 195, 748 | 103, 910
AQ OLEH Re Meet ete os SERS lyn cee ha tee gece Sr setae ee oO eee 201, 744 | 105, 658
ISOB206 cea UML ty. ore. 2 2t e eie 3 4 65 0c ee ke eager eC 180, 505 103, 650
AQOGZ 07 Cite. Step OEE Dey ie tae pelea 2 ioe Us Oe ne oe ee 229, 606 115, 709
L807 298 a5 Reet cee cee eR See eel Se EEL Oe ae eee 177, 254 99, 273
BOG 20 Dele ar ts ee ee SE a cH ees Ee eae 192, 471 116, 912
FSGS OOO = See in ite se ace a mss Oe eps Cha ree eT ne Shoo | 225, 440 133, 147
TSO0 NOU Taser sean ee Mae Ae isecs ie saueatsd Nar emceetereeesnas aieee 216, 556 | 151, 563
TTT ean hc Mn ee Pea aR ed Oe ee SRR Soe Bers Rs Soe oe SOE 173, 888 | 144, 107
1902203 eee EEE et ee AA PotD BB” OP RERA 5 SNE ie a A 315, 307 181,174
TOO S204 oa beh ne ee eon Se cad OS ere ae tere ee eee 220, 778 143, 988

otal waite AOA gh He > PS NUE 5 ea See OSes A A 5,817,427 | 2, 869,777

a Years of Presidential inaugurations.
MEETINGS AND LECTURES,

During the first half of the year the lecture hall was utilized for the
preparation and packing of a part of the exhibits for the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition. After January 1, 1904, however, it was fre-
quently used for its legitimate purposes.

A series of Saturday afternoon lectures, under the auspices of the
Biological Society of Washington, was given as follows:

February 20, Exploration of the Deep Sea, by Mr. Charles H. Town-
send; February 27, The Living Forest, by Mr. Gifford Pinchot;
March 5, A Naturalist?’s Winter in Mexico, by Mr. E. W. Nelson;
March 12, The Evolution of the Horse, by Prof. Henry F. Osborn;
March 19, The Coast Region of Alaska, by Dr. C. Hart Merriam.

The attendance at these lectures varied from 898 to 1,213 persons—
far more than the seating capacity of the hall.

The closing exercises of the U. S. Naval Medical School were held
here on March 21, and those of the U. 8. Army Medical School on
April 5.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49

The American Oriental Society occupied the hall for its annual meet-
ing on April 7 and 8, and the National Academy of Sciences from
April 19 to 21, the latter also being given the use of the rooms of the
Assistant Secretary for its business sessions.

A lecture entitled ‘* Botanical tramps with a camera,” illustrated by
stereopticon views, was delivered on June 13, by Dr. C. E. Waters, of
Johns Hopkins University, under the auspices of the Wild Flower
Preservation Society of America.

CORRESPON DENCE.

The Museum, ever since its establishment, has been looked upon by
the general public as the most convenient agency for obtaining infor-
mation on all subjects within its scope, and scientific men and scientific
institutions throughout the country turn to it foraid and advice. All
requests of this character, made in evident good faith, have prompt
attention, but the work involved, steadily increasing year by year,
has become especially heavy and exacting, and consumes much of the
time of both the scientific and the clerical staffs. The requests average
several daily, are rarely confined to a single subject, and often relate
to collections of greater or less size which are sent for identification.
They also have reference, in many instances, to the building up and
maintenance of collections, the construction of cases, the installation,
labeling, and cataloguing of specimens, and other topics connected
with museum administration. The replies made to such inquiries
during the past vear fill about 6,000 pages in the letter-press books,
this being entirely apart from the ordinary official correspondence of
the Museum, which alone is very extensive.

The correspondence office also has charge of the distribution of
publications, the number of which sent out during the year amounted
to about 18,000 volumes and 39,000 separate papers.

PUBLICATIONS.

A greater number of publications than usual was issued during the
year, owing partly to delays in completing volumes belonging to the
previous year. They comprised the annual reports of the Museum
for 1901 and 1902; volumes 25, 26, and 27 of the Proceedings; and
Part m of Special Bulletin No. 4, entitled ** American Hydroids,”
being a monograph of the family Sertularide by Prof. Charles C.
Nutting, of the University of Iowa. The last named is a quarto vol-
ume of 325 pages and 41 plates, the result of a painstaking and impor-
tant investigation of collections belonging to this Museum.

The annual report for 1901 was received from the Printing Office
on October 6, 1903; that for 1902 on March 12, 1904, The former

NAT Mus 1904———4
50 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

contains, besides the administrative report, the following five papers,
constituting the general appendix to the volume: ‘‘ An account of the
exhibit of the National Museum at the Pan-American Exposition in
Buffalo in 1901,” by F. W. True, William H. Holmes, and George P.
Merrill; ‘‘ Flint Implements and Fossil Remains from a Sulphur
Spring at Afton, Indian Territory,” by Mr. William H. Holmes;
‘Classification and Arrangement of the Exhibits of an Anthropolog-
ical Museum,” by Mr. William H. Holmes; ‘‘Archeological Field
Work in Northeastern Arizona,” by Dr. Walter Hough; ‘‘ Narrative
of a Visit to Indian Tribes of the Purus River, Brazil,” by Prof. J. B.
Steere. The appendix to the report for 1902 consists of a paper on
‘Aboriginal American Basketry,” by Prof. O. T. Mason; one on the
**Herpetology of Porto Rico,” by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger; and one
on ‘*‘ Wokas, a Primitive Food of the Klamath Indians,” by Mr. F. V.
Coville.

Of the volumes of Proceedings, No. 25 was issued on July 24, 1908;
No. 26 on August 27, 1903; and No. 27 on June 30, 1904. The total
number of papers comprised in the three volumes is 107, numbered
consecutively from 1275 to 1381, inclusive. They are descriptive,
either wholly or in part, of collections belonging to the Museum.
The subjects treated of and the number of papers relating to each are
as follows: Mammals, 5; birds, 10; reptiles, 2; fishes, 39; insects, 19;
marine invertebrates, including mollusks, 21; plants, 4; fossils, 2;
meteorites, 2; miscellaneous, 3. The authors are partly members of
the Museum staff and partly collaborators connected with other estab-
lishments.

The Proceedings papers are first issued separately, in a limited
edition, as soon as each can be printed, in order to insure their early
distribution. The papers in the annual reports are also published in
separate form, but not until the volume is completed. Except for this
practice, which has long been followed, it would be impossible to sup-
ply the requests of specialists, the completed volumes being mostly
distributed to libraries and educational institutions.

In Appendix III will be found the titles of all publications for
the year by members of the staff and collaborators of the Museum.
The number of papers cited is 315 and the number of authors 89. The
papers are grouped by subjects in the following table:
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ; alt

Papers | Papers |
. Subject. ate. | potben| Total.
q ; | officers. | gators.
; JMO MEO OEY 2 soossac sdapanas s5a0o Sango s200 cas odSSrasaSso5 cos Se cbosepaeooss 8 1 | 9
PA an ins tree) OWet- ara seats Pasi Shae Helens ee ease eee see teainacste sees | LOW Ss 10
F TRUNNION. bocce SS aoe aun gens COs c= « HAO R ORO BU SOROS BD ASeS SSE OCOD See Reee 2) |sancacb acd 2
TESTO LU peer rae ee ers cree ee Nese ae So as cSesag ies tks Sones ae Gall eonecee | 5
PACU EN ce cet Shek OL eh Se ee, Seaaataerne 1 1
PES OCR Seater teres Pee erate to ela oeeta a Se teiat areata elaine cee aie Sees eceejevewitnce sess 13 16 | 29
ENC) Les Dine eres ar ares oe cleats asses Sskae aloes © cia bisw avec ecleanisl LOM Seeews ser 10
SPM OLOS pete eer ee a eeeot mae ee ieia ance cas soe abecetecemcncmee se 4 | 4 8
DDS CIORAITO ST wee Sie Rec qucen n= soacooe SER asH BCA CE cee CBE SE Se HE Beee eEeeee 2ylee peace 2
ISHS efase% scrasicectae aise EOC OC NEES aCE COLI ORE OAR TA ORO SOROS TAA EEO Pia? 14 15 29
INOS RH se « Sasued sue oko oS ane BaCe c BSD DR BEE D CD SAA Seb eee Roe SOUS case e ee aa aae 10 6 16
Geolosygosa ee rere cee eae saeee reise once cect esse ccectcc ce ceccecees cesses 4 2 6
UDERGTS 2 scaesecan esos ebeers cg hee epee ieee an eee a 100 21 | 121
WIEN DIGS See oe qe c ane aeseoeo Gone See Oe Sea eee ee See ea es are ree | 21 1 22
IMPMITL OHM VerLe DLALes eae sas aaen-y Pon Ae esac ee cess ewe see oe clootasevens iA 7 14
MOTIVE A eco cepectiée toute SRE OSES GAN RGOH BAe a SRE SHS An este imei igh ee Se 1
INAOPUT ISIE: SSA 55 See aa 56 CORIO Sig EER CHIAE Shea risers ar Sere ea ae eer 1Galisezaeades se 16
JEDIR ONE E a Se ceiadab ate enc no Toa aes eR OSA S SADC RDA HOAASr Ree ie eae amen Gece acts 1
bysicalraminnoOpolon ys soem so seis= aslose es iar Sais e soos sei e asec ois ciycee me ats OMieseseeee es 3
Re TMulestama apa Gra COTA Sepa ean seeiecrs ce cee ac accee oc egeaccaeen ences Dultameneecsss 5
Mechnolopyeessesa ss esos sees ceo Soeeticme nee cnea Seeeetace ate Aime ses 8485 iy eth z8 Pg 1
IMUSCE WAN COUSm swe cre cases ates ates ase ae, o/s2 Senses e see cee encase ne Co esas d
TNO Asses chaos noe Sa Aa ees SCC Eanes SaaS Sane eee 241 74 315
Twelve papers on Museum specimens by assistants of the Museum
were, by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
printed in other publications than those of the Institution, as follows:
Casanowicz, I. M.

Oriental and Classical Archeology in the U. 8. National Museum: Description
of the contents, installation, and arrangement of the Division oi Historic
Archeology and Religions. Records of the Past. Dec. 12, 1903.

Miuier, Gerrit &., Jr.

A New Nataline Bat from the Bahamas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Sept. 30,
1903.

_A New Squirrel from Lower Siam. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Noy. 12, 1903.

A New Hare from Greece. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Nov. 12, 1903,

: A Second Specimen of Euderma maculatum. Proc. Biol. Soe. Wash., Noy. 30,

1903.
Descriptions of Two New Mole Rats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Noy. 30, 1903.
Ripeway, Roperr.
Descriptions of New Genera, Species, and Subspecies of American Birds. Proce.
Biol. Soc. Wash., Sept. 30, 1903.
Diagnosis of Nine New Forms of American Birds. Proce. Biol. Soc. Wash., Noy.
30, 1903.
RiGEY, Jeb:
A New Form of Nighthawk from the Bahama Islands. The Auk, October, 1903.
Ross, J. N.
A New Begonia from Mexico. Rep. Mo, Bot, Garden, Jan. 28, 1904.
52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

STEJNEGER, LEONHARD.
A New Hognose Snake from Florida. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash. Sept. 12, 1903.
A New Lizard from the Rio Grande Valley, Texas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash.,
Dec. 28, 1903.

The Editorial Office also has charge of other printing than that of
the publications, including labels, blanks, stationery, cards, etc., and
likewise of the binding of books, which together constitute a very
considerable item.

LIBRARY.

The National Museum library has received as a gift from Prof. Otis
Tufton Mason, Head Curator of Anthropology, about 2,000 pamphlets,
separates and bound volumes, mostly on anthropological subjects, for
which a special bookplate has been provided. This is the second gen-
erous contribution of the same character from Professor Mason. Dr.
Edward L. Greene, recently appointed associate in botany, has depos-
ited his entire botanical library, in connection with his botanical col-
lection, for a period of ten years, the only condition stipulated being
that while the books shall be accessible on the same terms as other
books in the Museum library they are not to be lent outside the Dis-
trict of Columbia without the consent of Doctor Greene.

The Museum library now contains 20,548 bound volumes and 35,960
unbound papers. The additions during the year consisted of 1,504
books, 3,187 pamphlets, and 700 parts of volumes. There were cata-
logued 938 books, 2,130 pamphlets, and 11,520 parts of periodicals.
The number of cards added to the author’s catalogue was 4,090, exclu-
sive of 2,855 cards for books and pamphlets recatalogued. Seventy
broken sets of periodicals have been completed or partly so. The
number of books, pamphlets, and periodicals borrowed from the gen-
eral library was 26,456, including 5,679 assigned to the sectional
libraries.

There has been no change in the sectional libraries, which are as
follows:

Administration. | Fishes. | Oriental archeology.
Administrative assistant. Geology. | Paleobotany.
Anthropology. | History. | Parasites.

Biology. | Insects. Photography.

Birds. Mammals. Prehistoric anthropology.
Botany. _ Marine invertebrates. Reptiles.

Children’s room. Materia medica. Stratigraphic paleontology.
Comparative anatomy. | Mesozoic fossils. | Superintendent.

Editor. | Mineralogy. | Taxidermy.

Ethnology. | Mollusks. | Technology.

PHOTOGRAPHY.
The report of the photographer of the Museum, Mr. 'T. W. Smillie,
shows that 1,359 negatives, 3,501 silver prints, 373 platinum prints,
140 velox prints, 79 lantern slides, 2,346 blueprints, and two enlarge-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5S

ments were made during the year. Under the direction of the Secre-
tary, Mr. Smillie also devoted considerable time to recording the
flight of birds by means of telephoto cameras stationed at elevated
points in the Zoological Park. He likewise rendered assistance to the
Civil Service Commission in the examination of applicants for posi-
tions in the Government service requiring a practical knowledge of
photography.

COOPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT.

The Museum has received, as usual, important assistance from sev-
eral of the Departments and bureaus of the Government. Its relations
to the U. S. Geological Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Biolog-
ical Survey and Divisions of Entomology and Botany of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and the Bureau of American Ethnology,
especially in regard to the transfer of collections, have been referred
to elsewhere. Officers of the Army and Navy stationed in the new
possessions have made valuable contributions, and representatives
abroad of the Department of State have been instrumental in securing
interesting material. The Departments of War and of the Navy have
rendered generous help toward building up the collections of history
and of the implements of war, having presented and deposited during
the year many objects of exceeding interest and value. The Army
Medical Museum has also cooperated most liberally in promoting the
welfare of the recently established Division of Physical Anthropology.
Special acknowledgments are due to the Quartermasters’ Department
of the Army for many courtesies in connection with the transporta-
tion of specimens and outfits to and from distant points, and to the
Treasury Department for the prompt admission and shipment to
Washington of specimens received from abroad at several of the
custom-houses. 7

EXPOSITIONS.

Lousiana Purchase Exposition.—The exhibits of the National Mu-
seum, together with those of the Smithsonian Institution and of the
other Government branches under its direction, were practically all in
place in the Government building at St. Louis on the opening day,
April 30, 1904. Under the direction of Dr. F. W. True, who represents
the Institution and the Museum on the Government board, no pains
have been spared to make this display both interesting and noteworthy.

The anthropological exhibits of both the Museum and the Bureau
of American Ethnology were assembled under the supervision of Mr.
W. H. Holmes, whose principal aim in the former connection has been
to illustrate the higher culture of the native American peoples as shown
in their arts and industries, the specimens selected being as far as pos-
sible the most typical of their kind. Among them are examples of
bas. REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

native architecture, sculpture, ceramics, fabrics, metal work, and of the
development in water craft, musical instruments, pipes, ceremonial
objects, ete. The most striking feature of the exhibit is a series of
tive models of ancient Aztec ruins in Mexico; namely, the ‘*’Temple
of the Cross” at Palenque, Chiapas; the ** Temple of the Columns” at
Mitla, Oaxaca; the temple of Xochicalco at Morales; the ** Castle” at
Chichen-Itza, Yucatan; and the *‘ House of the Governor” at Uxmal,
Yucatan. The collection also contains a number of plaster casts of
some of the most famous religious sculptures of the Assyrians, Egyp-
tians, Greeks, and Romans.

In biology the most conspicuous objects are the cast and skeleton
of a sulphur-bottom whale, about 80 feet long, taken off the coast of
Newfoundland. Many of the larger mammals of the world are repre-
sented by especially fine examples of the art of taxidermy, among them
being the hippopotamus, rhinoceros, lion, tiger, giraffe, moose, cari-
bou, axis-deer, sambur-stag, antelope, wild sheep, chamois, etc., and
many birds of popular interest, such as game birds, birds of paradise,
pheasants, the vulture, pelican, etc. A specimen of the curious hoact-
zin of Guiana, South America, with its nest, eggs, and young, occupies
a case by itself, and the great egg of the A%pyornis, a now extinct
bird of Madagascar, is represented. Deep-sea fishes and some of the
large species of reptiles are shown in the form of models, and there is
also a fine display of butterflies, including many large and brilliant
forms from tropical America and the Old World. An especially inter-
esting feature is a reproduction of the ‘‘Children’s Room” in the
Smithsonian building at Washington.

The most striking specimens in the Department of Geology are
restorations of the large extinct Stegosaur and Triceratops, along-
side of which have been placed the skeletons of a mastodon and an
elephant, by way of contrast. Dr. George P. Merrill, in charge of
this Department, has also brought together a very interesting collec-
tion of meteorites, including casts of some of the largest ones known,
such as that discovered by Lieutenant Peary in Greenland, and the
Bacubarito meteorite found in the State of Sinaloa, Mexico. The
mineral exhibit embraces some of the most beautiful varieties from
all parts of the world, and is supplemented by two other collections,
showing the various forms of silica and of carbonate of calcium.
Among the fossil invertebrates are many interesting forms, and
among the vertebrates are fishes, reptiles, a pterodactyl, and a com-
plete skeleton of a moa, a large extinct flightless bird.

The official report upon the exposition by Doctor True will appear
in the next annual report.

Lewis and Clark Kxposition.—On April 13, 1904, the President of
the United States approved the bill (S. 276) providing for the celebra:
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55

tion of the one-hundredth anniversary of the exploration of the
Oregon country by Captains Meriwether Lewis and William Clark.
The bill authorizes a Government exhibit in this connection, and
appropriates $200,000 for its preparation, as well as $250,000 for a
building.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES.

At the Ninth International Geological Congress, held at Vienna,
Austria, from August 20 to 27, 1903, the Smithsonian Institution and
National Museum were represented by Mr. Charles Schuchert, assist-
ant curator of stratigraphic paleontology. The total attendance at this
congress from the United States was 22, papers being read by three
of the number, namely, Prof. C. R. Van Hise, of the University of
Wisconsin; Mr. Bailey Willis, of the U. S. Geological Survey, and
Dr. E. O. Hovey, of the American Museum of Natural History.

Delegates appointed before the end of the fiscal year to congresses
to be held during the summer of 1904 were as follows: Dr. Leon-
hard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians, Mr. Gerrit S.
Miller, jr., assistant curator of mammals, and Dr. C. W. Stiles, cus-
todian of the helminthological collections, to the Sixth International
Congress of Zoology, at Berne, Switzerland, during August; and Mr.
William H. Holmes, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, to
the Congress of Americanists at Stuttgart, during the same month.
These same persons were also designated by the Department of State
as official representatives of the Waited States.

Dr. Paul Haupt, honorary curator of historic archeology, was
appointed, on April 30, 1904, to represent the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and National Museum at the Fourteenth International Congress
of Orientalists, to be held in Algiers in April, 1905.

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF.

The classification: of the scientific departments of the Museum
remains as indicated in the report for last year, with the following
exceptions: The title of the ‘‘ division of religions” has been changed
to ‘‘division of historic religions,” with Dr. Cyrus Adler as hon-
orary curator, and the former ‘‘section of historic religious cere-
monials” has been abolished. That of the *‘ division of history and
biography” has been changed to ‘‘division of history,” with Mr. A.
Howard Clark as honorary curator and Mr. Paul Beckwith as assist-
ant curator, the ‘‘section of American history” being omitted. The
‘*section of electricity” has been abolished, Mr. George C. Maynard,
who was in charge of that section, being the assistant curator of the
division of technology.
56 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Mr. William H. Holmes, formerly Head Curator of the Department
of Anthropology, but now Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy, has accepted the position of honorary curator of the division of
prehistoric archeology, and Mr. J. D. McGuire, ‘also of the Bureau
of Ethnology, that of collaborator in the same division. Other appoint-
ments have been made as follows: Dr. Edward L. Greene, formerly
professor of botany in the Catholic University of America, associate
in botany; Mr. Paul Brockett, custodian of the division of graphic
arts, and Mr. J. S. Goldsmith as superintendent of construction and
labor, being a part of the service performed by the late Dr. J. E.
Watkins. The appointment of Mr. Walter L. Hahn, as aid in the
division of mammals, in 1902-03, inadvertently failed to receive men-
tion in the last report.

A number of members of the scientific staff have severed their con-
nection with the Museum, all at their own volition, to accept positions
elsewhere at higher compensation. Among these were Mr. F. A.
Lucas, curator of comparative anatomy, who has become curator-in-
chief of the Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences;
Mr. Louis Pollard, assistant curator in the division of plants; Mr.
Rolla P. Currie, aid in the division of insects; and Mr. W. C. Phalen,
aid, Messrs. R. 8. Bassler and Alvan 8. Stewart, preparators, in the
Department of Geology.

Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., of the division of mammals, who on
November 1, 1902, was temporarily transferred to the service of the
Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus in connection with the exhibit
at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition as chief special agent, is still
employed in that capacity.

NECROLOGY.

It is with deep regret that I have to record the death, on August
11, 1903, of Dr. J. Elfreth Watkins, whose official connection with
the National Museum extended almost continuously over a period of
nearly twenty years.

Dr. Watkins was born in Ben Lomond, Virginia, on May 17, 1852,
his parents being Dr. Francis B. Watkins and Mary Elfreth. He
was a descendant of Thomas Watkins, who, during the War of the
Revolution, aided in organizing -a troop of cavalry, while on his
mother’s side he was connected with Timothy Matlack, known as the
‘* Fighting Quaker,” a member of the Committee on Safety in Penn-
sylvania, and later a delegate to the Continental Congress from 1780
to 1787; and also with John Elfreth, who served in the Philadelphia
City Troops in 1814.

After receiving an academic education at Tremont Seminary in
Re OS Se Seer oe

arr Pt D>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5G

Morristown, Pennsylvania, young Watkins entered Lafayette College,
from which he was graduated in 1871, with the degrees of C. E. and
M. 8S. He then became connected, as mining engineer, with the
Delaware and Hudson Canal Company, remaining one year, after
which he entered the employ of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
as assistant engineer of construction. In 1873 he was disabled for
field work by an accident, which resulted in the loss of his right leg.
Upon his recovery he was assigned to the Amboy division of the
Pennsylvania road. In the same year he was appointed chief clerk
of the Camden and Atlantic Railroad, and a year later was reassigned
to the Amboy division of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which position
he held until 1886, two years after the beginning of his connection
with the National Museum.

His first connection with the Museum was in 1884, when he was ap-
pointed ‘‘honorary curator of transportation.” In i8s6 he accepted
a salaried position in the service of the Museum, to which he devoted
all of his time until 1892, when he returned to the Pennsylvania Rail-
road Company and at once began the preparation of its exhibits for
the World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Later he was placed
in charge of the Department of Industrial Arts in the Field Columbian
Museum, a direct outgrowth of the exposition. He remained there
only one year, however, coming back to Washington in 1895 to fill
the positions of curator of mechanical technology and superintendent
of buildings in the National Museum, which he held until his death.

In 1891 he became very active in promoting the interests of the
Patent Centennial Celebration held in Washington, and served as sec-
retary of the executive committee.

Doctor Watkins was a member of several patriotic and other socie-
ties, including the American Society of Civil Engineers, the Society of
Colonial Wars, the Society of the Sons of the Revolution, the Society
of the War of 1812, and the Philosophical Society of Washington. In
recognition of his standing among authorities on the history of the
mechanical arts the Stevens Institute of Technology conferred upon
him the degree of ‘‘ doctor of engineering” in 1900.

Among the best known of his published writings are ** Beginnings
of Engineering” (1888); ‘* The Development of the Rail and Track”
(1889); ‘* The Log of the Savannah ” (1890); and ‘* Transportation and
Lifting of Heavy Bodies by the Ancients” (1898). His most extensive
literary undertaking was the compilation of the history of the Penn-
sylvania Railroad from 1845 to 1896 (as yet unpublished), which also
constitutes a very complete exposition of the general subject of rail-
road transportation in the United States during the half century.

Mr. Henry Marshall, taxidermist of the division of birds, during a
period of nearly thirty years, died on May 26, 1904. He was born at
58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Oldham, Yorkshire County, England, in 1823 and in 1846 emigrated
to America, soon thereafter purchasing a farm at Laurel, Maryland,
which remained his home until the time of hisdeath. He first engaged
in business as a machinist, in partnership witha brother; but having
when a young man learned taxidermy, he cultivated it as a recreation
and partly as a matter of business, many colleges and other public
institutions being supplied with specimens of his handiwork. In 1875
he was appointed to the position of taxidermist in the National
Museum, where he continued in service until stricken with paralysis
on July 16, 1901.
REPORTS OF HEAD CURATORS.

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF AINGERR ORO OGWae snes sea By OTIs T. MASON.
REPORT ON DEE DE EAE MEIN OF BIOLOGY =. 222-2225 ae sce oss By FREDERICK W. TRUE.
REPORA ONG TES DE PAR DAUEN DOr ‘GEOLOGY - 22254 2. 220 55.222 22 see By GEORGE P. MERRILL.

Xo

Pe

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
FOR THE YEAR 1903-04.

By Otis T. Mason,
Acting Head Curator.

The work of the year has been devoted to the care of specimens in
hand and of new materials daily arriving, to finding safe and accessible
storage for collections not on exhibition; but, more than all, to making
the department useful **for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”

Although the specimens received number over 5,000 less than in the
previous year, when 24,319 were catalogued, they were on the whole
as valuable, for the reason that besides those acquired without definite
aim very many were secured for the purpose of perfecting old series
or of making new ones to illustrate special points in anthropology.
Some of the more valuable accessions are here enumerated:

GIFTS.

The W. L. Abbott collection, numbering 1,377 specimens from the
Malay Peninsula, northern Sumatra, and the adjacent archipelago,
adds materially to the resources of the Museum from this almost
virgin area. These, with his gatherings in former years from the
East Indies and other parts of Asia, form a most valuable addition to
the Museum, and constitute the basis of a monograph on the ethnology
of the regions explored by Doctor Abbott, now in course of prepara-
tion by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough. The collection illustrates
the arts of the people of this region, who are especially skillful in the
use of plant and vegetable materials, of which the most serviceable is
rattan. Besides the ethnological, there are also specimens in physical
anthropology, consisting of Moro skulls and monkey and ape brains.

Of unusual interest and value is the collection of 278 ancient Egyptian
chipped stone specimens presented by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr, which
includes crescent-shaped implements, leaf-shaped and semilunar
blades, spearheads, saws, scrapers, a fine collection of arrow points with
extremely long barbes, knives with handles in one piece, and a number
of specialized forms for cutting. Mr. Seton-Karr writes:

They are all from the Fayum, and are of a type mainly peculiar to that district.
They were found in the desert about 10 miles from present cultivation, the ancient
prehistoric lake having a much higher level than the dynastic or, of course, the

present one.
61
62 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

There was also secured a large and representative series of archeo-
logical specimens, part of a bequest to the U. 5. National Museum, in
1898, by the late I. H. Harris, of Waynesville, Ohio. The archeo-
logical portion was placed in the division of prehistoric archeology,
and consists mainly of stone implements, including hammer stones,
pestles, mortars, grooved axes, polished hatchets, discoidal stones,
polished stone amulets, beads, pipes, leaf-shaped blades, arrow points
and spearheads, scrapers, drills, shell beads, carvings, and a limited
number of copper implements and ornaments. <A catalogue was fur-
nished, giving exact data for a portion of the collection. A number
of other specimens had the locality marked upon them, and from this
source as well as from letters and memoranda, it is shown that the
material was obtained mainly from a few spots in the Miami Valley,
Ohio. There is, in addition, a typical series of earthenware vessels
from mounds near Charleston, Missouri. The whole embraces 8,533
numbers, although several lots of small flakes and fragments are
counted as one number.

The ethnological and historical collections from the Philippine
Islands presented to the Museum by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army,
are especially interesting and valuable from the fact that they were
secured personally in the campaign against the Moros of Mindanao by
an experienced observer. They comprise many specimens not hereto-
fore in the National Museum, and are rich in weapons, basketry, and
the fine brasswork for which the Moros are so famous.

An important addition to the historical division is the gilt dress
sword presented to Gen. Jacob Brown by the State of New York for
services in the war of 1812. This sword was received as a gift from
his grandson, Nathan Brown Chase.

Other interesting specimens received during the year are a serenato
saxophone, with accessories and instructions, presented by William
Tonk & Bro., of New York, which fills a niche in the collection of
musical instruments; a rare flintlock pistol with folding bayonet,
made by Miles, London, and presented by Mr. Paul E. Beckwith.

A collection of Morse keys, insulators, and other important his-
torical apparatus used on telegraph lines in the United States about
1860, was presented by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company through
C. E. McKim, superintendent of telegraphs at Pittsburg; a telegraph
switch, invented about 1855 by E. W. Culgan, of Pittsburg, Pennsyl-
vania, and used generally throughout the United States up to 1865,
presented by Mr. C. S. Greer, of Zanesville, Ohio; a series of speci-
mens illustrating the development of the hand camera, donated by the
Kastman Kodak Company, of Rochester, New York; a collection of
native firearms from the Philippine Islands, presented by the President
of the United States; and a series of heliogravures of Hellenistic por-
Ee ee

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

traits, useful in connection with the study of the physiognomy of the
nations, was given by Theodor Graf, of Vienna, Austria.

PURCHASES.

During the year the Museum acquired by purchase the large archeo-
logical collection from various European localities (11,519 specimens),
and a smaller collection (7,815 specimens) of American objects, belong-
ing to the estate of the late Dr. Thomas Wilson. The European
collection covers a wide range, beginning with the roughly shaped
flint implements from the river gravels of England and France, and
ending with the more highly elaborated objects of the polished stone
age and the bronze age. The more important groups from Europe
include objects of stone, bone, pottery, and bronze from the Swiss
lakes; a fine series of chipped and polished stone implements from
Scandinavia; and pottery and bronzes from Italy. Of the American
series, the most notable are the large collection of stone implements,
ete., from Fairfax County, Virginia (the Hunter collection); two sets
of cache implements, one including 18 leaf-shaped blades of quart-
zite from Carter County, Tennessee; and 14 large spearheads of
quartzite from Pike County, Arkansas.

A collection of 4 house posts and 2 totem poles was purchased from
Dr. George A. Dorsey for exhibition at St. Louis. The house posts,
hewn from yellow cedar, are very interesting specimens, and were
secured personally by Doctor Dorsey from a Tlinkit village. Each
pair is 10 feet in height, 25 feet in breadth, and nearly 4 inches in
thickness. The posts are carved, and two of them are of especial
interest owing to the fact that they are painted. The totem poles rank
among the best examples of wood carving from the Northwest Coast.

Owing to the widespread popular interest in basketry, a number of
collections were offered to the Museum, and of these 54 fine examples
of Nez Pereé, Chemehuevi, and Maidu baskets were purchased from
the Fred Harvey collection, rendering more complete the large and
valuable series now displayed in the north-west gallery.

A collection of 48 examples of aboriginal art from southeastern
Alaska, consisting of carved clubs, knives, figures, dishes, chests, and
embroidered blankets, was purchased from Lieut. G. T. Emmons,
U. S. Navy, whose long familiarity with the tribes of this region
enhances their value.

The purchase of 14 specimens of crania of the Wasco Indians from
the Fred Harvey collection made an important addition to the division
of physical anthropology.

A series of models of steamboat propellers, dating from 1681 to 1525,
and illustrating the development of this feature of marine architecture
for that period, were purchased from Mr. Emil Wellauer.
64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Casts of Assyro-Babylonian, Egyptian, and Greco-Roman sculp-
tures were purchased from various dealers in England, France, Italy,
and the United States. In this collection is a stele engraved with the
code of laws of the Babylonian King, Hammurabi, which is of peculiar
interest, as it aids in portraying the civilization of Babylon more than
four thousand years ago.

EXCHANGES.

Among the specimens acquired through exchange during the year
may be mentioned copies of rare musical instruments received from
Mrs. John Crosby Brown, in exchange for similar material; and 28
specimens illustrative of the folklore of England and Ireland from
Edward Lovett, Esq., Croydon, England, in exchange for American
Indian specimens. :

TRANSFERS AND LOANS.

A very interesting collection numbering 550 specimens was secured
by J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology. It
includes objects from the islands of Trinidad, Grenada, Cariaco, St.
Vincent, Barbados, Dominica, Porto Rico, and Cuba. The most nota-
ble of these are stone collars, tripointed stone zemes, earthenware
bowls of unique form and decoration, and a series of carved stone
masks and amulets. There are also polished hatchets and chisels, axes
of the Carib type, sculptured pestles, mortars, beads of stone, shell
hatchets, and grotesque heads and faces used as decorations of pottery
vessels. This collection was made systematically with a view to work-
ing out the ancient connections between the two continents of North
and South America.

A large number of archeological objects from various caverns, rock-
shelters, and village sites in the Ozark region in Missouri and Arkan-
sas, collected by William H. Holmes, were obtained by transfer from
the Bureau of American Ethnology. These include chipped flint
implements, ranging from roughly worked pieces and blades to well-
finished arrow points, spearheads, and scrapers; hammer and rubbing
stones, bone implements, fragments of pottery, pieces of basket work,
woven fabrics, twisted cords made from the vegetable fiber, cave
breccia containing flints, animal bones (mainly split), and a few human
bones. The objects are exceptionally well classified. The position,
whether in caves, village sites, bottom lands, ete., is carefully marked,
and in addition there are furnished two maps and four charts upon
which the different localities are indicated. The collection, which
numbers 2,710 specimens, is a notable addition to the Museum, as it
represents material from new areas.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 65

The division of physical anthropology has been enriched by over
2,000 crania and skeletons transferred from the Army Medical Museum.

During the last few years the curator of the division of technology
has made special effort to increase the series illustrating the develop-
ment of firearms. Recently there has been lent by Col. Wright Rives
a finely finished 44-caliber rifle, made by Henry Deringer, Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania, and often used for target practice by David
Crockett and other friends of Mr. Rives. This was the rifle used by
W. J. Graves in his duel with Jonathan Cilley in 1838.

There may also be mentioned a valuable series of sporting rifles,
collected by Mr. Herman Hollerith in Mitchell County, North Caro-
lina, in 1893, and lent by him to the Museum. These are typical
specimens of sporting guns used throughout the United States up to
about 1850. They are provided with homemade powderhorns, pow-
der charges, turkey calls, and other appliances, showing the skill of
the early backwoodsman.

A collection of rifles, muskets, carbines, and revolvers has been
transferred to the National Museum by the Ordnance Office of the
War Department. These weapons include, besides the guns manu-
factured by the Government for many years, fine specimens made by
private firms for the Government. There is one remarkable example,
which is a 7-barrel flintlock revolving gun, with 11-inch barrels,
caliber .50, fastened to a central frame and revolved by hand, to bring
each barrel successively under a common flash pan.

Another especially rare and valuable loan from the War Depart-
ment is the Ferguson breech-loading rifle, which it has been claimed
is the only one of its kind in existence. It was invented and patented
in England in 1775-76 by Maj. Patrick Ferguson, of the British Army,
and was manufactured by Mr. D. Egg, of London. This gun was
presented by Major Ferguson to Capt. Frederick de Peyster and
bequeathed by him to his son, Gen. John Watts de Peyster.

To the division of history there has been added a number of objects
illustrating the colonial and Revolutionary periods, including inter-
esting relics received from Gen. John Watts de Peyster, who has
during the last few years presented his Napoleonic library to the
Smithsonian Institution. Mention may also be made of the sword and
epaulets worn by Gen. Alexander McComb, U.S. Army, a loan from
Mrs. F. C. d’Hautville, and of a fine portrait in oil of George Catlin,
the Indian portrait painter, received from Mrs. Louise Catlin Kinney.
The portrait, which is an excellent likeness, was painted in 1849 by
Mr. W. H. Fisk, R. A. It adds much to the interest of the great
collection of Indian portraits given to the Museum many years ago.

Asa result of the war with Spain in 1898 the Museum has gradually
acquired a large number of objects illustrating the history of the peo-

NAT Mus 1904——5
66 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

ple of our insular possessions. During the past year Dr. R. B. Grubb,
U.S. Army, added to his collection 53 specimens from the Moros of
western Mindanao, Philippine Islands, consisting of edged weapons,
spears, armor, ceremonial objects, matting and costumes of these
interesting and warlike people. .

EXPLORATIONS.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, con-
tinued his researches in the West Indies, visiting Cuba, Porto Rico,
and other islands as far south as Trinidad. His collection contains
many notable objects in carved stone, as zemes, or tripointed idols,
masks, amulets, pottery of rare forms, and implements and utensils of
hard, finely-polished rock.

Field work in New Mexico and Arizona was carried on by Dr.
Walter Hough, assistant curator of the division of ethnology, who
succeeded in obtaining a valuable collection of basketry, pottery, stone,
bone, wood, and shell implements, weapons, ornaments, and ceremonial
objects from a region heretofore unexplored. Ruins near Magdalena,
Datil, along the upper Tulerosa River at Frisco, and near Luna,
New Mexico, were examined. The last named were excavated and
important data and specimens were collected. A reconnoissance of
cave and cliff ruins in this region was made and a number of specimens
secured. At the close of the work Doctor Hough proceeded north-
westward by way of Alpine, Nutrioso, Springerville, and St. Johns, to
the Santa Fe Railroad at Holbrook, Arizona. During his trip he trav-
ersed a stretch of country 270 miles wide between points on the rail-
roads. The object of Doctor Hough was to cut across lines of north
and south migration of peoples in early times, and in this respect much
valuable information was gathered.

In May, Mr. George C. Maynard commenced a special investigation
of the history of the locomotive ‘‘ Stourbridge Lion,” with a view to
clearing up some unsettled questions relating to the authenticity of
parts of the locomotive in the custody of the Museum, as well as to
determine the whereabouts of other parts now in the possession of
private parties. He visited Honesdale, Carbondale, Pittston, Scran-
ton and other places in Pennsylvania, where he obtained much valuable
information.

Mr. Paul E. Beckwith, assistant curator in the division of history,
acting under special directions from the Assistant Secretary, spent the
month of June at the Louisiana Purchase F .position examining
certain anthropological collections.

CARE OF THE COLLECTIONS.

No changes have been made in the method of handling accessions.
All collections received during the year have been catalogued and
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 67

cared for, and, so far as possible, systematically arranged. Specimens
subject to destruction by insects have been poisoned.

Increased space and facilities for preservation and installation were
obtained by the finishing of the repairs in the hall of prehistoric
archeology, which has been closed for two years; by dismounting
many pictures from swinging screens and putting the former into the
study series; by building additional racks for unit drawers in the hall
of history and in the graphic arts storage; by adding to the furni-
ture in the east hall a large gun rack, presented by the War Depart-
ment; and by building new racks in the laboratory of physical
anthropology.

A great deal of time has been spent in labeling the musical instru-
ments, which number nearly fifteen hundred pieces. This collection
is in the care of Mr. EK. H. Hawley, who has completed an elaborate
catalogue of the entire series. It is provided with four sets of labels,
as follows:

1. General labels, descriptive of the plan of classification.

2. Case labels, naming the class of instruments in each inclosure.

3. Descriptive labels, explaining the structure and functions of the
instruments in each case.

4. Individual labels, giving the native name, the English name,
locality and peoples, and collector of each specimen.

The collection has been installed to teach history of thought and of
development through inventions, from the simplest monotone device
to mark rhythm up to the most elaborate apparatus for musical expres-
sion. The exhibit is divided into four grand divisions, according to
the structure of the instruments, and the pieces are arranged accord-
ing to simplicity or supposed order of invention. The divisions may
be described as follows:

(1) Vibrating solid, sonorous bodies; (I]) vibrating membranes; (IIJ)
vibrating strings; (IV) vibrating columns or currents of air.

Musical instruments are put into vibration or functioned: (1) imme-
diately, by human agency only; (2) mediately, by means of devices in
the hand; (3) mechanically, through the agency of keyboards and the
like, and (4) automatically, by machinery, which demands no skill;
(5) Holian harps and wind bells are vibrated without human agency.
There are five methods employed in playing, namely, striking or ham-
mering; picking or twanging; rubbing with the hand, bow, wheel, etc. ;
blowing; and sympathetically.

The four grand divisions have been mounted, where practicable, so
as to indicate geographic and ethnic distribution, and arranged in sets
as related to the musical scale. Some advance has been made in the
literature of music, but none in collecting portraits of composers,
instrument makers, or writers on the subject,
68 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Case and specimen labels were prepared for the series illustrating
heating and illuminating and other subjects, and many hundreds of
labels were printed for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Mr.
Thomas Sweeny continued the systematic care of the study series.

YXHIBITION AND STUDY SERIES.

The crowded condition of the Museum seriously interferes with the
association of the exhibition with the study series. The ideal connec-
tion between the two is partly maintained in the northwest range and
in a few other parts of the Museum where the student, attracted by a
specimen, wishes to go further into the subject, and finds the study
series close at hand. But in other exhibits the study material has to
be stored away so as to be practically inaccessible.

The exhibits in many of the halls are in a satisfactory condition,
being well arranged and well labeled; but in other halls old-fashioned
methods still prevail and the labeling is inadequate.

INSTALLATION.

A number of cases were arranged in the northwest gallery, to illus-
trate the different types of basketry, this subject having attracted
much popular attention of late owing to the publication by the National
Museum of Professor Mason’s monograph on Aboriginal American
Basketry. A collection of lamps has been arranged in the east hall,
to show the development of illumination. <A fine portrait of George
Catlin, lent by his daughter, Mrs. Louise Catlin Kinney, was installed
in the north-west range amidst the great painter’s works. A large
number of specimens from the Philippine Islands, from various sources,
were set up for exhibition in the gallery of the north-west court.
Among these is the Mearns collection from Mindanao. A special
studio was set apart for the Abbott collections from Malaysia, with
reference to publishing an illustrated account of them. A great deal
of time was expended in the installation of musical instruments, now
one of the richest in the world. <A rare collection of objects illus-
trating Tibetan religion has been set up and labeled. A walnut case
extending along one side of the east hall has been installed with a
large collection of muskets, rifles, and carbines, some of which were
received from the War Department; and three table-cases, especially
fitted up for the exhibition of revolvers and pistols, were also placed in
the east hall and filled with a collection of historical military revolvers,
and single and double barreled pistols of various dates and types,
some of which are not duplicated, so far as known, in any other public
or private collection. The original Francis life-saving car was perma-
nently installed in a new mahogany case, especially designed for the
purpose; while another was made for the cylinder of the Hornblower
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 69

engine, the first steam engine ever erected on the western continent,
having been imported from England in 1753, set up by Josiah Horn-
blower, and used for pumping water from the copper mines of Col.
John Schuyler, located opposite Belleville, near Newark, New Jersey.
Two clocks received from the Chelsea Clock Company, of Boston,
through the courtesy of Charles H. Pearson, treasurer, were placed
in the east hall near the telegraph instruments. Here the noon signals
are received from the U. 5S. Naval Observatory, and serve a useful pur-
pose in illustrating to visitors the Government’s method of distributing
correct time throughout the United States.

The Daughters of the American Revolution have manifested great
interest in the historic collections, and cases especially devoted to their
contributions have been arranged and labeled.

MODELS AND REPLICAS.

Models of a large number of objects, chiefly ethnologic, have been
made under the supervision of the Department for use in filling out
the series of exhibits in the Museum and for exchange purposes. A
number of replicas in plaster have also been prepared under the direc-
tion of Mr. William H. Holmes, including a series of casts of 120 of
the most important archeologic objects illustrating the higher achieve-
ments of the ancient Mexican peoples. One set of these; carefully
colored, was installed with the Museum’s exhibit at the St. Louis
Exposition, while several additional sets were prepared for exchange
with other museums. These replicas have been executed with the
greatest care, and one series has been photographed side by side
with the original objects for distribution to the museums with which
exchanges are contemplated. Up to the present time these include
the Field Columbian Museum, Chicago; Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg;
Free Museum of Science and Art, Philadelphia; American Museum
of Natural History, New York; Museum of the Brooklyn Institute
of Arts and Sciences, Brooklyn; Peabody Museum, Cambridge; and
also with the following foreign museums: Trocadero Museum, Paris;
British Museum, London; Royal Ethnological Museum, Berlin; Royal
Museum of Dresden; National Museum of Mexico, and the National
Museum of Argentina.

The preparators of this Department, from plans by Mr. Holmes,
also constructed models of a number of the ruined buildings of Mexico
and Yucatan, five of which were completed and installed with the
exhibit prepared for the St. Louis. Exposition. These represent the
‘** Pyramid Temple,” Xochicalco; the ‘‘ Temple of the Columns,” Mitla;
‘House of the Governor,” Uxmal; ‘‘ El Castillo,” Chichenitza; and
the ‘*Temple of the Cross,” Palenque. Models are kept of such parts
of these as can be cast in plaster for use in preparing replicas.

In. the laboratory of this Department twenty masks, besides other
70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

castings of Indians belonging to delegations visiting Washington, have
also been made at the expense of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and from these a number of busts have been prepared for the Museum
exhibits and for exchange with other museums. Some material has
already been received from the Field Columbian Museum, the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, and the Royal Ethnological Museum,
Berlin, in exchange for casts. It is expected that these exchanges will
result in adding greatly to the collections in the National Museum, and
at the same time they will enrich the various museums with which
arrangements are made.

The work of photographing Indians visiting Washington has been
greatly enlarged during the year. By special arrangement whole dele-
gations have visited the Museum, where photographs of them, either
singly or in groups, have been made and measurements taken.

RESEARCHES.

In the past ten years, the Museum has been receiving from Dr.
William L. Abbott important ethnological collections made by him in
the Eastern Continent, especially in southern Malaysia. During last
year much time was spent in arranging and classifying this material,
and in preparing descriptions and illustrations for publication. The
work will be continued during the coming year. Mr. Holmes has
continued intermittently the preparation of a monograph on the mines
and quarries of the aborigines, based to a large extent upon collections
in the division of prehistoric archeology. Mr. Paul Beckwith began
a systematic description of the Grant relics in the National Museum,
for publication in the form of an illustrated catalogue. He has also
prepared a card catalogue of the swords, with the view of studying the
evolution of this arm, and has continued his work on a catalogue of
the collections of ancient coinage in the Museum.

Doctor Hrdlicka made measurements on negro children and adults,
and on 32 Indians belonging to visiting delegations. He continued
his studies on the humerus, atlas, cranial fosse, parietal and malar
bones, and also commenced testing the value and effect of various
preservatives on the excised brain.

The usefulness of the Department of Anthropology to students and
investigators is shown by the number of persons who have derived
benefit therefrom. Each year more and more institutions and indi-
viduals seek access to these collections, and through the cordial rela-
tions thus established the Department has not only contributed to
education, but has profited in the increase of its material for study.
Among those visiting the Museum for the purpose of carrying on
researches in its anthropological material may be mentioned the
following:

Professor Sherrington, of the University College, Liverpool, inves-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT ‘SECRETARY. ar

tigated the negro brains in the collection, in order to determine the
relative proportions of the windings of the Rolandic fissure in this
race. Miss Voorhees examined the collections from prehistoric Europe
in connection with a study on the Man of the Drift Gravels and
the Cave Dwellers of France. Miss Marie Ruef Hofer, of Teachers
College, Columbia University, New York, examined the plan of
synoptic series in the Museum as a basis of exercise and manual labor
teaching. John P. 8. Neligh, of Columbus, Georgia, studied Indian
textile art, basketry, beadwork, and weaving, with a view to teaching.
Ole Solberg, from Christiania, Norway, spent several days in the
Museum, preparing himself for a trip to Arizona, in order to investi-
gate the social customs of the Hopi (Moki); on his return he examined
the Eskimo collection, with a view to enlarging his monograph on
Eskimo stone implements.

» Judge James Wickersham, U.S. District Judge, Eagle City, Alaska,
made studies of the works and social customs of the Indians in that
region, with a view to deciding their fitness for citizenship, and con-
sulted the division of ethnology on what constitutes civilized tribes,
with a view to enfranchising certain tribes of his judicial district.
Lieut. William E. W. McKinlay, of the First U. 8. Cavalry, having
been detailed by the Division of Military Information in the War
Department to work up grammars and dictionaries of the chief lan-
guages in the Philippines, utilized the resources and methods of the
Department of Anthropology to aid him in his labors. Miss Maude
Barrows Dutton, Columbia University, New York City,-spent Febru-
ary 19 to February 29 in the Museum, gathering illustrations for a
series of school readers to show the development of primitive indus-
tries. Miss Cora M. Folsom, curator of the museum at Armstrong
School, Hampton, Virginia, examined cases, methods of exhibition,
and the Museum system of caring for the study series; she also received
instructions in cataloguing, poisoning, and other museum work. The
Director of the Mint, Mr. George E. Roberts, selected from the
Museum twenty-eight coins to illustrate a lecture on numismatics, and
transparencies were made for him in the Museum laboratory. Mr.
Stewart Culin, curator of the division of ethnology in the Brooklyn
Institute, made further studies in the games of the American Indians,
with reference to a paper being published by the Bureau of American
Ethnology. Miss Grace Nicholson, Pasadena, California, spent the
month of June at the Museum, studying the classification and care of
basketry; and the Immigration Bureau of the Department of Com-
merce and Labor, through its statistician, Mr. Wells F. Andrews,
consulted the Division of Ethnology for the purpose of obtaining
information which would enable the Bureau to classify more exactly
by nationality and race the vast number of immigrants into the United
States.
12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

The following material was transmitted to students and investigators
outside of the Museum: A number of photographs lent to Miss Maude
Barrows Dutton, of New York City, for reproduction ina series of text-
books prepared under the supervision of the Teachers College, Columbia
University; whale tusks, implements connected with whale fishing, and
a number of models of fishermen’s boats lent to Mr. W. de C. Rave-
nel, in charge of the exhibit of the Bureau of Fisheries, Department
of Commerce and Labor, at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition; a num
ber of arrows from the Natano (Hupa) Indians of California, Indian
games (3), Indian tops, and Indian popguns, were lent to Mr. Stewart
Culin, to be used in illustrating a paper published by the Bureau of
American Ethnology; models of Indian fire-making apparatus were
lent to Mr. Gerard Fowke, for the general anthropological exhibit at
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition; the original Francis life-saving
car was lent to the Treasury Department for exhibit at the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition. To Mr. 8S. W. Stratton, of the Bureau of
Standards, for the same purpose, were lent examples of Mexican and
Japanese scales, the coin scales of England, and a set of antique silver-
smith’s weights, manufactured in Nuremburg, Germany; from the
division of history a number of specimens connected with the mili-’
tary life of Gen. W. T. Sherman were lent, upon the request of Mr.
P. T. Sherman, to the U. S. Military Academy, for exhibition at the
Louisiana Purchase Mxposition; and an interesting case of historical
specimens belonging to the Daughters of the American Revolution
was sent to the exposition in the care of Mr. Paul Beckwith, for
installation.

It is the policy of the Department of Anthropology not to send out
valuable specimens to individuals for study, but to invite them to
carry on their investigations at the Museum. This course is safer for
the collections, and the student himself is thereby brought into touch
with other materials of which he probably has had no knowledge.

PLANS FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.

The Acting Head Curator calls attention to the need of additional
help in the several divisions. Accessions are multiplied, the corre-
spondence has greatly increased, and yet the same number of men and
women have to do the work. These conditions have been recognized
and remedied as far as possible by temporary aid.

From Doctor Hough the following observations are received with
reference to the plans for the development of the division of eth-
nology:

This is the era of collector-dealers in ethnology. Material that falls into their
hands is held for sale, so that a museum must enter the lists with money to purchase

or must go into the field as a collector. The latter plan tends to build up a museum
with the most desirable material, but it requires funds as well as trained men who
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 73

must spend part of the time in the field, and part in the care of the specimens. It is
also most desirable to foster disinterested collectors, who engage in the work for
relaxation without thought of gain. It is the opinion of the Curator that this matter
of providing for the purchase of specimens should have attention by the Museum
authorities. The interior development of the Division as pursued by the Curator
and his assistant has been carried on (1) by the study of correlated objects, publi-
cation, and exhibition to the best advantage for educational purposes; (2) by the
grouping of ethnic material to show at a glance the life and arts of tribes and peo-
ples; (3) the collection of information regarding specimens and filing such data where
it is readily available for students and for lables; (4) the storing of photographic
blueprints by subjects. This work is being steadily carried on and is improving the
status of the division each year.

Mr. Holmes has planned a sweeping reinstallation of the division
of prehistoric archeology. To the exhibits prepared for the Louisi-
ana Purchase Exposition will be assigned the space in the middle of
the hall. Mr. Maynard proposes to enlarge the subject of metrology
in all its branches, by originals when possible, and also by copies and
models of originals. He also will assiduously increase the material in
the section of gunnery, for which the time is propitious. In this con-
nection Mr. Maynard has prepared an elaborate classification of the
topics under his division. Mr. Brockett plans to very much enlarge
the study series in graphic arts by bringing from storage and putting
in new drawers much material hitherto unavailable. Doctor Flint,
having completed his classification and cataloguing .in the division of
medicine, will develop his plan on the lines established. In the divi
sion of history, Mr. Beckwith will avail himself of the gallery recently
assigned to him to enlarge and improve the study series. The assist-
ant curator of the division of physical anthropology, Dr. A. Hrd-
licka, makes the following recommendations:

The time has come when the division of physical anthropology can begin to pre-
pare exhibits of great interest and instructive value, relating on the one hand to the
American aborigines, and on the other to man in general. The part concerning the
Indian would complete the immense ethnological exhibit; that concerning man in
general would be a continuation of the series in biology. To achieve these results,
the division is in need of the exclusive services of a modeler. A most important
part of the Indian exhibits, and at the same time valuable for exchanges with other
museums, would be a series of casts of the natives. For this purpose the modeler
should take visiting Indians, and also be sent to do field work. In the biological
exhibits, an important rdle would be played by casts of brain and other objects; by
representations in plaster of human development and decline; and by showing the

numerous types of man. All this will require the constant application of an able
modeler through a number of years, and the work can and should be begun at once.

Doctor Hrdlicka also calls attention to the fact that a compre-
hensive biological survey of the people of the United States is a pos-
sibility, though it would be difficult, extend over a number of years,
and require a large corps of trained aids. There is no other country
that presents more vital problems to be solved by such a survey
74 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

than the United States. This is due to the great diversity of its cli-
mate and industries; but above all, to the heterogeneity of its con-
stituents. The objects of such a survey would be to investigate the
physical status; certain physiological elements; relative fecundity;
the effects of racial mixtures; and certain pathological conditions
which have important influences on the population. These investiga-
tions would have to be prosecuted on (qa) the various racial divisions
of the population; (4) the Americans in large cities, as well as those
in the rural districts; those living in high and those in low lands; those
in the coldest and in the hottest regions; the seamen with extremes in
kinds of nourishment; (¢) all such parts of the population as follow
the same mode of physical or mental activity, such as the laborer,
specialized artisan, professional athlete, specialized brainworker, the
highest class of inventor or original composer; (7) such divisions of
the population as are-continuously subjected to differing social condi-
tions, and (e) the defective classes. In order that a survey of this
nature should succeed in this country, the very first condition would be
to elaborate, as far as possible, in conjunction with the Immigration
Bureau and the Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce
and Labor, accurate maps representing the racial constituents of the
population. .

Mr. Hawley proposes to complete his card catalogue of all the types
of musical instruments ever used by man; also by exchanges, copies,
and models to make the series of specimens complete as to types.

In looking over the stock of material already mounted for exhibition
in swinging sereens, unit boxes, and special frames, it was found that
much of it was piled up in such a way that for years it would be lost
not only to the public but also to the student. In the new Museum
installation should not be handicapped by faded backgrounds, soiled
labels, and discarded furniture. Therefore many hundreds of speci-
mens have been cut from the mountings and returned to the study
series, the boxes and frames being sent to storage. In this way the
floors of the halls have been cleared of packing boxes. It is purposed
to continue this process into spaces now set apart for storage.

The general plan for the Department during the year 1904-5 will be
to make the collections still more useful to the students, authors, and
teachers. No changes of arrangement are contemplated for the pres-
ent building, but every effort will be made to perfect the exhibits that
will be set up in the new one.

CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.

Owing to the constant growth of the Department of Anthropology,
it was deemed wise during the year to make certain changes in its
organization, so that at present all divisions of the subject that may
be taught and studied by objects are represented. Physiological
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 75

psychology is omitted, since its operations consist of experiments.
Its apparatus is provided for in the division of technology, under the
class of metrics. Language also is omitted, since its investigation is
assigned to the Bureau of American Ethnology. The same is to be
said of sociology and primitive religions. The closest relationship,
however, exists between the two dependencies of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, the Museum, and the Bureau of American Ethnology, since
cult objects, the paraphernalia of customs, writings, and inscriptions
are tangible things and may be exhibited. Mr. William H. Holmes
served as honorary curator, and Mr. J. D. McGuire as collaborator
in the division of prehistoric archeology, Mr. E. P. Upham having
charge of cataloguing. The division of technology was enlarged to
include all phases of handicraft. Mr. Paul Brockett has been made
custodian of the division of graphic arts. The division of religions
becomes the division of historic religions, the cults of unlettered
peoples being assigned to the Bureau of American Ethnology and
their cult objects exhibited in the division of ethnology. The divi-
sion of history and biography becomes the division of history, with
Mr. A. H. Clark as honorary curator and Mr. Paul Beckwith,
assistant curator. In February Miss Mary Virginia Young was
made clerk in the office of the Acting Head Curator, and in April Mr.
Richard A. Allen was appointed preparator in the Department.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
FOR THE YEAR 1903-04.

By Freprerick W. True,
Head Curator.

The principal event of the year covered by this report was the com-
pletion of the exhibit for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition and its
installation inSt. Louis. Fully two years were occupied in assembling
and preparing this exhibit, and the staff of every division of the
department, except that of plants, shared in the work to a greater or
less extent. The Head Curator, having been placed in charge of the
entire exhibit of the Smithsonian Institution, found it impossible to
attend at the same time to the regular work of the department, and
for about five months the general management devolved upon one of
the curators, Dr. L. Stejneger. A full report on the St. Louis exhibit
will be submitted next year after the close of the exposition.

The Museum had the good fortune to receive on deposit for ten
years the herbarium and botanical library of Prof. E. L. Greene. The
herbarium comprises about 60,000 sheets, and is believed to be one of
the finest private botanical collections in existence. A detailed state-
ment of the conditions of this deposit will be found in the earlier
pages of this Report.

Dr. William L. Abbott continued his generous donations of valuable
zoological material collected by him in the East Indies.

The accessions show a substantial increase in most classes, and in
mollusks the number of lots received was double that of last year.
While it is often difficult to estimate with exactness the scientific value
of material received, the additions of the year as a whole may be con-
sidered as comparing favorably with those of previous years. The
principal exceptions were among the lower invertebrates, where the
accessions, though more numerous than last year, are reported to be
much less important. The birds’ eggs were fewer in number and. less
noteworthy.

About 108,000 zoological specimens and 44,000 botanical specimens
were received during the year. The former included about 59,000
insects. Marked improvement was made in the condition of the gen-
eral collections of mammals and reptiles.

~“I
~“
78 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

The department is handicapped at present chiefly by the crowded
condition of the laboratories and storage quarters and exhibition halls,
and the want of a sufficient staff of zoological assistants in the lower
grades.

EXHIBITION COLLECTIONS.

The arrangement recently made of combining all work on the exhi-
bition series under one head continued in force during the year with
excellent results. On account of the great amount of work required
in connection with the exhibit for the St. Louis Exposition, however,
the regular exhibition work was brought almost to a standstill. The
World’s Fair work continued until May, and, on account of belated
material, one or two pieces were still in hand during the closing
months of the year. 5

The remounting of especially valuable birds in the exhibition series
continued during the year, 13 specimens having been successfully
treated. Shortly before its close, two new cases were provided for 4
of the new groups of game birds, located in the entrance hall of the
Smithsonian building. In addition, 30 other birds were mounted, 12
dismounted, and 59 skins made up for study purposes. Fourteen
pieces of groundwork were made for birds exhibited at St. Louis. In
the case of birds mounted during the year, an effort was made to color
the bills, feet, and naked portions of the skins as in life. New work
was begun on a series of fish casts to fill cases now unoccupied.

A brief summary of the work done for the St. Louis exhibit during
the past two years is as follows:

A series of large mammals representing the principal large game
animals of the world were mounted, including such huge forms as the
giraffe, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, polar bear, and moose. Molds
were made in Newfoundland of an adult sulphurbottom whale, 78 feet
long, from which a cast in paper was prepared and properly painted.
The skeleton of a full-grown whale of this species was also obtained at
the same place and mounted in St. Louis. Specimens representing the
species of peacocks were mounted, together with a collection of the
most beautiful species of pheasants. To these were added a few other
birds of remarkable appearance or habits, and a group of the South
American hoactzins, which are of special interest from the fact that
the young have hooked claws on the wings, by means of which they
climb about from branch to branch. Casts of a large python and of
several other interesting snakes, such as the cobra, coral snake, rattle-
snake, ete., were prepared and painted. A series of enlarged models
of the most grotesque or otherwise remarkable deep-sea fishes was
prepared from specimens in the National Museum. The synoptic
series of invertebrates belonging to the regular exhibition series of
the Museum was renoyated, enlarged, and thoroughly labeled, A
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 79

large series of perfect specimens of the most remarkable butterflies of
the world was assembled and arranged for exhibition in unit boxes.
A similar series of birds’ eggs, representing the largest and the most
remarkably colored or shaped eggs were selected from the Museum
collection and arranged on newly designed stands. <A series of
- zoological objects attractive to children was prepared for the replica
of the Smithsonian ‘‘ Children’s room” which was installed at St.
Louis. The whole Museum exhibit was thoroughly labeled, with
special reference to the requirements of an exposition.

EXPLORATIONS.

As mentioned in the report of last year, Mr. B. A. Bean and Mr.
J. H. Riley accompanied the expedition of the Baltimore Geographical
Society to the Bahama Islands in the summer of 1903, and made con-
siderable collections of fishes, birds, reptiles, mammals, and mollusks
and other invertebrates. The collection of fishes added to the knowl-
edge of the fauna of the Bahamas and many of the species represented
in it were new to the Museum series, as was also'the case with the
corals and crustaceans.

In the spring of 1904 Mr. William Palmer accompanied Dr. George
P. Merrill to the State of Sinaloa, Mexico, for the purpose of making
a mold of the great Bacubarito meteorite. While on.this expedition,
Mr. Palmer collected a few zoological specimens of interest.

Toward the close of the year, Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. 8S. Miller,
jr., were detailed to make faunal collections in the Swiss and Italian
Alps, the object being to add to the knowledge of the life zones in that
region. Mr. B. A. Bean and an assistant visited Beaufort, North Car-
olina, in June and collected fishes.

ACCESSIONS.

The number of lots of specimens in all classes received during the
year covered by this report was greater than last year, and in the case
of mollusks, as already noted, almost double. Birds’ eggs were less
numerous and less important, and the lower invertebrates, though more
numerous than last year, were of much less interest scientifically. So
far as plants are concerned, the accessions (numbering 555), though
somewhat less numerous than last year, exceeded those of any other
year since 1895. Of zoological specimens, the total number received
was about 107,473, including about 59,000 insects. Of plants, the
accessions aggregated 43,800 specimens, as compared with 35,000 in
1903 and 53,500 in 1902. The purchases of plants comprised 10,000
specimens.

The largest transaction of the year, as regards specimens, was, as
already mentioned, the deposit by Prof. E. L. Greene of his very
80 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

important herbarium, comprising about 60,000 sheets, and his botan-
ical library, numbering about 2,000 volumes. This valuable acquisi-
tion will open new opportunities to systematic botanists in the United
States of which they will, without doubt, hasten to avail themselves.
The details regarding this important deposit will be found in the report
of the Assistant Secretary.

Mrs. T. A. Williams, of Memphis, Nebraska, presented some 15,000
plants from various localities in the United States, consisting of the
duplicates from Mr. Williams’s herbarium. She also signified her
intention to deposit the herbarium itself, now in the George Washing-
ton University, but the actual transfer had not been effected at the
close of the year on account of press of other Museum business.

Of zoological material, the largest accession was a collection of
about 40,000 insects obtained by Messrs. Dyar, Currie, and Caudell in
British Columbia. Next in order are the collections received through
the Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Commerce and Labor. These
comprised about 12,000 land and fresh-water shells and about 670
reptiles from Indiana and other parts of the eastern United States
and 3,000 marine mollusks, chiefly from Alaska, preserved in alcohol.
The Bureau also transmitted the types of a considerable number of
recently-described fishes from the Hawaiian Islands, Japan, and other
localities, with other specimens of fishes and also large collections of
crustaceans and stony corals, which were obtained during the investi-
gation of the salmon fisheries of Alaska in 1903. In addition, the
Bureau transmitted a large series of crayfishes and shrimps from Lake
Maxinkuckee, Indiana, collected by Dr. B. W. Evermann and assist-
ants in 1899 and 1900, and also 461 plants collected in Alaska and
Oregon.

Special attention is again to be directed to the importance of the col-
lections made by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the East Indies and very gener-
ously presented by him to the National Museum. During the year
the collections received were those from the Mentawei Archipelago,
off the west coast of Sumatra, and from the coast and islands of eastern
Sumatra. The mammals from the Mentawi Archipelago comprised
about 500 specimens, including 31 new forms, among which were a
new genus and species of gibbon, named Stmdas concolor by Mr. G. 8.
Miller, jr., and another new gibbon, which Mr. Miller has named
Symphalangus klossi in honor ‘of Dr. Abbott’s associate, Mr. C. B.
Kloss. The birds from the archipelago number 572 specimens, includ-
ing several new species and many rare ones, such as the pigeon
Columba grisea, the cuckoo Urococcyx xneicauda, ete. The collection
from eastern Sumatra comprises 371 mammals, 202 birds, and 83 rep-
tiles and batrachians. The mammals have not yet been identified, but
among the birds and reptiles are known to be numerous forms not
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 81

previously represented in the National Museum and very valuable for
comparison. Some new species are quite likely to be detected later.

Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, added to his previous donations a
number.of valuable lots of specimens, comprising 155 mammals from
Minnesota, 274 birds from the Philippine Islands, including many
rarities, various mollusks, and (conjointly with his son) some interest-
ing birds’ eggs.

Through an arrangement with the Baltimore Geographical Society,
Messrs. B. A. Bean and J. H. Riley, of the Museum scientific staff,
made an excellent miscellaneous zoological collection in the Bahama
Islands, including many desiderata, especially among fishes. Of the
110 species of fishes obtained, many were previously unknown as
belonging to the fauna of the Bahamas or were unrepresented in the
national collections. Of mammals, 181 specimens were obtained, of
which one species was undescribed; of birds, 156 specimens, including
anew subspecies of night hawk and the second known specimen of
the woodpecker Centurus nyeanus,; of reptiles, 73 specimens, including
a new large iguana, described by Dr. L. Stejneger. under the name of
Cyclura rileyi.

The Biological Survey, U. 8. Department of Agriculture, trans-
mitted some valuable birds’ eggs and a collection of 377 reptiles from
Texas, the result of several years’ collecting and the basis of a paper
by Mr. Vernon Bailey on the reptile fauna of the State. One new
species of lizard in this collection was described by Doctor Stejneger
under the name of Sceloporus merriam?.

Capt. Wirt Robinson, U. S. Army, presented a collection of bats
from Cuba and a number of interesting birds. Some 215 birds, a col-
lection of land shells, and about 3,600 insects, together with 34 mam-
mals, from the mountains of Venezuela were purchased from Mr. M.
5. Briceno. Among the former were many rare humming-birds.

A collection of 56 bats and 323 birds from Barbuda and Antigua
islands was purchased from Mr. H. Selwyn Branch. The birds repre-
sent the fauna of these islands with a great degree of completeness,
and comprise several forms not previously known to occur there, as
well as a new species of warbler.

Mammals.—Besides the specimens included in the foregoing miscel-
laneous collections, mention should be made of a number of accessions
consisting solely of mammals. Mr. E. O. Wooton, of Mesilla Park,
New Mexico, presented the second known specimen of a remarkable
bat belonging to the fauna of the United States, known as Luderma
maculatum.

A jaguar killed in Texas was purchased from Mr. H. P. Attwater.
This is the first authentic specimen of the jaguar from the United

NAT mus 1904——6
82 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

States, though the range of the species was considered as including
the southern part of that State.

A specimen of the very rare mouse-deer, Zragulus stanleyanus, was
purchased from M. Emile Deschamps.

A miscellaneous collection of Old World mammals, including repre-
sentatives of two new species, was purchased from Mr. W. Schliiter.

A collection of Japanese mammals was purchased from Mr. T.
Tsuchida. <A large collection of bats from Vera Cruz, Mexico, was
purchased, and by exchange with the British Museum six exception-
ally rare bats, belonging to genera not represented in the national
collection, were acquired. By exchange with the American Museum
of Natural History, a collection of 51 Colombian mammals was obtained.

Birds.—In addition to the birds presented by Doctors Abbott and
Mearns, and those acquired from the Biological Survey and the Balti-
more Geographical Society above mentioned, a few other especially
interesting accessions deserve notice. Mr. Homer Davenport, of East
Orange, New Jersey, presented 26 young pheasants. Pheasants in
these early stages, which are valuable in the study of the arrangement
of feathers, are difficult to obtain. Mr. N. C. Brown, of Portland,
Maine, presented an especially well-prepared series of 267 birds from
South Carolina. By exchange with the Philippine Museum, at Manila,
an excellent series of well-prepared Philippine birds, comprising about
200 specimens, was obtained. Four species of birds-of-paradise not
previously represented in the national collection were purchased, as
well as 215 specimens of birds from the mountains of Venezuela, com-
prising several species new to the Museum and including many speci-
mens valuable for comparison in connection with the work on ‘* Birds
of North and Middle America.” Some of the humming-birds in this
collection are rare in museums.

Of birds’ eggs, Dr. W. L. Ralph added many interesting specimens
to his previous donations, and some excellent specimens were presented
by Gen. J. W. Barlow. <A collection of rare Mexican eggs and is
egos of the hoactzin, also very rare, were purchased.

na oe Hugh M. Smith, Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries,
presented a collection of 158 reptiles which he collected in Japan.
This material has been of much service to Doctor Stejneger, who is
engaged in preparing a work on the reptile fauna of Japan. Mr. E. J.
Brown, of Lemon City, Florida, presented 17 rare reptiles from south-
ern Florida, among which were specimens of a new species of spread-
ing adder, described by Doctor Stejneger under the name of //eterodon
browni.

Fishes.—The Stanford University presented 10 lots of fishes from
Japan, comprising types and cotypes of species collected and described
by Dr. David S. Jordan and Mr. Snyder. One lot of excellently-pre-
pared fishes from Puget Sound was presented by Dr. J. C. Thompson,

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 83

U.S. Navy. In order to replenish the collection with fresh material
and to obtain duplicate specimens for distribution, Messrs. Bean and
McKnew, as already mentioned, visited Beaufort, North Carolina.
They obtained a large series of specimens. A specimen of the rare
Japanese shark, MWitsukurina owstoni, 11 feet long, was purchased.
Mollusks.—Rey. Li. T. Chamberlain presented a small collection of
rare river mussels, or Undéonidex, for addition to extensive earlier con-
tributions. About 2,500 specimens of several species of western
American shells were presented by Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, honorary
associate in zoology. Mr. E. J. Court, of Washington City, con-
tributed a series of about 2,000 land shells from Maryland, Virginia,
and the District of Columbia. From Mr. H. W. Henshaw, of Hilo,

_ Hawaii, was received a very acceptable lot of about 600 Hawaiian land

shells, together with a number of other invertebrates. Mr. Dwight
Blaney presented some 300 shells dredged near Mount Desert, Maine,
and Mr. C. A. Davis a series of specimens, representing about 72
species, from Bermuda, including cotypes of several forms described
by the donor. The Museum received as a gift from Mr. H. N. Lowe
and Mrs. Blanche Trask, of California, some small lots of very accept-
able Californian shells, which were needed to fill gaps in the series.

Several purchases of mollusks were made during the year in addi-
tion to the lot from the mountains of Venezuela referred to. Among
these should be mentioned a series of about’ 2,500 Japanese land and
marine mollusks, representing 487 species; a large series of unusually
rare or beautiful land shells, comprising 252 species; a fine Voluta
pulchra, and a large collection of land shells from the coast and islands
of California. The latter was obtained from Mr. Henry Hemphill,
and is commented on by Doctor Dall as follows:

The series sent by Mr. Hemphill is nearly 50 per cent larger than was called for
by the agreement, and may to that extent be regarded as almost a donation. The
material comprises a thoroughly representative series showing the various mutations,
varieties, and species in which the coast is so rich, including the pleistocene forms
when they occur, and illustrating in a remarkable manner the flexibility of what have
been regarded as species. There were in all 649 lots of specimens, representing as
many distinct varieties or mutations.

Lower invertebrates.—A collection of sea-urchins, chiefly from the
Gulf of Siam and the Ingolf dredgings, was obtained by exchange
from the Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark. Dr. K. Kishi-
nouye presented 11 specimens of four species of Japanese precious
coral, showing the different varieties. Three of the specimens were
cotypes of forms described by Doctor Kishinouye. The National
Museum of Brazil presented cotypes of the shrimp Wephrops rubellus,
and of the stomatopod crustacean Pseudosquilla braziliensis. My.
H. N. Lowe, of Long Beach, California, presented a collection of
crustaceans from Catalina and San Clemente islands, among which
84 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

were found two new species and several rare ones. In a small collec-
tion of Mexican fresh-water crabs received from the U. 5. Biological
Survey, one new species was discovered. Specimens of an undescribed
species of isopod crustacean, and of Branchipus, were presented by
Mr. George E. Morris, of Waltham, Massachusetts. Through exchange
with the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
five specimens (four species) of crabs from the Hawaiian Islands, all
new to the Museum collection and two new to science, were obtained.
By purchase from Emile Deschamps, San José, California, the Museum
procured miscellaneous invertebrates from Shanghai, a locality scarcely
at all represented in our collections.

Insects.—The accessions of insects numbered 377, comprising 58,953
specimens, as compared with 250 accessions, comprising 37,684 speci-
mens, last vear, a gratifying increase both in number and in quality of
material.

Mr. E. A. Schwarz added to the donations of previous years a col-

7 9

lection of 6,300 Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, ete., from Texas. Prof.
T. D. A. Cockerell presented a large collection of insects from Colo-
"ado and 325 specimens from New Mexico. Mr. C. F. Baker, of
Claremont, California, presented a large collection of Diptera. The
members of the Washington Biologists’ Field Club who are interested
in entomology collected and presented to the Museum about 3,400
miscellaneous insects from the grounds of the club at Plummers
Island, Maryland. A valuable collection of Lepidoptera from British
Columbia was presented by Mr. EK. M. Anderson, of the Provincial
Museum, Victoria. Two large collections of British Columbia insects,
comprising in all about 40,000 specimens, were collected by Messrs.
Dyar, Currie, and Caudell.

A miscellaneous collection of Peruvian insects was presented by
Mrs. M. J. Pusey, of Callao, Peru, and Mr. Edward A. Klages
donated a collection of Venezuelan beetles. Two excellent series of
Japanese Hymenoptera were the gift of Prof. 5. Matsamura, of Sap-
poro. Two collections from India deserve notice here—a series of
Hymenoptera presented by Maj. C. G. Nurse, and a series of spiders
presented by Prof. N. Jambunathan. Sir George Hampson, of the
British Museum, presented a collection of Norwegian Lepidoptera.

Four lots of Philippine insects were donated by the Rev. W. A.
Stanton, of Manila. Another Philippine collection of importance was
received as a gift from Mr. R. C. McGregor, of the Philippine
Museum, Manila.

The Washington Agricultural College presented, through Prof. C.
V. Piper, a large collection of Diptera, containing types of Tipulidee
described by Mr. Doane. <A collection of Diptera containing types
of Poride was presented by Mr. C. T. Brues, of Paris, Texas. Twelve
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 85

cotypes of species of spiders were the gift of Mr. Theodore Scheffer,
of Manhattan, Kansas.

Among the purchases of the year were three important lots of South
American insects, including one from Paraguay and one from Vene-
zuela; also a miscellaneous collection from Australia.

The U. S. Department of Agriculture transmitted two lots of mis-
cellaneous insects comprising 6,054 specimens, of which 4,500 were
collected by Mr. E. A. Schwarz in Cuba.

Plants.—The accessions to the National Herbarium during the year

numbered 555, which is considerably above the average for the last
thirteen years, though somewhat exceeded last year. The specimens
numbered 43,800, or about 9,000 more than last year. The deposit of
Professor Greene’s herbarium and the large accession from Mrs. T. A.
Williams have already been mentioned (pp. 79, 80). Following these
should probably be placed the accessions from the Philippine insular
bureau of agriculture, Manila, which aggregate 3,360 specimens.
.These were received in exchange. Other important exchanges with
the New York Botanical Garden, resulting in the acquisition of 1,317
specimens, were effected during the year. These were from Jamaica
and other islands of the West Indies, and from Colorado. By exchange
with the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, London, 278 plants from
Europe, India, and other Old World regions were obtained. Mr. C. V.
Piper, of Pullman, Washington, presented 658 plants from that State.
An interesting collection from Mexico, comprising 139 specimens,
was presented by Mr. E. W. D. Holway, of Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Mr. William Palmer, of the Museum staff, collected 328 plants in
Newfoundland while engaged in making molds of a whale at the
Balena whaling station.

About 10,000 plants were purchased from outside the United States.
The series acquired in this manner were 773 specimens from Australia,
1,606 specimens from Mexico, 471 from Nicaragua, and 109 from Costa
Rica. Important purchases of plants of the United States were as
follows: Utah, Wyoming, and Nevada, 1,402; California, 1,269; Vir-
ginia, 325; Texas and Arkansas, 280; Florida, 212; Oregon, 204.

The national herbarium received from the Department of Agricul-
ture 68 accessions, comprising 1,870 specimens, among which the most
important were the collections made in Texas by Mr. Arthur Howet!
(74 specimens), by Mr. Fred G. Plummer in New Mexico and Okla-
homa (97 specimens), and by Mr. Vernon Bailey, also in New Mexico
(165 specimens).

The plants transmitted by the Bureau of Fisheries have been men-
tioned (see p. 80). They comprise 461 specimens collected in Alaska
and Oregon by Messrs. Gilbert, Evermann, Chamberlain, and others.
86 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904. |
WORK ON THE STUDY SERIES.

In the division of mammals the two principal operations which
tend toward the preservation and improvement of the great series of
specimens reserved for the use of systematic zoologists are the clean-
ing of skulls and the renovation of skins which have deteriorated on
account of the presence of oily matter or from other causes. During
the year 1903-4, 6,760 skulls were cleaned, or about 2,700 more than
in the preceding year. Somewhat more than two-thirds of these skulls
belong to the collection of the Biological Survey, U.S. Department of
Agriculture. At the end of the year, 3,000 small and 1,200 large
skulls were on hand, for which no contract for cleaning had been
made. The importance of this work is due to the fact that at the
present time genera and species of mammals are founded largely on
cranial characters and measurements, which can only be determined
satisfactorily after the skulls have het entirely stripped of the soft
parts surrounding or attached to them.

During the year, 289 skins of the smaller species were made over
and put in order, and 73 large skins, such as those of deer, antelopes,
bears, etc., these being cleaned and tanned.

The condition of the collection as a whole is excellent, but as no
new cases for small species were provided no improvement could be
made in the systematic arrangement of the material. The large skins
are now arranged systematically, but are much overcrowded. Dur-
ing the year the space behind the large exhibition case in the east side
of the west hall, about 90 feet in length, was fitted with 274 trays,
and the large skulls which are kept there were arranged in systematic
order, so that the material is now available. The labeling and arrange-
ment of the alcoholic series was completed during the year, and that
part of the collection is in excellent condition.

In the division of birds, on account of lack of assistance and over-
crowded quarters, no special progress could be made in improving
the general condition of the study series, but many type-specimens
were newly labeled, obscure species identified, ete. Some 650 birds
sent to the Museum for naming during the year by various institu-
tions and individuals were properly identified, a task which consumed
much time. A large amount of material, comprising about 8,500
specimens, was borrowed for use by Mr. R. Ridgway in connection
with his manual of North and Middle American birds.

The collection of birds’ eggs is reported to be in better condition
than ever before. The arrangement of the nests and eggs was much
improved during the year.

The study collection of reptiles and batrachians is in a satisfactory
condition and the systematic arrangement progressed favorably dur-
ing the year, though on account of insuflicient space many difficulties
“REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 87

are encountered. The entering of the specimens returned to the
Museum from the estate of E. D. Cope was completed.

In the division of fishes, the regular routine occupied most of the
time. The equipment was improved by the addition of some new
tanks, and a number of type-specimens were rebottled and placed with
the special series of types.

In the division of mollusks, the arrangement of several families
was revised, and a separate series was established for the fauna of
the District of Columbia. The collection as a whole is reported as
thoroughly accessible and in a good state of preservation.

The honorary curator of the division of insects, Dr. L. O. How-
ard, reports as follows regarding the insect collections:

The insect collections were never before so admirably arranged or so well pre-
served as they are to-day. This is due principally to the liberality shown the Divi-
sion in furnishing so many of the standard insect drawers, and the specialists are
now arranging the several orders as rapidly as possible in these drawers.

Doctor Dyar continues his excellent work in naming, arranging, and increasing the
Lepidoptera, and deserves special mention for the great work he is doing for this
order. It is mainly due to him that the national collection of these insects is now so
large and in such splendid systematic order.

Mr. E. A. Schwarz, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, is another who has
contributed more than anyone else to increasing the insect collections in all orders.
The Coleoptera, now under his charge, are probably not surpassed in any other
museum in this country.

Mr. D. W. Coquillett, of the Department of Agriculture, contiiues his work on the
Diptera and has made many additions to the collection of the past year. The Culi-
cidee, or the mosquitoes, in the collection are worthy of special mention, as they have
been enormously increased the past year in all stages of their development—from
egg to wings—and the collection of these insects in the National Museum is probably
unequaled in any other museum, except the British Museum.

Mr. Rolla P. Currie, during the present year, has been fully occupied in superin-
tending and perfecting the collection of insects sent to the St. Louis Exposition, and _
should receive credit for the excellence of that exhibit. Such time, however, as he
could spare from this and other work he has devoted to the Neuropteroid insects—
Odonata, Neuroptera, and Trichoptera—and the collections of these insects will
before a great while be in excellent order and arranged in the standard insect
drawers.

Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the Department of Agriculture, has done some excellent
work in arranging the Orthoptera, removed last year to Doctor Dyar’s room, and now
virtually under his charge.

Doctor Ashmead continues his work on the Hymenoptera, and in the coming year
hopes to have the whole order arranged in the standard insect drawers. He has
published his generic revision of the order, except the ants, or the superfamily
Formicoidea. The generic revision of the ants will probably be completed this
autumn. He hasalso worked up all the Japanese and Philippine Hymenoptera now
in the National Museum, and papers on these subjects will appear in the Proceedings
of the Museum.

The great order Rhynchota still remains without a specialist to take care of it,
and almost nothing has been done toward arranging and determining the rich collec-
tion of these insects now in the Museum.
88 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904. _

In the division of marine invertebrates, a special cataloguer was
employed for two and one-half months in bringing up the records of
various series, especially the Hawaiian crabs and shrimps, the amphi-
pods of the New England coast, identified by Dr. S. J. Holmes, and
the isopods obtained during the investigation of the salmon fisheries
of Alaska by the Bureau of Fisheries in 1903. Fifty-one sets of
duplicates, each containing about 200 specimens, were distributed,
together with several special sets of few specimens each.

As the Helminthological collections are without separate permanent
quarters, no special action was taken in connection with them beyond
the care required to keep them in good condition. They constitute,
according to the custodian, Dr. C. W. Stiles, the finest collection for
study purposes in the country.

The work done in the national herbarium is reported on as follows
by Mr. F. V. Coville, honorary curator:

During the year we have added 64 standard insect-proof cases, making 312 now in
use. In addition, we have added 5 half-units, making 12 now in use. Beside these,
we have had constructed 17 three-fourths-unit cases, for storage purposes only.
This gives us a total of 7,938 pigeonholes. No insects have been observed in these
cases during the last six months, although they have been very bad in other parts
of the herbarium. The entire herbarium is now stored in insect-proof cases, except
the following groups: Lower cryptogams (exclusive of algze), the ferns and fern allies
and the conifer.

Practically all the specimens which have been mounted during the year have been
stamped and recorded. The number of specimens stamped and incorporated in
the permanent herbarium since its transfer to the National Herbarium on July 1,
1894, is 241,000. Of these, 21,000 have been added the past year.

Owing to our small force, only a little work has been done toward stamping and
recording the old part of the herbarium. Our record shows only 429 of these speci-
mens stamped, all of which were loaned for study.

The specimens are recorded in large books, each one of which contains space for
5,000 names. Thirty-five of these have been closed and 13 are still open. Seven
new books were opened during the year.

The following table shows the number of plants mounted during the last few
years, exclusive of the lower cryptogams:

1808-996. . 22-2) was Ls Se eee 1b eee 22,556
1809-19000 20 es ee 2 ee ee 22,272
1900-1901. 1 ees se el ae ely en ee ee ae 18,117
T901=02. 5 once sc hee Ree SE i a ee 18, 000
1902-091 22.2 as see Se oe top A a SR re 21, 076
1908-04. ooo oo so ene ees aS AE pe a 29, 700

The number of specimens mounted, as is here shown, is 29,700. This is the
largest number mounted during the last six years. This large number is due to the
fact that some $400 was transferred to our account, which was used in mounting
specimens. Of these plants, 21,900 were mounted by contract at a costfof $876, while
3,300 were mounted by the Department of Agriculture.

The rearrangement of the herbarium according to the Engler and Prantl sequence,
to which reference was made in the last two annual reports, has been continued. |
The work has continued from near the end of family No. 105, the Cruciferze, to the
beginning of family No. 246, Gentianaceze.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 89
COOPERATION OF SPECIALISTS AND LOAN OF COLLECTIONS.

The Museum continued, as in previous years, the custom of lending
specimens to specialists engaged in scientific investigations. The
activity in this direction among mammalogists was about the same as
last year. Seventeen lots, comprising 316 specimens, were sent out to
eight persons. Among the specimens were five types. The principal
loan consisted of 244 bats, which were sent to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of
Philadelphia, who is engaged in the study of the American species of
this order. Among the remaining classes of vertebrates the transac-
tions of this kind were less numerous, amounting in all to nine or ten
lots, comprising somewhat more than 50 specimens.

The loans of insects and lower invertebrates were far more numer-
ous, amounting to more than 5,500 specimens in the case of the former.
Among them the most extensive were 1,914 Coleoptera, sent to Dr.
F. E. Blaisdell, of San Francisco, California; 1,709 Orthoptera to Mr.
J. A. G. Rehn, of Philadelphia; 493 Rhynchota to Prof. P. R. Uhler,
of Baltimore; and 440 Diptera, of the family Tabanide, to Prof.
James S. Hine, of the Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.

The collections of marine invertebrates made during the investiga-
tion of the salmon fishery of Alaska by the Bureau of Fisheries in 1903,
were sent to the following specialists for identification and report:
Siphonostoma to Prof. Charles B. Wilson; Pyenogonida to Dr. Leon
J. Cole; Schizopoda to Dr. A. E. Ortmann; Amphipoda to Dr. 8. J.
Holmes; Cirripedia to Prof. H. A. Pilsbry. Doctor Ortmann also
received the Schizopoda collected by the Bureau of Fisheries steamer
Albatross in 1891, for use in connection with the report on the collection
of 1902. A number of starfishes from Bering Seaand the Arctic Ocean
were sent to Prof. A. E. Verrill for use in connection with his report on
the starfishes of the Harriman Alaska Expedition. Several lots of
actinians were sent to Dr. J. E. Duerden, who is preparing a report
for the Bureau of Fisheries on the forms found in the Hawaiian
Islands, and also on species held in the claws of certain crabs. Fifty
bottles of surface towings from the Woods Hole region were sent to
Dr. K. W. Genthe, from which to sort out copepod crustaceans for a
report on that group.

The general collection of Cumacea was forwarded to Dr. W.. T.
Calman of the British Museum for study.

Loans of plants from the National Herbarium were about as numer-
ous as last year, comprising 43 lots, containing 2,873 sheets, as com-
pared with 35 lots, containing 2,704 sheets, sent out in 1902-03. The
principal loans were as follows:

To Dr. Janet Perkins, at the Berlin Botanical Garden, 1,150 Philip-
pine plants; to Dr. B. L. Robinson, Gray Herbarium, Harvard Uni-
versity, 423 sheets of Mexican plants and specimens of Xyris and
90 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904. -

Polygonum; to Dr. Theo. Holm, Brookland, District of Columbia, 277
sheets of Carex, Betula, Lychnis, etc.; to Mr. George R. Shaw,
Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts, 212 specimens of
pines; to Mr. Oakes Ames, 219 specimens of orehids.

>

DISTRIBUTION OF SURPLUS MATERIAL.

As already stated, 51 sets of duplicate specimens of marine inver-
tebrates were distributed during the year. These sets contain about
200 specimens each, representing from 92 to 99 species, and as many
different groups as the nature of the material available permits. Of
the 10,000 or more specimens, somewhat less than one-half went to
high schools, and the remainder to various other public schools,
and to universities, colleges, academies, seminaries, institutes, and
museums. Eighteen States are represented in this distribution.

LABORATORY USE OF THE COLLECTIONS BY INVESTIGATORS.

The bird collections have been very frequently consulted during the
year by ornithologists from different parts of the country. The col-
lections from the Western States were examined by Mrs. Vernon
Bailey, of Washington City, who is revising her handbook of western
birds. ‘The bluebirds and crested flycatchers were studied by Mr.
E. W. Nelson, of the Biological Survey, in connection with a list of
Mexican birds which he is preparing. Mr. H. C. Oberholser, of the
same Bureau, made almost daily use of the collection in connection
with his official work, and also for identifying birds sent in by various
correspondents, and in preparing a report for the Museum on Doctor
Abbott’s collection from Mount Kilima-njaro, East Africa. Prof.
W. W. Cooke, another ornithologist of the Survey, examined the
North American series in connection with his study of migrations.
The entire study series was examined by Dr. R. M. Strong, of the
University of Chicago, on points connected with his researches on
the structure and color of feathers. The Nomenclature Committee of
the American Ornithologists’ Union considered the validity of various
species and subspecies of North American birds as represented in the
collection. Dr. Jonathan Dwight, jr., examined the collection of
North American gulls.

In the division of reptiles, Mr. W. P. Hay was given facilities for
studying specimens of the diamond-back terrapins, on which he is pre-
paring a report for the Bureau of Fisheries. Mr. Vernon Bailey spent
several weeks in studying the reptiles of Texas.

The collection of fishes was frequently consulted by the ichthyolo-
gists of the Bureau of Fisheries, especially Messrs. Evermann, Kendall,
Goldsborough, and Pope.

Mr. Ralph Arnold made a study of the Western American Pectinide,
in connection with a monograph of the group which he has in contem-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. on

plation. Col. Thomas L. Caesy, U. 5. Army, made an investigation
of the fossil and recent Pleurotonidee for aclassification of that family.
Regarding the insect collections, Doctor Howard reports as follows:

Prof. J. B. Smith, of New Brunswick, New Jersey, W. D. Kearfott, of New York,
Dr. W. J. Holland, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, Wm. Schaus, London, England, and
others, have consulted the collection of Lepidoptera; John H. Emerton, of Boston,
and Prof. R. VY. Chamberlain, of Cornell University, made use of the collection of
Arachnid; ©. Schaeffer, of Brooklyn, Dr. Henry Skinner, of Philadelphia, and
others, have made studies on our Coleoptera; several physicians have examined our
collection of mosquito larvee. The Carnegie Institute has also had the use of our
Polistx for the purpose of illustrating a paper on the American species.

Regarding investigation carried on in the national herbarium, Mr.
Coville reports as follows:

Dr. E. L. Greene, of the Catholic University of America, has spent much time
here engaged on various lines of systematic work. Dr. N. L. Britton, director of the
New York Botanical Garden, has been a frequent visitor, being engaged with Mr.
Rose in preparing a monograph of the North American genera of Crassulacexe, which
will soon be published. Mr. Theo. Holm, of Brookland, District of Columbia, has
frequently been here to examine our Carices. He has frequently borrowed material
to take to his home, and we have had specimens sent on here for him to study. We
have endeavored to give him every facility to carry on his work and to grant all
requests consistent*with the Museum rules and regulations. Prof. KE. L. Morris, of the
Washington High School, has been studying the genus Plantago, doing much of his
work at the herbarium. We have borrowed several collections for him from other
institutions. .

The following persons from the Department of Agriculture, in addition to those
officially connected with the Division, have frequently consulted the herbarium:
Mr. L. H. Dewey, Mr. V. K. Chestnut, Mr. W. F. Wight, Mr. C. L. Sheer, Mr. C. R.
Ball, Mr. P. L. Ricker, Mr. C. F. Wheeler, Mr. C. V. Piper, Mr. Scofield.

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHES AND INVESTIGATIONS.

While the preparations for the St. Louis Exposition occupied a
portion of the time of nearly every member of the scientific staff, on
the other hand the separate management of the exhibition work by a
chief designated for that purpose more than compensated for the diver-
sion. The scientific work accomplished during the year, therefore,
showed no important diminution as compared with that of previous
years. A complete list of papers published will be found under the
heading ‘* Bibliography ”.

Work on the manual of the Birds of North and Middle America was
continued by Mr. Ridgway without interruption during the year.
Part 1 of this work was published in 1901 and part 2 in 1902. Part 3
was printed to page 472 and the manuscript for the remainder com-
pleted and sent to press. Of part 4, more than 700 pages of manuscript
were made ready for the printer, and the work beyond that point is well
inhand. Mr. Ridgway was assisted after January 1, 1904, by Mr..J. H.
Riley, who prepared the necessary tables of measurements, etc.
92 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Mr. Ridgway also published during the year two papers containing
descriptions of 4 new genera and 29 new species and subspecies of
American birds.

Lists of the birds collected by Doctor Abbott and Mr. C. B. Kloss
on Anambas and Tambelans islands, China Sea, and at Tringanu, Malay
Peninsula, were prepared by Doctor Richmond and sent to Mr. Kloss
at his request. Doctor Richmond also completed the majority of
identifications of the birds collected by Doctor Abbott on the islands
off the west coast of Sumatra and published five notes on matters of
zoological nomenclature.

Mr. J. H. Riley published three notes on birds of the Bahama
Islands, meluding a description of a new nighthawk.

Dr. F. W. True submitted the manuscript of his memoir of the
W halebone Whales of the Western North Atlantic for publication,
and at the close of the year the entire work, consisting of about 300
pages, with 50 plates, had passed through the press. During the year
he published four papers on cetaceans and a number of articles for the
Encyclopedia Americana.

The study of Doctor Abbott’s collections of mammals from. the
Malay Archipelago was continued by Mr. G. 5. Miller, jr., during
the year. He published descriptions of 70 new species from these
collections, including a new genus and 6 new species of monkeys, 2
new species of mouse-deer (7ragulus), and 6 new species of flying
lemurs (Galeopithecus), etc. He published also descriptions of 4
additional species of Old World mammals, a note on the bat Auderma
maculatum, and a paper on bats collected by Mr. William Palmer in
Cuba. In addition, Mr. Miller continued work on a reclassification of
the Cheiroptera. Dr. M.W. Lyon completed his study of the osteology
of the hares and their allies, mentioned in last year’s report, and pub-
lished an elaborate revision of the genera and subgenera, based on
osteological characters.

Doctor Stejneger’s Herpetology of Porto Rico was published during
the year in the Museum report for 1902. It is a comprehensive ane
of 175 pages, with numerous illustrations. Doctor Stejneger con-
tinued his investigation of the reptile fauna of eastern Asia, and also
worked up the collections obtained by Dr. Hugh M. Smith in Japan
and by Mr. J. H. Riley in the Bahama Islands. The latter contained
anew species of iguana, which was named Cyclura rileyt by Doctor
Stejneger. He also published a description of a new snake from
Florida and a new lizard from Texas, together with a report on the
Fifth Zoological Congress, to which he was delegate.

A report on the fishes collected in the Bahama Islands by Mr. B. A.
Bean for the Baltimore Geographical Society was prepared by him for
the society. It included a list of 165 species, with notes on their
habits, abundance, and uses. Mr. Bean also identified the collection
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ‘ 93

of fishes of the Nile made by the Senff Expedition of 1899, and published
notes on collections from North Carolina and the Barbados.

Dr. William H. Dall completed reviews of the nomenclature of the
Pupacea and of the history and classification of the Tritons and Frog-
shells, and alsoa summary of the recent and fossil land-shell fauna
of the Bahamas. He also began a general review of the land and fresh-
water shells of Alaska and adjoining regions in Asia and North
America. His publications on recent mollusks for the year consisted
of descriptions of 13 new species from California, a new genus of
Trochide from Hawaii, three notes on nomenclature, a note on the
family Septide, and one on the relations of Gundlachia and Ancylus.
He also published conjointly with Mr. Paul Bartsch the chapter on
the Pyramidellide in Mr. Ralph Arnold’s Paleontology of San Pedro,
California, a synopsis of the genera of the same family, a revision of
Ampullaria, and a description of a new California species of er/-
ploma.

Mr. Bartsch continued work on the Pyramidellide, as noted in last
year’s report, and published descriptions of new species of Se/ssurella
and Sonorella, a note on Limax, and also an account of the herons
living in the District of Columbia.

The bibliography of the staff of the Division of Insects (including
the honorary officers) for the year comprises 114 titles. It is obvi-
ously impossible to mention so large a number in detail in this place,
but a full list will be found under “Bibliography”. Dr. L. O.
Howard published 16 papers, including one in the Yearbook of the
Department of Agriculture for 1903 on silk culture. Doctor Ash-
mead’s papers number 20, the most extensive being a classification of
the Chalcid flies, based partly on the collection of the National Museum
and published by the Carnegie Museum of Pittsburg. It consists of
326 pages and 9 plates. Dr. H. G. Dyar’s entomological publications
for the year number 31, among them being a paper of 160 pages on
the Lepidoptera of the Kootenai District of British Columbia. Mr.
D. W. Coquillett published 15 papers, including descriptions of new
genera and species in Mrs. C. F. Baker’s reports on the Diptera of
California. Mr. Nathan Banks’s publications on spiders were of equal
number; among them one on Pliasmide of 23 pages, the spiders of
Florida, containing a list of 279 species, of which 13 were new (28 pp.)-

Mr. Caudell published 14 papers, among them one on the Walking-
sticks (Phasmide) of the United States (23 pp.), containing descrip-
tions of a new subfamily, three new genera, and four new species.
Mr. R. P. Currie published an account of an insect-collecting trip in
British Columbia (14 pp.) and two other papers.

Dr. J. E. Benedict’s revision of the crustaceans of the genus
Lepidopa, mentioned in last year’s report, was published in the Pro-
ceedings of the Museum, and he bas continued his studies of the
94 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

anomurans and published a paper on new albuneids. Miss M. J.
Rathbun’s monograph of the fresh-water crabs (Potamonide) was
completed and is in course of publication in the Archives of the
Paris Museum of Natural History. She also continued work on
the Hawaiian crabs. Her report on the decapod crustaceans of the
northwest coast of North America (190 pp.) was published in the
Harriman Alaska Expedition series. A report on isopod crustaceans
of this region by Dr. Harriet Richardson was included in the same
volume. Doctor Richardson published two other papers on isopods
during the year.

Dr. C. W. Stiles, custodian of the helminthological collection,
completed his investigation of the hookworm disease in the Southern
States, and undertook an investigation of the ‘‘spotted fever.” He
published two papers relating to parasites, and, in cooperation with
Dr. Albert Hassall, the fourth, fifth, and sixth parts of an index
catalogue of medical and veterinary zoology.

The titles of papers published by Dr. F. V. Coville, honorary
curator of the national herbarium, are given in the Bibliography (Ap-
pendix Ill of this Report). Dr. J. N. Rose continued the study of the
Crassulaceee, and expects soon to publish a monograph of that family
conjointly with Dr. N. L. Britton. One preliminary paper on the
family by these authors appeared during the year, in which eleven
new genera and a large number of new species were described.
Doctor Rose also published a description of a new species of Begonia.
He was invited to join Doctor Britton in a work on the cactuses of
North America, the investigations for which will occupy some four or
five years. Mr. W. R. Maxon gave some time to the study of the
ferns of the Philippine Islands.

PERSONNEL.

Dr. Edward L. Greene was appointed honorary associate in bot-
any June 1, 1904.

The Head Curator was appointed representative of the Smithsonian
Institution and National Museum for the Lewis and Clark Exposition,
Portland, Oregon, 1905.

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger acted.as Head Curator of the Department
from January to May, 1904. He was also appointed representative
of the National Museum at the Sixth Zoological Congress, Berne,
Switzerland. Mr. G. 8. Miller, jr., was also designated as a delegate
to this congress.

Mr. F. A. Lucas, curator of the division of comparative anatomy,
severed his connection with the staff of the Museum on June 30, 1904.

Dr. J. E. Benedict, assistant curator, was designated to act tempo-
rarily as chief of exhibits, on May 17, 1904,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 95

Mr. J. H. Riley, aid, was transferred on December 30, 1903, from
the section of birds’ eggs to the division of birds, to assist Mr. R.
Ridgway in completing his Manual of the Birds of North and Middle
America, and Mr. Edward Horgan was appointed temporarily in his
place.

Mr. R. P. Currie, aid, division of insects, was transferred to the
Department of Agriculture on June 30, 1904.

Mr. C. A. McKnew was appointed aid in the division of fishes on
April 16, 1904.

Mr. F. A. Walpole, artist in the national herbarium, died May 11,
1904.

Mr. Henry Marshall, bird taxidermist, died May 26, 1904.

‘Mr. C. L. Pollard, assistant curator, division of plants, was given
an extended furlough, beginning October ¥, 1903, to enable him to
engage in temporary botanical work elsewhere.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY
FOR THE YEAR 1903-04.

By Grorce P. MERRILL,
Head Curator.

The year 1903-04 compares favorably with those immediately pre-
ceding it in both the number and value of accessions. Indeed, when
that acquired for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition is taken into
consideration, the value of exhibition material received exceeds that of
either of the two previous years. As, however, much of this has not
yet been installed in the Museum collections, its full value can not be
made apparent.

ACCESSIONS.

The total number of accessions received by the Department is shown
in tabular form below, those of 1902-03 being also given for purposes
of comparison:

Divisions and sections. 1903-04. | 1902-03.
(CSO) DRE eta eat RO oe tect Sita Say SESS a oasis Sete wea cenS Sep oe Kt las, Say 371
ENTITLES Tra) ae See ioe eters tatiana = Sa a 6 eo cies a Scie Liana Sein cleieloteiase.ccmeisise estes 143 | 110
Invertebrate paleontology.:...-..---..---.--:--- RPS yee Soe ole ecto eierwla ee aie Seaton 3 106 86
Merre prea respale mito lOoeyis souk cee bcc cdactis monies co)56e en's Que -mneocie sae oeeissen oe 45 22
HAMS ONO 3 oon aS bs OOOO RE ROO BAS CODE BOO O CEE Ce eee aan ete eae 19 15

Below is a list of the more important of the materials received:
DIVISION OF GEOLOGY.

1. A series of 102 specimens of platiniferous rocks from the Demi-
doff Mines, Russia; gift of M. Juarez Sponville.

2. A magnificent mass of amethystine quartz, weighing some 400
pounds, from the extraordinary geode discovered a few years since in
Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, and described by Dr. G. F. Kunz in the
Mineral Resources for 1901.

3. Aseries comprising 78 specimens of rocks, illustrating the occur-
rence and association of the diamond at the De Beers Consolidated
Mines, Kimberley, South Africa. These came to the Museum as a
gift from Mr. Gardner F. Williams, the manager of the mines, and
the author of the work The Diamond Mines of South Africa.

7 97

NAT mus 1904
98 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

4. A series of 22 specimens of copper and its associations from
Calumet, Michigan.

5. A large slab of polished rose quartz, some 33 by 39 by 5 inches,
from the Black Hills of South Dakota.

6. A beautiful nugget of native silver; gift of Mr. A. L. Pellegrin,
Nogales, Arizona.

7. A sample of diamond-bearing gravel with small diamond attached
from Minas Geraes, Brazil; gift of Prof. O. A. Derby.

In addition, mention should be made of a fine series of opalized
wood from near Logan, Montana, and a unique series of silicified gey-
ser tubes from southwestern Wyoming (both collected for the Louisi-
ana Purchase Exposition by the Head Curator); some large slabs of
the peculiar porphyritic rock known as leopardite from near Salisbury,
North Carolina, and of orbicular diorite from near Advance, in the
same State; also of the various quadrangle series, comprising some
385 specimens, received from the U. 8. Geological Survey.

DIVISION OF MINERALOGY.

1. The largest accession of the year comprised some 600 specimens
illustrating the occurrence and association of zeolites and other sili-
sates in the trap rocks of New Jersey. The collection is remarkably
complete and valuable for both study and exhibition purposes. It
‘ame to the Museum through the instrumentality of Dr. William S$.
Disbrow, of Newark, New Jersey, to whom we have been indebted for
much interesting material in years past.

Of historical interest, the division has also received from this same
gentleman one of the first known crystals of American spodumene,
forming one of the lot exhibited by Dr. Edward Hitchcock in New
England in the early part of the last century.

2. An example of the recently discovered and described pink spodu-
mene known locally as kunzite and utilized as gem material; the gift
of Mr. F. M. Sickler.

3. A specimen of anglesite with sulphur on galena from Monte Poni.
The material is of interest in showing the processes of oxidation and
reduction in the same specimen.

4. A series of artificial stones used in the gem trade, including fine
examples of pastes, doublets, triplets, and stones artificially colored;
the gift of Mr. Oscar T. Johnasson.

). Cut turquoise from Idaho, Clay County, Alabama; the gift of
Mr. Eugene A. Smith. .

6. A set of paste models showing the various forms in which gems

are cut.

7. Several important additions have been made to the meteorite
collection, including examples of the Trenzano fall, weighing 163
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 99

grams; the Franceville, Missouri, iron, weighing 300 grams; the
Mukerop, South Africa, iron, weighing 14,288 grams; and the Finn-
marken pallasite, weighing 595 grams.

In addition is to be mentioned a large series of showy quartzes and
caleites obtained by gift, collection, and purchase for the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition. This includes some magnificent smoky quartzes
from Montana, the gift of Mr. A. P. Pohndorf and Mr. J. R. Whar-
ton, beautiful agates, opals, and other materials which can not be
described in detail until they are returned from the Exposition.

INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.

The permanent accessions in this division amount to something like
68,000 specimens, though, naturally, this includes much duplicate
material.

1. The largest single accession includes some 40,000 reserve speci-
mens transferred from the U.S. Geological Survey. These are for
the most part determined, labeled, and arranged in zoological and
stratigraphical order, and comprise the material which Dr. William
H. Dall and his assistants have spent years in gathering and working
up to its present high scientific value.

2. The Survey has also turned over to this Museum another very
valuable, though in large part unworked, collection. This comprises
a series of some 1,932 Tertiary insects, brought together by Dr. Sam-
uel H. Scudder, besides many hundred original drawings, a great part
of which are unpublished. Mr. Charles Schuchert reports that this
transfer makes the Museum collection of fossil insects the largest in
America, if not in the world.

3. Second only to the accessions mentioned above is the final por-
tion of the EK. O. Ulrich collection. This embraces the mollusca and
miscellaneous materials of this most valuable collection, and comprises
no less than 15,000 reserve specimens and 500 lots of original types or
illustrated specimens.

4. From the Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, Russia,
through Dr. Frederich von Schmidt, was received as a gift an excel-
lent suite of Lower Silurian Estland fossils. The material was selected
by Mr. Schuchert while in Russia for the purpose of making correla-
tions between the Russian and American faunas.

5. From the Zoological Museum of the University of Copenhagen,
Denmark, through Prof. G. M. R. Levinson, there was received in
the way of exchange a fine series comprising more than 100 specimens
of identified European Mesozoic and Tertiary bryozoa.

6. From the Yale University Museum, through Dr. C. E. Beecher,
was received as a gift a collection of 18 species, comprising 580 speci-
mens, of Hamilton brachiopods, representing the various stages of
100 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

growth. This is a collection of more than ordinary value, because
of the great care exercised by Doctor Beecher in the selection and
mounting of the material.

7. From Mr. B. E. Walker, Toronto, Canada, as a gift, there was
received a number of excellent cystids from the Silurian of Grimsby,
Ontario.

8. For exhibition at St. Louis there were obtained, largely by pur-
chase, an excellent series of Lower Devonian starfishes and crinoids, a
large slab with many fine examples of Pentacrinus fossilis, a similar
slab of Zrigonia clavata, several large ammonites, and an excellent
series of Solenhofen invertebrate fossils.

VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.

1. The most important accession of the year was a specimen of the
pterodactyl, Rhamphorhynchus phyllurus, showing the impression of
the wing and tail membranes. This, as well as fine specimens of
ichthyosaur and teleosaur (Stenosaurus) and a number of fishes typical
of the fauna of the lithographic limestone, was purchased for the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

2. A cranium of ison alleni, presented by Mr. D. McLean, of
Rampart city, Alaska, is important from the fact that it is the first
specimen of this species obtained in Alaska, and because the horn
material itself was preserved.

PALEOBOTANY.

The only accessions of great importance in this department were:

1. One hundred aud ninety specimens from Mazon Creek, Illinois;
Athens, Ohio; and other localities, which form a part of the Carl
Rominger collection purchased a year ago. This collection is especially
valuable as containing a fair representation of silicified trunks, par-
ticularly of the genera Dadowxylon and Psaronius. These were accom-
panied by a series of well-prepared microscopic sections.

2. One hundred and thirty-two specimens from the higher beds of
the anthracite series, collected and presented to the Museum by Mr.
C. W. Unger, of. Pottsville, Pennsylvania.

ROUTINE.

In the division of geology some 1,250 labels for the exhibition
series have been printed and distributed; at least a thousand duplicates
have been sorted out from the material that has been gradually accu-
mulating for years past, labeled, wrapped, and sent to storage to
be utilized for exchanges and future distribution; 8,632 catalogue,
bibliographic, and title cards have been prepared; 1,041 slips written
for the type catalogue; 1,530 catalogue entries made; copy for 612
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 101

labels prepared for the printer; 193 temporary labels prepared for the
exhibition series; 2,140 slips for the reserve collections; 895 pages of
manuscript of scientific material prepared; and 3,658 specimens have
been permanently numbered in oil colors.

The entire lithological study series has been overhauled and a com-
plete card catalogue made of the same.

The geological section across North America, referred to in my
previous reports, has been completed and placed on exhibition against
the south wall of the west-south range. This, it will be remembered,
comprises a section on a scale of 2 miles to the inch, extending from
the coast of North Carolina to that of California near San Francisco.

Upward of 300 thin sections of rocks have been prepared.

In the division of minerals the entire descriptive exhibition series
has been overhauled and labeled. The work ona card catalogue of
the mineralogical collection is progressing favorably, some 4,300 cards
having been thus far prepared.

In the division of stratigraphic paleontology Mr. Schuchert reports
that Mr. R. 5. Bassler has spent a large portion of ‘the fiscal year in
the work of unpacking, labeling, and sorting specimens, and remount-
ing the thin sections of bryozoa in the E. O. Ulrich collection. To
this collection have now been added nearly all the other Museum
bryozoa, the greater part of which are in an unworked condition.

During the year there have been put away in final Museum condi-
tion probably not less than a hundred thousand specimens. The exact
number can not be given, since the Paleozoic collections have been
growing at a remarkable rate. This growth is due largely to the pur-
chase during the past three years of the Ulrich, Rominger, and Sher-
wood collections, besides much other material, not including such as
comes to the Museum regularly from the U.S. Geological Survey
and through the efforts of the departmental staff. The registering of
these specimens, as well as the work of painting the numbers and
making the cards, is now far behind, owing to the lack of sufficient
assistance.

The work of preparing for distribution 500 school collections of
invertebrate fossils, each comprising 30 to 60 specimens, is well in
hand and will be completed during the first month of the coming
year. The 500 collections will contain altogether not less than 60,000
specimens.

In the division of vertebrate paleontology a skull of a Diplodocus
from the Marsh collections has been cleaned and mounted, and one of
a Trachodon from Butler County, Montana, restored and remounted
for exhibition purposes.

Two skulls of Ceratopsia, one the type of Triceratops calicornis and
the other a fine specimen of a new genus of these great Dinosaurs,
have been prepared for exhibition.
102 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

In the division of paleobotany the work of preparing the card cata-
logue of the Lacoe collection of fossil plants is progressing slowly.

The regular work of the Museum has been greatly interrupted dur-
ing this period by preparation for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.
The Curator of the Department was absent from Washington in con-
nection with this work some ninety-one days of the year. During this
time he made—

(1) A trip to the Pacific coast and back, going via Ishpeming, Michi-
gan, and the Northern Pacific to Portland, Oregon, and returning by
way of San Francisco; Ogden, and Salt Lake, Utah; Pocatello, Idaho;
through Wyoming to Laramie, Denver, and the Black Hills of Dakota.
(2) A trip into western Mexico in the vicinity of Bacubirito, State of
Sinaloa, and (8) finally, a trip into the apatite, mica, and asbestos
regions of Canada.

The purpose of the Mexican trip was to secure for the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition a cast of the celebrated Bacubirito meteorite, the
second largest known mass of meteoric iron in the world.

Mr. Wirt Tassin, of the division of mineralogy, made a trip into an
interesting zeolite locality near Newark, New Jersey, and obtained
much valuable material.

Mr. William C. Phalen made two trips into Virginia for the purpose
of making collections and studying the unakite near Milams Gap,
Virginia.

Mr. Schuchert was granted four months’ leave of absence in Europe,
where considerable time was devoted to collecting Ordovician, Silurian,
‘Devonian, and Carboniferous fossils.

Messrs. W. H. Newhall, Charles Schuchert, Wirt Tassin, and the
Head Curator were in St. Louis for periods varying from one to three
weeks, engaged in the work of installing the exhibits of the Depart-
ment. Dr. A. C. Peale was also on leave for a period of more than
two months.

ASSISTANCE TO INDIVIDUALS AND INSTITUTIONS.

There have been sent out by the Department during the period coy-
ered by this report, in the way of gifts and exchanges, some 64 lots,
comprising 7,138 specimens.

In addition, material for study has been loaned to the individuals
and institutions mentioned below:

Mr. John M. Clarke, of the New York State Museum; Prof. W. B.
Clark, of Johns Hopkins University; Mr. S. F. Emmons, of the U.S.
Geological Survey; Dr. A. Handlirsch, of the K. K. Naturhistorische
Hofmuseum, Vienna; Prof. C. H. Hitchcock, of Dartmouth College,
Hanover, New Hampshire; Prof. Edwin G. Kirk, of Columbia Uni-
versity, New York City; Dr. George F. Kunz, New York City; the
American Museum of Natural History; Mr. P. EK. Raymond, New
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 103

Haven, Connecticut; and Mr. Frank Springer, of the Bureau of
Standards, Washington City.

Portions of the collections of the Division of Geology have been
studied by Dr. Thomas L. Watson, of Denison University, Granville,
Ohio, in connection with the preparation of a report on the building
stone of North Carolina.

Prof. H. F. Osborn has continued his work on the Titanotherium of
the Marsh collection. Dr. J. B. Hatcher spent several weeks in the
study of the Triceratops, and Mr. F. A. Lucas in the study of the
Stegosaur remains.

In addition to the members of the U. S. Geological Survey, the fol-
lowing persons have studied the collections in Paleobotany:

‘Dr. Arthur Hollick, assistant curator of botany in the New York
Botanical Gardens; the Rev. H. Herzer, of Marietta, Ohio; and Mr.
E. W. Berry, of Passaic, New Jersey.

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS.

The condition of the collections as a whole is quite satisfactory,
when everything is taken into consideration. In spite of numerous
interruptions, due to the work of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition,
the general work of cataloguing and numbering has been carried on,
and the records are being daily improved.

The exhibition series is kept constantly alive through the insertion
of new material and the weeding out of that which is old and less
desirable.

The section of vertebrate paleontology at present needs the largest
share of attention. This is in part due to the fact that the work of
preparation of vertebrate material is slow, laborious, and necessarily
expensive. The Claosaurus mount, which was reported as nearly
complete at the close of the last fiscal year, is now installed against
the south wall of the southeast court.

The exhibition series has been increased by the addition of a fine
skull of a new genus of Ceratopsia and skulls of a Diplodocus and
Trachodon, the latter from Butler County, Montana; also a mounted
skeleton of Syornis casuarinus from New Zealand.

It was hoped that we might be able to report fair progress in the
way of mounting a Triceratops, but numerous events, including the
resignation of a preparator, have conspired to prevent this.

The collection of bryozoa, which has been already referred to, is
reported by Mr. Schuchert as occupying nearly 150 standard drawers
and comprising what is probably the most important collection of its
kind extant. This is indicated by the number of types and illustrated
specimens, of which there are some 620 different lots or species.

The exhibition collections in all the divisions, with the exception of
that of vertebrate paleontology, are as full as available space will
permit.
104 © REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

The study collections are, as a rule, in a fairly satisfactory condi-
tion, although much remains to be done to bring the records up to
date.

In the division of stratigraphic paleontology much yet must be
done to complete the records relating to the Ulrich, Rominger, and
Sherwood collections. It is estimated that at the present rate of
progress at least two years will be required to complete this work.

RESEARCH.

The routine work of the Museum, taken in connection with that of
preparing for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, has greatly inter-
fered with research work on the part of the Museum force. The
Head Curator published but little. He has, however, supervised the
work of an economic survey in North Carolina, having particular ref-
erence to the building and ornamental stones of the States, and has
acted in the capacity of expert special agent in charge of Report on
Stone Quarries in connection with the census. “He has prepared
reports in both instances, but they have not yet been published.

Mr. William C. Phalen has studied and described the rocks of the
Nugsuaks Peninsula, in Greenland, and an occurrence of unakite near
Milams Gap, Virginia.

Mr. Wirt Tassin reports some eighteen analyses made looking
toward the identification of little-known material; he has also studied
and described a meteorite from Persimmon Creek in North Carolina.

Mr. R. 8. Bassler has continued his studies on the Rochester shale
bryozoa, a work which he hopes to complete during the coming year.

Mr. E. O. Ulrich, in conjunction with Mr. Bassler, has completed
two papers on Paleozoic bryozoa.

Miss Elvira Wood, of the U.S. Geological Survey, has prepared a
paper treating of all the Middle Devonian crinoids in the Museum
collections.

CHANGES IN PERSONNEL.

The Department of Geology has suffered severely through resigna-
tions, due in nearly every instance to insufficient salaries.

Mr. Alban Stewart, preparator in the section of vertebrate paleon-
tology, resigned on March 12, last. His place has been filled, tempo-
rarily, by Mr. C. W. Gilmore.

Messrs. R. 8. Bassler and William C. Phalen resigned on May 9 and
15, respectively, to accept positions with the U.S. Geological Survey.

Mr. Charles Schuchert has accepted the position of professor of
paleontology in Yale University, though his resignation has not yet
taken effect.

Mr. F. A. Lucas, of the Department of Biology, who has been in
charge of the collections of vertebrate fossils, has also severed his con-
nection with the Museum.
APPENDIX I.

THE MuSsEUM STAFF.
[June 30, 1904. ]

S. P. Lanaury, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper Ex-officio.
RicHarp Rarupun, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. 8. National Museum.
W. ve C. Ravenet, Administrative Assistant.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY:
Otis T. Mason, Acting Head Curator.
(a) Division of Ethnology: Otis T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant
Curator; J. W. Fewkes, Collaborator.
(L) Division of Physical Anthropology: A. HUrdlicka, Assistant Curator.
(c) Division of Historic Archeology: Paul Haupt, Honorary Curator; Cyrus Adler,
Honorary Assistant Curator; I. M. Casnowicz, .Aid.
(d) Division of Prehistoric Archeology: W.H. Holmes, Honorary Curator; J. D.
MeGuire, Collaborator.
(e) Division of Technology: George C. Maynard, Assistant Curator.
(f) Division of Graphic Arts: Paul Brockett, Custodian.
Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian.
(g) Division of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U. 8. Navy (Retired), Honorary Curator.
(h) Division of Historic Religions: Cyrus Adler, Honorary Curator.
(i) Division of History: A. H. Clark, Honorary Curator; Paul Beckwith, Assistant
Curator.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Frederick W. True, Head Curator.
(a) Division of Mammals: Frederick W. True, Curator; G. 8. Miller, Jr., Assistant
Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, Jr., Aid; Walter L. Hahn, Aid.
(b) Division of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assistant
Jurator; J. H. Riley, Aid.
Section of Birds’ Eggs: William L. Ralph, Honorary Curator; K. J.
Horgan, Aid.
(c) Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: -~Leonhard Stejneger, Curator; R. G.
Paine, Aid.
(d) Division of Fishes: Tarleton H. Bean, Honorary Curator; Barton A. Bean,
Assistant Curator; C. A. McKnew, Aid.
(e) Division of Mollusks: William H. Dall, Honorary Curator; Paul Bartsch, Aid;
William B. Marshall, Aid.
(f) Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, Honorary Curator; W. H. Ashmead,
Assistant Curator; R. P. Currie, Aid.
Section of Hymenoptera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge.
Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, Custodian.
105
106 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

DePARTMENT OF Brotocy—Continued.
(f) Division of Insects—Continued.
Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian.
Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian.
Section of Lepidoptera: H. G. Dyar, Custodian.
Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian.
(g) Division of Marine Invertebrates: Richard Rathbun, Honorary Curator; J. E.
Benedict, Assistant Curator; Mary J. Rathbun, Assistant Curator;
Harriet Richardson, Collaborator.
Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian.
(h) Division of Comparative Anatomy: Frederic A. Lucas, Curator.
(i) Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Honorary Cura-
tor; J. N. Rose, Assistant Curator.
Section of Forestry: B E. Fernow, Honorary Curator.
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, Honorary Assistant
Curator; W. R. Maxon, Aid.
Section of Higher Algee: W. T. Swingle, Custodian.
Section of Lower Algee: G. T. Moore, Custodian.
Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian.
Associates in Zoology (Honorary): Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam, R. E. C.
Stearns.
Associate in Botany (Honorary): Edward L. Greene.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
George P. Merrill, Head Curator.
(a) Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied): George P.
Merrill, Curator; W. H. Newhall, Aid.
(b) Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Honorary Curator; Wirt Tassin,
Assistant Curator; Rey. L. T. Chamberlain, Honorary Custodian of
Gems and Precious Stones.
(c) Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Honorary Curator;
Charles Schuchert, Assistant Curator.
Section of Vertebrate Fossils: F. A. Lucas, Acting Curator.
Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, Charles Schuchert, Custodian;
Carboniferous, George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton,
Custodian; Cenozoic, W. H. Dall, Associate Curator; Madreporarian
Corals, T. Wayland Vaughan, Custodian.
Section of Paleobotany: Lester F. Ward, Associate Curator; A. C.
Peale, Aid; F. H. Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants; David
White, Custodian of Paleozoic Plants.
Associate in Paleontology (Honorary): Charles A. White.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.

Chief of Correspondence and WgeE DRE R. I. Geare.
Librarian, Cyrus Adler.

Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder.

Disbursing Clerk, W. W. Karr.

Superintendent of Construction and Labor, J. 8. Goldsmith.
Editor, Marcus Benjamin.

Photographer, T. W. Smillie.

Registrar, 8. C. Brown.

Property Clerk, W. A. Knowles.
APPENDIX II.

List oF AcceEsstons, 1903-04.

Apsott, Dr. W. L., Singapore, Straits

' Settlements: A very extensive, inter-
esting, and yaluable collection of eth-
nological specimens, including many
unique objects from various islands off
the western coast of Sumatra, and a
large variety of natural history mate-
rial, including many new and rare
species from the same localities (41342);
also a large collection of natural history
specimens, containing mammals, birds’
skins, birds’ nests and eggs, birds’
skeletons, reptiles, insects, and skele-
tons of different animals, besides many
hundreds of ethnological objects in
daily use among the inhabitants of the
Rhio-Linga Archipelago (42168).

ABRAHAM, Louris, Washington, D. C.:
Six watch movements. 42468.

ABREU, Rosati, Polotina, Cerro, Habana,
Cuba: Leaf and fruit of a plant from
Cuba. 41675.

Acker, Dr. G. N., Washington, D. C.: |

Brains of white and colored children

(41792; 42101; 42466; 42549; 42864).
Apams, C. C.

University of. )

(See under Michigan,

ApaAms, Mrs. Frank, Mount Dora, Fla.:
Two specimens of Callitris robusta.
42607.

Apams, Henry, Mason City, W. Va.:
Three archeological specimens. 41242.

Apams, Dr. S. 8., Washington, D. C.:
Brain of a negro child (42034); brain
of a white child (42340).

Apams, Wauuace, U. S. National Mu-
seum: Paroquet, Conuwrus hemorrhous.
42306.

ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA, Royal Geograph-
ical Society of Australasia. Received
through Mr. Thomas 8. Reed: Fifty-
nine impressions of leaves and ferns;
also a description of the process. 42192.

AGRICULTURE, BurEAU oF, Manila, P. I.
(See under Philippine Islands, Manila,
Bureau of Agriculture. )

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT oF, Hon.
James Wilson, Secretary: Received
through the Biological Survey, 90 birds’
eggs and 5 nests, collected by Messrs.
E. W. Nelson, E. A. Goldman, F.
Stephens, W. H. Osgood, L. A. Fuertes,
H. ©. Oberholser, and J. F. Gant, in
various parts of North America during
the year 1903 (41350); 5 specimens of
Ashmunella chiricahuana Dall from Capi-
tan Mountains, New Mexico (41566);
received through the Biological Survey,
8 fresh-water crabs from Guerrero,
Mexico, collected by Messrs. Goldman
and Nelson (41925); received through
Dr. John R. Mohler, Bureau of Animal
Industry, two dogs’ skulls (42033);
skull of a black and tan terrier (42052) ;
through Dr. L. O. Howard, 14 insects
and other specimens (42150); 1,554
specimens of miscellaneous insects col-
lected by Messrs. D. W. Hunter, W. E.
Hinds, J. H. Harris, and A. W. Morrill
in Texas (42151); specimen of flax fiber
trom New Zealand (42483); 4,500 speci-
mens of insects, principally Coleoptera
from Cayamas, Cuba, collected by Dr.
E. A. Schwarz (42622); 99 specimens
of Coleoptera from Brazil (42623);
meteorological instruments and appara-
tus from the Weather Bureau (42625) ;

107
108

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF—Cont’d.
25 specimens of land shells collected by
Mr. J. H. Gant in Oklahoma (42755);
375 insects collected by Dr. L.O. How-
ard in Mexico, consisting of Hymenop-
tera, Coleoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera,
Hemiptera, Orthoptera, Odonata, and
Chrysopa (42759).
Material deposited in the National Her-
barium: Fourteen plants from various
parts of the United States (41261); 15
plants from the vicinity of Portland,
Oreg., collected by Mr. E. P. Sheldon
(41265); 74 plants collected in Lips-
comb, Tex., by Mr. Arthur Howell
(41280); 26 plants collected by Mr.
Howell in Texas (41333); through the
Biological Survey, 2 plants from Ari-
zona collected by Mr. Vernon Bailey
(41395); through the Division of Plant

Industry, 2 specimens of lichens from |

Europe (41411); 2 specimens of Hoff-
manseggia from Oklahoma collected by
Mr. R. G. Dunlap (41492); plant from
Missouri (41510); plant from Louisiana
collected by Mr. W. R. Dodson (41511);
received through the Division of Agros-
tology, 342 plants from Algeria, obtained
by purchase from Mr. L. Chevallier, Pre-
cigné, Sarthe, France (41597); plants
collected in New Mexico and Oklahoma
by Mr. F. G. Plummer (41700); 165
plants from New Mexico collected by
Mr. Vernon Bailey (41888) ; type speci-
men of Abies (42091); 2 specimens of
Ribes collected by Mr. F. V. Coville at
Kew Gardens, England (42122); 17
specimens of Ribes from Germany and
France (42161); 6 plants from Arizona
collected by Dr. C. Hart Merriam
(42185); 7 plants from California col-
lected by Dr. C. Hart Merriam (42246);
specimen of Abies collected by Mr.
Vernon Bailey in New Mexico (42315);

2 plants from Porto Rico (42391); 10°

plants from Texas collected by Mr.
Vernon Bailey (42405); 4 plants from
California obtained by Dr. C. Hart
Merriam (42406); plant from Paraguay,
collected by Mr. J. N. Ruffin (42512);
2 plants from California collected by
Dr. B. EK. Fernow (42525); 8plantsfrom
California collected by Miss Alice East-
wood (42630); 8 plants from Alabama

ALBANY MuSsEuUM.

ALLEN, Dr. J. A.

ALTAMIRANO, Dr. FERNANDO.

AMERICAN

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

| AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF—Cont’d.

collected by Mr. 8. M. Tracy (42631);
herbarium specimens of woody plants
(42670); 2 plants from Ohio collected
by Mr. J. L. Reid (42820); 9 plants
from various localities (42841); 2 speci-
mens of Ribes from Minnesota and
Georgia (42848); through the Biological
Survey, 19 plants from Oklahoma col-
lected by Mr. J. H. Gant (42852); 15
plants from Oregon collected by Mr.
C. V. Piper (42894); 10 plants from
Colorado collected by Miss E. W. Cath-
cart (42898) ; 6 specimens of cactus from
near Emma, Tex., collected by Mr. F.
V. Coville (42899).

(See also under: Baker, C. F.;
Blankinship, J. M.; Dugés, Dr. A.;
Fisher, H. L.; Fredholm, A.; Gant,
J. EL ‘Gailosiva <a; aise Eee
Hayes, W. R.; Hummel, Gustave;
Pearsall, R: F.; Perkins, R: C€: ii:
Piper, C. V.; Prey, Nina; Simms, Mrs.
Thomas; Singer, G. P.; Sias, A. W.;
Tullock, A. E.; Wilcox, G. B.; Wilcox,
1DYey 13 1D)

(See under Grahams-
town, South Africa. )

Aupers, A., Cincinnati, Ohio: Specimens

42417.
(See under American

Museum of Natural History, New York
City. )

of fossil ostracods.

ALLEN, O. D., Ashford, Wash.: Six plants

from Washington (41359, 41832).

Auuison, ANDREW, Slidell, La., and Iuka,

Miss.: Reptiles, a skin and skull of a
bat (42891, 42706).

(See under
Mexico, City of, Instituto Medico Na-
cional. )

AutToraR, ANDREW, Washington, D. C.:

Larva of Elm sawfly, Cimbex americana
Leach. 42849.

Atwoop, Prof. W. BY. Blacksburg, Va.:

Miscellaneous specimens of insects.

41747.

ENTOMOLOGICAL COMPANY,
Brooklyn, N. Y.: Received through

George Franck, manager. Nineteen
specimens of Coleoptera. 42132.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

AMERICAN GEM AND PEARL COMPANY,
New York City: Twenty-two gems
(purchase) L. P. X. (42601); received
through Mr. Lucien M. Zell, manager,
gummite from Mitchell County, N. C.;
also specimens of topaz and amethyst
(gift) (42602).

AMERICAN Museum oF NaturaAt Hisrory,
New York City: Received through
William Beutenmiller, 7 specimens,
including 2 types of Lepidoptera (ex-
change) (41756);
Prof. H. F. Osborn, 2 casts of feet of a
fossil horse representing the species

- Neohipparian  whitneyi (exchange)
(42428); received through Dr. J. A,
Allen, mammal skins and skulls and a
skeleton (exchange) (42530); 16 plants
collected by Miss Constance Dubois in
California (gift) (42657); window trans-

| ARNHEIM, J.
received through |

109

Antuony, R. A., New York City: Eleven
photographs of Niagara Falls and
vicinity. 42236.

APPLETON, NatHan, New York City: Oil
painting by Etex, representing a scene
from the ‘‘Gentleman of France.’’
42397.

ARCHIBALD, W. S., Norfolk, Va.: Three
specimens of Purple finch, Carpodacus
purpureus. 42176.

S., San Francisco, Cal.:

Eight specimens of land and marine

shells, representing 7 species from vari-

ous localities. 41554.

| ARNoLD ARBORETUM, Jamaica Plain,
Mass.: Forty-one specimens of Cratz-
gus. Exchange. 42415.

| ARNOLD, Dr. RALPH.

arencies illustrating the ‘‘Spine”’ of |
Pp g Pp

Mount Pelé (gift) (42781).

AMERICAN RuTILE Company, Washington,
D. C.: Received through William M.
Slater, president. Specimen of tita-
nium carbide. 42401.

Ames, Oakes, North Easton, Mass.:
Type specimen of Habenaria sanbornii
from Cuba (gift) (41734); 24 species of
ferns and fernallies principally from

Florida (gift) (42388); 103 plants from |

various sections of the United States
(exchange) (42488).

Anperson, E. M., Provincial Museum,
Victoria, B. C.: One hundred and
seventy-seven specimens of Lepidop-
tera (41611; 41865; 42424).

Anperson, J. R., Department of Agri-
culture: Two plants from British Colum-
bia. 41392.

ANDERSON, R. W., Wando, S. C.: Six

plants and three snakes from South >

Carolina (42482; 42708).

ANDERTON, Mrs. I. W., Mackay, Idaho:
Three teeth of a horse and two teeth
of a fossil bison. 42438.

AnprREws, Byron, Washington, D. C.: |

Thirty-five skulls of the Arctic fox
(purchase) (42179); skull of an Arctic
fox (gift) (42250).

(See under Dr.
J. J. Rivers. )

ARRONDELLE Sows, E., Paris, France:
Plaster casts of the column of Hamou-
rabi and of the circular monument of
Telle; also of the head of Mercure
(Discobole) Lancelotti. Purchase. L.
P. X. 42435.

AsHMEAD, Dr. W. H.
S. Matsumura. )

(See under Prof.

Arrwater, H. P., Houston, Tex.: Skin
and skull of a. jaguar. Purchase.
42609.

Arwoop, 8. H., &Co., Plattsmouth, Nebr.:
Limestone with flint inclosures from a
quarry at Wymore, Nebr. 42099.

AUSTRALIAN OpaL Company, New York

City: Specimen of Australian opal
(41406); 3 opals in  silicified wood
from Australia (42600). Purchase.
Wg dee OS

Bagsoock, CHar.es, Ithaca, N. Y.: Speci-
men of weathered French Caen stone
from Ithaca: Exchange. 42564.

Bascock, E. B., Berkeley, Cal.: Two
plants from California. 41325.

| Bascock, Mrs. P. H., Mount Dora, Fla.:

Three specimens of Bignonia. 42283.

Bacue, René, Washington, D. C.: Seven
photographs illustrating Indian techni-
cal industries. 41704.

BacutEeL, W. L., Joplin, Mo.: Three
specimens of calcite. Purchase. 42698.
110 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Bacorn, Mr., Cable, Mont.: Ores and
minerals from Cable «mine, Cable,
Mont. 41624.

Baawett, I. C., Stephenville, Tex.: |

Specimens of Longicorn beetle, Neocly-
tus capre Say. 42266.

BAHAMA ExpepiTion, Baltimore, Md.: |
Collection of mammals, birds, reptiles, |
fishes, mollusks, marine invertebrates, |

and corals made by Messrs. J. H. Riley
and B. A. Bean in the Bahama Islands
during June and July of 1903. 41471.

Bartey, VerRNon, Department of Agri-
culture: Specimen of Rhodiola from
New Mexico. 42005. (See also under
Department of Agriculture and W. L.
Brav. )

Barn, H. F., U. 8. Geological Survey:
Three specimens of fluospar from Rose-
clare, Ill. 42200.

Bairp, Capt. G. W., U. 8. Navy. (See
under War Department. )

Baker, Prof. C. F., Stanford University,
Cal.: Pomona College, Claremont, Cal. :
Three plants from California (41284);
78 plants from Nevada (41288) ;« 48
plants from California (41296); 490
plants from California (41319); crabs,
including the species Hemigrapsus nudus
(Dana); Petrolisthes rupicolus Stimp-
son; Epialtus productus Randall; Pa-
gurus granosimanus Stimpson; Hemi-
grapsus oregonensis (Dana); Areneus
meaicanus (Gerstecker) (41442); 148
specimens of Diptera from Mexico,
Central America, and other localities
(41498); 2 plants from California
(41910); 43 specimens of Diptera
(41930); fishes from San Pedro and
Stanford University, California (42260);
13 specimens of Diptera (42275); 471
plants from Nicaragua (42284);@ 34
specimens of Lepidoptera (42355); 8

butterflies (42419); 2 species of Helices”
from Catalina Island (42478); crus- |

taceans from southern California
(42492); 16 specimens of Lepidoptera,
also larvee (42521); 3 specimens of

Lepidoptera (42538); received through |

Department of Agriculture, 88 speci-

mensof Diptera from California (42651); |

Baker, Prof. C. F.—Continued.
2 specimens of Hmerita analoga (Stm. )
| (42677); 6 plants from Central America
(42803); 395 specimens of Diptera from
California (42829).

Baker, Dr. F.: Six specimens of marine
shells from California (42056) ; specimen
of Ooula lactea Sby., from the Philip-
pine Islands (42683).

Baker, T. M., Washington, D. C.: Shoe-
maker’s foot measure. (Loan.) 8765.

BatpripGr, Mrs. Marta, Los Angeles,
Jal.: Two specimens of Ocinebra bar-
barensis Gabb., from San Pedro, Cal.
42839.

Bautpwin, W. T., East Bradford, ° Va.:
Specimen of Lepidodendron scobiniform
Meek. 41784.

Batt, Mrs. Pauta, Los Angeles, Cal.:
Specimen of Tylodina fungina Gabb.
(alcoholic specimen); also 4 shells of
Pleurotomidee from Laguna beach, Los
Angeles County. 41830.

Banks, NatHan, Department of Agricul-
ture: Six specimens of Hemiptera, in-
cluding Fulvius heidemanni Reut., and
Ploaria errabunda Say (gift) (41457);
10 specimens of Brachynemurus versutus
Walker, from Mexico (gift) (41656);
20 specimens of Myrmelionidee (pur-
chase) (41746).

Barser, H.8., U.S. National Museum:
Three specimens of Polygyra columbiana
from Eureka, Cal. (41304); frog (Rana
sylvatica) from near Plummers Island,
Maryland (41485); bat from California
(41763); bat (Lasiurus borealis) (41862) ;
plant from Texas (42873); rattlesnake
(Crotalus tigris) from Arizona (41960);
5 specimens of Lasiwrus from Browns-
ville, Tex. (42892). See also under
Washington Biologists Field Club. )

Barper, M. D. Knoxville, Tenn.: Ten
specimens of land and _ fresh-water
shells from Tennessee (41443); 11
specimens of fresh-water mollusks
(41796); 11 species of fresh-water
shells (42222). ;

| Barney, Lieut. J. P. (See under Brig.
Gen. W. H. Carter, U. S. Army.)

4 Purchase.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Barrotr, A. F., Owego, N. Y.: Three
arrow points found in Tioga County.
41543.

BARTLETT, H. H., Indianapolis, Ind.: |

Snake ( Coluber obsoletus), from Marion
County, Ind. 42529.

Barron, JOHN,
Washington, D. C.: Bill found in cir-
culation in the Philippine Islands.
(Loan.) 8874.

Bartscu, Pau, U. S. National Museum:
Set of negatives showing Gould’s types
of Western American Pyramidellide

_and Pecten herricens: also figures of some
the duplicates of Pyramidellids of the

Reigen collection (42204); about 200 |
specimens of land and marine shells |
from Hampton, Cape Charles City, and |

Brighton, Va. (42308) ; 2 specimens of

fungus representing the species Crypto-—

porus volvatus from the District of Co-

lumbia (42617); 3 salamanders from |
District of Columbia (42696); 2 speci- |

mens of Cranefly, Linnobia species,
from Great Falls, Md. (42724). (See

also under Department of Commerce |
and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries and |

Gerrit S. Miller, jr. )
BasHore, Hrram, Mifflintown, Pa.: Mole

(Scalops aquaticus). 41829.

Bares, Dr. E. N., Boston, Mass.: Twenty-
six gun flints. 41229.

Bares, M. A., Clanton, Ala.: Product of |

natural weathering. (Loan.) 8888.

Batries, Mrs. J., Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of Long-sting, Thalessa luna-
tor Linneeus. 41458.

Bauscu, Paut, Washington, D. C.: Speci-
men of NXylotrya fimbriata Jeffr. from
Texas. 42629.

Bra, W. J., Lloyd, Tex.: Neuropteroid |

insect representing the species Acan-
thaclisis americana Drury. 41449.

Bean, B. A., and C. A. McKnew, U. S$.
National Museum: Fishes and crusta-

Bran, B. A.
dition. )

(See under Bahama Expe-

U. S. Marine Corps, |

|
|

ala

BecxwitH, Dr. E. G., Fostoria, Ohio:
Larva of a beetle representing the spe-
cies Tenebrio molitor Linnzeus. 42020.

Beckwith, P. E., U. 8. National Museum:
Silver coin, a lira 1863 of Victor Eman-
uel the Second, King of Italy (gift)
(41444); full-dress uniform of a lieu-
tenant-colonel in the Continental Army
(exchange) (41462); silver threepence,
the first issue of King Edward VII of
Great Britain (gift) (41873); flintlock
pistol made by Miles, of London, with
a bayonet (gift) (42206); trumpet kazoo
(gift) (42256); copy of the Missouri
Republican, January 1, 1864, contain-
ing the chronology of the year 1863; also
invitation and card to the unveiling of
the Sherman statue (gift) (42597).

BeecHer, Dr. C. E. (See under Yale
University Museum. )

Bruit, Miss A. A., Chicago, Ill.: Speci-
men of an insect known as ‘‘ Walking-
stick,’’? from Eagle Lake, Michigan.
41577.

Bett, A. Berniz, Cairns, Queensland,
Australia: Three -hundred and thirty-
two specimens of Lepidoptera. Pur-
chase. 41584.

Bett Company, GEorGE, Denver, Colo.:

Seven specimens of minerals.  Pur-
chase. L. P. X. 41635.

| Benepict, Dr. J. E., U. S. National Mu-

seum: Five plants from Maryland col-
lected by Messrs. Benedict and Oldys.
41260.

Benepict, J. E., jr., Woodside, Md.:
Specimen of Adiantum pedatum. 41416.

Benezet, G. P., Peoria, Ill.: Beetle (Si-
pha americana). 41352.

| BENHAM INDIAN TRADING Company, New

York City: Four baskets and twosashes.
Purchase. L. P. X. 42507.

Bercer, A., La Mortola, Ventimiglia,
Italy: Thirty-one plants from Italy.
Exchange. 42687.

| Beruwn, Germany, Konigliches Botan-
ceans collected at Beaufort, N.C. 42896.

isches Museum: Seven hundred and
sixteen plants collected by Mr. H. A.
Braun. Exchange. 42287.
112

BERLIN, GERMANY, KOonigliches Museum
fir Naturkunde. Received through Dr.
Paul Matschie. Specimen of Tragulus
from Singapore. Exchange. 41519.

BERLIN, GERMANY, Konigliches Museum
fiir V6lkerkunde: Received through
Dr. Eduard Seler.
ter casts (exchange) (42733); 7 Greeco-
Roman plaster casts (purchase.) L. P.
X. 42734.

Bernpt, KE. L. (See under Department
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of
Fisheries. )

BERNICE Pavant Bishop Museum, Hono-
lulu, Hawaiian Islands: Received
through Mr. W. T. Brigham. Double
calabash and 16 capa-markers. Ex-
change. 41979.

Berry, 8. S., Redlands, Cal.: Ten species

of marine shells from near Avalon, Cat- |

alina Island (41560); 2 shells from
California (42660).

Bessac, F. T., Natchez, Miss.: Beetle |

(Lucanus elephas Fabricius). 41384.

seum of Natural History, New York

City: Cotypes of Cychrus xneicollis and |

Platynus gracileutus Beutenmiller.
41640.
seum of Natural History. )

Bezzi, Prof. M., Sondrio, Italy: Two
hundred and fifty-three specimens, 97
species, of European Diptera. 42427.

BIEDERMANN, C. R., Florence, Ariz.: In-
sects (41237); 15 beetles (42044).

BiaEtow, E. F., Stamford, Conn.: Speci-
mens of Psyllid galls on Celtis (41253) ;
specimen of Saddleback caterpillar
(41612. )

BroLoGicaL LABORATORY, U. 8S. National
Museum: Plaster castofacobra. 42552.

Bitrenspau & Co., Neucestown, Tex.:
Twelve specimens of Nysius angustatus
Uhler. 42692.

Buake, W. W., Mexico, Mexico: Ancient
Mexican greenstone carving represent-
ing a sacrificial yoke. Purchase.  L.
P. X. 41399.

Buaney, Dwient, Boston, Mass.: Collec-
tion of shells dredged near Mount Des-
ert Island, Maine, by the donor, in-

Greeco-Roman plas- |

(See also under American Mu-

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Buianey, Dwicur—Continued.
cluding about 290 specimens represent-
ing 40 species. 42175.

Buiankinsuip, J. M., Bozeman, Mont.
Received through the Department of
Agriculture. Fifty-eight plants from
Montana. 42245,

BuATcHLey, Prof. W. §., State Geologist,
Indianapolis, Ind.: Eighty-four speci-
mensof Orthoptera. Exchange. 42650.

Boum, Juuius, Vienna, Austria: Specimen
of meteoric stony iron from Finn-
marken, weighing 595 grams. Ex-
change. 41771.

Bouiincer, W. A., Washington, D. C.:
Seven-dollar bill of North Carolina,
dated April 2, 1776. 41867.

Botron, A. L., Berkeley, Cal.: Birds’
skeletons and the skull of a coyote.
41274.

Bonn, Frank, Washington, D. C.: Piece
of a tree engraved with ancient letters,
figures, etc. 43857.

2 . JBE 3 is : Ke y-
BEUTENMULLER, WiLL1AM, American Mu- | Bouser, E., Paris, France: Egg of py

ornis maximus. Purchase. L. P. X.

41257.

BouLanceEr, E., Paris, France: Two spec-
imensof mushroom spawn from France.
41820.

Boyce, THomas E., Middlebury, Vt.:
Chips cut by a beaver. 42446.

Boyp, G. 8., Honduras, Central America:
Specimens of pottery from Central
America. (Loan.) 9150.

Braprorp, Mrs. Sipney, Avery Island,
La.: Plants, roots, and nuts, represent-
ing material from which the Chetima-
cha Indians make their red, yellow,
and black dyes (42815); 2 plants from
Louisiana (42821).

BraKkELEY, J. TurRNER, Hornerstown,
N. J.: Larvee of three species of mos-
quitoes (42624); larvae of Culex mela-
nurus Coquillett (42640; 42652); four
pupal skins and four adults of a dipte-
ron representing the species Corethra
cinctipes Coquillett (42681); larvee, pu-
pe, and adult mosquitoes principally
representing the species Culex auwrifer
Coquillet (42805).
Salts!

—:

LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Brancu, H. G. Setwyn, Antigua, British
West Indies: Fifty-six bats and 323
birds’ skins from Barbuda and Antigua.
Purchase. °42688.

Branp, H. J., San Francisco, Cal.: Plas-
ter bust of President William McKinley.
(Loan.) 8824.

BRANDEGEE, T. 8., San Diego, Cal.: Two
plants from California. 42086. (See
also under C. A. Purpus. )

Branson, E. B., (See under Prof. 8. W.
Williston.

Braun, H. A. (See under Berlin, Ger-
many, Kdonigliches Botanisches Mu-
seum. )

Braunton, Ernest, Glendale, Cal.: Sixty-
nine plants from California (41335;
42593; 42798).

BRAVERMAN, M., Visalia, Cal.: Three
small Japanese baskets, and skeleton
of a snake. 42582.

Bray, W. L., University of Texas, Aus-
tin, Tex.: Received through Mr. Ver-

non Bailey. Three specimens of wood
from Texas. 42606.

Breric, G. M., New Milford, Conn.:

Specimen of rock quartz from a quarry |

near Branchyille. 42074.

Brezina, Dr. AristipEs, Vienna, Austria:

A fragment of the ‘‘Trenzano’’ mete-
orite weighing 164 grams. Exchange.

41396.

Briceno, Satomon, Merida, Venezuela:
Large collection of shells, birds’ skins,
mammals, birds’ nests and eggs, insects,
principally Lepidoptera and Coleoptera,
from Venezuela. Purchase. 42254.

BriagHamM, WriuiaM T.
nice Pauahi Bishop Museum).

Brmtey, C. 8., Raleigh, N. C.: Natural-
history specimens (gift) (41272); eggs
of reptiles (purchase) L. P. X. (41275);
12 specimens of dragon flies, represent-
ing the species Telagrion dexckii (pur-
chase) (41331); 18 specimens, three
species, of dragon flies from North Car-
olina (gift) (41599).

British Museum, (Natural History).
(See under London, England. )

NAT Mus 1904 8

(See under Ber- |

|

113

Britton, Dr. N. L., New York City: Plant
from New Jersey. 42838. (See also
under New York Botanical Garden. )

Brooks, Miriam G., Salt Lake City, Utah:
Partly consolidated dolomitic sand.
41662.

Brooks, THEODORE, Guantanamo, Cuba:
Rapid-firing gun shield secured from
the Spanish gunboat Sandoval, which
was sunk in Guantanamo Bay, July 28,
1898. 42314.

Brown, CHarues E., Milwaukee, Wis.:
Four dragon flies. 42030.

Browy, E.J., Lemon City, Fla.: Reptiles,

_ batrachians, and insects from Florida
(41481); snake (Coluber guttatus) from
Florida (42735).

Brown, FrepErtIc, Perry, Me.: Received
through Dr. David White. Specimen
of Archzxopterix jacksoni Dn. 41728.

Brown, H. J., Newcastle, New South
Wales, Australia: Receivea through
Hon. F. W. Goding, United States con-
sul. Algze, squids, and egg cases of a
shark. 42782.

| Brown, H. J., Washington, D. C.: Plant

from Calapach Island. 42440.

Brown, Mrs. J. Crosspy, Metropolitan
Museum of Art, New York City: Piano
of obsolete make, with two photographs
(42336); stringed instrument and a
transverse flute (42736). Exchange.

Brown, NatHan C., Lakewood, N. J.:
Two hundred and sixty-seven birds’
skins from South Carolina. 42516.

Brown, Mrs. N. M., Ashtabula, Ohio:
Three hundred and thirty-five plants
from Mexico, collected by Mr. E. W.
Nelson. Purchase. 41245.

Brown, Dr. P. D., contract surgeon, U.S.
Army, Camp Mataling Falls, Philippine
Islands: Moths and butterflies from the
Philippine Islands. 41996.

Brown, Rev. Rogert, Philippine Weather
Bureau, Manila, P. I.: Specimens of
parasitic Hymenoptera. 42795.

Browne, Crecit Seymour, Anacapri, Italy:
Sixty-three moths (41344); Lepidop-
tera (41901; 42066). Exchange.
114

Brownine, J. M., Mill Creek, Ind. T.:
Specimen of horned Corydalus. 42884.

3RuUCCIANI, D., & Co., London, England:

Ten casts of Assyrian, Egyptian, and |

Greek sculptures. Purchase. 42675.

Te Paks

Brues, Prof. C. T., Marine Biological |
Laboratory, Woods Hole, Mass., and |
Paris, Tex.: Two hymenopterous para- |

sites (41347); 62 specimens of North

American Phoridee, including the types |

of 26 species described by Aldrich and
Brues (42322); specimen of Telenomus
heliothidis Ashm. (42823).

Bryan, H. W., Plano, Tex.: Clam shells,

or lamellibranchs, Radiolitis austinensis

41329.
Bryan, W. ALaAnson, Bishop Memorial

Roemer.

Museum, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands: |

Eight specimens of shells from Marcus
Island, Pacific Ocean. 41604. :
Bryan, Sr. GrorGeE T. C., Oroville, Cal.:
Specimen of soapstone from near Oro-

ville, used by the Indians in making |

pottery and other objects. 41821.

| Burraty, H. D., Washington,

Bryant, Owren, Cambridge, Mass.: Speci- |
men of green crab from Ipswich, Mass. |

(42645); 80 specimens of mollusks from
Bermuda

(42705); crustaceans from

Massachusetts and Bermuda (42751); |

crustaceans and eggs of mollusk
(42807); specimen of Crangon septem-
spinosa Say (42869).

Bryant, THeo., Wellington, B. C.: One |

hundred and twenty-four specimens of
Lepidoptera (41528); received through
Dr. H. G. Dyar, 75 moths (42288).

Buciani, D. & Co., London, England:
Cast from Temple of Sun God. Pur-

chase. 42339.

Bunric, Dr. C. H., Director, Cement
Fabrik, Port Kunda, Estland, Russia.

Two specimens of Estonioceras, speci- |

men of Vaginaten, specimen of Recep-
taculites, a trilobite, and 6 gastropods.
42133.

Butkuey, L. C., Avalon, Alden Bridge,

Bossier Parish, La.: Four specimens of |
fossil coral representing the species |

Balanophyllia angustinensis Vaughan.
41447,

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Bunxer, E. H., Biddeford Pool, Me.:

Specimen of Spheroides maculatus.
41290.
Bunker, Mr., Fanturce, Porto Rico:

Received through Smithsonian Institu-
tion, Bureau of American Ethnology:
Two models of Porto Rican homes.
42913. :

BunngeELL, J. H. & Co., New York City,
received through Clarence A. Stimp-
son: Morse telegraph apparatus, con-
sisting of a sounder anda key. 41950.

Burke, H. E., Division of Entomology,
Department of Agriculture: Six dragon-
flies. 42149. -

Burks, W. S., Pittsburg, Tex.: Secara-
beeid beetle, Dynastes tityus Linneeus.
42046.

Burns, Dr. FRANK, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Specimen of Cambrian sandstone
with Scolithus linearis Hall, from the
drift near Washington, D. C. 41861...

BurnstINg, ABRAHAM, Washington, D.C.:
Fifteen watch movements. 41705.

Dae ess

Twelve plants from Texas. Exchange.

42557.

Burrows, C. H., National Zoological Park,
Washington, D. C.: Specimen of
American Bittern, Botaurus lentiginosus.
42818.

Buscx, August. (See under Washington
Biologists’ Field Club. )

Busy, A. H., Vancouver, B. C.: Twenty-
one specimens of Lepidoptera. 41525.

Busn, B. F., Courtney, Mo.: Two hun-
dred and eighty plants from Texas,
Arkansas, and other localities. Pur-
chase. 41263.

ButrerFieELp, Dr. E. E.,
D. C.: Brain of a colored man.

Washington,

42009.

Burron, F. L., Oakland, Cal.: Specimen
of Pecten diegensis Dall and Capulus
californicus Dall, from San Pedro Bay,
Cal. 41951.

Buysson, Count Ropert pu. (See under
Paris, France, Musée d’ Histoire Natu-
relle. )

CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, San
Francisco, Cal.: Fifty-four plants from
California. Exchange. 42172.
LIST OF

CALIFORNIA, University oF, Berkeley,
Cal.: One hundred and fifty-five plants
from California. Exchange. 42747°

CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND, SEDGWICcK MUsEUM:
Received through Prof. T. McHenry
Hughes. A part of the type specimen
of Bryozoa nebulipora (monticulipora)
papillata McCoy. 42881.

CAMPBELL, J AMES, Hastings, Pa.: Received
through Dr. David White. Twenty-six
specimens of Paleozoic fossils from the
head of Cecil Creek, Cambria County,

Pa. 42450.

Gapront, P. P., & Bro., Boston, Mass.:
Fight plaster casts. Purchase. 42437.
Taser

CARNEGIE InstiTUTION, Washington, D.C.:
Archeological collection made by Ger-
ard Fowke (9101); archeological collec-
tion made by J. D. McGuire (9192).
(Deposit. )

CARNEGIE Museu, Pittsburg, Pa.: Dupli-
cate of the Morse telegraph register
used in Baltimore in 1844. (Loan.)
8704. Returned.

CARPENTER, G. O.,
printed cotton handkerchiefs.
9192.

(Loan. )

Carrineton, Dr. P. M., Fort Stanton,
N. Mex.: Molar of amammoth ( Elephas
columbi). 41539.

CARROLL, CHARLES, National Military
Home, Montgomery County, Ohio:
Three case worms representing the
species Thyridopteryx ephemerxformis
Stephens. 41470.

Carter, Mrs. CaTHertNe A., Mrs. Mary
E. Mills, and Mr. R. A. Golden, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Spinning wheel and
cards owned by Mrs. Catherine A. Gol-
den. 42851.

Carter, Brig. Gen. W. H., U.S. Army, |

received through War Department:
Hoe and trowel dug from the ruins of
Jamestown, Va., by Lieutenant Barney,
U.S. Army. 41941.

Cary, Merritt, Biological Survey, De-
partment of Agriculture, Washington,
D. C.: Seventeen butterflies from Can-
ada. 42777.

St. Louis, Mo.: Two

ACCESSIONS.

115

CaTHcart, Miss E. W. (See under De-
partment of Agriculture. )

CauvELL, A. N., Department of Agricul-
ture: Lizard, snake, and frog from
Kaslo, British Columbia (41754); 19
insects from Iowa and Assiniboia
(41900); specimen of Planorbis from
British Columbia (42290). (See also
under Dr. H. G. Dyar and Prof. C. P.
Gillette. )

CaupELL, A. N., R. P. Currie and Dr. H.
G. Dyar: Worm from Kaslo, British
Columbia. 41365.

CENTRAL RAILROAD ComMPpANy oF NEw
JERSEY, Jersey City, N. J.: Received
through F. G. Sherman, superintend-
ent of telegraph. Telephone trans-
mitter, telephone receiver, and a mag-
neto-telephone bell (41502); electrical
instrument (41557).

CHAMBER OF CoMMERCE OF THE STATE OF
New York. (See under Smithsonian
Institution. )

CHAMBERLAIN, E. B., Washington, D. C.:
Twenty-two specimens of Pleridophyta
from Maine (42269); 105 eryptogams,
principally mosses, from the northeast-
ern section of the United States (42471);
30 specimens of mosses from New Eng-
land (42788). Exchange.

CHAMBERLAIN, F. M. (See under Depart-
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau
of Fisheries. )

CHAMBERLAIN, Rey. L. T., New York City:
Thirty specimens of rare exotic Naiades,
new to the Museum collection. 41773.

Cuanponnet, Z. L., Fosston, Minn.: Four
plants from Minnesota. 42484.

Cuapman, Mrs. C. N.: Received through
F. C. P. Davey, Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.
Eskimo and Indian clothes and curios-

ities. Purchase. 41731.
| CoapMaN, S. B., Swannanoa, N. C.: Two
caddis-worms and their cases. 42908.

CHAPMAN, Rev. ., Christ Church Mis-
sion, Anyik, Alaska: Fossil horn core
ofa musk ox. 41564.

Cuarnay, Desire, Paris, France: Casts of
Tikal, Temple of the Sun; Sacrifice of
the Tongue; and lintel of Quetzalcoatl.
Purchase. 42420. L. P.X.
116

Case, Miss Atice, Washington, D. C.:
One hundred and ninety-eight plants
from the region of Lake Michigan.
41990.

Cuasr, NarHan Brown, Bethesda, Md.:
Received through Mrs. Susan Brown
Chase. Gilt dress sword presented to
Gen. Jacob Brown, U. 8. Army, by the
senate and assembly of the State of
New York for services in the war of
1812. 42794.

Cuase, Mrs. Susan Brown, Bethesda,
Md.: Order of procession for the fu-
neral of Major-General Brown. (Gift. )
42665. Gold snuff box, presented to
Gen. Jacob Brown, U.S. Army, by the
city of New York for services in the
war of 1812. (Loan.) 9443.
under Nathan Brown Chase. )

CHELSEA CLocK Company, Boston, Mass.: |

Received through Charles H. Pearson,
treasurer. Chelsea navy clock and
Chelsea ship’s bell clock. 42910.

CueEsnut, Dr. V. K., Department of Agri-
culture: Twenty specimens of land and
fresh-water shells (41517); plant from
the Yellowstone National Park (41536).

CHEVALLIER, L.
of Agriculture. )

(See under Department

CHICHESTER, WILLIAM S., Aquasco, Md.:
Specimen of fossil wood. 41694.

CuipMAN, C. H., Curtis Mills, Fla.: Cop-
per coin, 12 gros, Urban VIII, 1625-44.
Purchase. 42006.

CHRISTIANIA, Norway, KONGELIGE FRED-
ERIKS Universitet: Received through
Prof. Robert Collett. Eight specimens
of reptiles and batrachians from Mada-
gascar, South Africa, Australia, and
Formosa. 41775.

Criapp, G. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: Four spe-
cies of Jand shells from various Ameri-
can localities, representing cotypes of
species lately described. 41585.

CLARK, A. Howarp, U.S. National Mu-

seum: Pamphlet containing historical |

view of Philadelphia. 42094.

Cuark, Prof. H. L., Olivet, Mich.: Speci-
men of Tree-frog, Hyla evittata, from
Easton, Md. 41491.

(See also |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Crarkg, Prof. F. W. (See under V. H. -
Goldschmidt and Isadore Wise. )

CuaRKE, Dr. J. M., State paleontologist,
Albany, N. Y.: Two plaster restora-
tions of Hurypterus. 41959.

Cuements, F. E., Nebr.: Twenty-five
plants from Colorado. Purchase.
42112.

Curt, J. O. (See under South Side
Sportsmens’ Club.)

Cuirron, R. §., Bureau of Entomology,
Department of Agriculture: Specimen
of Ambystoma from Annapolis Junction,
Md. 41550.

CocKERELL, Prof. T. D. A., East Las Ve-
gas, N. Mex.: Three hundred and
twenty-seven insects from New Mexico
(41251); 2 specimens of land shells
from Mexico (41321); specimen of Aly-
siid, Idiaste megacephala Ashm. (41458);
3 specimens of Hymenoptera (41465);
9 specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera
(41499); 4 species of Carboniferous
brachiopods from Pecos, N. Mex.
(41500); 65 insects, including 54 speci-
mens of Orthoptera, 3 of Diptera, and
6 of Hymenoptera from Colorado
Springs (41658); 233 specimens of mis-
cellaneous insects (42856); 2 plants
from Colorado (42743).

Cock1E, J. W., Kaslo, British Columbia:
Eleven specimens of insects (41735) ; 3
specimens of Lepidoptera, including 2
types (42656).

Corrin, T. H., Baltimore, Md.: Received
through Mr. D. W. Coquillett. Seven
hundred and seventy-five specimens of
Diptera, 6 specimens of Hymenoptera,
and 10 vials containing mosquitoes in
an early stage. 42209.

CoHEN, ReuBen S8., Cambridge, Mass.:
Ten silver coins of Morocco. 41580.

| Conn, Mrs. A., Carson City, Nev.: Piute

basketry water bottle. 42565.

CoLEMAN, J. B., Crowley, La.: Walking
stick, Brunneria borealis Scud. 41757.

| Cotestock, Miss, Kipple, Pa.: Specimens
of land’ shells from Blair County, Pa.
42876.

LIST OF

Zs
Couuerr, Prof. Roperr. (See under Kon-
gelige Frederiks Universitet, Christi-
ania, Norway).

Courier, .M. F., president, Aston Rogen
Mining. Company, Paragould, Ark.:
Zinc ore from Sharp County, Ark.
41885.

COLLINS, F.S., Malden, Mass.: One hun-
hundred plants. Purchase. 41868.

Cotton Marsite Works, Colton, Cal.
Specimen of marble. 42463.

Comes, Mrs. E., Lakeside, Ohio: Fifty
specimens of marine algze collected at
‘Half Moon Bay, San Mateo County,
Cal. 41322.

ComMERCE AND LaxBor, Department of,
Hon. George B. Cortelyou, Secretary.
Transferred from Bureau of Fisheries:
Types and other specimens of fishes of
the Hawaiian Islands; also crustaceans
and other invertebrates and a piece of
coral (41289); 15 specimens of Mist-
ichthys luzonensis from Lake Buhi, Phil-
ippine Islands (41408); marine worms
from Beaufort, N. C. (41587); received
through Dr. B. W. Evermann, 6 plants
from Alaska (41819); mollusks, insects,
and invertebrates, birds, reptiles, ba-
trachians, and a mammal (41840); 2
plants (41859); about 10,000 specimens
of land and fresh-water mollusks col-
lected in and about Lake Maxinkuckee,
Indiana, by Dr. Paul Bartsch (41966);
skull of a mule obtained by 8. G. Worth
(42054); 7 specimens of holothurians
from Porto Rico (42064); 27 plants
from Alaska collected by Prof. C. H.
Gilbert (42214) ; piece of rock contain-
ing brachiopods from Albatross dredg-
ing station No. 3088 (42291); types and
cotypesof fishescollected by thesteamer
Albatross in Japan and Hawaii, received
through Prof. C. H. Gilbert (42327);
collection of.reptiles and batrachians
from Indiana, also 3 fishes (423535);
reptiles and batrachians from Indiana
(42358); 11 plants from northern
Maine, collected by Dr. W. C. Kendall
(42373); 11 mammals from West Vir-
ginia and Maine (42410); miscellaneous
specimens of reptiles and batrachians
from different localities in the United

ACCESSIONS.

117

CoMMERCE AND LasBor, Dept. of—Con.
States (42426); head of a shark, tail of
a shark, and a whole specimen col-
lected by Mr. E. L. Berndt in Hono-
lulu (42439); through Dr. B. W. Ever-
mann, crustaceans collected in Lake
Maxinkuckee, also crustaceans from
different sources (42461); about 2,000
specimens of land anc _ fresh-water
shells from various sections of the
United States (42500); 246 plants from
the vicinity of Karlak, Kadiak Island,
Alaska, collected by Cloudsley Rutter
(42561); Hawaiian fishes (42563); col-
lection of plants from Alaska, obtained
by F. M. Chamberlain (42632); 24
sheets of plants collected in southern
Oregon by Dr. B. W. Evermann
(42633); collection of turtles made by
Prof. W. P. Hay in North America
(42749); type specimen of Anguilla
exca (42917).

Computing Scate Company, Dayton,
Ohio: Received through O. O. Ozias,
manager. No. 71 scale. 42103.

Conapon, J. EK. (See under A. A. Hel-
ler. )

Conaress, Lrprary oF: Received through
Hon. Herbert Putnam, librarian:
Hand-made pins with hand-bound
heads, found with a mass of manu-
scripts dated from 1801 to 1819 (41896);
through Mr. W. P. Cutter, leather card-
case, which is believed to have once
been in the possession of Mrs. Dolly
Payne Madison (41282).

Conrap, Dr. H. 8., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Plant from Pennsylvania. 42635.

Cook, Davin N., Salem, Mass.: Samples
of road material. 42243.

Coox, Prof. M. T., Greencastle, Ind.:
Three specimens of Gallwasp, Dryo-
phanta radicola Ashm. 42169.

Cook, Dr. O. F., Department of Agricul-
ture: Two hundred and seven spiders
and miscellaneous insects from Africa
and the Canary Islands; also a mollusk
and a lizard. 41788.

Coox, Mrs. T., Sandusky, Ohio: Speci-
men of water lily from Ohio. 41378.
Cootry, R. A., Bozeman, Mont.: Toad,

Bufo boreas. 42445.
118

CopELAND, HE.
Received through Dr. E. L. Greene.
Specimen of Gormannia from Califor-
nia. 41825.

CopbNHAGEN, DenmMARK: Zoological Mu-
seum of the University. Received
through Prof. Th. Mortensen: Echino-
derms (41588); through Prof. G. M. R.

Levinsen, about 100 species of Euro- |
pean Mesozoic and Tertiary bryozoans |

(42476). Exchange.
CoquittetT, D. W. (See under T. H.
Coffin. )

Corron, JAMES 8. (See under Smithso-

nian Institution. )

Coumse, W. W., Gunston, Va.: Skin and
skull of Arctomys sp. 42647.

Court, EK. J., Washington, D. C.: About
950 specimens of land and fresh-water
shells from Harpers Ferry, W. Va.
(41494; 41516; 41690; 41714); about
150 specimens of land and fresh-water

shells from the District of Columbia |

(41760); about 550 land and fresh-water

shells from Harpers Ferry, W. Va., the |

District of Columbia, and Cherry Hill,
Md. (41964; 42047): 2 specimens of
Succinea ovalis Say, from Maryland
(42533); specimens of land and fresh-
water mollusks from Virginia (42877).

Covitie, F. V., Botanist, Department of
Agriculture: Twenty-four specimens of
cacti. 42846. (See also under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )

Coyne, P. J., Greaterville, Ariz.: Beetle,
Alaus zunianus Casey; 2 beetles repre-
senting the species Psiloptera drummondi
Laporte and Gory; Hawk-moth Pii-
lampelus typhon Kulg, and 8 Honey-
ants, Myrmecocystus. 42909.

Craiac, R. Len, Fossil, Wyo.: Three fossil
fishes (41622); 3 fossil fishes from a
quarry at Kemmerer (42927). Pur:
chase.

CraneE, W. E., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Seventy
specimens of Clinton fossils from Mc-
Keeys, Pa. Exchange. 42115.

Crawrorp, J. G., Albany, Oreg. Through
Dr. Leonhard Stejneger: Three photo-
graphs of archeological specimens.
42562.

B. (no address given): |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

CrIDDLE, NorMAN, Aweme, Manitoba,
Canada: Three specimens of Lewcobre-
phos middendorfi, a rare Lepidoptera.
42527.

Cripps, O. N., Aiken, S. C.: ,‘‘Glass
snake,’’ Ophisaurus ventralis, from South
Carolina. 41660.

| Crossy, F. W., Washington, D. C.: Ba-

saltic lava, garnetiferous sand, and a

portion of a tusk of a mammoth (?)

from St. Michael and Nome, Alaska

(41642); diatomaceous earth from

Colby, Wash. (41650); specimens of

silicified wood from Glover, Idaho

(42205); specimen of molybdenite from

near Campo, San Diego County, Cal.

| (42464); specimen of massive granite

from 20 miles east of San Diego (42574).

| Cross, Warrman. (See under Interior
Department, U. 8. Geological Survey.)

CrosstncHamM, W., U. 8. National Mu-
seum: Snake (Coluber guttatus), from
Silver Hill, Md. (41506); salamander

| (42690).

Crozier, Brig. Gen. WiLu1AM, U.S. Army.
(See under War Department. )

Cutten, O. C.
Institution. )

(See under Smithsonian

Currin, R. P., U.S. National Museum:
One hundred and forty specimens of
miscellaneous insects from Alberta,
North Dakota and Minnesota (41545).
(See also under A. N. Caudell; H. G.
Dyar; Washington Biologists Field
Club; E. B. Williamson. )

Curtiss, A. H., Jacksonville, Fla.: Two
hundred and twelve plants from New
Providence Island. Purchase. 41606.

Cusuine, Mrs. F. H., Washington, D. C.:
Zuni suit. (Loan.) 9473.

Cusick, W. C., Union, Oreg.: Two hun-
dred and four plants from Oregon.
Purchase. 41815.

Currer, W. P.
Library of.)

Dat, Dr. W. H., U.S. Geological Sur-
vey: Nine color sketches of fishes
painted by the donor while a student
under the elder Professor Agassiz, in-
cluding the species Holocentrus; Rhom=
bus triacanthus; Perca flava-pupurea;

(See under Congress,

LIST OF

Dai, Dr. W. H.—Continued.
Chetodon brownriggii; Mesopion; Pristi-
poma rodo; Ocyurus chrysurus and Gly-
phiodon (41445); specimen of quartz
crystal from Herkimer County, N. Y.
(41717); about 140 specimens of West

American chitons (41928); 237 speci- |
mens, 48 species, of land and marine |

shells from Alaska, California, Arizona,
Mexico, Venezuela, Canada, and other

localities (42307); specimen of Conus |

teniatus (42385).

Damon, C. A.., Fenton, Mich.: Deringer |

pistols and revolver. (Loan.) 93894.

. (Returned. )

Damon, Rospert F., Weymouth, England: |
Slab of Oentacrinus fossils, slab of Tri- |
gonia clavata, 18 fossils crinoids, 12
ammonites, and 13 miscellaneous fossils |

meteorites from |

(41838), L: Pi X.;

Bialostock and Krasnojarsk (42053). |

Purchase.

Danie, J. W., jr., Washington, D. C.:
Two specimens of Swainson’s warbler,
Helinaia swainsoni, and an Ant thrush,
Thamnophilus
skins from Mount Rogers, Va. (41483);
3 specimens of Parus carolinensis and
1 of Porzana noveboracensis from Vir-
ginia (41809); small mammals from

Virginia (42296); 11 birds’ eggs and 2 |

nests of North American birds (42509).

Davenport, Homer, Morris Plains, N. J.;
Twenty-two birds, principally
downy young of the Impeyan, Golden,
Reeve’s, and other pheasants (41454);
specimen of Sonnerat’s jungle fowl,
Gallus sonnerati (42010); 2 specimens of
pheasant, Chrysodophus pictus and Calo-
phasis elliott (42583); chicken of a Green
jungle-fowl, Gallus varius (42819).

Davey, F.C. P. (See under Mrs. C. N.
Chapman. )

Davipson, A., Los Angeles, Cal.: Two
plants from California. 41277.

Davinson, Mrs. A. 8., Washington, D. C.:
Piece of silver Chinese money. 41937.

Davis, Prof. C. ABport, Providence, R. I.:
Thirty-eight species of Bermudan
shells (41623); 3 shells from Bermuda
(42069); cotypes of 2 species and 9
varieties of Bermudan shells (42389);

the |

IDAs Die TOE Whee 10

sp. (41309); 5 birds’ |

ACCESSIONS.

119

Davis, Prof. C. AsBorr—Continued.
41 specimens of shells from Bermuda,
including 8 lots of cotypes of recently
described forms (42628).

Davis, Mrs. E. J., Buffalo, N. Y.: Two
specimens of unfinished bead work.
42486.

Davis, L. F., Le Roy, Kans.: Specimens
of Calamites cistii Brogn., and Calamites
suckowtt Brogn. (41799); mollusks,
pearls, sample of oil, piece of lava and
water-worn pebbles (42126).

Davis, Dr. 8. A., Yonkers, N. Y.: Rep-
tiles and batrachians from Ecuador.
42409.

Davis, W. A. . (See under Manitou Min-
eral Springs Company. )

Dawson, Mrs. M. M., Washington, D. C.:
Two Oglala Sioux war bonnets. Pur-
chase. L. P. X. 42560.

S. Geological Sur-
vey: Specimen of pyrophyllite from
Murphy, N. C. (41620); specimens of
cassiterite from Gaffney, 8. C. (41823);
rock from Mariposa County, Cal.
(41945); pig iron from Spottswood fur-
nace on the Rappahannock River,
Spottsylvania County, Va. (42108);
graphite from Bald Mountain, New
Hampshire (42536).

Dayton, C. N., New York City: Nine-
teen photographs of Mexican ethno-
logical objects. Purchase. 41403.

Deam, C. C., Bluffton, Ind.: Thirty
plants from Indiana (41909; 42265).
(See also under A. A. Heller. )

Dean, Dr. BasHrorp. (See under Dr.

F. T. Delfin. )

Dr BerEErRs CoNsoOLIDATED Mines, Kim-
berley, South Africa: Received through
Gardner F. Williams, general manager.
Specimens of rock and blue ground;
also concentrates from the Kimberley
mines. 42728.

Decker, G. M., Waco, Tex.: Luna moth.
42886.

Detrin, Dr. F. T., Valparaiso, Chile: Re-
ceived through Dr. Bashford Dean,
Columbia University, New York City.
Deer from Chile. Exchange. 32618.
120

Demine, Dr. N. L., Walloon Lake, Mich.:
Moth representing the species Erebus

odora Linneeus. 41451.
EMOKIDOFF, K., St. Petersburg, Russia:
Eighteen hymenopterous parasites

(41348; 41547); 12 specimens of Hy-
menoptera parasitica (41738); 23 speci-
mens of parasitic hymenoptera (41924;
42408).

Denman, Miss M. 8., New Brunswick,
N. J.: Slab of stone containing a fossil
fish representing the species Ischchyp-
terus sp. 41540.

Dennis, F. M., Albany, N. Y.: Fossil
fruit of a palm representing the genus
Sabal. 41725.

Dr Perv, H. P., Jacksonville, Ill.: Speci-
men of long-tailed Ichneumon fly, Tha-
lessa lunator Fabricius. 42835.

DerBy, OrvILLE A., Sao Paulo, Brazil:
Diamond-bearing gravel with an im-
bedded diamond from Minas Geraes,
Brazil. 42694. (See also under An-
tonio M. Magalhaes, jr.)

Dericxson, Prof. 8. H., Lebanon Valley
College, Annyille, Pa.: Three speci-
mens of Vespertilio. 42418.

DescHamps, Emit, San Jose, Cal.: Collec-
tion of natural-history material from
Shanghai, China. Purchase. 41273.

De Usrra, Vicente, Ponce, Porto Rico:

Eight stone celts from Porto Rico.
41575.
Dietrich, Hon. Herrman R., consul-

general, United States of America,
Guayaquil, Ecuador: Sample of ‘‘ Palo
de Balsa”’ or ‘‘ Balsa log,’’ and a sam-
ple of ‘‘Bejuco”’ or wythe. Received
through State Department. 42319.

Dimmock, GrEorGE, Springfield, Mass.:
One hundred specimens of larvee, rep-

resenting Culex cantans, C. dyari, and ~

C. sp. 42691.

Dissrow, Dr. W.8., Newark, N. J.: Cry-
stal of spodumene, of historic interest,
being one of the first known crystals
found by Doctor Hitchcock at Hunting-
ton, Mass. (413851); 225 minerals from
Great Notch, New Jersey, and 3
minerals from Franklin, N. J. (42163).

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Drxon, CHarRLEs, Harlesden, London,

England: Twenty-four birds’ skins
from various localities. 42377.

Drxon, Rotanp B., Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.: Eight Maidu bas-
ketsfrom California. Purchase. 41905.

Dop, F. H. W., Millarville, Alberta,
Canada: Received through Dr. H. G.
Dyar. Lepidoptera. 42138.

Doper, Byron E., Davison, Mich:
Thirteen archeological objects (9413);
grooved stone axe (9510). (Loan. )

Donas, C. K., Port Huron, Mich.: Thirty
plants from Michigan (42364); 5 spec-
imens of Laciniaria scariosa (42421).

Doper, W. C., Washington, D. C.: Sixty
cartridges for small arms. 42429.

Dopson, W. R. (See under Department
of Agriculture. )

Dorr1incer, C., & Sons, New York City:
Glass model of the ‘‘Excelsior’’ dia-
mond. 42585.

Dorrance, Miss F., Dorranceton, Pa.: Ten
specimens of Amphipods representing
the species Lepidactylis dytiscus Say,
from Mosquito Lagoon, Florida. 42775.

Dorsey, G. A., Field Columbian Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: Four Tlinkit house posts
and 2 totem posts. Purchase. L. P. X.
42671.

Dowe 1, Purp, U.S. National Museum:
Specimen of Polygola nuttallii from Ta-
koma Park, D. C. (41469); about 30
plants, principally ferns, from Staten
Island, New York (42270).

DRESDEN, GERMANY: KONIGLISCHES Zoo-
LOGISCHES UND ANTHROPOLOGISCHES-
ETHNOGRAPHISCHES Museum: Received
through Dr. A. B. Meyer. Three skins
of Sturnide (exchange) (41464); 125
negatives taken in the Philippine
Islands (gift) (41586).

Dusots, ConsTANCE GODDARD, Waterbury,
Conn.: Small basket, a root used in
dyeing baskets, and a few dyed splints.
42646. (See also under American Mu-
seum of Natural History. )

Dusoss, J. H., Huguenot, Ga.: Seventy-
two specimens of unios; also human
bones (41552); skull found along the
LIST OF ACCESSIONS, PA

Dusose, J. H.—Continued.

base of one of the old Rembert Indian
mounds near the bank of Savannah
River, Petersburg District, Ga. (41816);
spider (42887).

Ducis, Dr. A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Re- |
ceived through Department of Agricul-

_ ture. Plant from Mexico. 42378.

Dunuap, R. G. (See under Department
of Agriculture.)

Dyar,. Dr. H. G., and R. P. Currie, U.S.
National Museum: A. N. Caudell, De-
partmentof Agriculture: 18,355 insects,
consisting of Arachnida and Myriapoda

‘from British Columbia (41365); collec-
tion of Lepidoptera, comprising 20,320
specimens from British Columbia
(41463).

Dyar, Dr. H.G. (See under Theo. Bry- |

Anica eerie We Doda Hi Ds Merrick,
Washington Biologists’ Field Club. )

Earir, Mrs. Avice Morse, Brooklyn, |
N. Y.: Three bayberry candles. 42627. |
EasterBrook, Miss Erva, Camden, N.J.: |
| Emmons, Lieut. G. T., U. 8S. Navy,

Twenty-seven Confederate notes. 41313.

Eastman Kopak Company, Rochester, |
N. Y.: Eastman-Walker roll-holder, |
1885; Eastman detective camera of 1887; |
kodak of 1888; 4-folding kodak of 1890; |
B. daylight kodak of 1892; pocket ko- |

dak of 1895; folding kodak of 1902;
folding kodak of 1903. 41782.

Eastwoop, Miss Aticr, Academy of Natu-
ral Sciences, San Francisco, Cal.: Fif-

teen plants from California (41232; |

41278; 41286; 41381; 42816); specimen
of Woodwardia sp. from California
(413824). (See also under Department
of Agriculture. )

Epmunpoz, Juan C., Kingsford, Fla.:

Fossil teeth from Florida. Purchase.
41308.

Epson, G. E., St. Albans, Vt.: Six fossil
brachiopods. 41911.

Epwarps, A. J. (See under Dr. R. E. C.
Stearns. )

Eaypr Expioration Funp, London, Eng-
land. (See under Smithsonian Insti-
tution. )

EXRRENSBERGER, Fritz, Eichstiitt, Bavaria,
Germany: Ninety-two specimens of

EHRENSBERGER, FRitz—Continued.
Jurassic invertebrates from the quar-
ries of Eichstitt (purchase) (41914);
9 specimens of squids, crabs, and worms
from the same quarries (purchase)
(42143); fossil fishes (purchase) L. P. X.
(42477).

Evper, J. H., Atlanta, Ga.: Fossorial
wasp, representing the species Specius
speciosus Drury. 42480.

| Eatin, G. D., Port Orford, Oreg.: Longi-

corn beetle, Rosalia melancholia Motsch,
and a Buprestid beetle, Buprestis ad-
jicta Horn. 41766.

Eimer, A. D. E., Palo Alto, Cal.: Five
hundred and forty-eight plants from
California. Purchase. 41828.

Emerson, W. O., Haywards, Cal.: Forty-
seven birds’ skins from California.
42572.

Emery, J. S., Emeryville, Cal.: Small
cube of granite from Newcastle Island,
near Nanaimo, British Columbia.
41732.

Princeton, N. J.: Stone pile driver
from Knights Inlet, British Columbia,
and a Klikitat basket from Victoria;
also 2 fish bags from’ Victoria (pur-
chase) (41495); ethnological material
from the northwest (purchase) L. P. X.
(41512); 14 antique baskets from
Thompson River, Alaska, and 2 awls
made by the Thompson River Indians
of British Columbia ( purchase ) (41665) ;
ivory implement from northern Alaska
(exchange) (41874); 2 killing clubs, 5
feast spoons, and a Shaman blanket
(purchase) L. P. X. (42081); basket
shot pouch made by the Tlinkit Indi-
ans of Sitka (exchange) (42338); Chil-
kat blanket shirt (purchase) L. P. X.
(42526); ethnological material from
British Columbia (exchange) (42638).

Eneuisn, G. L., New York City: Speci-
mens of minerals and ores. Purchase.
AP. Xe A879"

Esunaur, Mrs. N. M., Terminal Island,
San Pedro, Cal.: About 25 specimens
of marine shells (Renilla) (Benedict)
from California (42000); specimens of
Bittiumfrom California (42345); 5 speci-
122

Esunaur, Mrs. N. M.—Continued.
mens of bryozoansand a fragment of a
sponge from Catalina Channel (42546).

Estey, Mrs. J. J. (See under National
Society of the Daughters of the Amer-
ican Revolution. )

EuREKA SLATE COoMPANY,
@al.: Specimen of blue and gray slate
from a quarry at Slatington. 41975.

Evans, Dr. A. W., New Haven, Conn.: |

Thirty-six specimens of Hepatice from
Jamaica (exchange) (42299).

Evans, Dr. R. H., Demerara Museum, |

Georgetown, Demerara: Eight skins of
Hoatzin or ‘‘Stink bird,’’ with two

nests and branches on which they |

were found. Purchase. L. P. X.
42104.

EvERMANN, Prof. B. W., Bureau of Fish-
eries, Department of Commerce and
Labor, Washington, D. C.: Six fossil
plants from Chignik, Alaska. 41647.
(See also under Department of Com-

merce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )

FarrBANKs, Mrs. C. W.

Slatington, |

(See under Na- |

|

|

tional Society of the Daughters of the |

American Revolution. )

Fawcerr, H.8., Salem, Ohio: Five speci-
| Fisuer, Dr. A. K., Department of Agri-

mens of Nymphea advena Ait from
Salem. 41301.

Faxon, Dr. Watrrer. (See under Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoology, Cam-
bridge, Mass. ) :

FEATHERSTONHAUGH, Dr. THomas, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Bell-mouthed blunder-
buss. 42452.

Keir Dirt se a albanive IN je Yoseelayio
specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera.
42458.

Fenyss, Dr. A., Pasadena, Cal.: Two spec-
imens of beetles representing the spe-
cies Palxoxenus dohrnii Horn. 41899-

FrerNALD, Dr. H. T., Hatch Experiment
Station, Amherst, Mass.: Three slides
of Thysanoptera representing cotypes
of species described by Doctor Hinds.
41932. (See also under Dr. A. D. Mor-
rill. )

FERNEKES, VAuL., Milwaukee, Wis.: Five
specimens of Lepidoptera. 42334.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Frrnow, Dr. B. E. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )

KmRRISS, J. He, Joliet As
Panax. 41426.

Fewxes, Dr. J. Water, Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, Washington, D. C.: Wax
candle or taper from Porto Rico (41390) ;
carib hammock, cassara strainer, fans,
and a set of rope harness (42911). (See
also under Smithsonian Institution,
Bureau of American Ethnology, and
Sefior Arturo Subifia. )

Leaves of

Fretp CoLumBIAN MusEum: Specimen of
NXapus alleni (exchange) (41295); me-
teorite from Brenham, Kiowa County,
Kans. (purchase) L. P. X. (42367);
piece of a meteorite from Mexico (ex-
change) (42907).

Fretp, GrorGr, Washington, D. C.: Re-
ceived through Otto Heidemann.
Specimen of East Indian beetle, Dio-
wenes dendrobii. 41479.

Fixx, Joun, Nashua, Fla.: Tooth of a
mammoth, and piece of a fossil bone.
42147.

First ZooLoaican Insrirure oF THE In-
PERIAL Untyersity. (Seeunder Vienna,
Austria. )

culture, Washington, D. C.: Specimen
of Mammillaria from Texas (41594);
snake (Ophibolus getulus), from Annap-
apolis Junction, Md. (41438); 5 birds’
nests and 5 birds’ eggs from Guadeloupe
Island (42153); carapace of a large
snapping-turtle, Chelydra — serpentina
(42219). ;

Fisoer, H. L., Califon, N. J.: Received
through Department of Agriculture.
Plant from New Jersey. 42837.

FisHeries, U. 8., Bureau of. (See under
Department of Commerce and Labor. )

Fiske, Witu1aAm F., Department of Agri-
culture: Three hundred specimens of
Lepidoptera from Tryon, N.C. (42193);
19 specimens of Myriapoda from the
same State (42678).

FiercHer, Dr. James, Ottawa, Canada:
Twenty-five specimens of Orthoptera
(42003); 2 inflated larvee of Semaphora
(42031); 4 moths (42316); 12 specimens
LIST OF

Fiercuer, Dr. J AMEs—Continued.
of Lepidoptera, types of mew species
described by the donor (42757).

Forrsrr, A. F., Dayton, Ohio: Specimens
of Ordovician fossils. 41532.

Fons, F. J., Marion, Ky.: About five
hundred specimens of Middle Chester
fossils (41307); fluorite crystals from
Hardin County, Ill. (41435). Exchange.

FoorE Mrinerat Company, Philadelphia,
Pa.: Minerals and ores (purchase)
L. P. X. (41881); 3 specimens of fayal-
ite from Rockport, Mass.; specimens
of hanksite from Borax Lake, Cali-

fornia, and a specimen of selenite from |
South Dakota (purchase) L. P. X.
(41946); 14 minerals (purchase) L. P. X.
(42235); polished slab of rose quartz
from Black Hills, 8. Dak. (exchange)
(42704). |

Foorr, Prerson & Co., New York City:
Received through Clarence A. Stimp-
son. Morse telegraph apparatus, con-
sisting of a relay, sounder, key, and
resonator (41949); twentieth century
telegraph key (42158).

Forses BroruHers, San Rafael, Cal.: Two
specimens of jasper. 42241.

ForsusH, E., care United States consul,
Port-au-Prince, Haiti: Twelve  speci-
mens of land shells from Haiti. 41902.

Forrester, Rospert, Salt Lake City, Utah:
Fifteen specimens of minerals (41630) ;
specimen of martite from Iron County,
Utah (41713). Exchange.

Foster, WituiAmM T., Sapucay, Paraguay:
Thirty-five specimens of Coleoptera

(41709); 59 moths from Paraguay |
(42498). Purchase.
Fowker, GERARD, Bureau of American |

Ethnology, Washington, D. C.: Cave
material from Colossal Cave, near
Mammoth Cave, Ky. 41722. (See also
under Carnegie Institution. )

Fow.er, Greorce L., New York City:
Two colored drawings of locomotives
(41877); 10 tracings of steamboat ma-
chinery (41878). Purchase.

Fowter, J. O., Annapolis, Md.: Speci-
mens of Eocene fossils from near An-
napolis (42534; 42576; 42739).

ACCESSIONS.

| FurrtTss, L. A.

123

FraiLe, M., Washington, D. C.: Two
specimens of cultivated  Hawarthia
(41360); plants from Texas and the
District of Columbia (42331; 43786).

FRANCK, GEORGE. (See under American
Entomological Company. )

FRANKLIN, Dr. Metyiun, Philadelphia,
Pa.: Thirty-three photographs of emi-
nent musicians. 41357.

FrazeEE, W. E., Columbus, Miss.: Moth
( Citheronia regalis Fabr.). 41420.

FREDENDALL, Miss, Tucson, Ariz.: Speci-
men of Sphinx moth, Philampelis ache-
mon Drury. 41414.

FrEDHOLM, A., Fort Drum, Fla.: Received
through Department of Agriculture.
Six specimens of Caddis-flies. 41931.

Frencw, Dr. Crcit, Washington, D. C.:
Two wild turkeys representing the
species Meleagris silvestris. 42156.

Fric, V., Prague, Bohemia: Fifty-five
specimens of fossils from the Paleozoic
formations of Bohemia. Purchase.
41836.

Frierson, L. S., Frierson, La.: Five
specimens of fresh-water shells from
Japan (41777); four shells of Anodonta
from Japan (41891).

Friesser, JuLius, Holland, Mich.: Eight-
een skins and skulls of bats and 84
specimens of alcoholic bats. Purchase.
42919.

Frissy, R. H.
Company. )

(See under Swift and

Fucus, CHARLEs, San Francisco, Cal.
Seventeen specimens of Coleoptera.
41486. ;

Fucus, Dr. THEODORE.
Vienna, Austria, K.
isches Hofmuseum. )

(See under
Kk. Naturhist-
(See under Department

of Agriculture. )

Fuuier, C. V., Grand Ledge, Mich.:
Bar amulet (42218); cast of banner-
stone (42666).

Furceson, J. M., Kingsville, Tex.: Four
plants. 42569.

Fyes, Rev. T. W., Levis, Quebec, Can-
ada: Two specimens of dragon flies
(41737); 2 specimens of Lepidoptera
124

Fyues, Rev. T. W.—Continued.
and 2 specimens of Odonata (41803);
3 species of Hymenoptera (41393).

Gaur & Bro., Washington, D. C.: Two
watch movements. 42608.

Gant, J. H., Fort Scott, Okla.: Received
through Department of Agriculture.
Three specimens of cacti. 42787. (See
also under Department of Agriculture. )

GARFIELD HospiraL, Washington, D. C.:
Brain of a colored man. 41404.

GarRRETT, A. O., Salt Lake City, Utah:
Twenty-eight plants. 42384.

GeE, N. Gist, Soochow University, Soo-
chow, China: Miscellaneous insects
from China (41998); 7 wooden models,
consisting of a native small boat, sedan
chair, wheelbarrow, agricultural im-
plement, water-wheel and caraboo,
tea man, and a jinrikisha (42039).

GEOLOGICAL SusvgEy, U. 8.
Interior Department. )

(See under

GERRARD, E. & Sons, Camden, England:
Specimen of sheep (Ovis musimon)
(purchase) L. P. X. (42131); specimen
of Pantholops sp. (purchase) (42135);
mounted specimen of zebra (purchase )
(42370).

Gicuas, Ext, Flagstaff, Ariz.: Five plants
from Arizona. 42790.

GirrorD, E. W., Alameda, Cal.: About
40 specimens of fresh-water shells from
California. 42070.

GieLroui, Prof. Henry H., Florence,
Italy: Photographic copy of a Haida
Indian stone dish. 42396.

GILBERT, Mrs. A. P., Logan, Okla.: Speci-
men of a Solpugid. 41413.

GILBERT, Prof. C. H. (See under Leland
Stanford Junior University; and De-
partment of Commerce and Labor, Bu-
reau of Fisheries. )

GILBERT, Prof. G. K. (See under Smith-
sonian Institution, Bureau of American
Ethnology. )

Git, Mrs. M. W., Washington, D. C.:
One hundred and eighty-two tablets
illustrating Indian symbolism. Pur-
chase. L. P: X. (42518; 42598).

Git, Dr. T. N., Smithsonian Institution:
Carabao horn needle for weaving nets,

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Gi, Dr. T. N.—Confinued.
obtained from the Philippine Islands.
42801.

GiLueTre, Prof. C. P., Fort Collins, Colo.:
Twenty-four specimens of Orthoptera,
received through A. N. Caudell (42297);
24 specimens of Lepidoptera (42304);
17 specimens of Acridiidee (42353); 16
specimens of Microlepidoptera (42354);
39 specimens of Lepidoptera (42547).

GiLobEirA, J. J., Vedada, Habana, Cuba: |
Received through Department of Agri-
culture. Plant from Cuba. 42822.

GirauLtt, A. A., Blacksburg, Va.: Six
cotypes of Aulacidea solidaginis Girault
and 2 species of parasites (41248); 3
cynipid galls representing the species
Solenozopheria vacciniti Ashm. (41497);
5 specimens of a Braconid, Rhogas in-
termedius Cr. (41848); 2 specimens of
Hadronotus carinatiferus Ashm. (42895) .

Gopine, Hon. F. W. (See under H. J.
Brown. )

GOLDEN, R. A.
ine A. Carter. )

(See under Mrs. Cather-

GoLpMAN, E. A., Department of Agricul-
ture: Two plants from Mexico. 41300.
(See also under Department of Agri-
culture. )

Gotpman, L. J., Berkeley, Cal.: Two
specimens of Cotyledon from Califor-
nia. 41598.

Go.tpscumipt, V. H.: Received through
Prof. F. W. Clarke, U. 8. Geological
Survey. Specimen of anglesite on
galena from Monte Poni, Sardinia.
412338.

GONZALES, G.J.,Guaymas, Mexico: Rocks,
fossils, and minerals from Mexico. Ex-
change. 42454.

GoopE, Harry, Philadelphia, Pa.: Rail-
road link of obsolete pattern. Pur-
chase. 41645.

Gorpon, R. H., Cumberland, Md.: Speci-
men of Pseudocrinites perdewi with arms
(42043); specimen of pseudo-meteoric
iron from near Cumberland (42382).

GraBHAM, Dr. M., Kingston, Jamaica:
Seven adult mosquitoes and larvee from
Jamaica. 42520.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

GRaF, THEODORE, Vienna, Austria: Thir-
ty-two heliographs of Greeco-Egyptian
portraits. 41522.

GRAHAMSTOWN, SoutH ArFrricA, ALBANY
Museum: Received through Dr. S.
Schénland, director. Two elands.
Exchange. 42013.

GRANT, Gen. FREDERICK D., U.S. Army:
Illuminated parchment presenting Gen.
U.S. Grant with the freedom of the
city of Londonderry, Ireland.

Grant, G. B. (See under A. A. Heller.)

Gray Hersarium, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.: Two plants from

‘Arizona and New Mexico’ (41981);
plant from Mexico (42785).

42659. |

Gray, Mrs. Wit, Soddy, Tenn.: Canary |

bird. 42221.

GREBLE, Mrs. M. D., Washington, D. C.:
Four baskets. Loan. 8909. Returned.

GREELY, Gen. A. W., U.S. Army. (See
under War Department. )

GREENE, Dr. E. L.
Copeland and E. Janazerosky. )

GREENE, Dr. H. W., Springfield, Mass.
Old-style saw. 42441.

Greer, ©. S., Western Union Telegraph
Company, Columbus, Ohio.: Telegraph
switch board and a Brooks telegraph
insulator. 42110.

GrecerR, D. K., Fulton, Mo.: Eleven
specimens of coal-measure fossils from
Washington, Mo. 42029.

GrirFin, A. C., Pierre, S. Dak.: Mammal
representing the species Putorius ni-
gripes. 41741.

GrirritHs, Davin, Department of Agri-

culture: Plants from Arizona (42083;

49947).

Grimes, J. H., Durango, Colo.: Received
through Max Pracht. Specimen of
azurite crystals. 41864.

GrRONWALL, Dr. Cart A., Copenhagen,
Denmark: Four hundred specimens
of Cambrian fossils, collected by the
donor. Purchase. 42722.

Grour, Dri AS J., Brooklyn, N.
Twenty-five specimens of mosses. Pur-
chase. 41800.

(See under E. B. |

Ese]

125

Gruss, Dr. R. B., U. S. Army, The Pre-
sidio, San Francisco, Cal.: Swords,
knives, and other articles belonging to
the Moro tribes in the vicinity of Lake
Lanao, Mindanao, P. I. (8498); carved
Nautilus shell (9090). (Loan. )

Gruber, F. (See under Memorial Mu-
seum, Golden Gate Park, San Fran-
cisco, Cal. )

Guerin, T. M., Decatur, Nebr.: Ethno-
logical objects from the islands of
Guam and Saipan. 42501.

Gunn, J. M., Laguna, N. Mex.: Fossil
bones, including the upper end of hu-
merus and the lower end of femur
of a Belodont, Heterodontosuchus ganei.
41423.

GuNTHER, Dr. A., British Museum ( Nat-
ural History), London, England:
Mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes.
42075.

Hatt, Dr. C. L., Elbowoods, N. Dak.:
Photographs of Indians. 42238.

Haut, C. Lyon, Port au Prince, Haiti,
West Indies: Shells from Lake Enri-
quillo, Haiti. 41493.

Haut, H. M., University of California,
Berkeley, Cal.: Plant from California
(41607); received through Department
of Agriculture, 15 plants from Califor-
nia (41787); 3 specimens of Ribes from
California (41884); 240 plants from
California (purchase) (42244).

Hawtiock, CHARLES, Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of copper ore from the Wind-
sor Bush mine, near Plainfield, Mass.
41617.

Hammerstigen, H. L., Chicago, Ill.: Two
snakes and 2 geckos (41455); also spec-
imen of European viper (41456).

Hampson, Sir GreorGce F., British Musem

(Natural History), London, England:
Seventeen specimens of Lepidoptera
from Norway. 42621.

Hanps, E. J., Willcox, Ariz.: Moth.
41343.

Hanuam, A. W., Victoria, B. C.: One
hundred and fourteen specimens of
Lepidoptera. 41527.

Harper, Rotanp M., College Point,
N. Y.: Three specimens of Nymphxa
126

Harper, Roranp M.—Continued.
from Georgia (41302); musical sand
from Canoochee River, near Grove-
land, Ga. (41379); 4 species of land
shells (42882).

HarrRimMaAN ALASKAN EXPEDITION: Re-
ceived through U. 8. Geological Sur-
vey. Three boxes containing a col-
lection of rocks and thin sections of
rocks. (Transmitted to the Museum
through Prof. Charles Palache.) 41844.

Harris, GRAHAM H., Chicago, Ill.: Lock
Leven Trout, Salmo levenensis,
Madison River, Montana. 41707.

Harris, J. H. (See under Department
of Agriculture. )

from,

Harris, L. C., Genoa, Ney.: Received |

through Smithsonian Institution, Bu-
reau of American Ethnology.
bead charm. 42493.

HARsHBARGER, Dr. JoHN W., University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Thirty-one plants,
North Carolina. Exchange. 41772.

Harrman, Cart, Austin, Tex.: Specimen
of hymenopterous parasite. 41249.

Hartt, I. H., Manitou, Colo.: Geological
specimens from various localities. Pur-
chase. L.P. X. 41753.

Piute |

Rare
principally from

Harrwetu, Mrs. CHARLES, Long Beach, |

Cal.: Specimen of IJschnochiton from
San Pedro, Cal. 42227.

Harvey, Frep, Kansas City, Mo.: Four-
teen Chinook skulls ( purchase ) (41387);
23 Chimehuevi baskets and 21 Nez
Percé bags (purchase) L. P. X. (41388);

10 Maidu baskets (purchase) L. P. X.

(42213).

Harvey, R. V. Vancouver, British Co- |

lumbia: Ten specimens of Lepidoptera.
41526.

Hasse, Dr. H. E., Soldiers’ Home, Cal.:

Four living plants from California
(41226); 2 plants and 74 specimens of
lichens,
(41956; 42258).

Hasserr, Burperr, Reliance, Va.: Speci-
men of Sharp-shinned hawk, Accipiter
velox. 415038.

principally from California |

Hartcu, J. W., Fruitland, N. Mex.: Mad- |

stone. (Loan.) 9280.

|

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Hatrenpor?, F. C., Western Springs, II1.:
Specimen of Raspberry gall, Diastrophus
turgidus Bassett. 41849.

Hautevitte, Mrs. F. C. p’, Washington,
D. C.: Received through Mrs. M. B.
Wheaton. Sword and pair of bullion
epaulettes, to be placed with other,relics
of Maj. Gen. Alexander McComb, U. S$.
Army. (Loan.) 8797.

| Hawuey, E. H., U. 8. National Museum:

Whistle harmonica. 42831.

Hay, Prof. W. P. (See under Depart-
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau
of Fisheries. )

Hayes, W. R., Skidmore, Tex.: Received
through Department of Agriculture.
Three plants from Texas. 42084.

Hememann, Orro, Washington, D. C.:
Specimens of Limnexa from the District
of Columbia. 42861. (See also under
George Field. )

Heiacuway, A. E., Habana, Cuba: Re-
ceived through Dr. G. P. Merrill.
Four eggs of Stria jflammea furcata.
42107.

Heuter, A. A., Pacific Grove, Cal.: Two
plants from California (gift) (41354);
482 plants from California (purchase)
(41814); 639 plants collected by George
B. Grant and J. W. Congdon in Cali-
fornia (purchase) (41246); 2 plants

from California (gift) (41276); 285
plants from California (purchase)

(41318); plant from California (gift)
(41991); 246 plants from California
and Europe (purchase) (42092); 65
ferns from Europe (purchase) (42106);
20 plants from California (gift) (42280;
42591; 42605); about 60 plants from
Mexico collected by C. C. Deam (gift)
(42637); 10 living plants from Cali-
fornia (exchange) (42654; 42655).
HempuHi.i, Henry, San Diego, Cal.: Six-
teen specimens of Amphithalmus from
California (gift) (42540); photographs
of west American shells illustrating
variations, ete. (gift) (42614) ; 649 spe-
cies or varieties of land shells from
California (purchase) (42930).

Henperson, Mrs. A..P., Chicago, Ill:
Six samples of beads collected hy Car]
Lumboltz. 41428.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Hensuaw, H. W., Hilo, Hawaiian Is-

| Hinps, W. E.

lands: Specimens of Macruran crusta-

ceans (41484); specimen of Conus cotus
L., and a slide containing a mount
of teeth of the same, from Hilo
(41759); crustaceans, worms, mollusks,
and other invertebrates (41822) ; crus-
taceans and a specimen of Flying-
gurnard or ‘ Robin,’’? Dactylopterus
(41854); 540 specimens of Hawaiian
Succineas and Achatinellas (41939);
crustaceans, worms, and a fish (42062);
30 specimens of fossil land shells from

the Hawaiian Islands (42229); 3
specimens of Gephyrean worms
(42259); Planarian worm (Stylochus ?)
(42709); crustaceans, echinoderms,
worms, and a nudibranch mollusk
(42800).

Herron, W. G., U.S. Geological Survey:

Specimen of Sunflower coral, Recepta- |

culites oweni, from Big Iron Mountains. |

42726.

Heusyer, Dr. Karu, Belize, British Hon-
duras: Specimens of Trichuris trichiwra
(=Trichocephalus dispar). 42323.

Hewirr, Foster, Pittsburg, Pa.: Copper
ore, and specimens showing weather-

ing, from near the Choix River, Mexico. |

42573.

Herywoop, Maj. Gen. CHar.es, U.S. Ma-
rine Corps (retired ), Washington, D.C.:
Loving cup of silver presented to him
by the officers of the U. 8. Marine
Corps, on the occasion of his retirement
from the service. (Loan.) 9472.

Hickman, Dr. C. W., Augusta, Ga.: Pair
of Spanish dueling pistols. ( Loan.)
8682.

Hin, E. J., Chicago, Ill.: Thiyty-seven
plants from Illinois. Exchange.
42502.

tia forceps L. 42045.

Hititman, F.H. (See under J. Wheeler. )

Himatays Minrna Company, New York
City: Six specimens of tourmaline
from California. Purchase. L. P. X.
42599.

| Hottz, Marri, Vienna, Austria:

12%

(See under Department
of Agriculture. )

Hines, GrorGrE H., Oregon Historical So-
ciety, Portland, Oreg.: Siliceous peb-
bles from Oregon. 41626.

Mivxiey, A. A., Dubois, Ill.: Ninety-
three specimens of mollusks from the
Southern States. 42863.

Hirasp, Y., Kyoto, Japan: One thousand
three hundred and fifty-one specimens
of shells from Japan (41422); 1,106

specimens of Japanese mollusks
(42918). Purchase.
HocHpDERFFER, Col. GrorGeE, Flagstaff,

Ariz., and ©. A. Purpus, Zacatecas,
Mexico: Small collection of fishes
from Mexico. 42032.

Hopexr, Dr. E. R., Army Medical Mu-
seum, War Department, Washington,
D. C.: Two bows, bolo, shield, spear-
heads, and a fishing spear from the
Philippine Islands. Exchange. 42024.

Hopeman, C. M., Waterway, Va.: Two
specimens of Dynastes tityus. 42689.

Hopson, FE. R., Washington, D. C.: One
hundred and five plants collected at
St. Regis Falls, N. Y. (41805); received
through the Department of Agricul-
ture; 44 plants from Maine (41434).

HotierituH, Herman, Washington, D. C.:

Three guns and a pistol. (Loan.)
9304.
Hout, G. W., East Andover, N. H.:

42197.
Eight
reptiles and batrachians from Europe.
Purchase. 41389.

Plant from New Hampshire.

| Hotway, E. W. D., Decorah, Iowa, and

Mexico, Mexico: Plants, seeds, and
fungi from Mexico (41813; 41834;
41895; 41955; 42035; 42365; 42422).

; ie : | Horr Garpens, Botanical Department of
Hiuuiarp, G. R., Springtield, Ohio.: My- |

riapod representing the species Cerma- |

Jamaica. (See under Kingston, Ja-

maica. )

| Hopkins, L. 8., Troy, Ohio: Beetle (Hu-

41524.

Hopkins, 8S. J., Mount Holly, Va.: Stone
axe from a shell heap at the mouth of
Nomini Creek, Westmoreland County,
Va. 42826.

phoria inda Linneeus).
128

HorGan, Epwarp, U. 8. National Mu-
seum: About 25 specimens of land-
shells from Colonial Beach (41433) ;
18 specimens of caddis worms (42537).

Hernune, Dr. Joun, San Francisco, Cal.:
Starfishes, bats, reptiles, shells, fossil,
and a bird (exchange) (41952); 120
specimens of marine shells from Cali-
fornia (gift) (42223).

Hoven, Dr. Water, U.S. National Mu-
seum: Ethnological objects collected in
New Mexico (purchase) (41791); speci-
men of porcupine skull from Arizona;
Louisiana lottery ticket, dated Decem-
ber 12, 1893; 12 plaster casts of medals;
bound volume of ‘‘ History of the Sol-
diers’ Medals,’’ and an ancient docu-
ment relating to the home of Wash-

ington (gifts) (41855; 41876; 41975;
42027). (See also under Dr. F. M.
Zuck. )

Hovsst, H. D., Bronx Park, N. Y.: Nine
specimens of Bryophyta collected in
New York by Mr. W. R. Maxon and
himself. 42251.

Hovey, F. L., Auburn, Me.: Specimen
of pyrrhotite. 41553.

Hovey, G. U. 8., White Church, Kans.:
Fourteen flint implements. 42065.

Howarp, Dr. L. O. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture; Charles E. Jen-
ney; H.-S. G. Titus. )

Howe, Arthur. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )

Howe 1, A., Lipscomb, Tex.: Specimen
of cactus from Texas. 41264.

Howett, A. H., Biological Survey, De-
partment of Agriculture, Washington,
D. C.: Fifty-five specimens of plants
from New Mexico. 41507.

Howe, E. E., Washington, D. C.: Nine
quartz crystals, specimen of cut smoky
quartz, opal, tabular calcite, cleavage
calcite, 3 quartz spheres, and a sphere
of crocidolite (purchase) L. P. X.
(42049); specimen of sepiolite from
Eskihi-Shehr, Asia Minor (exchange)
(42544); meteorites (purchase) L. P. X.
(42588); meteorite from Mount Joy,
Pennsylvania (gift) (42687).

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

HrpuitéKa, Dr. A. F., U.S. National Mu-
seum: Brainof a negro woman (41698);
3 Banderilla from Jalesco, Mexico
(41708); specimen of Junco hyematlis
(41794); Indian sparrow (41916); 25
brains of various birds and mammals
(41976); ceremonial stick from Jalesco,
Mexico, 2 bands from Huichol, Jalesco,
and a pouch-band from the same lo-
cality (41980); humerus (42195); 100
brains of various kinds (42249); brain of
a red squirrel, Chickarree (41254); brain
of a white American adult male (41298) ;
Huichol ceremonial band made on a
small loom (42348).

Hupson, Joun, Dean, Mont.: Fragment
ofa deer horn. 41646.

Hueues, Prof. T. McHenry. (See under
Cambridge, England, Sedgwick -Mu-
seum. )

HummMet, Gustave, Luling, Tex.: Re-
ceived through Department of Agri-
culture. Plant from Texas. 41340.

Hungate, J. W., Snoqualash, Wash.:
Six plants from Washington. 41314.

HunGerrorp Brass AND Copper Com-
PANY, New York City: Received
through Mr. B. Ris, assistant secretary.
Samples of solders and alloys manu-
factured by the company. 41339.

Hunter, D. W. (See under Department
of Agriculture. )

Hunter, WixiiAm, National Zoological
Park, Washington, D. C.: Plant. 42658.

InertmnGc, Dr. H. von, Museu Paulista,
Sao Paulo, Brazil: Sixteen specimens
of fresh-water shells. 41999. (See also
under Sao Paulo, Brazil. )

Instituto Mrpico Nacronau.
City of Mexico, Mexico. )

(See under

InTERIOR DEPARTMENT, United States Ge-
ological Survey: Rock specimens from
Bennington quadrangle (41244); speci-
men of titanium mineral and crude
petroleum (41621); sample of sand
from Bebara River, Colombia (41745);
1,932 fossil insects collected by Dr.
S. H. Seudder (42117); 2 specimens of
dentritic limestone from Grand Can-
yon, Arizona (42157); specimen of
fulgurite from Crested Butte, Colo.,
LIST OF

InrerRIoR DeEpARTMENT—Continued.
collected by Mr. Whitman Cross (42211);
specimen of crystallized arsenopyrite
from Custer County, Colo., obtained
by Mr. Cross (42212); 47 specimens of

Cretaceous ammonites, described and |

ACCESSIONS.

figured by Hyatt in monograph No. 44 |

of the Survey (42253); specimens of
tetradymite and garnet from Colorado
and California (42333); rocks illustrat-
ing the geology of the Bisbee, Ariz.,
quadrangle (42400); lead and zinc ore
from Arkansas, and sulphur and asso-
ciated rocks from Nevada (42442); col-
lection of Tertiary fossils, including
duplicates and study series, containing

about 12,000 lots of specimens, and, in —
the reverse series, about 40,000 speci-
mens, mostly determined, labeled, and |

arranged in zoological and stratigraphic
order (42740); rocks from Oklahoma
and Indian Territory, obtained by Mr.
T. Wayland Vaughan (42776); 1,458
specimens of Cambrian brachiopods
collected by the Survey and 1,842
Cambrian brachiopods collected for
the National Museum by Prof. 8. Ward

’ Loper (42867); fossil plant obtained by
Mr. L. M. Prindle (42888). (See also
under Harriman Alaskan Expedition
and Dr. David White. )

JACKSON, GEORGE, Deadwood, 8S. Dak.:
Twenty-nine specimens of ore. 41992.

Jackson, 8S. E., Trinidad, British West
Indies: Received through Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Eth-
nology. Eleven carib axes and 16
specimens of lava from St. Vincent.
42915.

Jacosps, E. H. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Eth-
nology. )

JAMBUNATHAN, Prof. N. S., Native Col-

lege, Madura, India: Fifty-two spiders
from India. Exchange. 42273.

129

James, Mrs. JunrAn—Continued.
apron of master mason, and ring of
Theodorus Bailey, U. S. Senator from
New York in 1803 (loan) (9145); Kor-
ean fan presented to her by Prince
Minionette of Korea (gift) (41785).

JANAZEROSKY, E., Cracovie, Austria: Re-
ceived through Dr. E. L. Greene. Two
specimens of Ribesfrom Europe. 42903.

Janson, O. E., & Son, London, England: ”
Twelve hundred and fifty-one speci-
mensof Lepidoptera. Purchase. 41571.

JAYNES, Ropert T. (See under E. Dwight
Sanderson. )

JENNEY, CHARLES E., Fresno, Cal.: Re-
ceived through Dr. L. O. Howard.
Eight specimens of rose-gall, Rhodites .
politus. 42885.

JENSEN, Herr A. §., Zoological Museum,
University, Copenhagen, Denmark:
Cotype of Pecten frigidus Jensen, from
the North Atlantic Ocean. 42165.

JEpson, W.L., Berkeley, Cal.: Five plants

from California. 41262.

JoHn, ANDREW, Washington, D. C.:
Models of baskets, etc., of the Seneca
Indians. Purchase. 41513.

Jonnson, Prof. O. B., Seattle, Wash.:
Seventy-three specimens of Lepidop-
tera. Exchange. 42539.

JOHNSON, S. ARTHUR.

Agricultural
Colo. )

(See under State
College, Fort Collins,

JONASSOHN, Oscar T., New York City:
Manufactured ruby (purchase) (41475);
genuine and imitation stones (gift)
(41476).

Jongs, A. W., Salina, Kans.: Received
through Dr. T. W. Stanton. Concre-
tions of silicobarite from near Bavaria,
Kans. 41944.

_ Jones, Mrs. B. F., Bordentown, N. J.:

JAMES, GEORGE WHARTON, Pasadena, Cal.: |

of
41579.

Seventeen photographs
women making baskets.

James, Mrs. Junian, Washington, D. C.:
| Jones, McDurrer, and Srrarron Com-

Masonic relics of Hon. Mordecai. y-

ers, consisting of a jewel of past grand

master, apron of past grand master,
NAT Mus 1904——9

Indian |

Colonial bill of New Jersey, ‘‘one shil-
ling,’’ March 25, 1776. 41835.

Jones, Francis W., New York City: Pho-
tograph of eminent electricians. Pur-
chase. 42012.

PANY, Boston, Mass.: China plate and
calendar file. 42173.
130

Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City, Utah:
Seven plants from Mexico and Arizona
(gift and exchange) (41514; 41786;
42590).

‘JorDAN, Dr. Davin Starr. (See under
Leland Stanford Junior University and
Alan Owston. )

JosepH, Ler, Cuero, Tex.: Last molar
of a mastodon (Mastodon americanus).
41371.

Joynss, A. L., manager of Kast Tennessee
Telephone Company, Paducah, Ky.:
Specimen of submarine cable laid
across the Tennessee River at Paducah
before the civil war. 41534.

June, A. M., Desmet, Idaho: Four fossil
plants. 42834.

Kapp, Homer, Bluffton, Ind.: Received
through Prof. E. B. Williamson. Speci-
men of Vesperrat ( Nyctomys)from Bluff-
ton. 41833.

KarpE.ss, Dr. S. R., Washington, D. C.: |

Human fceetus; foetus; white foetus
(gift) (41860; 42511; 42517); two
human foetuses (exchange) (42261).

Kerarrott, W. D., New York City: Nine
specimens of hymenopterous parasites
(41452); 463 specimens of butterflies
belonging to the family Hesperide
(42076).

Kearney, T. H., Department of Agricul-
ture: Two hundred and ten plants col-
lected on Plummers Island, Montgom-

ery County, Md. (41450; 41461; 41467; |
| Knap, Freperick, Washington, D. C.:

Ketioae, Prof. V. L., Leland Stanford
Junior University, Stanford University, |

41518).

Cal.: Cotypes of Aleyrodide repre-
sented by 24 species. 41767.

Kenpatt, Dr. W. C., Bureau of Fisheries:
Two specimens of Nymphza hybrida
from Aroostook County, Me. 41297.
(See also under Department of Com-
merce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )

Kennepy, Dr. Harris, Yokohama, Japan:
Six bats from Japan. 42808.

KessLer, H. H., El Cajon, Cal.: Speci-
men of orbicular gabbro from San Diego
County (41230); orbicular diorite from
near San Diego (42113).

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Kw, Lonpon, ENGLAND, Roya Botanic
GARDENS: Two hundred and seventy-
eight plants from various localities
(42381); living plant (42487). Ex-
change.

Kine, G. B., Lawrence, Mass.: Shell
representing the species Limaa mai-
mus. 41429.

Kineston, JAMAICA, HopE GARDENS, Bo-
tanical Department of Jamaica: Three
specimens of ferns (Asplenium) from
Jamaica. Exchange. 42411.

Kinney, Mrs. Louise Cariin, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Life-sized portrait of George
Catlin, in oil, painted by a Royal Acade-
mician in 1849. (Loan.) 9419.

KINRADE, J. J., San Francisco, Cal.:
Twelve specimens of minerals from va-

rious localities. Purchase. L. P. X.
41636.
Kirk, W. Strokes, Philadelphia, Pa.:

42467.

Kisainouyek, Dr. K., Imperial Japanese
Fisheries Bureau, Tokyo, Japan: Jap-
anese corals (41407); received through
Dr. Hugh M. Smith, 2 specimens of
Salanx ariakensis and a crab (41430).

New Hall carbine, .54 caliber.

K. K. NarurHIstorRIscHES HormusEumM.
(See under Vienna, Austria. )

Kuaces, E. A., Crafton, Pa.: Twenty-
eight specimens of Scarabeeidee (41353) ;
117 specimens of Scarabzeidee (41719);
hemipteron representing. the species
Scaptocoris castanea Perty, from Vene-
zuela (41764).

Six specimens of caddis flies, a may-fly,
and a wood-tick. 42725.

Know ton, Dr. F. H., U. 8. Geological
Survey. Two hundred specimens of
Lepidoptera from Needle Mountains
and Silverton, Colo. (42386); 128 plants
from Colorado (42407). (See also under
H. Nebriling. )

Kwy-ScHEERER Company, New York City:
Two specimens of batrachians repre-
senting the species Rana macrodactyla
and Hyla simplex (purchase) (42028);
7 birds’ skins (gift) (42570).

Kornia, Apotr, Pittsburg, Pa.: Two
stone hammers and two cupped stones.
42714.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

KoNGELIGE FREDERIKS UNIVERSITET.
(See under Christiania, Norway. )

KO6nIGLicHes BoraniscHES Museum. (See
under Berlin, Germany. )

KOniIGLICHES Museum FUR NATURKUNDE.
(See under Berlin, Germany. )

KonreLicHes Museum rtirk VOLKERKUNDE.
(See under Berlin, Germany. )

KONIGLICHES ZOOLOGISCHES UND AN-
THROPOLOGISCHES-E THNOGRAPHISCHES
Museum. (See under Dresden, Ger-
many. )

Koons, B. F., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Specimen
of imax maximus Linneeus. 41521.

Krantz, Dr. F., Bonn, Germany: Two
slabs of Pentacrinus (purchase) L. P. X.
(41349); 204 invertebrate fossils from
the Devonian of Germany and the
Carboniferous of Belgium (purchase)
(41903); 51 specimens of fossil shells,
ammonites, crinoids, ete. (purchase)
(42144) ; lumachel, chrysoprase, tridy-
mite, and quartz from Europe (pur-
chase) L. P. X. (42181); specimen of
Steneosaurus bollensis (Jaeger) from the
Lias of Holzmaden, Wurttemberg, Ger-
many (purchase) L. P. X. (42225);
specimen of Jchthyosaurus and a fossil
palm (purchase) L. P. X. (42676).

Kraus, Josepa, Llano, Tex.: Three spec-
imens of dolomitic marble (42059); 3
specimens of dendritic limestone
(42809).

Kunz, G. F.. New York City: Specimen |

of californite from Indian Creek, Cali-

fornia. 42332.

Kwiat, A., Chicago, Ill.: Forty-four
specimens of Lepidoptera (42274;
42713).

Lacey, Howarp, Kerrville, Tex.: Skin
and 2 skulls of Odocoileus
42641.

Lamp, Dr. D.8., Army Medical Museum,

Washington, D. C.: Two cadavers of |

babies (41610); brain and body of a
female baby (42277).

Lanprum, Linton D., Columbus, Miss.:
Natural formation. 41487.

Lang, H. M., International Correspond-

ence Schools, Scranton, Pa.: Received |

through Dr. David White. Two speci-

texensis. |

131

Lane, H. M.—Continued.
mens of Bothrodendron
41727.

Lane, T. T., Solomon, Alaska: Received
through E. J. Noge. Butterfly repre-
senting the species Parnasius clodius
var. altaurus Dyar. 41480.

Laney, F. B., State Museum, Raleigh,
N. C.: Six hundred pounds of leopard-
ite and trap dike from Charlotte, N. C.
(purchase) (42060); gangue rock from
Gundstaff and Buchanan mica mine,
Haywood County, N. C. (42448). (See
also under G. P. Merrill.)

Lane, G. L., superintendent of tele-
graphs, Chattanooga, Tenn.: Telegraph
bracket from General Burnside’s war-
time telegraph line, Pulaski County,

punctatum,

Ky. 41490.
LaRABOLA MINING AND DEVELOPMENT
Company, Chicago, Ill.: Received
through Frank L. Race, secretary.

Samples of copper ore from mines in
Madison County, Va. 42242.

Laur, F. A., Passaic, N. J.: Specimens
of Dog-sucking lovse, Heematopinus pili-
ferus Burmeister. 41457.

LAWRENCE, W. H., Pullman, Wash.:
Seven slides of parasitic Hymenoptera.
41897.

Lawrence, Dr. W. J., Chicago, Ill.: Sec-
tion of polished tourmaline. 41478.
Lez, Dr. S. L., Carson City, Nev.: Ob-
sidian arrowhead and two flaking tools.

42756.

Leaman, J. B., Edwards, Miss.: Speci-
men of Horntail, Tremex coluwmba.
42883.

| LELAND STANFORD JR. UNIVERSITY, Stan-

ford University, Cal.: Types and co-

types of fishes collected in Japan by

Dr. David Starr Jordan, Mr. J. O.

Snyder, and others (41488); received

through Prof. C. H. Gilbert, Japanese

fishes collected by Messrs. Jordan and

| Snyder (42263).

Lemon, Frank, New York City: Four
busts of American Indians. Purchase.
li RX 427318

| Lepper, Miss ApELAIpE, Bladensburg,

Md.: Luna moth, Actias luna Linneeus.

42643.

132

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Lermonp, N. W., Thomaston, Me.: Fif- | Lowry, Louis, Chicago, Ill.: Specimen

teen specimens of shells (41893); but-
terflies from Paraguay (42267).
Lester, F. A., Washington, D. C.: Speci-
mens of fossil wood from various local-
ities in the District of Columbia (41961);

concretionary limonite and ironstone |
|

concretions from the District of Colum-
bia (41974; 42548); 25 specimens of

Upper Cretaceous mollusks from a |
cutting in the Chesapeake Beach Rail- |

road (42717).
LEvINSEN, Prof. G. M. R.
Copenhagen, Denmark. )
LimperG, F., Ladd Lime Company, Car-
tersville, Ga.: Crab spider, Acrosoma

(See under

gracili Walck (= Eperia rugosa Hentz). |

41259.

Lirtir, Dr: G. W., Glens Falls, N. Y.:
Specimen of Crimson tragopan (41917);
specimen of Impeyan pheasant (42305).

LockHART, Henry, jr., Barranca del Co-
bre, Chihuahua, Mexico: Specimen of
Mycetophilid, a family allied to the
mosquitoes. 41801.

Locrarr, Wiui1aAM, Washington, D. C.: |

Large specimen of Small-mouthed
Black bass, Micropterus dolomei, from
the Potomac River. 41808.

Lorsner, Tu., Berlin, Germany: Five

plants from Guatemala. 42008.
Lonpon, ENGLAND, British MusrumM

(NaturAL History): Six bats. 42485.

Lorrer, Prof. S. Warp.

Survey. )

Lovett, Epwarp, England:
Specimens of ‘‘tribulum,’’ or harrow
flint, and other folk-lore objects (ex-
change) (42021); 3 pieces of Maundy
money of Edward VII, of the issue of
1904 (42612).

Lowes, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: Twelve
specimens of Anomurans (Blephari-
poda) (41228); marine shells including
types of several new species from Long
Beach (42057) ; 16 specimens of marine
shells from California (42166, 42228);
crustaceans (42663).

Croydon,

)

Lowrie, E. D., Elyria, Ohio: About one
hundred specimens of amphipods from
Elyria. 42326.

|

|

(See under In- |
terior Department, U. 8. Geological |

of copper ore from Milans Gap. Ex-
change. 42159.

Lucas, F. A., U. S. National Museum:
Brain of a walrus (41477); skin of
Snowy owl, Lgretta —candidissima
(41971); crustaceans and worm para-
sites from Newfoundland (42257).

Lumwottz, Cart. (See under Mrs. A. P.

Henderson. )
Lusk, R. D., Lansing, Mich.: Four eggs

So
and a nest of Myiarchus lawrencei olina-

scensfrom Arizona. Purchase. 41781.

Lurz, FRANK E., Station for Experimental
Eyolution, Cold Spring Harbor, Long
Island, New York: Eight specimens of
Hemiptera. 42850.

Lyon, Dr. M. W., U.S. National Museum:
Three specimens of Nymphza variagata
(Engelm) Miller (41346); 24 plants
from New Jersey (41441); 2 specimens
of Mus inusculus (42055).

Lywoop, L. W., Gainsville, Va.: Speci-

men of Blue-winged teal, Querquedula
discors. 42503.

| Mac Fappgn, C. K., Beaumont, Tex.:

Snake (Elaps fulvius) from Hardin
County, Tex. 41982.

McCauuin, Dr. 8. W., Geological Survey
of Georgia, Atlanta, Ga.: New species
of Pentremites (42792); received through
Dr. David White, specimen of Tregono-
carpum ampulleforme from the.Carbon-
iferous of Georgia (42844).

McC.ienpon, J. F., University of Texas,
Austin, Tex.: One hundred and twenty-
five specimens of dragon-flies. Pur-
chase. 42155.

McComs, Maj. Gen. Aurx. (See under

Mrs. F. C. d’ Hautville. )
McComp, G. T., Lockport, N. Y.: Speci-
mens of Rochester shales fossils. 41711.
McCoy, P. H., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen
of Melanopsis jordanica. 42515.
McCreapy, 8. M., Green Lake Station,
Seattle, Wash.: Longicorn beetle, Hr-
gates spiculatus Le Conte. 42180.
McDowe 1, J. A., City of Mexico, Mexico:
Plant from Mexico. 42082.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

McEuwee, W., Washington, D. C::
Flicker, or Golden-winged woodpecker,
Colaptes auratus. 42579. |

McGer, W J, Washington, D. C.: Skull
of a Nebraska Indian. (Loan.) 8641. |
(See also under Smithsonian Institu- |
tion, Bureau of American Ethnology.) |

McGrecaor, Mrs. A. M., Mamaroneck,
N. Y.: Two specimens of Voluta juno- |
nia from Florida. 42541.

McGreaor, R. C., Philippine Museum,
Manila, P. I.: Specimens of mollusks
and myriapods from the Philippine
Islands and the United States (42346);
butterflies from Calangan Island |
(42566).

McGuire, J. D.
Institution. )

McKay, C. M., Portland, Oreg.: Three
specimensofagate. Purchase. L. P. X.
41634.

Mcki, C. E. (See under Pennsylvania
Railroad Company. )

McKnew, C. A. (See under B. A. Bean. )

McKusicx, M. N., Calais, Me.: Specimen
of molybdenite from Cooper mine,
Cooper, Me. 41721.

McLean, D., Rampart, Alaska: Received
through Dr. T. W. Wilcox, U.S. A. (re-
tired). Horns of a fossil bison with
partial crania. 41710.

McLeEay, Mrs. J. J.. Washington, D. C.:
Basket and four beaded collars from
California (purchase) (41780); 2
squirrel-skin robes (gift) (42843).

McLe.uan, Capt. C. H., U. S. Revenue- |
Cutter Service: Stone arrowhead and
wooden spearhead. (Loan.) 9112.

Mapetry, WituiaAm, Stourbridge, Eng-
land: Specimens of Wenlock shales |
bryozoans. Exchange. 42459.

(See under Carnegie

MaGatnagrs, ANTonio M., Jr., Sao Paulo,
Brazil, South America: Received |
through Dr. Orville A. Derby. Three |
specimens of fossil wood from Lagoa
station, on the Mogyana Railroad near
Casa Branca, Sao Paulo. 42836.

Masor, Dr. C. T. Forsyth, British Mu- |
seum (Natural History), London, Eng- |
land: Ten skeletons and 2 skulls of
mammals. Purchase. 41562.

| MATSUMURA,

1338

Man, Dr. J. G. de, Ierseke, Zeeland, Hol-
land: Received through Miss M. J.
Rathbun. Two specimens of fresh-
water crabs (Potamon converus), from
Java. 41894.

MANHATTAN ELEcTRiIcAL Suppty Com-
pany, New York City: Received through
Mr. ©. A. Stimpson. Morse telegraph
apparatus, consisting of a relay, sounder,
and key. 41948.

MINERAL ‘SPRINGS COMPANY,
Manitou, Colo.: Received through Mr.
W. A. Davis. Specimens of Manitou
mineral water. 42543.

Marston, Weir, Fort Snelling, Minn.:
Salamander
41523.

Manitou

(Ambystoma — tigrinum).

' Martin, A. F., Jersey Shore, Pa.: Long-

sting, Megarhyssa lunator Fabr. 41252.

Marvin, Dr. M. F., U. 8. Army, Manila,
P. I.: Reptiles; ferns and insects; 3
specimens of Mole-crickets; insects,
spiders, myriapods, and algze (42119,
41291, 41412, 42276).

Mason, Prof. O. T., U.S. National Mu-
seum: Report of the inaugural cere-
monies of President Cleveland and
Vice-President Stevenson, 1898. 41716.

Mason, R. F., Carbondale, Pa.: Whitney
revolver. Loan. 42925.

MassEy, CHARLES F., Salisbury, N. C.:
Specimen of granite from near Salis-
bury. 42224. (See also under Dr. G. P.
Merrill. )

Marner, JAMeEs E., Muskegon, Mich.:
Fresh-water shells from Michigan. Ex-
change. 41668.

Marscuiz, Dr. Paut. (See under Koni-
gliches Museum fiir Naturkunde, Ber-
lin, Germany.

Dr. S., Sapporo, Japan:

Fifty-nine specimens of parasitic Hy-

menoptera (41762); through Dr. W. H.

Ashmead, 267 specimens of Hymenop-

tera (42475).

| Maxon, W, R., U. S. National Museum:

Bat, 40 cryptogams, specimen of Ves-
pertilio from Plummers Island (41440,
41466, 41338); 6 plants from the Dis-
trict of Columbia (41323); 2 specimens
of Botrychium from central New York
(42504). (See also under H. D. House. )

~~
134
“Mayer, Mrs. Harrier H. (See under
Smithsonian Institution. )

Maynarp, G. C., U. 8. National Museum:
. Twenty-three electrical instruments.
(Loan.) 8914.

Meapor, Curnton W., Corinth, Miss.:
Received through Dr. G. P. Merrill.
Four flint arrowheads from Cherokee
County, N.C. 42146.

Mearns, Dr. E. A.,,U. S. Army: Four-
teen mammal skins and skulls, birds
and mollusks from Forest Grove, Oreg.
(41234); 6 birds’ eggs, 3 shells and a
spruce cone (41250); 96 plants from
Oregon, Idaho, and Washington
(41258); tree toad from Oregon and a
pine cone from Idaho (41358); 7 speci-
mens of unios from Fort Snelling, Minn.

(41596); about 75 specimens of land |

and fresh-water shells, plant, and a bird

from the Philippine Islands (41889) ;

39 birds’ skins from the

Philippine |

Islands (41915, 41953); 62 plants, about |

60 specimens of land, fresh-water, and
marine shells from Mindanao (41962);
about 12 specimens of land shells from
Camp Overton, Mindanao (42037) ;
about 170 specimens of mollusks, 3
corals, 6 geological specimens, 2 plants,
and a bird from Mindanao (42063);
5 plants from the Philippine Islands
(42136); ethnological’ material, mol-
lusks, mammals, birds, birds’ nests,
insects, echinoderms, corals, plants,
and minerals from the Phillippine
Islands (42201, 42230); mollusks, mam-
mals, birds, crustaceans, plants, min-
erals, and ethnological specimens from
the Philippine Islands (42403, 42453) ;
Spanish Remington cartridge and a
Mauser cartridge (42795).

Mearns, Louis di Z., Circleville, Ohio:
Seventy-seven birds’ skins, principally
from Fort Snelling, Minn. (deposit)
(41292); 113 birds’ eggs and 5 birds’

nests from Fort Snelling (gift) (41312); |

rocks and fossils from the Yellowstone

National Park and Fort Snelling (gift)

(41367).
MEEKER, Dr. J. W., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
Specimens of <Apanteles congregatus

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Meeker, Dr. J. W.—Continued.
(Say), belonging to the superfamily
Ichneumonidee and family Braconide.
42320.

Meanper, Prof. A. L. (See under New
Mexico Agricultural College. )

MELVILLE, J. C., Brook House, Prestwich,
England: Seven species of shells from
the Persian Gulf. 41515.

MemortaLt Museum, Golden Gate Park,
San Francisco, Cal.: Received through

Mr. F. Gruber, curator. Fifteen birds’
skins from California. Exchange.
42366.

Mencet, Prof. L. W., Reading, Pa.:
Eight specimens of Lepidoptera from
Greenland and Florida. Exchange.
42675.

Merriam, Dr. C. H. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )

Merrick, H. D. New Brighton, Pa.
Received through Dr. H. G. Dyar.
Kighty specimens of Lepidoptera.
42174.

Merribew, Mrs. M. C. W., Long Beach,
Cal.: Specimen of Chiton from Califor-
nia and a specimen of Astarte from
Washington. 42648.

Merriti, Dr. Grorer P., U. S. National
Museum: Home-made magnifieror burn-
ing-glass from Auburn, Me. (41316):
rocks from Blue Ridge, southeast of
Luray, Va. (41380); specimen of trap
rock from Sheepscot River, near West-
port, Me. (41386); snake(Storeria dekayi)
from the Island of Springs, Sheepscot
Bay, Maine (41400); specimens of
coprolites from Fossil, Wyo. (41616) ;
about 2,000 pounds of jaspery hem-
atite from Ishpeming, Mich. (41637),
L. P. X.; about 2,000 pounds of rhodo-
chrosite from Butte, Mont. (41638);
specimen of fossil wood from Gallatin
County, Mont. (41661), L. P. X.; speci-
men of Horned toad, Phrynosoma brevi-
rostre, from Madison Valley, near Logan,
Mont. (41688); muscovite granite from
the Great Falls of the Potomac, Mary-
land (41778); geyser tubes from near
Opal, Uinta County, Wyo. (collected
for L. P. X.) (41827); large mass of
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Merriti, Dr. GEorcE P.—Continued.
leopardite from Charlotte, N. C. (41922) ;

granite from Lilesville, N. C. (41947); |

specimen of rough granite from Ad-
vance, N. C., collected for the Museum
by C. F. Massey (41989); rocks, fresh

and weathered, from North Carolina, |

3

collected by F. B. Laney (42264);
specimens of granite from North Caro-

lina (42702); collection of limonite |

pseudomorphs and specimens  illus-
trating the origin of iron ore, from
the Katahdin Iron Works, Piscataquis
County, Me. (42905); mica, apatite, and
associated minerals from Perkins, near
East Templeton, Canada (42906); Caen
stone from Christ Church Cathedral,
Montreal, Canada (42920). (See also
under A. E. Heighway, George Jack-
son, C. W. Meador, and A. T. Roos. )

Merritt, Dr. G. P. and William Palmer, |
Rocks and |

U. S. National Museum:
fossils from Mexico. 42455.

MeErRILL, J. F., Orono, Me.: Three speci-
mens of quartz from near Auburn, Me.
le Ee Xe 416415

Mercatr, A. B., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.:
Plant from New Mexico. 42880.

Mercaur, Prof. M. M., The Woman’s
College, Baltimore, Md.: One hundred

and thirty specimens of Lepidoptera.

Exchange. 42778.

Merz, W. C., Columbus, Ohio: Twenty-
five moths. 42342.

Mexico, City of Mexico: Seven plantsfrom |

Mexico collected under the direction
of Dr. Fernando Altamirano. 41011.
(See also under Instituto Medico Na-
cional. )

Meyer, Dr. A. B.
Germany: Kénigliches
und Anthropologisches-Ethnographi-
sches Museum.)

Meyer, FranK N., Orizaba, Mexico: Four
plants from Mexico. 42847.

Meynckg, O. M., Belfield, Va.: One hun-
dred and seven plants from Virginia
(42744; 42799; 42842).

Micuigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: Received through C. C. Adams,

(See under Dresden, |
Zoologisches |

135

MicuiGan, University of—Continued.
curator. Ten birds’ skins from Para-
guay. 42128.

Mickwirz, Dr. Auaust, Ingenieur, Reval,
Estland, Russia: Fifty specimens of
Cambrian fossils and 250 specimens of
Ordovician fossilsfrom England. 41882.

Miter, Dr. B. F., Bryn Mawr College,
Bryn Mawr, Pa.: About 42 specimens,
partly types of new species, of fossil
Cerion, Helicina, and Cepolis from the
Bahama Islands (Pleistocene). 42865.

Mitier, Mrs. E. P., Alexandria, Va.:
Specimen of Turkey buzzard. 42395.

Mituer, Miss E. R., Cleveland, Ohio:
Oak-gall representing the species Cal-

|  lirhytis corniger O. 8. (41247); 4 spe-
cies of galls (41489).
Mititer, Gerrit §., jr., U. S. National

Museum: Reptiles, mollusks, and
plants from Stony Man Mountain, Vir-
ginia (41256); mollusks and plants
from Luray, Va. (41287); 2 specimens
of Brunus from near Alexandria, Va.
(41402); water-lily obtained in Indiana
by Mr. Paul Bartsch (41572); frog
(Chorophilus feriarum) from Cameron
Run, Fairfax County, Va. (41664);
specimen of Pieris mariana from Vir-
ginia (41729); salamanders from Stony
Man Mountain, Virginia (42718); 57
plants from New York and Virginia
(42748; 42783); plant from Virginia
(41846); fresh-water and Jand shells
from Stony Man Mountain, Virginia
(42862); 22 plants from Virginia and
Texas (42300).

Miuuer, Miss Vrrarnta. _ (See under Na-
tional Society of the Colonial Dames cf
America. )

| Miter, W. S., Pagosa Springs, Colo.:
Specimen of soap-weed rope. 42220.

Miuis, Mrs. Mary E. (See under Mrs.
Catherine A. Carter.)

Mitts, OWEN W., Millberry, Mass.: Soap-
stone utensils and implements. 42022.

Miner, H. K., Birmingham, Ala.: Snake
(Osceola elapsoidea). 41551.

Minnesota, University of, Mineapolis,
Minn.: Ten specimens of Lacinaria
scariosa. 41283.

136

Minor, F. 8., U. S. Mint, New Orleans,
La.: Specimen of Stinging caterpillar,
the larva of Empretia stimulea Clemens.
41576.

MisenHEIMER, M. A., Roseburg, Oreg.:
Tree-frog, Hyla regilla. 41614.

Missourt BoranicAL GARDEN, St. Louis,
Mo.: Mexican plant (42589); plant
(42872). Exchange.

MircuHe tt, Dr. F. E., Washington Asylum
Hospital, Washington, D. C.: Foetus;
brain of a colored woman; skeleton of

a negro (41672; 41693) (gift); (pur-
chase). (41904).
MircHeLt, Mr. Henry, care Tweedy

Trading Company, New York City:
Skin of an albatross from the coast of
Chile. 41544.

MircHett, Hon. J. D., Victoria, Tex.: |

White worm, ant (Lobopelta septentrio-
nalis), beetle ( Cryptobium lecontei), ear-
wig (Libidura riparia Pall), specimen of
nematode (41613); 2 carapaces of Cal-
linectes sapidus from Old Indianola,
Tex. (41872); insects and reptiles from
near Victoria (42036); 12 specimens of
Planorbis obstricta Mor., from Texas
(42328); snake (Glauconia dulcis) and
2 parasitic worms of the genus Tenia
(42824).

Miyasima, Dr. M., Tokio, Japan: Twenty-
six adult and four vials containing early
stages of Japanese mosquitoes, repre-
senting about 14 species. 42727.

Monter, Dr. Jonn R. (See under De-
partment of Agriculture. )

Moorrs, Mrs. F. H., Elizabeth City,
N. C.: Carved oak cane made of wood
taken from the old U.S. 8. Hartford
(42711); sword used by Gen. Benjamin
Mooers of the Continental Army
(42712).

Mooney, JAMES. (See under Smithso-

nian Institution, Bureau of American |

Ethnology. )

Moork, CLARENCE B., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Specimen of ‘‘Piffer,’’? Lagocephalus
levigatus. 41927.

Moore, J. H., Washington, D. C.: Zine
ore from North Star mine, Crooked
Creek, near Harrison, Ark. 41459.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Morerra, Prof. Carlos. (See under
National Museum of Rio de Janeiro,
Zoological station. )

Moraan, Dr. E. L., Washington, D. C.:
White male foetus. 42611.

Morritu, Dr. A. D., received through
Dr. H. T. Fernald, Hatch Experiment
Station, Amherst, Mass. Three co-
types of bees, Bombus cooleyi Morrill
and 2 of Psithyrus latitarsus Morrill.
41424.

Morritu, A. W.
of Agriculture. )

Morris, E. L., Washington, D.C.: Thir-
teen plants from Nebraska. Exchange.
42613.

Morris, E. W., Marine Barracks, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Silver peso minted in
the United States for circulation in the
Philippine Islands. (Loan.) 8873.

(See under Department

Morris, G. E., Waltham, Mass.: Brach-
iopod crustaceans (42664) 12; speci-
mens of Asellus (42737).

Jegoviys di, Jala, Mbomeni«
42924.

Morrison, Va.:

Aphids.

Morss, E. V., Lorain, Ohio: Specimens
of Gyroceras and Conocardium from the
Corniferousof Sandusky, Ohio. 42491.

MortensEN, Prof. TH. (See under Co-
penhagen, Denmark, Zoological Mu-
seum. )

Morton, ALEXANDER, Curator, Tasmania
Museum, Hobart Town, Tasmania:
Obsidian ‘‘ button’’ from Glenely, Vic-
toria, New South Wales. 41723.

Moscow, Russta; Muskum or THE In-
PERIAL UNrIversity: Five casts of teeth
of Mastodon borsoni. 418381.

Mosetey, E. L., Sandusky, Ohio: Thir-
ty-six plants from Ohio (exchange)
(41887); 8 plants from Ohio (gift)
(42553); bat (Lasiurus borealis) with 3
young specimens (exchange) (42871).

Moutrton, Hon. Groree H., U. 8. consul,
Demerara, British Guiana: Thirteen
eges of Hoatzin, Opisthocomus hoatzin.
(42567; 42669.) Purchase L. P. X.

Mowsray, Louis, St. George, Bermuda:
Specimen of fish (Scorpena sp.), from
sf LIST OF

Mowsray Lovis—Continued.
Castle Harbor, and 3 specimens of fos-
sil land shells (41907); 12 specimens
of Helix (Eupanypta) pisana Mill from
Bermuda (42165); 33 specimens of
mollusks and 38 specimens of crusta-
ceans from Bermuda (42292).

MULLIKEN, Eare, University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, Cal.: Plant from Cali-

fornia. 42592.
Munro, G. C., Molokai, Sandwich
Islands: Plant. 41341.

Murauionpno, Sefior PRUDENCIO DE, con-
sul-general of Paraguay, Baltimore,
Md.: Specimen of phosphate rock from
South Carolina, representing the
Charleston deposit. 42050.

Murray, T. P., president North Carolina
Corundum Company, Corundum, N. C.:
Corundum and associations of rocks
and minerals. 41628.

MuSEED’ HISTOIRE NATURELLE. (See under
Paris, France. )

Museum oF CoMPARATIVE ZooLoay, Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Received through Dr.
Walter Faxon. Five specimens of
crabs from the Hawaiian Islands.
42868.

Museum or Fine Arts, Boston, Mass.:
Received through Mr. M. S. Prichard,
director. Plaster casts of Aretine
OG We 1 Go 2B YAlle

Musrum or THE IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY.
(See under Moscow, Russia.)

Museu PAutista.
Brazil. )

Nacx, CuHartes, Bahia, Brazil, South
America: Crystals of phlogopite from
Bahia. 42098.

(See under Sao Paulo,

Nationa Museum or Rio dE JANEIRO,
Zoological section, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, South America: Received
through Prof. Carlos Moreira. Four
alcoholic specimens (cotypes) of crus-
taceans from Brazil. 41824.

NATIONAL Socrery
Dames or America: Through Miss
Virginia Miller. Colonial mold for
pewter spoons. (Loan.) 8546.

ACCESSIONS.

OF THE COLONIAL |

137

NaTIONAL Socrety oF THE DAUGHTERS
OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, through
Mrs. C. W. Fairbanks, — president-
general: Six framed photographs and
record shield of the society (9279);
water-colored sketch of Continental
Hall (9395); received through Mrs.
J. KE. Estey, chairman of Revolutionary
relics committee, Brattleboro, Vt.,
framed facsimile of the agreement of
General Lafayette to serve in the Con-
tinental Army; framed Martha Wash-
ington stamp; cotton patchwork quilt;
blue and white patchwork quilt made
by the niece of Ethan Allen; 2 blue
and white platters from Mrs. Bruce, of
Quaker City Chapter, formerly the
property of Caleb Cushing; received
through Mrs. Fairbanks, 11 Revolu-
tionary relics; also the following pub-
lications of the Society: ‘American
Monthly Magazine of the National
Society of the D. A. R.;’’ ‘‘Report of
the D. A. R. to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution;’’ ‘‘ Directory of the D. A. R.;’’
gold souvenir spoon, souvenir porce-
lain with insignia of the Society, con-
sisting of a large cup and saucer, a small
cup and saucer, and asmall pitcher; and
a framed photograph of three badges
conferred by the Society on founders
and for special service (9259). (Loan. )

Narrress, THomas, St. Andrews Manse,
Amherstburg, Ontario, Canada: Twenty-
one Corniferous fossils from Essex
County, Ontario, and 75 Hamilton
fossils from Bartletts Mills, Ontario.
41921.

Navas, Rev. R. P. L., Colegio del Sal-
vador, Zaragoza, Spain: Twenty-eight
south European Neuropteroid insects
including an Embiid, 4 specimens of
Termitidee, 2 of Odonata, 4 of Myrme-
leonidee, and 17 of Chrysopidie (42581);
14 Neuropteroid insects (42596); 50
specimens of Odonata and 7 of Myrme-
leonidee from Spain (42828). Exchange.

NEEDHAM, Prof. J. G., Lake Forest, Il.:
Eighty-six specimens of dragon-fly
nymphs of North America. 41805.

Newriinc, H., Gotha, Fla. Received
through Dr. F. H. Knowlton: Two
plants from Florida. 42634.
158

Neuson, A., Laramie, Wyo.: One thou-
sand one hundred and two plants from
Utah, Nevada, and Wyoming. Pur-
chase. 41415.

NELSON, E. W., Department of Agricul-
ture, Washington, D. C.: Two hundred
and one plants from Mexico (41327;
41328; 41330); primitive spinning wheel
and dresses of 2 Maya women (41977);
eggs of Mexican birds (42154). Pur-
chase. (See also under Department of
Agriculture and Mrs. N. M. Brown.)

NerwHa tt, W. H., U.S. National Museum:
Concretions of ferruginous sandstone.
42716.

Newman, W. O., Meridian, Miss.: Speci-
men of Quercus pumila from Mississippi.
42481.

New Mexico AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE,
Mesilla Park, N. Mex. Received
through Prof. A. M. Melander, Univ.
of Chicago: Five types of Mutillide,
comprising Mutilla hamata Melander;
M. heber Mel.; M. arebus Mel.; M. trita
Mel., and M. grate Mel. 41674.

Newton, Mrs. Cuartes H., Washington,
D. C.: Canary bird. 42350.

New York BotranicaAL GARDEN, Bronx
Park, New York City: Two plants

(exchange) (41267); 4 plants (ex-
change) (41268); 280 specimens of

Pteridophyta collected in Jamaica by
Dr. L. M. Underwood (exchange)
(41269); 3 plants (parts of types) from
Texas, Louisiana, and Mexico (ex-
change) (41336); 148 plants from Colo-
rado (gift) (41703); 4 plants from
different localities in the United States

(exchange) (41886); plant from Mex- |
144 plants (ex-

ico (gitt) (41913);
change) (42014); 2 plants from New
York and California (gift) (42088); 82
plants from Martinique, Guadeloupe,
Florida, and other localities (exchange )
(42089); 2 plants (exchange) (42093);
plant (exchange) (42187); 245 plants
from Colorado (exchange) (42303);
500 plants from Jamaica (exchange)
(42554); 2 plants (exchange) (42813);
through Dr. N. L. Britton, 4 plants
(exchange) (42904).

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Nicnots, F. H., Perkinsville, Vt.: Speci-
men of asbestos from Weathersfield,
Vt. 42700.

NicHots, G. E., New Haven, Conn.: One
hundred and sixty plants from Jamaica.
Purchase. 42286.

Nicuots, Dr. J. B., Garfield Hospital,
Washington, D. C.: Brain of a white
American adult male. 41293.

Noas, E. J. (See under T. T. Lane. )

Norton, Prof. RicHarp, Rome, Italy:
Four casts from reliefs from the Arch
of Trajan. Purchase. L.P.X. 42866.

Nurse, Maj. C. G., Thirteenth Bombay
Infantry, Quetta, Baluchistan, India:
Forty-three species of Indian Cero-
palidee (new to Museum collection)
(gift) (41858); 130 species of Hymen-
optera from India (exchange) (42496).

Nyxanper, O. O., Newsweden Station,
Me.: Seven specimens of amphipods
from Caribou stream, Woodland, Aroos-
took County, Me. (42011); 20 speci-
mens of Helderbergian fossils from
Ashland, Me. (42148); supposed mete-
oric iron (42233).

O’Rettiy, Dr. R. M.
Department.

(See under War

OBERHOLSER, H. C. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )

Oapen, Dr. H. V., Milwaukee, Wis.:
Fifteen batrachians. 42123.

Ouproyp, Mrs. T. S., Los Angeles, Cal.:
Fifty-four specimens of marine shells
from California. (41847; 42152.)

Oupys, Henry, Washington, D. C.: Two
plants from the District of Columbia.
42926. (See also under Dr. J. E. Bene-
dict.)

Orcutt, C. R., San Diego, Cal.: Plants
from California. (Exchange and gift. )
(41298; 41597; 42183; 42753.)

Orb, Maj. James C., U. S. Army, Chevy
Chase, Md.: Two buffalo robes. 42860.

Orp, Mrs. J. P., Albany, N. Y.: Glass
berry dish presented to Gen. E. O. C.
Ord, U.S. Army, by General Diaz, of
Mexico, and said to have belonged to
Hernando Cortez. Loan. 8948.
LIST OF

Ossorn, Prof. H. F., American Museum
of Natural History, New York City:
Kight casts of feet of fossil horses.
Exchange. 41655. (See also under
American Museum of Natural His-
tory.)

OSBORNE, J. E., Norwalk, Ohio. Received
through Smithsonian Institution, Bu-
reau of American Ethnology. Two
iron axes of the pioneer period of the
Northwest, probably of French origin
(42330); Iroquoian antiquities from
Georgian Bay (42494).

Osaoop, W: H., Washington, D. C.:
“Plant from Alaska. 42854. (See also
under Department of Agriculture. )

Osiar, E. J., Alcott, Colo.: One hundred
and fifty specimens of Lepidoptera

(gift) (42809; 42310; 42317; 42368;
42436); 260 specimens of Orthoptera

from Arizona and New Mexico (pur-
chase) (42697).

Osmun, A. V., Amherst, Mass.: Specimen
of Equisetum scirpoides from Connecti-
cut. 42121.

Ouvres, Fetrx F., Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina: Aboriginal remains from the
province of Catamarca. 42720.

Owern, Vircin W., Los Angeles, Cal.:
Twenty-nine moths (42603); 2 speci-

mens of turtle (Kinosternon) from
Arizona (42921).
Owston, ALAN, Yokohama, Japan. Re-

ceived through Dr. David 8. Jordan:
Specimen of Mitsukurina owstoni from
Sagami Bay, Japan (purchase) (42120);
2 reptiles from Bonin Island, Japan
gift) (42639).

OxrorD, MusrEuM oF THE UNIVERSITY OF,
Merton College, Oxford, England. Re-
ceived through W. F. R. Weldon:
Three enlarged models of teeth of an
embryonic Ornithorhynchus. 42186.

Oztas, J. W., Lawrence, Kans.: Parts of
uniforms, documents, cartridges, shells,
ete., obtained in the Philippine Is-
lands. 41609.

Oz1as, O. O. (See under Computing
Scale Company, Dayton, Ohio. )

Pace, Lutu, Temple, Tex.: Eight plants,
including Solidago canadensis scabrius-

ACCESSIONS,

139

Pace, Lutu—Continued.
cula Porter; Eryngium leavenworthii T.
and G.; Euphorbia bicolor Engelm.;
Andropogon scoparius Michx.; Andro-
pogon hallii Hack., 2 specimens, and
Chrysopogon nutang (L.) Benth (41595);
plant from Texas (42741).

PackarpD, Mrs. 8S. A., Brockton, Mass.:
Small hand-made cushion. 41549.

Paeuiucut, F. D., Habana, Cuba: Speci-
men of Pipefish, Siphostoma louisiane (?)
from Pablo, Cuba. 41410.

Pang, J. H., Catalina Island, Cal.: Two
marine shells. 41482.

Painter, J. H., U. S. National Museum:
Four plants (41368); Sphinx-moth from
Toluca, Mexico (41929); specimen of
Senecio from Fairfax County, Va.
(42001); 167 plants from Pennsylvania
and New Jersey (42789).

PaacHeE, Prof. CHARLES. (See under
Harriman Alaskan Expedition. )

Patmer, G. W., Knik, Cooks Inlet, Alas-
kan: Grizzly bear, Ursus horribilis, from
the head of Knik Arm. Purchase.
LP X) 415630

PALMER, JosePpH, U.S. National Museum:
Snake (Ophibolus rhombomaculatus).
42750. ,

Patmer, Dr. T.S., Department of Agricul-
ture: Plaster cast of Calodontotherium
palmeri, a fossil vertebrate. 42142.

PautmMer, WiuuiAM, U. S. National Mu-
seum: Three hundred and twenty-eight
plants from Newfoundland (41362) ; frog
from St. Johns (41776); 29 specimens of
Diptera, 5 specimens of Lepidoptera,
and 2 specimens of Coleoptera (42194);
2 specimens of Succinea, 26 birds’ skins,
whale feed, Rhoda inermis (Kroyer)
from Newfoundland (42226; 42239;
42294); 12 plants from Arizona (42329) ;
reptiles and plants from Mexico (42456;
42472); 41 plantsfrom Missouri (42797) ;
7 birds’ skins from West Mexico (42830) ;
crustaceans and echinoderms from
Guaymas, Mexico (42870) ; 75specimens
of marine shells from La Pas, Lower
California (42879).

PautMerR, WILLIAM, and George P. Mer-
rill, U.S. National Museum: Rocks and
fossils from Mexico. 42455.
140

Pans, A. B., Gaffney, 8. C.: Two fossil
plants from Lafollette, Tenn. 42167.
Paret, Mrs. A. E. B., Sweetwater, Tex.:

Two plants from Texas. 41608.

Paris, France, Musée d’ Histoire Natu-
relle: Received through Count Robert
du Buysson. Twenty-five specimens of
wasps belonging to the family Vespide.
Exchange. 42499.

Parkuurst, Mrs. Chara, Washington, D.
©.: Two cockroaches (Blatta orientalis
Linneeus ) 42840.

Parks, Miss M. A., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Fossils, crustaceans, and a piece
of coral, bird skin, 45 specimens of land,
fresh-water, and marine shells, bat, 5
specimens of Labroid fishes, tooth of a
fossil shark, from the Azores. 41561.

Parsons, Miss M. E., San Rafael, Cal.:
Two specimens of Polypodium from
California (41798; 42116).

ParTELLO, Maj. J. M. T., U. S. Army,
Presidio, San Francisco, Cal.: Syntomid
moth (Syntomis). 41366.

PassMORE Gem Company, Boston, Mass. :
Emerald matrix from North Carolina;
ruby matrix from North Carolina, and
a paste model of a brilliant (gift)

(41473); 11 models showing styles of |

cutting gems (purchase) (41474).

Parrick, Prof. D. 8., Fort Smith, Ark.:
Spider (Ordgarius cornigerus Hentz).
41657.

Parrick, F. A., Palestine, Tex.: Larva of
a Chrysopa-fly. 41281.

PeaBopy Musreum, Boston, Mass.: Re-
ceived through C. C. Willoughby.
Casts of Quirigua Dwarf and Sastan-
quique sculpture. Purchase. L. P. X.
42489.

PEALE, E. W., through Dr. A. C. Peale,
U.S. National Museum: Oil portrait of
Prof. S. F. B. Morse, by Schussele.
41919.

PEARSALL, RicHarpD F., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
Received through Department of Agri-
culture. Four galls and 18 specimens
of parasitic Hymenoptera. 41851.

Prarson, CHARLES H.
gea Clock Company. )

(See under Chel-

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

PecxHam, Prof. G. W., Public Library,
Milwaukee, Wis.: Two moths. 42922.

PELLEGRIN, A. L., Nogales, Ariz.: Nugget
of native silver. 42449. :

PELLIGRINI, WILHELM, Chemnitz, Ger-
many:,Cast of fish (Forrelenbarsch) .
42890.

PENAFIEL, Dr. Anronto, Mexico, Mexico:

Casts of Mexican antiquities. Purchase.
L. P. X. 42584.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD Company, Pitts-
burg, Pa.: Received through C. E.
McKim, superintendent of telegraph.
Four old telegraph insulators, 3 Morse
telegraph keys, and a Morse telegraph
relay. 41460.

Prepoon, H. L., Chicago, Ill.: Twenty-
three specimensof violets. Exchange.
41361.

Perpew, A. G., Cumberland, Md.: Slab
of Arthrophycus harlani from Wills
Creek Gap, near Cumberland. 41942.

PERGANDE, THEO., Department of Agri-
culture: Two specimens of dragonflies
and three specimens of mayflies from
Minneapolis, Minn. 41654.

Perkins, R. C. L., Honolulu, Hawaiian
Islands: Received through Department
of Agriculture. Four cotypes of Ech-
throdelphax fairchildii Perkins, from
Oahu. 41648.

Perers, Maj. GEORGE.
sonian Institution. )

(See under Smith-

PrysterR, Gen. JOHN WATTS DE.
under Smithsonian Institution,
War Department.)

Prorptr, O. F., Rutherford, N. J.: Speci-
men of chalcedony from Mexico and
pectolite from West Paterson, N. J.
Exchange. 42061.

Pua.en, W. C., U. 8. National Museum:
Specimens of manganese and iron ores
from Crimora and Elkston, Va.; also
mastodon bones from Cave Station, Va.
42715. (See also under Frank W.

’ Wood. )

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, MANILA, BUREAU OF
Aaricutrure: Received through U. 8.
Department of Agriculture. Two thou-
sand four hundred and_ forty-three
plants and specimens of cellular crypto-

(See
and
LIST

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, ETC.—Continued.
gams from the Philippine Islands

(41279; 41699; 42140); 917 plants from |

the Botanical Garden of Java (42090).
Exchange.

PuHivipPINE Museum, Manila, P. I.: Re-
ceived through Hon. DeanC. Worcester.
One hundred and ninety-four birds’

skins from the Philippine Islands. |

41856.

Pierce, FRANK C., Dallas, Tex.: About
100 plants from Europe. 41883.

Piuspry, Dr. H. A., Academy of Natural

Exchange.

Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.: About 60 |

" specimensof land and fresh-water shells
from Mexico (41720); 7 specimens of
Holospira from Cave Creek, Chiricahua
Mountains and Fort Bowie,
(42661).

Preer, Prof. C. V., Department of Agri-
culture: Six hundred and four plants
from Washington (41667); received
through Department of Agriculture, 54
type specimens of plants principally
from Washington, D. C. (41806); 25
specimens of Decticine (42268); large
collection of insects, consisting of 2,930

specimens from Washington (State) —
(42343); 8 plants from Washington |

H 6 ; insects from Wash-
(42390; 42636); 48 i ts f Wasl

ington and Idaho (42668); 96 plants |

from Washington (42674); 5 plants
from California (42812).
der Department of Agriculture; Wash-
ington Agricultural College, Pullman,
Wash. )

Piers, 8. A., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: Three plants from
Louisiana. 41574.

Prret, A., Tournai, Belgium: Three hun-
dred and ninety-four specimens of
Lower Carboniferous invertebrates,
collected by Mr. Charles Schuchert.
Purchase. 41839.

Pitter, H., San José, Costa Rica: Three
hundred and twelve plants from Costa
Rica (purchase) (41857; 42279; 42282);
109 plants (purchase) (42281){ speci-
men of Asplenium from Costa Rica (gift)
(42412).

PiumMER, Frep. G. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )

OF ACCESSIONS.

Ariz. |

(See also un- |

141

| PocaTELLO GoLp AND CopprR MINING
Company, Pocatello, Idaho: Specimen
of copper ore. 41531.

Ponnporr, A. P., Butte, Mont.: Five
specimens of smoky quartz from Mon-
tana. 41627.

PoLuarD, C. L., U. S. National Museum:
Twenty-five plants from Ohio (41382);
44 plants from Plummers Island, col-
lected principally by Messrs. Pollard
and Dowell (41446); plant from the
District of Columbia (41535); specimen
of Triphora trianthopora from Plummers
Island (41730).

Potiock, Mrs. J. S., Tuxedo, Mexico:
Barred owl, Syrniam varium. 42240.
Potiock, Mrs. Mary, Washington, D.C.:
Six beetles and an insect from Talklai,

Ariz. 41652.

Pracut, Max, Durango, Cal.: Rhodo-
chrosite-manganese carbonate in quartz
(41918); specimen of topaz in matrix
of rhyolite (42190). (See under J. H.
Grimes. )

| Presir, EK, A. and A. E., Department of
Agriculture: Four specimens of dragon
flies (Odonata) and 3 of Lepidoptera
from Athabasca, Canada. 41659.

Prentiss, Dr. D. W., Washington, D. C.:
Plant from Newfoundland. 42301.

Preston, J. W., Baxter, Iowa: Received
through Dr. W. L. Ralph. Specimen
of Scarlet tanager, Piranga erythromelas,
in abnormal plumage. 42723.

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,
Socrety oF, Ponce, Porto Rico: Re-
ceived through the Bureau of American
Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution.
Twenty-two garouches, garouche han-
dle, metal horse bridles, wadded club,
whip handle, and 2 bridles with curbs.
42912.

Prey, Miss Mina, Porto Rico: Received
through the Department of Agricul-
ture. One hundred and thirty-seven
plants from Porto Rico. 41303.

PricHarp, M. 8. (See under Museum
of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. )

|
PriInDie, L. M. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. 8. Geological Survey. )

142

PRINGLE, C. G., University of Vermont,
Burlington, Vt.: Seven hundred and
seventy plants from Mexico and Cuba
(purchase) (41320); 4living plants from
northern Mexico (gift) (41812) ; 2 plants
(gift) (42188); 94 plants from Mexico
(purchase) (42231); 480 plants from
Mexico (purchase) (42444; 42506); 2
living plants from Mexico (42653).

Prirze., Dr. E., Botanical Museum, Ber-
lin, Germany: Seven hundred and
seventy-three plants from Australia.

Purchase. 42285.
Proxes, JosepH N., Jackson, Minn.:
Fragments of Indian pottery. 42041.

Pusitic Museum, Milwaukee, Wis.: Two
skins of weasels representing the spe-
cies in summer and winter coats.
42248.

Purrus, C. A., Zacatecas, Mexico, and
Col. George Hochderffer, Flagstaff
Ariz.: Small collection of fishes from
Mexico. 42032.

Purpus, .C. A., Zacatecas, Mexico: In-
sects from Mexico (part of Acc. 42032)
(gift); 33 plants from Mexico (pur-

chase) (42184); received through T. S. |

Brandegee, 30 plants from Mexico
(gift) (42679); 322 plants from Mexico
(purchase) (42693).

Purpus, J. A., Darmstadt, Germany: Two
specimens of Cotyledon purpusi from
Mexico. 41603.

Pusty, Mrs. M. J., Callao, Peru: Six
hundred and eight specimens of insects
from Peru, comprising 534 specimens
of Lepidoptera and 74 other insects.
41615.

PurnamM, Hon. HERBERT.
Congress, Library of.)
Purnam, W. B., Salt Lake City, Utah:
Eight specimens of cave calcite and

aragonite from Utah. 41629.

QUATREFAGE, CAMILLE, Coney Island,
N. Y.: Silver coin of Louis XV, dated
1757. Purchase. 41385.

(See under

Race, Frank L. (See under Larabola
Mining and Development Company,
Chicago, Ill.)

RaupeH, Dr. W. L., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Eleven mammals from New

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Ratpn, Dr. W. L.—Continued.
York (41695); 2 specimens of deer from
the Adirondack Mountains (41774); 2
specimens of Odocoileus virginianus from
New York (41912); 231 birds’ eggs irom
North America (42040). (See also un-
der J. W. Preston. )

Ramirez, Dr. J., Instituto Medico Nacio-
nal, City of Mexico, Mexico: Part of
type of a plant from Mexico. 41326.

Ramsey, C. E., Riverside, Cal.: Telescope
cigar holder. 41696.

Ranpuir, RichmMonp, Memphis, Tenn.:

Water bug, Coriva burmeisteri Fieb.
41850.
Rapp, SEVERIN, Sanford, Fla.: Three

plants from Florida. 41570.

Ratugsun, Miss M. J., U. 8S. National
Museum: Specimen of Hyalea eumingi
Desh., from the Indian Ocean. 42571.
(See also under Dr. J. G. deMan. )

RAvENEL, W. DeC., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Two specimens of deer ( Odoco-
ilus virginianus). 42078.

Reap, Prof. T. T., University of Wyo-
ming, Laramie, Wyo.: Ten specimens
of chaleedony. Exchange. 42048.

Reep, Dr. S. L., Wilsonville, Ky.: Speci-
men of Horn-tailed saw-fly, Tremex co-
lumba L. 41581.

Reep, THomas T.
Australia. )

Reeper, J. T., Calumet, Mich.: Ten
specimens of fungi (gift) (42198); 22
specimens of copper and associations
(purchase) L. P. X. (42199); specimens
of powellite and whitneyite (gift)
(42684). (See also under Tamarack
Mining Company. )

Rep, J. L. (See under Department of
Agriculture. )

(See under Adelaide,

Rerp, WiLit1Am, Tucson, Ariz.: Sample of
voleanic dust. 42124.

REMENKAMPF, Frau von, Borkholm
Schloss, Station Tamsal, Baltioch Eisen-
bahn, Russia: Thirty specimens of fos-
silss from the Borkholm formation.
42134.

Revercoon, J., Dallas, Tex.: Twenty-
three plants from Texas. (41391; 41954;
42087. )
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Reyno.ps, Dr. E. R., U. 8. Pension Office,

Washington, D. C.: Eight negatives of |

skulls. 42278.

Ruees, W. J., Smithsonian Institution:
Records of underground temperatures
and artesian wells. 42578.

Rice, B. W., Boise, Idaho: Specimen of
hyalite (42893); plant from Idaho
(42897).

Rics, D. L., Washington, D.C.: Specimen
of garnet. 42667. {

Ricwarpson, Mrs. C. W., Washington, |

D. C.: Painted elk-skin robe from the
Shoshones Wind River Reservation at
‘Fort Washakie, Wyo. 42470.

Ricker, P. L., Department of Agriculture, |

Washington, D. C.: Specimen of Myzo-
mycetes from Maryland. 41591.

Riker, C. B., New York City: Two moths
and 3 cocoons from Mexico. 42522.

Rivey, J. H., Falls Church, Va.: Four
bats and 15 birds’ skins from the Ba-
hamas (41601); squirrel (Sciurus hud-
sonicus loquax) (41892); snake (Natrix
leberis) from Falls Church, Va. (42474;
set of 4 eggs of American woodcock,
Philohela minor (42550). (See also
under Bahama Expedition.

Ris, B. (See under Hungerford Brass
and Copper Company. )

Rivers, Dr. J. J., received through Dr.
Ralph Arnold, Oceanpark, Cal.: Spec-
imen of California Pliocene bryozoan.
42145,

Rives, Col. W., Washington, D. C.: Der-
inger rifle. (Loan.) 9509.

Rossins, G. C., Sandon, British Colum-
bia: Forty-eight insects from British
Columbia. 41600.

Roserts, Hon. G. E., Treasury Depart-
ment, Washington, D. C.: Bronze mint
medal of the late President McKinley.
42510.

Rosinson, Capt. Wirt, U.S. Army, San-
tiago, Cuba, and Fort Totten, N. Y.:
Bats (42178); 132 specimens of insects,
principally Lepidoptera (42202); nest
of Sporadinus riccordi and 4 skins of
Polioptila lembeyi (42451).

143

Rockaiti, Hon. W. W., Director, Bureau
of American Republics, Washington,
D. C.: Japanese musical instrument
(exchange) (42182); photographs of
native workmen at Pekin (gift) (42324);
oriental antiquities, including 2 Chi-
nese lamps, a pair of shoes, leather belt,
and 2 wooden canteens of Grecian make
(gift) (42380).

RopEeNDAHL, C. O., Minneapolis, Minn.:
Plant from Minnesota. 41555.

Route, H., Berlin, Germany: Four hun-
dred and nineteen specimens of ori-
ental and other exotic land shells.
Purchase. 42928.

RominGeEr, Prof. Cart, Ann Arbor, Mich.:
Large collection of corals, crinoids, and
trilobites from the Paleozoic formation
of the Mississippi Valley (Upper Silu-
rian, Devonian, and Carboniferous)
(purchase) (L. P. X.) (41332); a large
collection of bryozoans and mollusks
representing the larger part of the Pale-
ozoic formations of the Mississippi
Valley (Upper Silurian, Devonian, and
Carboniferous) (purchase) (41538);
fossils constituting the remainder of
this collection (42170).

Rooney, Miss B. M., St. Johnsbury, Vt.:
Twenty species of Ophioglassaceze from
Vermont. Exchange. 42505.

Roos, A. T., Deadwood, 8. Dak.: Speei-
men of lepidolite from Ingersoll Group
of Claims, Harvey Peak Tin Cdmpany,
South Dakota, collected by Dr. George
P. Merrill. 41997.

RoosEvELT, Hon. THropore, President of
the United States: Buckskin hunting
shirt made for the President by the
Delaware Indians (41797); ethnoleg-
ical objects from the Philippine Islands
(42858); pair of Willow Ptarmigans,
Lagopus lagopus, from the vicinity of
Valdez, Alaska (42649); 3 ceremonial
objects presented by the Zuni Indians,
through the Bureau of American Eth-
nology (42217); collection of native-
made guns, pistols, and bolos from the
Philippine Islands (42351).

Roser, Dr. J. N., U. S. National Museum:
Plants from Mexico (41508, 41509, 41533,
41573, 41583, 41594, 41659, 41692, 41742,
144

Ross, Dr. J. N.—Continued.
41752,41779); 3,863 plants from Mexico
and about 100 specimens of shells rep-
resenting the species Valvata sincera

.Say from Mexico (41841); 3 Mexican
baskets (42111).

Rosetti, Dr. Antonio, San Juan, Porto
Rico: Three specimens of fossils from
the Oligocene of Yauco, Porto Rico.
42018.

Rosenspera, W. F. H., London, England:
Two specimens of Lepus, 2 specimens
of Nerus, 2 of Hyrax, and a spotted
hyena (41643); 92 specimens of Hy-
menoptera (41770); pair of petrels,
Oceanodroma castro from the Madeiras
(41793); bat (Spheronycteris) (42180);
rat (Zygodontomys cherriei) (42349); 18
birds’ skins from Chiriqui, also 3

mammals (42398); 1,861 specimens of |

Hymenoptera and Hemiptera from
South America, Queensland, and Cey-
lon (42699). Purchase.

RosenpauL, ©. O., Minneapolis, Minn.:
Plant from Canada. 41285.

Roru, Dr., Lands Department, Brisbane, |

Queensland: Collection of artifacts to
illustrate stone-working among the an-
cient Tasmanians of Blackman Bay.

The series include chert nuclei or

cores, various forms of flakes struck |
from these, and roughly worked blades

to be used later as special tools.

42352.
Roruces, D. A., Leaksville, Va.: Beetle
( Dynastes tityus Linnzeus). 42928.

Royat Boranic GARDEN.
Sibpur, Calcutta, India.)

Royat Botanic GARDENS.
Kew, London, England. )

RoyAL GEOGRAPHICAL SocigEry or Aus-
TRALASIA. (See under Adelaide, Aus-
tralia. )

Ruppockx, G. T., San Francisco, Cal.:
Plant from Oregon. 41334.

Rurrin, J. N. (See under Department
of Agriculture. )

Rune, Louis, New York City: Python
representing the species Preticulatus

(See under |

(See under

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Rune, Lours—Continued.
from the East Indies.
Pex -4i363e

RumMet, Mrs. Franz, Washington, D.C.:
Gilt vest buttons, grande cordon, and
ribbons of decoration which belonged
to the late Prof. S. F. B. Morse.
(Loan.) 9217.

Rutu, ALBERT, Knoxville, Tenn.: Plant
from Texas. 41748.

Rurrer, CLoupstey. (See under Depart-
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau
of Fisheries. )

Is.

Purchase.

Sr. Mary’s Acapemy, Monroe, Mich.:
Received through Sister Mary Cather-
ine. Two corals (41496); crayfish, rep-
tile, and mollusks (41501).

Sr. Pererspurc, Russia, Impertan ACAD-
EMY OF Scrences: Received through
Prof. Frederic von Schmidt. One hun-
dred and thirteen specimens of selected
fossils from the Reval Provincial Mu-
seum. 42398.

Sanpers, J. G., Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio.: Ten species of scale
insects from Ohio, including cotypes of
2 species described by donor. 42874.

SanpeERsSON, Prof. E. Dwiaut, State Ento-
mologist, Agricultural and Mechanical
College, College Station, Tex.: Lizard
from Comanche County, collected by
R. T. Jaynes (41431); 5 specimens of
Lepidoptera (42376).

Sanson, N. B., curator, Rocky Mount
Park Museum, Banff, Alta, British Co-
lumbia: Plant from Canada (41582) 2
specimens of Hymenoptera, 3 of Odo-
nata and a horse-fly (41651); 2 speci-
mens of wasp ( Vespa maculata L.), and
a beetle (Dytiscus marginicollis Leconte)
(41852).

SAo Pauto, Brazit, Museum PAuLista:
Received through Dr. H. von Ihering,
director. ‘ Three bats. 42814.

Sarue, C. J., Rochester, N. Y.: Speci-
mens of Rochester shales. 41565.

Savery, J. C., Cable, Mont.: Specimen
of native gold in pyrrhotite from Cable

mine. Deposit. 41631.
ScHagFFER, C., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Nine
specimens of Orthoptera. 42360.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

ScHauier, W. T., U. S. Geological Sur-
vey, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of
palacheite from California (41712);
specimen of ‘esmeraldaite from Esme-
ralda County, Nevada (42007).

Scuaus, WiiuraAmM, Twickenham,
land: One hundred and fifty-three mis-
cellaneous insects from Jamaica (41972) ;
328 specimens of Lepidoptera from
Cuba (42359).

Eng- |

ScHerrer, THEoDoRE, Agricultural Col-_
lege, Manhattan, Kans.: Twelve spi- |

ders, cotypes of species described by
the donor. 42695.
ScH.Ltrer, WILHELM, Halle a Salle, Ger-

many: Eighty-three mammals from the
Old World (41294); monkey ( Presbytes

cephalopterus) (42114); 12 skins of Ruff |
Purchase. |

( Machetes pugnaa) (42758).

Scumip, E. Se Washington, D.C.: Three |
| Scorr, Mrs. M. N., Honolulu, Hawaiian

brains of rabbits (41605); 2 guinea

pigs, a Belgian hare, and a Cuban par- |
rot (41724); raccoon (41740); 3 speci- |

mens of Sciuropterus volans (41750);
snake (Coluber guttatus) from Florida

(41870); skull of a fox terrier (42051) ; |

head of a rabbit (42073); 3 fox squir-
rels (42096); python (42255); crab
(Gecarcinus) (42686).

Scumipt, Prof. FREDERICK von. (See un-

der St. Petersburg, Russia, Imperial |

Academy of Sciences. )

ScuNeck, J., Mount Carmel, Ill.: Jump-
ing-mouse. 42827.

SCHONLAND, Dr. 8. (See under Grahams-
town, South Africa, Albany Museum. )

ScHREINER, J Acos, St. Petersburg, Russia:

_Twenty-four specimens of parasitic Hy-

_ menoptera (42139); 23 species of para-
sitic Hymenoptera (42318).

ScHucHerT, CHARLES, U.S. National Mu-
seum: About 500 specimens of Creta-
ceous fossils, principally bryozoans from
Mastricht, Holland (41818); 2 speci-
mens of trachyte from Drachenfels,
Germany, and one specimen of bitumen

from Visé, Belgium (41826); about 300 |

specimens of Silurian and Lower Devo-
nic fossils collected in Bohemia (41842) ;
specimens of voleanic rocks from the
Provinces of Eifel and Nassau, Ger-

145

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES—Continued.
many (41875); about 1,000 specimens
of Silurian fossils collected on the island
of Gotland, Sweden (42002); about
1,000 specimens of Lower Silurian fos-
sils collected at various places in Est-
land, Russia (42392); 615 specimens of
Silurian fossils¢ (42701). (Seealso under
A. Piret. )

Scuuette, J. H., Green Bay, Wis.: Two
plants from Wisconsin. 41271.

ScHwarz, Prof. E. A., Department of
Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: One
hundred and forty-one specimens of
Hemiptera from Cuba (41345); 300
specimens of Lepidoptera, 6,000 speci-
mens of Coleoptera from Victoria and
Goliad, Tex. (41817). (See also under
Department of Agriculture, and Wash-
ington Biologists Field Club. )

Islands: Specimens of hair; bamboo-
Ohe; hat and basket material; Oloma
(fiber); mat pandanes and anklet shells
(42164); cocoanut bowl from the Ha-
waiian Islands (42361); specimens of
native Hawaiian work consisting of 2
straw hats, a bone fishhook, and a
wooden bowl (42383).

ScuppEr, 8. H. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
Scurtock, Dr. H. C., Washington, D.

C.: Skeletons of 2 negroes (42289); 2
foetus (42379); brain of an adult negro
(42416); foetus (42430); skeletons of

2 full-blood negroes (42528).

Sepawick Museum. (See under Cam-
bridge, England. )

Srecar, G. E., U. S. National Museum:
Belgian hare. 41568.

SELDEN, CHARLES, Baltimore, Md.: Tele-
graphic key manufactured by W. Shock
in 1864. 41421.

Sever, Dr. Epwarp.
Germany, Konigliches
Volkerkunde. )

Sempers, J. Forp, Aiken, Md.: Specimen
of Jonactis linearifolia. 41706.

Seton, Ernest THompson, CosCob, Conn. :
Skin and skull of a White-tailed fawn
from Manitoba. 42760.

(See under Berlin,
Museum fur

« Purchase.

NAT Mus 1904——10
146

Srron-Karr, H. W., Cairo, Egypt: Two

hundred and seventy-eight stone im- |

plements from the Fayum district,
Egypt. 42189.

SHaw, GeorGE R., Bangor, Mass.: Eight |

specimens of pines from the Arnold
Arboretum, Jamaica Plain, Mass. Ex-
change. 42171.
Saw, Hon. L. M.
Department. )
SHetpon, Mrs. C. A., Washington, D. C.:

(See under Treasury

Butterfly and 3 beetles from western |
| Smirn, EvGeneA., University, Ala.: Spec-

China and 3 North American insects.
42542.

Suaetpon, E. P., Portland, Oreg.: Three
plants from Oregon. 41383. (See also
under Department of Agriculture. )

SHERMAN, F. G. (See under Central
Railroad Company of New Jersey. )
SuHerwoop, W. L., New York City: Two

abnormal specimens of tadpole. 42414.
Snort, J. W., Liberty, Ind.: Specimen
of Myxomycetes from Indiana. 41401.
SHULL, G.
Chicago, Ill.: Two plants from Indiana.
41315.

Sras, A. W., Harbor View, Fla.: Received
through Department of Agriculture.
Plant from Florida. 41715.

Srppur, Caucutra, INp1A; Roya Boranic
GARDEN: One hundred and forty-three
plants from India. Exchange. 41537.

Sickugs, F. M., Los Angeles, Cal.: Speci-
men of pink spodumene. 41436.

Simmons, GEORGE, Manvel, Cal.: Stone
implements, pottery, and pieces of tur-
quoise, ete. 41701.

Sms, Mrs. THomas, Altamonte Springs,
Fla.: Received through Department of
Agriculture. Plantfrom Florida. 42404.

Simpson, C. B., Department of Agricul-
ture, Washington, D. C.: Thirteen
larval cases of Limnephilus indivisus
Walk., from Ithaca, N. Y. 41653.

SINGER, GEORGE P., Lockhaven, Pa.: Re-
ceived through Department of Agricul-
ture. Plantfrom Pennsylvania. 42746.

Skurs, R. A., Gunnison, Colo.: Moth

(Arachnia atra N. & D.) 42067.

H., University of Chicago, |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Stater, W. M., president American Ru-
tileCompany, Washington, D.C.: Spec-
imen of ferrotitanium. 42072. (See
also under American Rutile Company. )

Snoan, C. G., & Co., Washington, D. C.:

« Two antique lamps and an antique salt
box. Purchase. 42017.

| Stosson, Mrs. A. T., New York~City:

Eight specimens of Hymenoptera from
Biscayne Bay, Florida (41943); moth
from Florida belonging to a new genus
and species (42703).

imens of turquoise. 41993.

Smirn, H. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: One hun-

dred and
America.

two plants from South

Purchase. 41317.

Samira, Dr. Huan M., Bureau of Fish-
eries, Washington, D. C.: Collection
of reptiles and batrachians from Japan

(gift) (41419); miscellaneous inver-
tebrates, bats, and mollusks from
various localities in Japan (gift)

(41439); Iroquois rattle, made from a
snapping turtle (exchange) (42889);
Japanese teeth-blacking outfit (loan)
(9508.) (See also under Dr. K. Kishi-
nouyé. )

SmirH, Capt. Joan Donne, Baltimore,
Md.: Plants from Guatemala, one of
them collected by Mr. H. von Turck-
heim (41935; 42232. )

Smita, J. G., Honolulu, Hawaiian Is-
lands: Plant from Honolulu. 42745.

Smita, Prof. J. P., Leland Stanford
Junior University, Stanford Univer-
sity, Cal.: Hypotype of Gastrioceras
globulosum, figured in Monograph No.
42 of the U. S. Geological Survey.
41923.

SmitH, Mitton W., Portland, Oreg.:
Three specimens of Macrorhampus sco-
lopaceus and Gallinago delicata. 42293.

SMITHSONIAN Institution, Mr. S. P.
Langley, Secretary: Twenty-three flint
implements from the Temple of Osiris,
Abydos, and 2 gaming dice from Beh-
nesa. 41749. Presented by the Egypt
Exploration Fund, London, England,
through Mr. James Cotton, secretary.

An obsolete barometer, No. 358,
42137.
a ee

Sy tee

LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

SmirHsonraAn InstrrutTion—Continued.

Life-sized relief in plaster of Prof.
Alpheus Hyatt. 42337. Presented by
Mrs. Harriet Hyatt Mayer.

Eleven photographs showing a new
method of making casts. 42604.
sented by Maj. George A. Peters,
Toronto, Canada, through Mr. O. C.
Cullen.

Shells and musket balls from the
battlefield of Gettysburg; Chinese hari-
kari dagger, bone-handled ‘‘ couteau du
chasse,’’ Siamese double dagger, single-
handle East India dagger, Malay
bolong, Abyssinian flissa, U.S. artillery

Pre- |

sword of Roman pattern, horn, 2 flint- |
lock pistols in a wooden case, 2 horse |

pistols in a wooden case, 2 Satsuma
vases on stands, Russian icon, single-
barrel sporting gun, 3-inch Parrott solid
shell, and a Dahlgren explosive shell;
eight historical specimens (42616;
42730; 48875).
John Watts de Payster, Tivoli, N. Y.

Fourteen photographs of the mam-
moth expedition of Beresofka River.
42802.

Bronze medal struck in commemora-

Presented by Gen. .

tion of the dedication of the Chamber |
of Commerce of the State of New York. |

42811.
Commerce of the State of New York.
Transferred from the Bureau of Aimeri-
can Ethnology, Mr. W. H. Holmes,
chief: Bronze medal awarded to the
Bureau of American Ethnology by the
Louisville Exposition, in 1883; bronze
medal with aluminum case awarded to
the Bureau by the World’s Columbian
Exposition, 1893, and a gold medal
awarded by the Cotton States and In-

ternational Exposition, Atlanta, in 1895 |
(41355); material transferred from the |

Bureau, consisting of specimens col-

lected by Prof. W J McGee in Mexico |
and also among the Papago and Seri |
Indians; (41397); pestle of schistose |
Gil- |

stone collected by Prof. G. K.
bert near Redstone, Tulare County,
Cal. (41726); ethnological objects from
various localities (41802); human skel-
eton and basket, basket, tule mat, and
remains of a net from a cave near
Bakersfield, obtained by purchase from
James W. Stockton, Bakersfield, Cal.

Presented by the Chamber of |

147

| SMITHSONIAN InstTrITUTION—Continued.

(41978) ; basket and mat of the Haida
Indians with figures of Killer whale,
collected by John R. Swanton (42216);
ethnological material collected among
the American Indians by James Mooney
(42431); collection of ethnological ob-
jects from the northern coast collected
by J. R. Swanton (42513); Zuni blan-
ket, specimen of Tekuna, ceremonial
sash, wooden paddle, 2 Zuni masks,
Zuni shirt, pair of amulets, and Hopi
sash (42514); archeological specimens,
obtained through Mr. E. H. Jacobs,
Bentonville, Ark. (42531); bronze
medal awarded to the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology by the Universal Ex-
position held in Paris in 1889 (42551);
6 ethnological objects collected by John
R. Swanton (42610); about 550 speci-
mens illustrating Dr. J. Walter Fewkes’s
researches in the Caribbean region
(42916). (See also under Mr. Bunker;
I. C. Harris; 8. E. Jackson; J. E. Os-
borne; Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, Society of, Ponce, Porto Rico;
William N. Zoller.)

Transferred fromthe National Zoological
Park, Dr. Frank Baker, superintend-
ent: Spice finch (41238); Valley part-
ridge, californica vallicola
(41239) ; 3 specimens of deer ( Cariacus
macrotis), and a Brush-tailed rock kan-
garoo, Petrogale penicillata (41240);
brain of an alligator (41589); Mud
hen, Gallinule; finch (Sporeginthus

Callipepla

flavidiventris); coyote (Canis frustros) ;

Native Australian cat, Dasyurus; Java
sparrow and bittern (41676); bear
(Ursus japonicus); Arctic fox, Vulpes
logopus; bear ( Ursus americanus); deer
(Cariacus) (41677); cat (Felis eyra);
ocelot (Felis pardalis); 2 specimens of
Jaguar, Felis onca; coyote (Canis frus-
tror) and Wallaby, Onychogale frenata
(41678); duck (Dendronessa galericu-
lata); coot (Fulica americana); Wood
duck (Aix sponsa) (41679); alligator

(Alligator mississippiensis) (41680) ;
Echidna, Echidna aculeata (41681) ;

lory, Java sparrow, parrakeet, fish-
hawk, grass parrakeet, flamingo
(Phenicopterus antiquorum) (41682);
2 specimens of Tree duck, Dendrocyg-
148

SMITHSONIAN INsrituTIoN—Continued.

na arctuata, and a Brown pelican,
Pelecanus  fuseus (41683); baboon
(Papio  hamadryas), Great horned
owl, Bubo virginianus, specimen of
Ocyphaps lophotes, American magpie,
Pica pica hudsonica, pine snake, Pity-

ophis melanoleucus, and an European |

swan, Cygnus gibbus (41684); Grass
parrakeet; Louisiana heron, Ardea
tricolor rujicollis; Wanga wanga pigeon,
‘Lencosarcia picata, 3 specimens; lory,
2 specimens of  Lencosarcia picata
(41685); specimen of Echidna acule-
ata (41686); Dingo, dingo;
American bison, Bison americanus;
bear (Ursus americanus) (41687) ;
specimen of Tennessee warbler, Hel-
minthophila peregrina (41702), pigeon
(Geopelia placida), and a specimen of
Trichoglossus versicolor (41744); cock-
atoo (Cacatua roseicapilla); 2  speci-
mens of coot (Fulica americana); par-

Canis

«
rot (Amazona leucocephala); Flamin-
go, Phenicopterus ruber, Snowy owl,

Nyctea nyctea (41983); Mule deer, Ca- |
riacus macrotis; deer (Cervus philippi-— ;
| SourH SrpeE SporTSMEN’s Cuius, Oakdale,

nus); armadillo ( Tatusia novemecincta) ;
wallaby (2 specimens) and a sloth
(Cholepus didactylus) (41984); opos-
sum (Phalangista fuliginosa); monkey
(Cebus); Hutia, Capromys pilorides;
skull of seal (Phoca vitulina) and
Echidna, Echidna aculeata (41985);
tortoise . (Testudo tabulata) (41986);

Gallinule; Wild boar, Sus scrofa; swan

(Olor columbianus); hawk (Accipiter
cooper’); coot (Fulica americana) and
Wood duck, Aix sponsa (41987);
Chuckawalla (41988) ; 5 birds (42761);
Cayman (42762); 2 specimens of Great
blue heron, Ardea herodias (42763);
Swift Fox, Vulpes velox (42764);
Grizzly bear, Ursus horribilis (42765);
Cinnamon — bear,
American buffalo, Bison americanus
(42766); moose (Alces americanus)
(42771); tortoise, snake and an ocelot
(42767); owl (Bubo virginianus); owl
(Nyctea nyctea); White stork, Ciconia
alba; stork (Leptoptilus crumeniferus) ;

Ursus americanus;

egret, (Ardea candidissima) ; crane ( An- |

thropoidea virgo) (42768); Cassowary,
Casuarius australis; Water turkey,

SNYDER, J. O.

SounnER, H., Chicago, IIL:

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

| SMITHSONIAN InstiruTion—Continued.

Anhinga anhinga; Piping crow, Gym-

norhina tibicen; pigeon; parrakeet
( Melosittacus undulatus); cockatoo

(Cacatua roseicapilla) (42769); 6 birds
(42770) ; moose (42771); moose ( Alces
americanus); Black wolf, Canis lupis
griseo-albus; ocelot ( Felis pardalis); Aus-
tralian native cat (Dasyurus) and rae-
coon (Procyon cancrivorus) (42772);
Grass parrakeet, Melopsittacus undulatus
(42773); Gray wolf, yellow baboon,
Java sparrow, Golden eagle and Har-
bor seal (42774); Amazon (Amazona
levaillanti) (42779); Sun bear, Ursus
malayanus (42780); Sparrow hawk,
Falco sparverius, and a Purple heron,
Ardea purpurea (42832); Purple heron
(42833) .

(See under Leland Stan-
ford Junior University. )

Soochow University, Soochow, China:

Collection of insects. 41236.

Myriapod
representing the species Cermatia for-
ceps. 41505.

Long Island: Received through J. O.
Clift, superintendent. Large German
brown trout raised.in the South Side
Ciub Hatchery. 42806.

Sowersy AND Fuuron, Royal Botanical

Gardens, Kew, England: Specimen of
Voluta pulchra Sow. Purchase. 41938.

Spatpinc, THomas, Stockton, Utah: Six

specimens of Satyrus paulus. 42271.

Sponvitue, H. J., director of mines at

Demidoff, St. Petersburg, Russia:
Rocks from Demidoff mines, province
of Perm, Russia. 42160.

Sprincer, Rey. Ruter.W., U. 8. Army,

Fort Washington, Md.: Large shell
representing the species Cucullea gi-
gantea from the Eocene of Fort Wash-
ington. 42707:

Sraneart, C. W., Forest Hill, La.: Beetle

( Dynastes tityus L.). 412365.

Sranton, Dr. T. W., U. 8S. Geological

sticks”
(See also

‘‘Vedicine
41970.

Survey: Seven
found in Montana.
under A. W, Jones.)
a sg i Me le

er

LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Sranton, Rey. W. A., Manila, Philippine
Islands: Lepidoptera (41671); insects
(41958; 42068); 263 specimens of in-
sects (42208; 42558); 19 vials of Hy-
menoptera (42682); 6 specimens of an

Aleyrodes and 5 specimens of hymenop-

terous parasites (42738).

Stare AGRICULTURAL CoLLEGE, Fort Col-
lins, Colo.: Received through 8. A.
Johnson. Leeches and Apus. 41968,

Srare CoLureGE, Bozeman, Mont.: Re-

ceived through Prof. F. W. Traphagen. |

Mineralsand ores. Exchange.

Srate DepartMENtT. (See under Hon.

H. R. Dietrich. )

Srearns, Dr. C. H., U.S. Army, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Specimen of sponge ( Hu-
plectella) 41370.

Srearns, Dr. R. E. C., Los Angeles, Cal.:
Two hundred and fifty shells represent-
ing the species Helix aspersa Mull from
California (41425) ; about 125 specimens
of Paphia from California (41448); about
2,500 specimens of marine shells from
California (41761); 8 shells represent-
ing the species Saxidomus nuttallii from

California (41890); 8 specimens of Peci- |

lozonites from Bermuda, collected by Mr.

A. J. Edwards (42038); 325 specimens |

of Crepidula onyx variety rugosa Nutt.,
from San Pedro, Cal. (42071); 20 speci-
mens of Lasea rubra Mort., from Santa
Barbara, Cal. (42433).

STEELE, E. §., Department of Agriculture, |

Washington, D. C.: Five specimens of
Sedum from West Virginia. 41542.

SreeLe, Mrs. Grace A. K., Washington,
D. C.: Three hundred and twenty-five
plants from Virginia. Purchase. 42357.

SrEJNEGER, Dr. LreonHaRp. (See under

J. G. Crawford. )

SresNEGER, Miss THora, Bergen, Norway:
Fifteen mammals and 42 reptiles. Pur-
chase. 41558.

STEPHENS, F. (See under Department of

Agriculture. )

SrepHens, Miss Karr, San Diego, Cal.:
One hundred specimens of land and
fresh-water shells from California.
42752.

41751. |

149

SreRKI, Dr. V., New Philadelphia, Ohio:
Four cotypesof Planorbis rebellus Sterki.
42878.

STEVENSON, Mrs. M. C., Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, Washington, D. C.:
Nine Zuni and Navaho blankets. Pur-
chacery disc PN IS

Stewart, A. H., Washington, D. C.:
Outfit of a Bagobo family from Davao,
Philippine Islands. Purchase. 42856.

STILWELL, L. W., Deadwood, S. Dak.:

- Rocks and minerals from various locali-
ties. ‘Purchase. L..P. X. - 42015.

Stimpson, C. A. (See under J. H. Bun-
nell & Co.; Manhattan Electrical Sup-
ply Company; Foote, Pierson & Co.)

Stockton, J. W. (See under Smithso-
nian Institution, Bureau of American
Ethnology. )

Stokes, Susan, Salt Lake City, Utah:
Three hundred plants from Utah and
Nevada. Purchase. 42141.

Strong, Miss ELLEN A., Washington, D.C.:
French plaster medallion of Lafayette.
Loan. 9108.

Srron, Jacos G., Waterloo, Ontario,
Canada; Flint arrowhead. 42545.

SruBBLEFIELD, Mrs. A. W., Cumberland,
Md.: Twenty-four specimens of fossils
from the Oriskany and Hamilton for-
mations of Pendleton County, W. Va.
(41863); specimen of Halysites and 4

trilobites from Pendleton County
(42042).
Srupps, GRANVILLE, Alexandria, Va.:

Three snakes from
Va. 41963.

Fairfax County,

Srurtz, Herr B., Bonn, Germany: Twen-
ty-four specimens of fossil starfishes,

crinoids, and crabs. Purchase. L. P. X.
41837.

SupiXa, Sehor Arturo, Ponce, P. R.: Re-
ceived through Dr. J. Walter Fewkes.
A Spanish coin, 42782

4/092.

Surer, Henry, Auckland, New Zealand:
One hundred and eighty-seven speci-
mens of land, fresh-water and marine
shells from Auckland. 42434.

Swan, Miss ErHetyn, Dallas City, Pa.:
Three specimens of Gordius. 41241.
- 150

Swanton, J. R. (See under Smithsonian
Institution,
nology. )

SwerLanp, Dr. B. S., Brocton,
‘Four goniatites and two specimens of
Orthoceras. 42586.

Swirr & Co., Kansas City, Kans.: Re-
ceived through R. H. Frisby, superin-
tendent. Tooth of Mastodon
canus. 42855.

Swirt, F. W., Alden, N. Y.: Six speci-
mens of bryozoans and corals from the
Hamilton formation of Alden (gift)
(41231); half of a ceremonial or ban-
ner-stone (loan) (8540).

Taser, Miss Exizaseru, U. 8. National

Museum: Spider (Hpeira insularis,
Hentz), from Buckeystown, Md.
41598.

TALBERT, FRANK, Soldiers’ Home, Rich-
mond, Va.: Specimens of Psyllid galls.

41578.

Tamarack Mining Company, Calumet,
Mich.: Received through John T.
Reeder. Specimens of whitneyite and
chaleocite. 42321.

TamMEN, H. H., Denver, Colo.: Ten
specimens of minerals. Purchase.

Thy 1B, DX ei.
Tasstn, Wirt, U. 8S. National Museum:

Four mother- es cat’s eyes from
China. 41934.

Taytor, Errre P., Thomasville, Ga.:
Received through Dr. William Tre-
lease. Plant from Georgia. 42900.

Taytor, Rey. G. W., Wellington, British
Columbia: Two hundred and seventy-
nine specimens of Lepidoptera (gift)
(41529); 24 specimens of Geometrid
moths from British Columbia (ex-
change) (42431).

Terres, Hon. Jonn B., U.S. vice-consul,
Port au Prince, Haiti: Petrified oys-
ters from mountains between Haiti and
Santo Domingo, at a height of 1,100
feet; also land shells found in the same
mountains. 42523.

Terry, WiuuiAM A., Bristol, Conn.: Three

specimens of diatoms. 42215.

THomas, OuprFieLp, British Museum
‘Natural History), London, England:

Ne |

REPORT’ OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

| THomaAs, OLDFIELD—Continued.

Bureau of American Eth- |

ameri- |

THompson, Dr.

Two skelctons of mammals (41559); 3
mice representing the species Hvotomys
shomerensis, from Wales (42374); 13
mammals (42402).

THompson, Miss F. L. Washam DIG:
Patch-work bed quilt (loan). 9312.

Tompson, Dr. J. C., U. S. Navy, Bre-
merton, Wash.: Fishes collected off
the coast of New England (41468) ;
fishes from Santa Rosa, Cal. (41649);
2 specimens of Pipefish, Siphostoma
albirostris, from the Dry Tortugas, Flor-
ida (41843); specimen of Peromyscus,
fishes and a hermit crab ( A20LO}s Cole-
optera (42019).

J. Forp, Washington,
D. C.: Brain of a white child. 42465.

THoRWorTH, Miss Esrevia, U. 8. National
Museum: Specimen of Rosa bracteata
from Virginia. 41556.

Txurow, F. W., Harvester, Tex.: Thirty-
five plants from Texas. 41936.

TinpDALL, Dr. D. W., Taylor, Mo.: Speci-
men of ‘‘hard-tack’’ used in the U. 8.
Army during the civil war (1861-1865).
41783.

Titus, E. 8. G., Department of Agricul-
ture: Received through Dr. L. O.
Howard. Two hundred specimens of
Lepidoptera from Fort Collins, Colo.
(41546); specimen of stone-fly from
Lawrence, Kans. (41804).

New York City:

serenatta

Tonk, WiuuiAM, & Bro.,
Two musical instruments,
and solophone. 41248.

Toppine, D. Le Roy, Manila, P. I.: Sev-
enteen specimens of plants from the
Philippine Islands. 41409.

Torres, JosE P., Agana, Guam:
from Guam. 41306.

Plant

TowNSEND-BARBER TAXIDERMY AND Zo-
OLOGICAL Company, El~ Paso, Tex.
Imperial woodpecker, Campephilus im-
perialis, from Mexico. Purchase.  L.
P. X. 41520.

Tracy, 8. M., Biloxi, Miss.: Fern from
ence (41908); 3 plants (41920);
specimen of fern representing the spe-
cies Trichomanes petersii from Missis-
sippi (42413); 2specimensot Botrychium
ACCESSIONS.

LIST OF
Tracy, S. M.—Continued.
from the SouthernStates (42594). (See |

also under Department of Agriculture. )

TRAPHAGEN, F. W., Golden, Colo.: Nine- |

teen photographs representing views
of Montana. 41618. (See also under
State College, Bozeman, Mont. )

Trask, Mrs. BuiancHe, Avalon, Cal.:
Specimen of Epiphragmorpha intercisa,
variety crebristriata Newe., from San
Clemente Island (gift) (41602); 2 plants
from California (gift) (42097) ; 224 plants
from California (purchase) (42252); 2
specimens of seaweeds (gift) (42373); 2
specimens of Lycodina fungina Gabb.
(gift) (42495); specimens of Cerostoma
nuttalli Conr., specimen of Calliostoma
supragranosa Spr., from Catalina Island
(gift) (42662); 8 plants from California
(gift) (42845).

TREASURY DEPARTMENT: Received
through Hon. L. M. Shaw, Secretary.
Plaster bust of President Lincoln, taken
by F. F. Mills. 42710.

TRELEASE, Prof. WILLIAM.
Effie P. Taylor. )

(See under

True, Dr. F. W., U.S. National Museum: |

Specimens of marine worms and inver-
tebrates collected at Brooklyn, Han-
cock County, Me. 41530.

TsucHipa, T., Misaki, Miura, Japan:
Seventeen moles and rodents from
Japan. Purchase. 42680.

Tuxtiock, A. E., Hawaii, Hawaiian Is-
lands: Received through Department
of Agriculture. Plant from the Hawai-
ian Islands. 42901.

TurcKHEIM, H. von.
John Donnell Smith.)

Turner, C. 8., Atlanta, Ga.: Water-bee- |

tle, Cybister oliveri Cr. 41748.

TurNER, GrorGE, U.S. National Museum:

(See under Capt.

|

Fourteen pearls taken from a shell of |

Ostrea virginica. 42394.

Turner, Mrs. 8. E., North Chesapeake
Beach, Md.: Two spoons made from
the horns of Rocky Mountain sheep;
spoon made from the horn of a Rocky
Mountain goat; carved horn of a cow,
and an Eskimo waterproof shirt.
chase. L. P. X. 41373.

Pur- |

151

TusHorr, Dr. VLApimir, Petropaulovsk,
Kamchatka: Five salamanders from
Kamchatka. 41405.

Tutrie, Miss C. M., University of Vir-
ginia, Charlottsville, Va.: Two unfin-
ished coiled baskets in rafia. 41255.

Unter, Prof. P. R., Peabody Library,
Baltimore, Md.: Two beetles from Ja-
maica. 41933.

Usricut, R. E., New York City: Mex-
ican idol carved in serpentine.
chases aie exe Asie

Unrica, E. O., U. 8. Geological Survey:
Remainder of Ulrich collection, con-
sisting of mollusks and miscellaneous
material represented by about 500 type
lots and upward of 15,000 specimens.
Purchase. 42804.

Unmpacu, L. M., Northwestern College,
Naperville,

Pur-

Ill.:, Four specimens of
Laciniaria scariosa. 438556.

UnpEerwoop, L. M. (See under New
York Botanical Garden. )

Uncer, C. W., Pottsville, Pa.: Fossil
plants from the upper anthracite series
of the Carboniferous at various localities
near Pottsville. 42672.

Unirep Srates NationaL-Museum: The
following models were made in the
Anthropological Laboratory: Cast of
feathered serpent (41374); cast of coiled
feathered serpent (41375); cast of
carved slate box (41376); cast of pot-
tery vase from Brazil (41377); cast of
bird god (41417); cast of pottery vase
(41418); Indian drums and _ sticks,
Indian flutes, horn rattles, notched
rattles, and blades for rattles (41427);
cast of jade carving, cast of painted
vase, cast of jade carving, and cast of
wood carving (41548); 3 sets (16 each)
of models of oriental seals (41675);
plaster cast of Zemé idol (41789); cast
of stone pestle, casts of Zemé idols, and
cast of a pottery vase (41790); cast of a
large painted vase (41853); 4 plaster
casts of a carved stool and 8 plaster casts
of stone collars (41866); 4 plaster casts
of Mexican stone yoke; 8 plaster casts of
a stone collar (41869); plaster casts of
15 stone implements (42004); woodin
model of a war club (42025); 2 pho-
152
U.S. Nationat Musseum—Continued.

(42058); plaster casts of carved stone
Zemé, stone pestles, pottery vase, stone
Zemé, stone polisher, and stone imple-
ment (42079); miniature model of a

whale (42080); casts of stone slab, |

Zemés, sculptured stone, and vase
(42162); casts of Indians for collections
in physical anthropology (42191); neg-

atives taken for racial measurements |

(42203); three-tongued jew’s-harp
(42295); 5 models of Yucatan temples
(42311); 2 models of wooden three-
pronged jew’s-harp (42312); models
of implements from Alaska, 2 rattles
and 5 small models of fin-back whales
(42313); 15 casts of Mexican and
Central American pottery (42325); 4
copies of Alaskan religious implements
(42375); cast of vase from Central
America and cast of a figure from Mex-
ico (42387); cast of pottery vase and 4
casts of pottery bowls (42425); model
of Alaskan drum and a model of a
Zuni snake (42432); cast of William
Snow, a Seneca Indian (42443); 4 casts
of bowls and 3 casts of collars (42457);
casts of collar, animals, metate, and
bowls (42462); 2 casts of a spearhead
from Oatka Island (42469); cast of
carved bowl (42479); wooden mask
and a carved stone mask (42508); cast
of jade pendant and casts of throwing-
sticks (42532); model of Haida mask
(42535) ; series of fire-making apparatus
(42559); 7 casts of stone pipes (42568) ;
cast of carved stone amulet, cast of
dish, and cast of a swallowing stick
(42595); 2 models of musical instru-
ments (42615); cast of a spearhead,
cast of a flint dagger, cast of drilled
ax, casts of flint hatchets, and cast of
a flint chisel (42626); cast of stone
implement (42644); Sioux cradle and
child (42791); 5 are electric lamps of
obsolete pattern (42825).

Ursina, Dr. MANueEt, National Museum,
City of Mexico, Mexico: Two plants

from Mexico. 41810.
VALENTINE, F. B., Ridgely, W. Va.:
Seven flint implements. Exchange.

42399.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

_ Vauerte, C. D., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen
tographie copies of Japanese music |

of Lace-winged fly, Chrysopa tabida
Fitch. 41504.

Van Incen & Van INGEN, Ootocamund,
India: Two Indian ungulates (Axis
deer and Sambur stag) (purchase) (L.
P. X.) (41644); 4 Indian ungulates
(purchase) (42262).

VassILigEF, Ivan, Bureau of Entomology,
St. Petersburg, Russia: Twelve hymen-
opterous insects. 41736.

VauGHAN, T. Way ann. (See under
Interior Department, U. 8. Geological
Survey. )

ViENNA, Austria, First ZooLoaicaL IN-
STITUTE OF THE IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY:

_Received through Dr. F. Werner.
Fishes and reptiles from North Africa,
Asia Minor, and other localities. Ex-
change. 42685.

ViENNA, AusTrRiA, K. K. NATURHISTOR-
IscHES Hormuseum, received through
Dr. Theodore Fuchs: Unassorted bryo-
zoans and ostracods from 18 localities
in Europe, of the Mesozoic and Tertiary
age (42118); 107 specimens of fungi
from Europe (42853). Exchange.

Viereck, H. L., Academy of Natural
Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.: Specimen
of Odontophotopsis exogyrus Viereck
(paratype). Exchange. 41663.

VromMaNn, A.C., Pasadena, Cal.: One hun
dred and sixteen photographs of Cali-
fornia missions, and a book of ‘‘ Mission
memories.’’? 42577,

Wa.cort, BenjAMINS., Washington, D.C. :
Received through Hon. C. D. Walcott:
Specimens of Devonian fossils from
near Canandaigua, N. Y. Exchange.
41691.

Watcorr, Hon. CHAR.LEs D.
Benjamin 8. Walcott. )

Waker, B. E., Canadian Bank of Com-
merce, Toronto, Ontario, Canada: Seven
specimens of Callocystites, 19 specimens
of Caryocrinus ornatus, and 1 specimen
of Celocystis. Exchange. 42729.

W aLKeEr, Bryant, Detroit, Mich.: Twenty
specimens of fresh-water shells, includ-
ing 3 cotypes of Lioplax pilsbryi Wal-
ker. 42754.

(See under
LIST OF ACCESSIONS,

Waker, G., Furman, 8. C.: Pedipalp, or |
Pseudoscorpion, Chelifer muriatus Say. |
41670.

Watpote, W. A., Gorda, Cal.: Ten speci-
mens of living plants from California. |
42473.

War Department: Received through |
Brig. Gen. William Crozier, Chief of |
Ordnance Department: Large and com-
prehensive collection of muskets, rifles,
pistols, bayonets, and parts of small
arms, various implements used in the
U.S. Army for entrenching purposes,
relics of the civil war, swords used
by European and American armies,
and Indian objects (41356); received
through the Bureau of Insular Affairs,
358 scarf pins, 3 Philippine flags, 154
buttons with head of Aguinaldo, 5 me-
dallions, 3 pairs of cuff buttons, 2 scarf
pins, and 2 breastpins for ladies (41398) ;
received through the Office of the Adju-
tant-General, section of the original
Fort Sumter flagstaff (41807); received
through Surg. Gen. R. M. O’ Reilly, col-
lection of articulated skeletons, skulls,
pelvis bones, brains, and instruments
of measurement (42109); through the
Bureau of Ordnance, collection of small
arms and parts of same, modeis of pro- |
jectiles, arms, etc., hand and leg shack- |
les, keys, and bags (42272); received
through Capt. G. W. Baird, U.S. Navy,
Krupp gun and carriage captured at
Pekin, China, and a mahogany gun
carriage captured in Cuba (42298);
through Army Medical Museum, Dr.
R. M. O’Reilly, small antique vase, 2
fragments of antique vases, gold seal
ring, small pottery ring, and a Roman
bronze coin (42423); through Gen.
A.W. Greely, Ferguson breech-loading
rifle with bayonet, belonging to Gen. |
John Watts de Peyster (loan and re-
turned) (42810). Deposit. (See also
under Brig. Gen. W. H. Carter.)

Warp, H. A., Rochester, N. Y.: Large
mass of amethystine quartz (42254);
large slab of meteoric iron from Muke-
rop, Africa(41880). Purchase. L.P.X.

Warp, Prof. Lester F., U. S. Geological
Survey, Washington, D. C.: Three
plants. 42100.

153

Warp, Rowand, London, England.
Hippopotamus (42639); skin and skull
of Connochietes gnu (42719). Purchase.

ieee Xe

Warpb’s Narurat Science EstasiisH-
MENT, Rochester, N. Y.: Three hun-
dred gram section of Franceyille me-
teorite (purchase) L. P. X. (41472);
monkey skin and skull (purchase)
(41906); specimen of agate from Brazil
(purchase) L. P. X. (42026); skin of
White egret, skins of Magpie lark, nest
of Guacharo bird and nest of Magpie
lark (purchase) L. P. X. (42177); skins
of Brush turkey, Leipoa ocellata (pur-
chase) (42196); specimen of pyromor-
phite and 5 specimens of alexandrite
(purchase) L. P. X. (42095); skeleton
of a monkey (purchase) (42524); -44
specimens consisting principally of
Indo-Pacific marine shells (purchase )
(42929).

Warrretp, Dr. W. A., Washington, D.C.:
Foetus. 41689.

Warner, W.V., U.S. National Museum.
Six sulphur matches manufactured at
Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, in 1835 (42237);
120 specimens of miscellaneous insects
from the District of Columbia and vi-
cinity (42619). (See also under Wash-
ington Biologists’ Field Club).

WASHINGTON AGRICULTURAL
Pullman, Wash. Received through
Prof. C. V. Piper. Thirty-eight types
and 36 cotypes: also 29 specimens of
Tipulidee. 41765.

COLLEGE,

WasHINGTON AsyLUuM HospiraL, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Brain of a colored
woman. 41639.

WasHineton BroLtoaists FIELD CLUB
(through E. A. Schwarz, H. 8. Barber,
August Busck, Rolla P. Currie, H. G.
Dyar, and W. V. Warner): Three thou-
sand four hundred and three insects
of all orders from Plummers Island,
Maryland, captured during the season
of 1903. 42620.

WASHINGTON, CHARLES, U. 8. Nationai
Museum: Snake (Diadophis punctatus,
from Berwyn, Md. (41482); shrew
(Blarina brevicauda) (41739).
154

Watkins, Estate of J. E. Received

through Mrs. J. E. Watkins, Wash-
United States flag used
“John Bull.’’

inaton, Di Cr:
on the locomotive
41697.
Wess, J. C., Esprey, Fla.: Snake (Dia-
dophis punctatus) from Florida. 41469.
Wesser, H. J.
Williams. )
WeeEpoN, W.C., U.S. National Museum:
Specimen of Black-throated blue warb-
ler, Dendroica cerulescens. 42817. :
WeinpERG, FRANK, Woodside, L. L.:
Fight plants. 42902. e
We pon, W. F. R. (See under Oxford,
Museum of the University of. )
WELLAUER, Emit, Washington, D. C.:
Model of the Morse telegraph instru-
ment of 1844 (41567); 5 models of pro-
pellers (42362); model of John Stevens’
propeller of 1804 (42363). Purchase.
WELLER, Prof. Sruart, University of Chi-
cago, Ill.: Twenty species of fossils
from the Decker Ferry and other for-
mations of New Jersey.
42580.

WELLMAN, E. 8., Naples, Me.: Specimen |

sehist from

41619.

of garnetiferous mica
Cumberland County, Me.

WELLS, WiuuiaM, Las Vegas, N. Mex.:
Three specimens of sandstone. 42447.

Werner, Dr. Franz, First Zoological In-
stitute, Imperial University, Vienna,
Austria: Two lizards from
Exchange. 41590. (See also under
Vienna, Austria. )

Western New York InsrirutTion FOR
Dear Murtes, Rochester, N. Y.: Speci-
mens of Rochester shales bryozoans.
Loan. 42460.

Wuarton, J. R., Butte, Mont.: Large

crystal of smoky quartz. 41625.

Wuearton, Mrs. M. B., Washington, D.C.:
Photograph of oil painting of Gen.
Alex. Macomb, U. S. Army; framed
photographs of Maj. Gen. John Sedg-
wick, U. 8. Army, and a sash worn by
him during the civil war. Loan. 8887.
(See also under Mrs. F. C. d’ Hautville. )

Exchange.

Europe. |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

WHeEELER, C. F., Department of Agricul-
ture, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of
Quercus heterophylla from the District
of Columbia (41569); plant (41666);
plants from the District of Columbia
(41733, 41845).

| WHEELER, J., Washington, D. C.: Plant
(See under Mrs. T. A.

from Maryland collected by F. H. Hill-
man. 41758.

Waitt, Davin, U. 8. Geological Sur-
vey. Received through the Survey:
Two plants from Virginia (41541);
specimen of fire clay from Clay mine,
Hammond, W. Va. (41768). (See also
under Frederic Brown; James Camp-
bell; H. M. Lane; 8S. W. McCallie. )

WickHamM, Prof. H. F., lowa City, Lowa:
Specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera.
41898

Witcox, Dr. G. B., Fort Stanton, N. Mex.
Received through Department of Agri-
culture: Plant from New Mexico.
42784.

Witcox, Brig. Gen. T. E., U. 8. Army
(Retired). Received through Depart-
ment of Agriculture: Two specimens of
Asarum caudatum from Vancouver,
Wash. (41769). (See also under D.
McLean. )

Wiuuiams, A., Berryville, Va.: Tower
musket. (Loan.) 9475 (Returned).

WILLIAMS, GARDNER F. (See under De
Beers Consolidated Mines, Kimberly,
South Africa. )

Wiuuiams, R. W., jr., Biological Survey,
Department of Agriculture, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Specimen of Vermilion fly-
catcher, Pyrocephalus rubineus mexica-
nus, from Florida. 41795.

Wiurams, Mrs. T. A. Received through
H. J. Webber, Department of Agricul-
ture: Fifteen thousand plants belong-
ing to the late T. A. Williams. 41337.

Wixuramson, Prof. E. B., Bluffton, Ind.:
Three specimens of insects (41755);
received through Rolla P. Currie, 70
specimens of North American dragon-
flies (42210). (See also under Homer
Kapp. )
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Witurmort, C. W., Ottawa, Canada: Spec- |

42859.
Wituis, RrcHarp, Olga, Wash.: Crabs,

imens of Canadian minerals.

. * |
shrimps, and a nudibranch mollusk.

41969.

Witurston, Prof. S. W., and E. B. Bran-
son, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Ill.: Large specimen of Inoceramus sp.

from the chalk formation near Monu- |

ment Rocks, Kans.

41940.
WiuioucHsy, Prof. C. C. (See under
Peabody Museum, Boston, Mass. )

Logan County,

Wiumer, Col. L. Worrninaton, Ryde,
Isle of Wight, England: Specimens of
miscellaneous shells from various lo-
calities and Cretaceous fossils from the
‘“Perma bed’’ at Ryde (41965); 50
specimens of Mesozoic fossils from the
Isle of Wight (42796).

Witson, F. H., Brunswick, Me.: Speci-
men of glassy quartz from a quarry at
Topsham, Me. L. P. X. 41995.

Witson, Miss G. R., Fort George, Fla.: |
Holothurian representing the species |

Thyone briareus. 42519.

Witson, J. Frank, U. S. National Mu- |

seum: Archeological collections of the
late Thomas Wilson, numbering 19,334

specimens. Purchase. 42207.
WINDLE, Francis, Westchester, Pa.:
Plants from Pennsylvania (42555;
42742).

Wisg, Isaporr, Green River, Utah: Re-
ceived through Prof. F. W. Clarke. |

Specimen of dark sandstone with car-

notite from San Rafael swell, Utah. |

42490.

Wirt, Grorce C., Austin, Tex.: Two
specimens of Nyctinomus. 42344.

Woop, FraNK W., Crimora, Va.: Received

through W. C. Phalen.  Stalactitic |
psilomelane from Virginia. 42575.

Woop, N. R., U. S. National Museum:
Specimens of Mus musculus (41926;
42102; 42077); 6 eggs of Gallus gallus
(42347).

WoopEND Curto Company, Denver, Colo. :

Ten specimens of minerals. Purchase.
L.P.X. 41633.

155

WoopGate, JoHN, Fort Wingate, N. Mex.:
Two plants from New Mexico. 41270.

| Wooton, Prof. E. O., Mesilla Park, N.
Mex.: Bat (Euderma) from Mesilla
Park (41592) ; 4 plants from New Mex-
ico (42085).

Worcester, Prof. Dean C. (See under
Philippine Museum, Manila, P. I.

Worrtn, 8. G. (See under Department of
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish-
erles. )

WortHEN, C. K., Warsaw, Ill.: Eleven
birds’ skins, principally Birds of Para-
dise (purchase) (41310); skin of Astra-
pia splendidissima (purchase) L. P. X.
(41511); Florida crocodile (purchase)
(41364); 3 birds’ skins (purchase) L. P.
X. (42105); skin of Lycocorax obiensis
(purchase) (42127).

WreN, CHRISTOPHER, Plymouth, Pa.: Six
sandstone disks from Luzerne County,
Pa. 41994.

| YaKovierr, Herr Nrxouat, Institute of

Mines, St. Petersburg, Russia: Two wax

casts of the hinge of a supposed new

genus of Crassatellitidee from Russia.

41967.

| Yate University Museum, New Haven,
Conn.: Received through Dr. C. E.
Beecher. Specimen of hypotype and
ten fragments of Romingeria umbellifera;
5 opercula of Maclurea lozani, and 580
specimens of Hamilton formation bra-
chiopods from Canandaigua Lake, New
York. 42129:

Youna, R. T. (no address given): Cone
from France. 42302.

| ZELEDON, Josk Antonio, Washington, D.
’ ; g )

C.: Bow and 12 arrows from Costa
Rica. 42721.

ZELEDON, Josk C., San José, Costa Rica:
Specimen of salamander ( Oedipina uni-
formis,and a leech ( Bipalium kewense(?)
Mos). 41718.

ZeLL, Lucian M. (See under American
Gem and Pearl Company. )

ZoutLer, Wiuit1AM Norris, Aquiree, Cen-
tral Porto Rico: Received through
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of
American Ethnology. Two stone idols
and a broken bowl. 42914.

156 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

ZOLLIKOFER, E, H., St. Gallen, Switzer- | Zuck, Dr. F. M., Holbrook, Ariz.: Re-

land: Small mammals from Switzer- ceived through Dr. Walter Hough.
land. 42642. Breech-loading Springfield rifle and

bayonet, issued by order of General
Miles to arm the settlers of Arizona
during the Geronimo outbreak, and
three cartridges. 42497.

ZOOLOGICAL MusEuM OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF COPENHAGEN. (See under Copen-
hagen, Denmark. )

——
——— a Ss ee

beg te

APPENDIX III.

BIBLIOGRAPHY, 1903-04.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE

MUSEUM.

ANNUAL REPORT.

Annual Report | of the | Board of Re-
gents | of the | Smithsonian Institu-
tion, | showing the operations, ex-
penditures, and condition of | the In-
‘stitution | for the | year ending June
30,, 1901. | Report | of the | U. 8. Na-
tional Museum. [Seal] Washington: |
Government Printing Office. | 1903.

8vo., pp. I-X VI, 1-452, pls. 208, text figs. 23.

| Annual Report | of the | Board of Re-
gents | of the | Smithsonian Institu-
tion, | showing the operations, ex-
penditures, and condition of | the In-
stitution | for the | year ending June
30, 1902. | Report | of the | U. S. Na-
tional Museum. [Seal] Washington: |
Government Printing Office. | 1904.
8vo., pp. I-X XIV, 1-784, pls. 26i, text figs.
409.

|
|
|
|
|
|

PROCEEDINGS.

Smithsonian Institution. | United States |

National Museum. | —.| Proceedings |

of the | United States National Mu- |
seum. | — | Volume XXV. | — | Pub- |
lished under the direction of the Smith- |
sonian Institution. [Seal] Washington: |

Government Printing Office. | 1903. |

8vo., pp. I-XIV, 1-1021, pls. 1-82, text figs.
144.

Smithsonian Institution. | United States

National Museum. | — | Proceedings |
of the | United States National Museum.
| — | Volume XX VI. | — | Published

under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution. [Seal] Washington: Goy-
ernment Printing Office. | 1903. |

8vo., pp. I-XV, 1-1058, pls. 1-69, text figs.
194,

Smithsonian Institution. | United States
National Museum. | — | Proceedings |
of the | United States National Museum.

| — | Volume XXVII. | —’| Pul-
lished under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution. [Seal] Washington:
Government Printing Office. | 1904. |
8vo., pp. I-X VII, 1-998, pls. 1-50, text figs.

279.

SPECIAL BULLETIN.

Smithsonian Institution. | United States
National Museum. | — | Special Bulle- |

tin. | — | American Hydroids. | — |
Part II. | The Sertularidz, | with forty-
one plates. | By | Charles Cleveland

Nutting, | Professor of Zoology, Univer-
sity of lowa. | — | Washington: | Govy-
ernment Printing Office. | 1904.

Special Bulletin U.S. Nat. Mus., No. 4 (Part
IT), 4to., pp. I, II, 1-325, pls. 1-41. 159 figs.

PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM.

FROM THE REPORT FOR 1901.

Report upon the condition and progress
of the U. 8. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1901. By
Richard Rathbun. pp. 1-174.

Report on the Department of Anthropol-
ogy for the year 1900-1901. By Wil-
liam H. Holmes. pp. 51-61.

| Report on the Department of Biology for
the year 1900-1901. By Frederick W.
True. . pp. 63-80.

Report on the Department of Geology for
the year 1900-1901. By George P.
Merrill. pp. 81-91.

Report on the exhibit of the United

157
158

States National Museum at the Pan-
American Exposition, Buffalo, New
York, 1901.
William H. Holmes, and George P.
Merrill. pp. 177-231, pls. 1-72.

Flint implements and fossil remains from |

a sulphur spring at Afton, Indian Ter-
ritory. By William Henry Holmes.
pp. 233-252, pls. 1-26.

Classification and arrangement of the ex- |

By Frederick W. True, |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

hibits of an anthropological museum.
pp. 253-

| By William Henry Holmes.

278,. ple i:

| Archeological field work in northeastern

Arizona. The Museum-Gates Expedi-

tion of 1901. By Walter Hough. pp.

| 279-358, pls. 1-101.

_ Narrative of a visit to the Indian tribes of
the Purus River, Brazil. By Joseph

Beal Steere. pp. 359-393, pls. 1-9.

i]

FROM THE REPORT FOR 1902.

Report upon the condition and progress

of the U. 8. National Museum during |

the year ending June 30, 1902.
Richard Rathbun. pp. 1-168.

By

Report on the Department of Anthropol- |

ogy for the year 1901-1902.
liam H. Holmes. pp. 53-58.

By Wil-

Report on the Department of Biology for
the year 1901-1902. By Frederick W.
True. pp. 59-76.

Report on the Department of Geology for
FROM VOLUME 26, PROCEEDINGS

No. 1333. Noteson Orthoptera from Colo-
rado, New Mexico, Arizona,

and Texas,

tions of new species. By
|
Andrew Nelson Caudell. |

dard

pp. 77

A review of the Cyprinoid
fishes of Japan. By David
Starr Jordan and Henry W.
Fowler. pp. 811-862, figs.
1-8.

. The Phasmidz, or Walking-
sticks of the United States.

5-809, pl. Lv.
No. 1334.

No.

By Andrew Nelson Caudell. |

pp. 863-885, pls. LVI—-Lrx.

No. 18386.
from the shell heaps of the
Maine coast. By Daniel
Webster Prentiss. pp. 887,
888, fig. 1.

No. 1337. Revision of the Crustacea of
the genus Lepidopa. By
James E. Benedict. pp.
889-895, figs. 1-8.

with descrip- |

Description of an extinct mink

| the year 1901-1902.
Merrill. pp. 77-84.

_ Aboriginal American Basketry: . Studies
in a textile art without machinery.
By Otis Tufton Mason. pp. 171-548,
pls. 1-248.

The Herpetology of
Leonhard Stejneger.
1-197.

Wokas: A primitive food of the Klamath

Indians. By Frederick Vernon Coville.

pp. 725-739, pls. 1-138.

By George P.

|

Porto Rico. By
pp. 549-724, figs.

OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

| No. 1338. A review of the Siluroid fishes

or catfishes of Japan. By
David Starr Jordan and
Henry W. Fowler. pp.

897-911, figs. 1, 2.

Notice of a collection of fishes
made by H. H. Brimley in
Cane River and_ Bollings
Creek, North Carolina, with
a description of a new spe-

cies of Notropis (N. brimley’).
pp. 913, 914.

On the relations of the fishes
of the family Lampridide or

| Ophas. By Theodore Gill.

| pp- 915-924, figs. 1-3.

Amphipoda from Costa Rica.
By Rey. Thomas R. R. Steb-
bing. pp. 925-931, pls. Lx,

| LXI.

No. 1342.

| No. 1339.

No. 1340.

No. 1341.

Synopsis of the family Astar-
tidee, with a review of the
American species. By Wil-
liam H. Dall. pp. 933-951,

} pls. LXI, LXIIr.
No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

. 1345.

. 1344.

. 1345.

1346.

1350.

1352.

1353.

1354.

1350.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

An Alaskan Corymorpha-like |
hydroid. By Samuel Fes- |
senden Clarke. pp. 953-958, |

figs. 1-7.

On some neglected genera of |
By Theodore Gill. |

fishes.
pp. 959-962.

Notice of a small collection of
fishes, including a rare eel,
recently received from H.

Maxwell Lefroy, Bridge-
town, Barbados, West
Indies. By Barton A. Bean. |

pp. 963, 964, fig. 1.
On some fish genera of the first
edition of Cuvier’s Régne

Animal and Oken’s Names. |

By Theodore Gill.
967.

pp. 965-

FROM VOLUME 27, PROCEEDINGS

Contributions to the Natural
History of the Isopoda. By
Harriet Richardson.
1-89, figs. 1-92.

. A review of the Scorpeenoid

fishes of Japan.
Starr Jordan
Chapin Starks.
pls. 1, u, figs. 1-21.

By David

A revision of the American
Great Horned Owls. By
Harry C. Oberholser. — pp.
177-192.

A new batrachian and a new
reptile from the Trias of
Arizona.
Lucas. pp. 193-195, pls. 111,
Iv.

A review of the wrens of the

genus Troglodytes. By Harry |

C. Oberholser.
pl. v.

pp. 197-210,

Report on the fresh-water Bry- |

pp. |

and Edwin |
pp. 91-175, |

By Frederic A. |

159

No. 1347. Report on the fresh-water Os-

tracoda of the United States

National Museum, including
| a revision of the subfamilies
and genera of the family
Cypridide. - By Richard W.
Sharpe. pp. 969-1001, pls.
LXIV—LXIX.

| No. 1348. A review of the fishes of Japan
belonging to the family
Hexagrammide. By David
Starr Jordan and Edwin
Chapin Starks. pp. 1003-

1013, figs. 1-3.

| No. 1349. Notes on the fish genera named
Macrodon. By Theodore

Gill. pp. 1015, 1016.

OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Notes on a Killer Whale (genus
Orcinus) from the coast of

| No. 1357.

Maine. By Frederick W.
True. pp. 227-230, pls. vi,

VIII.

No. 13858. A review of the Cottidee or
sculpins found in the waters
of Japan. By David Starr
Jordan and Edwin Chapin
Starks. pp. 231-835, figs.
1-43.

No. 1359. Notes on the bats collected by
William Palmer in Cuba.
By Gerrit S. Miller, jr. pp.
337-348, pl. rx.

No. 1360. List of Hemiptera-Heteroptera
of Las Vegas Hot Springs,
New Mexico, collected by
Messrs. E. A. Schwarz and

Herbert S. Barber. By
Philip R. Uhler. pp. 549-
364.

ozoa of the United States. |

‘By Charles B. Davenport.
pp. 211-221, pl. v1.

. On the species of White Chi-

merafromJapan. By David
Starr Jordan and John Otter-
bein Snyder. pp. 223-226,
figs. 1, 2.

No. 1361. A revision of American Siphon-
aptera, or fleas, together
with a complete list and
bibliography of the group.
By Carl F. Baker. pp. 365-
469, pls. X-xxvi.

No.

No

. 1363.

. 1364.

. 1365.

. 1367.

. The Aleyrodids,

REPORT OF NATIONAL

or Mealy-
winged flies, of California,
with
American species. By Flor-
ence E. Bemis. pp. 471-537,
pls. XXVII-XXXVIIL.

Studies in Old World forficu-
lids or earwigs, and blat-
tids or cockroaches. By
James A. G. Rehn. pp.
539-560.

Studies in American mantids or
soothsayers. By James A.
G. Rehn. pp. 561-574.

A review of the Japanese fishes
of the family of Agonide.
By David Starr Jordan and
Edwin Chapin Starks. pp.
575-599, figs. 1-13.

. The osteology of some Bery-

coid fishes.
pin Starks.
figs. 1-10.

A new genus and two new
species of crustaceans of
the family Albuneidee from
the Pacific Ocean; with re-
marks on the probable use
of the antennule in Albu-
nea and Lepidopa. By
James E. Benedict. pp. 621-
625, figs. 1-5.

By Edwin Cha-
pp. 601-619,

No. 1368. A new species of Argulus, with

No. 1369. Contributions to the natural |

a more complete account of

two species already de-
scribed. By Charles Branch |
Wilson. pp. 627-655, figs.
1-38.

history of the Isopoda. V.—

Isopod crustaceans of the |
North |

coast of
By Harriet Rich-
pp- 657-681, figs.

northwest
America.
ardson.
1-39.

No. 1370. Description of a new African

Weaver-bird. By Harry C.
Oberholser. p. 683.

references to other |

No

No.

No.

No.

No.

MUSEUM, 1904.

som:

1372

1373

. 13874

. 1375

1376

pdod h

0. 1378.

. 1379.

. 1380

1581.

New Dragon-fly nymphs in
the United States National
Museum. By James G.
Needham. pp. 685-720, pls.
XXXVIII-XLIV, figs. 1-11.

New molluscan genera from the
Carboniferous. By George
H. Girty. pp. 721-736, pls.
XLV-XLVII.

Descriptions of two new birds
from Somali Land. By
Harry C. Oberholser. pp.
737-739.

Two new ferns of the genus
Polypodium, trom Jamaica.
By William R. Maxon. pp.
741-744.

Tineid moths from British Co-
lumbia, with descriptions of
new species. By August
Buseck. pp. 745-778.

The Lepidoptera of the Koote-
nay District of British Co-
lumbia. By Harrison G.
Dyar. pp. 779-938.

Notes on collections of fishes
from Oahu Island and Lay-
san Island, Hawaii, with
descriptions of four new spe-
cies. By David Starr Jor-
dan and John Otterbein Sny-
der. pp. 939-948.

Two Orthoptera, hitherto un-
recorded, from the United
States. By Andrew Nelson
Caudell. pp. 949-952, figs.
1-3.

A new fern, Goniophlebium
pringlei, from Mexico. By
William R. Maxon. pp.
953-954, pl. xiv, fig. 1.

The Persimmon Creek meteor-
ite. By Wirt Tassin. pp.

955-959, pls. xix, L, fig. L.

Schmidtina, a genus of Japanese
sculpins. By David Starr
Jordan and Edwin Chapin
Starks. p. 961.
Le

ST er a alk a haa ri maa

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

161

PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHERS, BASED
WHOLLY OR IN PART UPON THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS.

AMERICAN: ORNITHOLOGISTS’ | ASHMEAD, Wituram H. Classification

UNION. (Committee on Nomencla-
ture.) .Twelfth Supplement to the
American Ornithologists’ Union Check
List of North American Birds.
Auk, xx, No. 3, July, 1903, pp. 331-368.
The Twelfth Supplement to the American
Ornithologists’ Union Check List gives the
rulings of the committee on 83 cases. A list
of deferred cases is also given.

ARNOLD, Raper. The Paleontology
and stratigraphy of the marine Plio-
cene and Pleistocene of San Pedro,

California.
‘Memoirs Cal. Acad. Sei., 111, 1903, pp. 1-420,
pls. I-XXXVII.

A review of the paleontology and geology
of the beds in the vicinity of San Pedro, with
descriptions, figures, sections, and views of
the locality and a bibliography. Four hun-
dred and eight species are considered, of
which many are new. The types of new
species were given to the National Museum,
so far as they were controlled by Mr. Arnold,
and now form part of the collection. The
Pyramidellidz and corals of this volume
were worked up by Dall and Bartseh, and
Vaughan, respectively (q. v.). The new
species described by Mr. Arnold are as fol-
lows, in zoological order:

Terebratalia smithi, Leda minuta Fabr. var.
precursor, Pecten (Chlamys) jordani, Pecten
(Chalmys) latiauritus Con., var. fragilis, Peclen
(Plagioctenium) newsomi, Crassinella branneri,
Aligena cerritensis, Callista subdiaphana Cpr.
var. pedroana, Semele pulchra Sby, var. monte-
reyi, Pleurotoma (Borsonia) bartschi, Pleuro-
toma (Borsonia) dali, Plewrotoma (Borsonia)
hooveri, Pleurotoma (Leucosyrina) pedroana,
Pleurotoma (Genota) cooperi, Drillia johnsoni,
Drillia merriami, Drillia renaudi, Bela sancta-
monice, Mangia (Cythara) branneri, Mangilia
(Mangilia) hooveri, Mangilia ( Mangilia) inter-
fossa var. pedroana, Mangilia (Mangilia)
oldroydi, Mangilia (Mangilia) painei, Mangilia
{ Taranis) strongi, Mangilia (Spirotropis) smith,
Mitra (Mitromorpha) intermedia, Nassa cer-
ritensis, Nassa versicolor C. B. Ad., var. hooveri,
Columbella solidula Rve., var. precursor, Colum-
bella (Anachis) minima, Columbella (Esopus)
oldroydi, Columbella (Amphissa) ventricosa,
Eupleura muriciformis Brod., var. curta,
Trophon (Boreotrophon) cerritensis, Trophon
(Boreotrophon) pedroana, Trophon  (Boreo-
trophon) orpheus, var. precursor, Ocinebra
keepi, Ocinebralurida Midd., var. cerritensis,
Bittium williamsoni, Paludestrina curta, Palu-
destrina stokesi, Delphinoidea coronadoensis,
Margarita optabilis Cpr. vars. knechti, nodosa,
and pedroana.

NAT Mus 1904——11

of the fossorial, predaceous, and para-
sitic wasps, or the superfamily Vespoi-
dea. Paper No. 15.
Can. Ent., XXxv, July, 1902, pp. 199-205.
Treats of the family Myrmosidz, which is
divided into three subfamilies: (1) Bradyno-
beenine, (2) Myrmosine, and (3) Apterogy-
nine. The Myrmosine are again divided
into two tribes, (1) Myrmosini and (2) Chy-
photini. In all nine genera are tabulated.
Two new phytophagous Hyme-
noptera.
Can. Ent., XXXV, August, 1903, p. 283.
Describes Xiphydria erythrogaster and Cala-
meuta johnsoni from New Jersey.
Classification of the gall-wasps
and the parasitie Cynipoides, or the
superfamily Cynipoidea. III,
Psyche, X, August, 1903, pp. 140-155.
Treats of the subfamily Xystine and part
of the family Cynipide. Thesubfamily Xys-
tine is divided into two tribes: (1) Lobosce-
lidiini and (2) Xystini. Eleven genera are
tabulated. The family Cynipide is divided
into three subfamilies: (1) Synergine, (2)
Cynipine, and (3) Ibaliine. IntheSynerginz
8 genera are tabulated, one, Synophromorpha,
being new. Doctor Ashmead subdivides
the Cynipine, or the true gall-makers, into 5
tribes: (1) Cynipini, (2) Rhoditini, (3) Pedia-
spidini, (4) Aulacini, and (5) Eschatocerini.
In the tribe Cynipini 32 genera are tabulated.

A new Paranomia from British
Columbia.

Can. Ent. XXXV, Sept., 1903, p. 243.
Describes Paranomia venablesii.

Two new hymenopterous para-

sites.
Journ, N. Y. Ent. Soc., X1, Sept., 1903, No. 3,
p. 144.

Describes Orgilus kearfotti and Protapanteles
TECUTVATTR.

Classification of the gall-wasps and
the parasitic Cynipoids, or the super-
family Cynipoidea. IV.

Psyche, X, Oct., 1903, pp. 210-216.

Treats of the tribes Rhoditini, Pediaspidini
Aulacini, and Eschatocerini; also of the sub-
family Ibaliinee. In all 21 genera are tabu-
lated, one, Pseudaulax being new. In an ad-
denda a revised generic table of the Onychi-
ince is given, in order to include two new
genera described by Abbé Kieffer.

Classification of the fossorial, pre-
daceous, and parasitic wasps, or the
superfamily Vespoidea. (Paper No. 16).
162

ASHMEAD, Witiram H.—Continued.

Can. Ent., XXXv, Noy., 1903, pp. 303-310.

Treats of the family Mutillide, which is di-
vided into two subfamilies, (1) Mutillini and
(2) Ephutini. The first subfamily is divided
into two tribes, (1) Phtopsidini and (2) Mu-
tillini. A generic table of the Photopsidini is
then given in which 17 genera are tabulated,
four of which are new, namely, Tetraphotop-
sis, Neophotopsis, Bruesia, and Leucospilo-
mutilla.

A new Ammoplanus.
Ent. News, xtv, Nov., 1903, p. 295.
Describes Ammoplanus cockerelli from New
Mexico.

Classification of the fossorial, pre-
daceous, and parasitic wasps, or the
superfamily Vespoidea. (Paper No. 17.)

Can. Ent., XXXv, Dec., 1903, pp. 323-332.

Treats of the tribe Mutillini. In this paper

31 genera are tabulated, 11 being described as
new, viz: Spilomutilla, Viereckia, Apteromutilla,

Dimorphomutilla, Euspinotia, Radoszkowskius, |
Blakeius, Myrmecomutilla, Peringueya, Pristo-

mutilla, and Nenomutilla.

A new joint-worm parasite from
Russia.
Can. Ent., XXXv, Dec., 1903, pp. 332, 333.
Describes Homoporus vassiliefi.
Classification of the fossorial, pre-
daceous and parasitic wasps, or the
superfamily Vespoidea. (Paper No.
18—conclusion. )
Can. Ent. XXXVI, Jan.,
Treats of the subfamily Ephutine, which is
divided into two tribes: (1) Ephutini and (2)
Spheerophthalmini. 13 generaare tabulated,

1904, pp. 5-9.

of which Ephutopsis, Pycnomutilla and Reedia |

are new.

Description of the type of the |

genus Curriea Ashmead.
Ent. New., Xv, Jan., 1904, p. 18.
Describes and figures Curriea fasciatipennis
from Africa.

Descriptions of fournew horn-tails.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, Mar., 1904, pp. 63, 64.

Describes Sterex taxodii, S. fiskei, Paururus
californicus and P. hopkinsi; also the male of
P. pinicola Ashm.

A list of the Hymenoptera of the
Philippine Islands, with descriptions of
new species.
Journ, N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, Mar., 1904, pp.
1-22.
Records 183 species of Hymenoptera from
the Philippines, two genera and 31 species
being described as new.

~ ~— A new Alysiid from Ceylon.
Ent. News, Xv, Apr., 1904, p. 113.
Describes Asphilota ceylonica.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

ASHMEAD, Wriiuram H. Descriptions

of new Hymenoptera from Japan. 1.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc. x1, June, 1904, pp.
65-84.
44 new species are described.

— Classification of the Chalcid flies,

or the superfamily Chalcidoidea, with
descriptions of new species in the Car-
negie Museum, collected in South

America by Herbert H. Smith.
Memoirs Carnegie Musewm, 1, 1908-4, No. 4,
pp. 221-551.

This forms a large quarto volume of 326
pages, with 9 plates, containing 51 figures.
It is devoted to the classification of the Chal-
cid flies, or the superfamily Chalcidoidea, and
to describing the new genera and species in
the Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, Pa. It is
based principally upon the extensive collec-
tion of these insects made by Mr. Herbert H.
Smith in South America, although others in
the U. S. National Museum are also included.
The work is divided into two parts; the first
part is devoted to the classification of the
Chalecid flies of the world; the second part
deals with the South American Chalcidoidea,
and contains, besides the descriptions of the
new genera and species, a full bibliographieal
catalogue of all the known species. Dr. Ash-
mead has been studying these insects for over
25 years and he now recognizes and defines
14 families, namely, Agaonidze, Torymide,
Chalcididz, Eurytomide, Perilampide, Eu-
charide, Miscogasteride, Cleonymide, Eneyr-
tide, Pteromalide, Elasmide, Eulophide,
Trichogrammide, and Mymaride. Each of
these families is taken up in order, fully de-
fined and discussed and separated into sub-
families, tribes, and genera. Full tables for
the recognition of the families, subfamilies,
tribes, and genera are given, and with the
aid of these tables the student should have
no difficulty in classifying his material in
this great complex. In all 621 genera are
recognized as valid and tabulated. In the
second part over 300 new species are described
from South America. A full bibliography of
the genera terminates part first, in which the
type of each genus is specified. The last ten
pages (pp. 522-532) are devoted to the litera-
ture on the subject, arranged in alphabetieal
order. This is the first complete work ever
published on these minute and obseure
Hymenoptera, and it is hoped that Dr, Ash-
mead’s work willstimulate and facilitate their
study.

Three new Ichneumon flies from

Russia.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904.
Describes Pristomerus schreineri, Femelucha
plutelle and Epiura carpocapse.
New generic names in the Chalci-
doidea.
BANKS, NatHan. A list of Arachnida

BIBLIOGRAPHY. Gs

ASHMEAD, Wiiuram H.—Continued. BANKS, NatHan. Four new species of

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 126. injurious mites.
Gives six new names to genera preoccupied Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Mar., 1904, pp. 53-56,
in other departments of zoology. 1 plate.
Remarks on honey bees. Describes 2 species injurious to the orange,
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash. v1, 1904, pp. 120, 121. 1 to cotton, and 1 to the mango.
In this paper Dr. Ashmead describes twonew | ———— Notes on entomology.
genera, Megapis and Micrapis, and arranges Science (new series), XIX, Mar. 18, 1904,
the genuine honey bees under three genera. pp. 470-472.
BAKER, Cart F. A revision of Ameri- | Reviews of several recent papers.
can Siphonaptera, or fleas, together | ——— Two new species of Hydroptilide.
with a complete list and bibliography Ent. News, XV, Apr., 1904, p. 116, 2 figs.
Descriptions of 2 new species from near
of the group. Washington.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi1, No. 1361, Feb.
16, 1904, pp. 365-469, pls. 10-26. — Neuropteroid insects from New
BANGS, Outram. Birds:and mammals Mexico. =
from Honduras | Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., XXX, Apr., 1904, pp.

97-110, 1 plate.
A list of 97 species, from the territory, 12 of
them being described as new.

» Bull. Mus. Comp. Zovl., XX X1x, No.6, July,
1903, pp. 141-159.

Notes on a collection of birdsand mammals |
collected by W. W. Brown, jr., at Ceiba and | - Two rare Neuropteroid insects.
Yaruca, Honduras. One hundred and six Ent. News, xv, May, 1904, p. 171.
species of birds are enumerated, of which the | Note on Panorpa rufa and Mantispa viridis.
following are described as new: Chloronerpes . . : - . .

2 SEEN Se bree en Woronerpes | ______ Cyrious habit of two Ortalid flies.
simplex allophyeus (p. 145), Picwmnus dimotus | E es : ; me

aes PERS rn ax Ent. News, Xv, May, 1904, pp. 171,172.
(p. 146), Dendrornis nana confinis (p. 150), and A : anna ie open .

as ae Elevation of wings in Callopistria anunlipes,
Arremonops conirostris centratus (p. 156). | < x a

BPS ah Nace ie and Pseudotephritis vau.

Notes are offered on eleven species of mam-
mals, one of which is described as new, viz: | ———— New genera and species of nearc-
Sigmodon hispidus furvus (p. 158). tic spiders.

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., June, 1904, pp. 109-
119, 2 plates.

from Haiti, with descriptions of new

i Decriptions or 4 new genera, and 22 new
species. i species. 5
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., July, 1903, ne es
pp. 340-345, 1 plate. | BARTSCH, Pauu. A new Scissurella
A list of 66 species from the island, 7 of from Patagonia.
which are described as new. Nautilus, XV11, 1903, pp. 90, 91.
A new species of Habrophlebia Scissurella dalli Bartsch is described as new.
Ent. News, Xtv, Sept., 1903, p. 235, 1 fig. — A new landshell from California.
Description of H. americana. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv1, June 25, 1903,
—— Concerning Gastrophilus epilepsalis pps 103,10
: See z ee Sonorella wolcottiona Bartsch is described as
French. See

Can. Ent., XXXV, Dece., 1903, p. 333. + hae ae
Questioning the position of this maggot. —— Notes on the herons of the Dis-

—— Additions to the list of New York trict of Columbia. :
Pentat 7 Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue,
STUO TOSS: I, pts. 1, 2, Dee. 9, 1903, pp, 104-111, pls.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Dec., 1908, p. 227.

a : é: i : XXXII-XXXVIII.
Eight species added to New York list. This paper deals with the herons found ia

Some new Neuropteroid insects. the District of Columbia, the breeding habits
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Dec., 1903, pp. of the Black-crowned Night heron and Green
236-243, 2 figs. heron. It alsoannounces a scheme for mark-
Descriptions of 19 new species and 1 new ing young birds with aluminum bands and
genus. gives the results of a season’s returns.
—— New species of Hemerobius. —__ Limax maximus L. in California.
Can. Ent., XXXvI, Mar., 1904, pp. 61-63. Nautilus, XVIII, p. 12, 1904.
Descriptions of 5 new species. The above slug is here recorded from San
—— The Arachnida of Florida. Bernardino, California.
‘Proc, Acad; Nat. (Sci. Phila:, Mar:, 1904, || ——— == (Seealso under WILLIAM H. Datu. )

pp. 120-147, 2 plates. <
A list of 279species, 13 of which are described BASSLER, R. 5. (See under E. O,

as new. ULrRicn. )

164

BEAN, Barton A. Notice of a collec-
tion of fishes made by H. H. Brimley
in Cane Riverand Bollings Creek, North
Carolina, with a description of a new
species of Notropis (.N. brimleyi. )

Proc., UMS. Nat eMits! exeXvi., aNOW 1839)
July 6, 1903, pp. 913, 914.

Notice of a small collection of

town, Barbados, West Indies.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, No. 1845,
July 10, 1903, pp. 963, 964, 1 fig.
A new pelican fish from the Pacific.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV,.Quar. issue,
I, pts. 3,4, Apr. 11, 1904, p. 254.
BEMIS, Fiorence E. The Aieyrodids,
or Mealy-winged flies of California, with
references to other American species.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1362,
Feb. 16, 1904, pp. 471-537, pls. 27-37.
BENEDICT, James E. Revision of the
Crustacea of the genus Lepidopa.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXv1, No. 13887, July
6, 1903, pp. 889-895, text figs. 1-8.

Seven species are included in the genus, of
which four are described as new.
cies are represented in the collection of the
U. S. National Museum.

Six spe- |

A new genus and two new species —
of crustaceans of the family Albuneidee |
from the Pacific Ocean; with remarks |
on the probable use of the antennulee in |

Albunea and Lepidopa.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,XXviI, No. 1367, Feb.

16, 1904, pp. 621-625, text figs. 1-5.
Lophomastia diomedex, new genus and spe-
cies; Albunea elioti, new species.
BENJAMIN, Marcus. John Elfreth
Watkins. [A biographical sketch. ]
Science (new series), XVIII, No. 453, Sept.
4, 1903, pp. 300, 301.

BOWDISH, B. S. An abnormal bill of

Melanerpes portoricensis.
Auk, XX1, Jan., 1904, pp. 58-55, pl. x1.

Note on a Porto Rican woodpecker with an

abnormal bill. ;

BRITTON, N. L.
Rose. )

BUSCK, AvuaGust.

(See under Josrpn N.

Tineid Moths from

British Columbia, with descriptions of

new species.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxXvit, No. 1375,
May 25, 1904, pp. 745-778.

|

|

fishes, including a rare eel, recently re- | CAUDELL, Anprew NELson.

ceived from H. Maxwell Lefroy, Bridge-

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

| CASANOWICZ,I.M. Oriental and clas-

sical Archeology in the United States
National Museum.
Records of the Past, 11, No. 12, Dee., 1903.
pp. 355-361, 7 illustrations.
A description of the Divisions of ‘Historic
Archeology and Aistorie Religions, their
contents, arrangement, and significance.

Notes on
Orthoptera from Colorado, New Mex-
ico, Arizona, and Texas, with de-

scription of new species.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 1388, July

6, 1903, pp. 775-801, pl. 55.
New species: Heliastus guanieri, Melanoplus
coloradus, M. latifercula, Psinidia sulcifrons
var. amplicornus.

| —— The Phasmide, or Walkingsticks,

of the United States.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, No. 1335, July
9, 1908, pp. 863-885, pls. 56-59.

New subfamily: Timemine; new genera:
Parabacillus, Pseudosermyle, Megaphasma; new
species: Pseudosermyle truncata, P. banksii,
Diapromra arizonensis, Timema californica.

On the systematic position of the

Orthopterous genus Aulocara Scudder.
Can. Ent., XX Xv, 1903, p. 302.
Shows this genus to belong in the sub
family Ordipodine.

— Notes on the Orthoptera of Ber-
muda with a description of a new
species, Gryllus bermudensis.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v, 1908, pp. 329-331.

Notes on Phasmide.
Ent. News, 19038, pp. 314, 315.

Compares Parabacillus Cand. with Septynia
Pant. Describesimmaturity of Diaptwromera
arizonensis Cand. Note on Timema californica
found on evergreens in California.

Two Orthoptera, hitherto unre-

corded, from the United States.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxv, No. 1378,
June 2, 1904, pp. 949-952, figs. 1-3.

New variety, Heliastus swmichrasti var.
subrosea. This species is recorded from
Texas, and a Phasmid, Haplopus evadne
Westw., from Florida.

— Orthoptera of the Expedition.
Harriman Alaska Expedition, pp. 117, 118,
1904.
Melanoplus borealis Fieb. recorded.

The genus Cyphoderris.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Xu, 1904, pp. 47-53.
New variety: Cyphoderris monstrosa var. pi-
pert,
i lee i a a a a

a)

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

CAUDELL, ANpREw Netson. <A new
Forficulid from the Philippines.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, p. 108.
New species: Auchenomus minor.

Notes on some Orthoptera from
British Columbia.
Ent. News, 1904, pp. 62, 63.
Report on species collected in 1903, by
Messrs. Dyar, Currie, and Caudell. No new
species.

Branched hairs of Hymenoptera.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 5, 6.

An Orthopterous leaf-roller.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 46-49.

The synonomy of Cidipoda cincta
Thom.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1994, p. 125.
‘New species, Mestabregma thomasi.

Injury by a cricket in the South.
Bull. Div. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric., No. 44,
1904, pp. 88, 89.
Anurogryllus antillarum Louss,
from southern United States.

recorded

(See also under Harrison G.

Dyar. )

CHAPMAN, Frank M.

from California.
Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., xx, Apr. 25,
1904, pp. 159-162. ‘

Dendragapus obscurus sierre (p. 159) is de-
scribed as new, and its affinities with D. obseu-
rus and D. obscurus fuligimosus are discussed
at some length. A table of measurements of
the three forms is given at the end of the

paper.

CLARK, Austin H. The black-winged
Palm Tanager.
Auk, xX, No. 4, Oct., 1903, pp. 398-402.
Notes on yariations of size and color in
Tanagra palmarum melanoptera.

CLARKE, SamMvurEt FESSENDEN.
Alaskan Corymorpha-like hydroid.
Proc. U. S: Nat. Mius., xxXviI, No. 1848,
July 11, 1903, pp. 953-958, text figs. 1-7.
Redescription of an Alaskan so-called Rhi-
zonema, Which now seems to belong either to
Corymorpha or Lampra.

COLE, Lron J. Pycnogonida. of the

west coast of North America.
Harriman Alaska Expedition, x, April,
1904, pp. 249-298, plates XI-XXVI.

The author includes inaterial from the
Harriman Expedition, and certain forms
from California. Thirteen speciesare reported
upon. A table ot distribution is given, also

A new grouse

An

a table ot terms used by various authors in |

describing Pyenogonida. Some of the dupli-
cates will come to the U.S. National Museum.

165

| COQUILLETT, D, W.

A new Culicid
genus related to Corethra.
Can. Ent., XXXV, July, 1908, pp. 189, 190.
The author erects the genus Sayoimyia,
named in honor of Thomas Say, and describes
as new Corethra cinctipes.

Culex consobrinus again.

Can. Ent., XXxv, Aug., 1908, p. 218.
Shows that the original description does
not apply to any species of Culex occurring
in this country other than the species identi-
fied by Mr. Coquillett as Consobrinus.

Four new species of Culex.
Can. Ent., XXXV, Sept., 1903, pp. 255-257.
Describes as new Culex cantator, C. aurifer,
C. nanus, and C. discolor.

—— Notes on Culex kelloggii Theobald.
Can. Ent., XXXV, Sept., 1903, p. 261.
Cites the above name, Culex willistoni Giles
and Culex affinis Adams as synonyms of Culex
tarsalis Coquillett.

Eucorethra, a genus of Culicide.
Can. Ent., XXXv, Oct., 1903, p. 272.

Gives a detailed description of this genus
and of the species Eucorethra underwoodi, both
of which had been described a few months
earlier, by Prof. W. L. Underwood, from the
early stages only.

A new Anopheles with unspotted
wings. :
Can. Ent., XXXV, Nov., 1903, p. 310.

Describes Anop/leles barberi from specimens
collected a short distance from Washington,
by Mr. H. S. Barber.

Several new diptera from North
America.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, Jan. 12, 1904, pp. 10-12.

Gives descriptions of five new species.

Reports on Californian and Nevya-
dan diptera, by C. F. Baker. (The
descriptions of the new genus and
species are by D. W. Coquillett. )

Invertebrata Pacifica Diptera, 1, Feb. 10,

1904, pp. 17-40.

Describes 1 new genus and 31 new species.

The genera of the dipterous fam-
ily Empididee. Addenda.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, Feb. 13, 1904, pp-
D1, 52.

Gives several corrections to a paper on this
subject, published on pages 245-272 of the pre-
ceding volume of the Proceedings.

A brief history of North American
dipterology.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, Feb. 18, 1904, pp.
53-58.

Forms the annual address of the president
of the Entomological Society of Washington
and gives a short history of this science in
North America.
166 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

COQUILLETT, D. W. Notes on Culex | CURRIE, Rotua Parreson. Notes on

nigritulus.
Ent. News, XV, Feb., 1904, p. 73.

Shows that the form occurring in this coun-
try and heretofore referred to this European
species is evidently distinct, and proposes the
name Culex salinarius for our species.

Dipterafrom southern Texas, with
descriptions of new species.
‘Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, Mar., 1904, pp.
31-35.

Gives a list of 8 previously described species
collected by Mr. Charles Schaeffer at Browns-
ville, Tex., not before reported as occurring
in the United States, and describes 9 new
species from the same region and obtained
by the same collector.

A new Ceratopogon from Brazil.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., x11, Mar., 1904, pp.
35, 36.
Describes as new Ceratopogon guttatus.

New diptera from Central Amer-
ica.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, May 18, 1904, pp.
90-98.
Describes 2 new genera and 18 new species.

New diptera from India and Aus-
tralia.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 137-140.
Describes 5 species as new.

COVILLE, FrepErick VERNON.
used in Basketry. ]
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1904), pp. 199-214, pls. Iv, v, VII-x.
This paper is embraced in a larger work on
Basketry by Prof. O. T. Mason.
— Wokas: a primitive food of the
Klamath Indians.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1904), pp. 725-739, pls. I-XIII.

COVILLE, Freperick VERNON, and
McDOUGAL, D. T. Desert botanical
laboratory of the Carnegie Institution.

Pub. Carnegie Inst., No. 6, Wash., 1903,
pp. 1-45, pls. I-XXvVIl1l.

CURRIE, Rotzta Parreson. An insect-

collecting trip to British Columbia.
Proc, Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, No. 1, Jan., 1904,
pp. 24-87.

[ Plants

An account of the expedition of Dr. H. G. |

Dyar, Mr. A. N. Caudell, and the author to
the Kootenay District of British Columbia in
the summer of 1903, with a general description
of the region and of the particular localities
Where collections were made. The paper is
intended as a preface to subsequent detailed
reports, by different specialists, upon the
various groups of insects represented in the
collections.

some Hemerobiidee from Arizona and
California.
Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash., v1, No. 2, Apr., 1904,
pp. 79-81.

Treats of asmall collection of Hemerobii-
de made by Mr. H. S. Barber during the
spring and summer of 1903. Twonew species
are described, viz, Hemerobius bistrigatus, from
Little River, Humboldt County, California,
and H. pallescens, from Fieldbrook, Humboldt
County, California.

Hemerobiide from the Kootenay

District of British Columbia.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, No. 2, Apr., 1904,
pp. 81-90.

Lists twelve species, collected by Messrs.
H. G. Dyar, A. N. Caudell, the author, and
others during the summer of 1903. Of these,
five are described as new, viz, Hemerobius
dyari, H. kokanceanus, H. caudelli, H. glacialis,
and H. kootenayensis. A key, for aid in deter-
mining the British Columbia species of Hem-
erobius, is ineluded.

DALL, Witiram Heatey. Synopsis of
the family Astartidze, with a review of
the American species.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi, No. 1342, July
10, 1903, pp. 9383-951, plates LXII, LXIII.

A synopsis, on the lines of the synopsis of
the Carditacea, reviewing the classification
of the family and the nomenclature of the
species found on the Atlantic and Pacifie
coasts of America.

The following new species are named and
figured: Astarte polaris, A. alaskensis, A. ben-
netti, A. soror, A. subaequilatera yar. white-
avesii, A. liogona and A. vernicosa, all from
the boreal regions; Venericardia crassidens
Broderip and Sowerby, is reinstated and
figured for the first time. Some new species
of Carditacea, ete., described in the review of
that group are for the first time figured, as
follows: Venericardia armilla, V. moniliata,
V. gouldii, V. incisa, V. alaskana, and V.
ventricosa. The following species are for the
first time figured: Crania patagonica, Crassa-
tellites brasiliensis, Crenella megas, Echinochama
californica, Limopsis panamensis, Cetoconcha
scapha, of Dall, Astarte compacta Carpenter,
and Astarte esquimalti Baird.

In a footnote attention is called to the fact
that the name Miodon Carpenter, preoccupied
by Duméril for a fish, has been replaced by
Miodontiscus Dall; and for Acus, a subgenus
of Terebra, also preoccupied, the name Oxy-
meris Dall is now proposed.

The Grand Gulf formation.
Science (new series), XVilI, No. 446, July
17, 1908, pp. 83-85.
A discussion of the proper application of
this name to a geological formation of the
Southern States. ;
BIBLIOGRAPHY. 167

DALL, Wittram Heatey. Reports of | DALL, Wittram Heatey—Continued.

BS aS

the Princeton University expeditions
to Patagonia, 1896-1899. I.—Narrative

anc Geography.
Science (new series), XVIII, July 31, 1903,
pp. 146, 147.
A review of the volume cited, giving a
summary of the results obtained by Mr. J. B.
Hatcher in his explorations of Patagonia.

Two new mollusks from the west

coast of America.
Nautilus, xvit, No. 4, Aug., 1903, pp. 37, 38.
Sigaretus noyesti from Gorgona Islands,
Gulf of Panama, and Tonicia arnheimi from
Narborough Island, Galapagos, are described.
The types.were donated by Mr. Arnheim to
the U.S. National Museum.

A new species of Metzgeria.
Nautilus, xvi, No. 5, Sept., 1903, pp. 51, 52.
Metzgeria californica is described from the
Santa Barbara Channel, California, the only
other species known being Norwegian.

— Note on the family Septide.

Nautilus, xv1t, No. 5, Sept., 1908, pp. 55, 56.
Discussion of the proper family name for
the group formerly called Tritonide. |

A new genus of Trochide.
Nautilus, Xvu, No. 6, Oct., 1903, pp. 61, 62.
The genus Stylobates, founded on the abyssai
species S. xneus Dall, is described from deep
water in the Hawaiian group.

Contributions to the Tertiary
fauna of Florida, with especial reference
to the silex beds of Tampa and the
pliocene beds of the Caloosahatchie
River, including in many cases a com-
plete revision of the generic groups
treated of, and their American Tertiary
species. Part VI, concluding the work.

Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci. Phila., 111,
part vi, Oct., 1903, pp. i-xiv, 1219-1654,
pl. XLVIII-LX, 4to.

This volume forms the concluding part of
the monograph of the Floridian Tertiary be-
gun in 1885 by the author. It comprises not
only the description of species, the types of
which are preserved in the U. S. National
Museum, and of which three or four thousand
are enumerated, and eight hundred and
sixty new forms described, among mollusks
and Brachiopods, but also a general discus-
sion (pp. 1541 to 1620, with two tables showing
numerically and graphically the relations of
the fauna, which discussion was also issued
as a Separate pamphlet, with title and covers)
of the Tertiary geology of southeastern North
America, with notes on each separately rec-
ognized formation, including lists of the
species known from each horizon. In the
course of the work a thorough discussion of

many of the families or genera and their no- |

menclature is given, bringing the latter up
to date as far as practicable; while the gen”
eral classification of the bivalves is reviewed
and amended. A geological map of Florida
from the reconnaissance work of the author
and others who have assisted in the work is
included, while a!l the new and many doubt-
ful or unfigured species have been illustrated.

The following groups, of the value of gen-
era, subgenera, or sections, appear as new in
the present part of the work: Allogramma,
Aporema, Bowdenia, Chlidonophora, Climacia,
Heteroclidus, Parmulina, Pompholigina, Pro-
Jischeria, Samarangia.

The following species are described as new
and figured in the present part of the work:
Anomalocardia bowdeniana, A. caloosana, A.
chipolana, A. dupliniana, Arca millifila, Argy-
rotheca schucherti, Aspella senex, Astarte ameri-
cand, A. calliglypta, A. floridana, A. obesa, A.
opulentora, A. parma, A. vaginulata, A. wag-
neri, Callocardia gatunensis, C. multifilosa, C.
sincera, Cardita catharia, C. guppyt, C. pres-
toni, C. tegea, C. vaughani, Carditopsis bernardi,
Chama caloosana,. C. chipolana, C. draconis, C.
lyelli, C. tampaénsis, Chione ballista, C. chipo-
lana, C. craspedonia, C. erosa, C. glyptocyma,

* C. hendersonii, C. rhodia, C. spada, C. ulocyma,

C. victoria, C. xesta, Chiton burnsii, Clementia
grayi, Codakia chipolana, C. erosa, C. magno-
liana, C. pertenera, C. spinulosa, C. vendryesi,
Columbella cosmia, -Coralliophaga elegantula,
Corbis claibornensis, Crassatellites acutus, C.
bowdenensis, C. chipolanus, C. cyclopterus, C.
duplinianus, C. jamaicensis, C. meridionalis,
C. tanicus, C. triangulatus, Crepidula xsop,
Cuspidaria craspedonia, C. distira, Cyathodonta
guadalupensis, C. spenceri, C. vicksburgiana,
Cyclinella gatunensis, Cyrena dupliniana, Cyth-
ara metria, C. micromeris, Cytherea cxsarina, C.
glyptoconcha, C. shepardi, C. tarquinia, C.
ucuttana, C. willeoxi, Cytheriopsis alumensis,
Dosinia chipolana, D. liogona, Echinochama
antiquata, E. californica, Erycinella bernardi,
Gafrarium altum, G. erosum, Gemma magna,
G. trigona, G. virginiana, Glyphostoma scoptes,
Goodallia americana, Lirodiscus wailesii, Lu-
cina corpulenta, L. janus, L. santarosana, Lyon-
sia acuta, Macrocallista acuminata, Myrtea
curta, M. furcata, M.limoniana, M. vermiculata,
Neritina merida, Neverita coénsis, Oliva liodes,
O. martensi, Olivella eutacta, Pandora arctica, P.
dodona, P. lata, Phacoides actinus, P. calhoun.
ensis, P. caloosaénsis, P. caloosana, P. chipo-
lanus, P. domingensis, P. glenni, P. hamatus,
P. heracleus, P. intensus, P. ocalanus, P. pilu-
liformis, P. plesiophilus, P. podagrinus, P.
prunus, P. quadricostatus, P. recurrens, P.
sphxriolus, P. tithonis, P. twomeyi, P. wacca-
mawensis, P. wacissanus P, whitfieldi, Pitaria
caleanea, P. filosina, P. floridana, P. hillii, P.
opisthogrammata, P. planivieta, Platidia mary-
landica, Pleurodesma floridana, Poromya ja-
maicensis, Pterorhylis fluviana, Rhynchonella
holmesii, R. salpinx, Solenosteira vaughani,
Spheniopsis americana, Subemarginula  reti-
168

DALL, Wittram Heatey—Continued.
porosa, Teinostoma calliglyptum, Thracia har-
risi, Tivelajamaicensis, Transennella caloosana,
T. carolinensis, T. chipolana, T. santarosana,
T. utica, Velorita floridana, Venericardia ab-
breviata, V. acaris, V. bulla, V. californica, V.
carsonensis, V. greggiana, V. hadra, V. himerta,
V. nasuta, V. precisa, V. scitula, V. simplex,
V. tellia, V.tripla, V. vicksburgiana, V. will-
coxensis, Venus alba, V. langdoni, V. nucea, V.
quadrata, V. radiata, V. texana, Verticordia
bowdenensis, V. cossmanni, V. jamaicensis.

—— Mrs. Henrietta H. T. Wolcott.
Nautilus, Xvu1, No. 7, Nov., 1903, pp. 83, 84.
Obituary notice of an excellent field natu-
ralist, friend and generous contributor to the
U.S. National Museum for many years.

— Diagnoses of new species of mol-
lusks from the Santa Barbara channel,

California.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvi, Dee. 31, 1903,
pp. 171-176.

Actxon painei, Clathurella lowei, Mangilia
Fanchere, Mitra lowei, M. dolorosa, Murex
painei, Lunatia draconis, Macromphalina cali-
fornica, Scala sawinx, and Ischnochiton biar-
cwatus are described asnew. The typesare in
the U. S. National Museum.

Rectifications et questions de no-

menclature.
Revue critique de Paléozoologie, V11, p. 180,
Juillet, 1903.
Reclamation for the name of Dimya, which
had been rejected for insufficient reason.

Gundlachia and Ancylus.
Nautilus, Xvi, No. 9, Jan., 1904, pp. 97, 98.
A discussion as to the relations between the
two genera.

Marcus Baker.
Nat. Geograph. Mag., XV, No. 1, Jan., 1904,
pp. 41-48, with portrait.

Obituary notice of Mr. Baker, who fora long
time was associated with Dr. Dall in Alaska,
and who, in the intervals of other work, found
time to collect material, anthropological and
biological, for the U. S. National Museum.

Notes on the nomenclature of the
Pupacea and associated forms.
Nautilus, XVi1, No. 10, Feb., 1904, pp. 114-
116.
Corrections to current usage in the nomen-
clature of this group are pointed out.

On the geology of the Hawaiian
Islands.

Am. Journ. Sci. (fourth series), xv11, No.
98, Feb., 1904, p. 177.
Notes on the geology of Diamond Head,
Oahu, based on material a portion of which
isin the U.S. National Museum.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

DALL, Wrtitam Heater. Charles Em-

erson Beecher.
Science (new series), X1x, Mar., 18, 1904,
pp. 453-455.
Obituary notice of the late Dr. Beecher.

Neozoic invertebrate fossils, a re-
port on collections made by the expe-

dition.
Harriman Alaska Expedition, tv, Mar.,
1904, pp. 99-122, pls. Ix, X.

A report on fossils collected by the expedi-
tion in Alaska: Ist, Eocene fossils from Alas-
ka Peninsulaand vicinity, chiefly by Mr.Chas.
Palache; 2d, Miocene fossils from the Shuma-
gin Islands; 3d, Pleistocene fossils from Doug-
Jas Island. The types are in the U.S. Nation-
al Museum. The Eocene species are the first
Eocene fossils described from Alaska. The
following are deseribed and figured as new:
Cliona alaskana, Yoldia palachei, Y. emersonii,
Y. breweri, Modiolus harrimant, M. alaskanus,
Macrocallista gilberti, Spisula callisteeformis,
Mesodesma_ alaskensis, Crepidula precursor,
Margarites peninsularis; and from the Mio-
cene: Papyridea harrimani, Saxidomus popo-
fianus, Callocardia kincaidii, Dosinia alaskana,
Protothaca grewingkii, Macoma grewingkii,
Trochita alaskana, and Crepidula ungana.

— Reports of the Belgian Antarctic
Ixpedition.
Science (new series), XIX, No. 486, Apr. 22,
1904, pp. 656-659.
Summary of the results obtained on the
expedition on the Belgica in the antarctic
regions.

A singular Eocene Turbinella.
Nautilus, Xvit1, No. 1, May, 1904, pp. 9, 10-
The subgenus Psilocochlis is proposed for a
new species Turbinella McCallie from the
Eocene of Georgia. Thetypes arein the U.S.
National Museum. 3

— Namatogzean or Epigeean.
Science (new series), XIX, No. 494, June
17, 1904, p. 926.

Suggestions for a term to take the place of
the phrase “land and fresh water’’ in eco-
logical discussions of animal and plant dis-
tribution. :

DALL, Wiii1aAM Heatry,and BARTSCH,

Pau. Pyramidellide.
Memoirs Cal. Acad. Sei. 111, 1903, pp. 269-
285, pl I-11, and Iv, fig. 14.

This is a contribution to the volume on the
Paleontology of San Pedro by Ralph Arnold
(q. v.). The specimens upon which it is
based are in the collection of the U.S. Na-
tional Museum. Jvara, subgenus of Odosto-
mia, is described. The following new species
are described and figured:
a were

re in

Sen rr

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

DALL, Witi1aM Heatey,and BARTSCH,

Paut—Continued.

Turbonilla stearnsii, T. pentalopha, T. auri-
coma, T.latefundia, T. lowei, and var. pedroana,
T. arnoldi, T. adleri; Odostomia  stearnsii,
O. diegensis, O. grammatospira; and O. (Ivara)
terricula, and a number of other old species
are rediagnosed and figured.

Synopsis of the genera, subgenera,
and sections of the family Pyramidel-

lide. :

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVul, Feb. 5, 1904,
pp. 1-16.

A synopsis of the revised classification
due to several years’ investigation into the
character and history of the groups compris-
ing this family.

' Under Pyramidella the following new
names are proposed: Subg. Milda, subg. Vo-
luspa, subg. Callolongcheus, subg. Ulfa, subg.
Tropeas, subg. Vagna, sect. Cossmannica,
subg. Orinella, subg. Sulcorinella, subg. Iphi-
ana, subg. Syrnolina. Under Turbonilla come,

as new, Saccoina, Visma, Lancella, Asmunda, |
Under Odostomia; |

and Baldra, subgenera.
Vilia, Folinella, Besla, Egila, Haldra, Ividia,
Evalina, Heida, and Lysacme, subgenera, and
Stomega, new section. Pyramidella dodona
Turbonilla archeri, Odostomia pilsbryi, and O.
americana are species described as new.

Notes on the genus Ampullaria.
Journ. Conchology, XI, No. 2, Feb., 1904,
pp. 50-55.

History of the names applied to this shell
and a reyision of the classification of the
whole group to which it belongs. The sec-
tional name Limnopomus is proposed for
Ampullaria columellaris Gould, the type of
which is in the National Museum.

A new species.of Periploma from
California.
Nautilus, Xvi,
122, 128.
Periploma sulcata from San Pedro is de-
scribed and the sectional name Halistrepta
proposed for it.

DAVENPORT, CHartes B. Report on
the fresh-water bryozoa of the United

States.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX vil, No. 1355, Jan.
22, 1904, pp. 211-221, pl. vr.

Based chiefly on material collected in 1898
and 1899 by the laboratory of the U.S. Fish
Commission at Put-in-Bay, Ohio. The author
gives a synoptic key to species, a chapter on
ecology and one on methods of preserving,
followed by a list of all species found in the
United States.

Part of the material is in the U. S. National
Museum.

No. 11, Mar., 1904, pp.

| DYAR, Harrison G.

|
|
|
|
|

|

—— A lepidopteron

169

Lepidoptera in
British Columbia.

Can. Ent., XXXV, 1908, p. 175.

The life history of Mamestra landa-
bilis, Guin.

Can. Ent., XXXV, 1903, pp. 278, 274.

Book Notice: Smith’s check list of
the Lepidoptera of Boreal America.

Can. Ent., XXXV, 1903, pp. 321, 322.

Life histories of North American
Geometride. XLII.

Psyche, X, 19038, pp. 168, 169.

Life histories of the North Ameri-
can Geometridz. XLITI-LII.

Psyche, X, 1903, pp. 190-200. &

The Lepidoptera of the Kootenay
District of British Columbia.

Proce Us Se Nats MIs: XsxXVIl,. NO. 1876;

June 7, 1904, pp. 779-938.

New Noctuidz from British Co-
lumbia.

Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904, pp. 29-33.

Teniocampa communis.

Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904, p. 60.

Correction of name.

Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904, p. 102.

New North American species of
Lepidoptera and a new Limacodid
larva.

Journ, N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 39-44.

New Lepidoptera from the United
States.

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soe., X11, 1904, pp. 105—
108. :

Life histories of North American
Geometride. LIII.

Psyche, Xt, 1904, p. 29.

Life histories of North American
Geometride. LIV.

Psyche, Xi, 1904, p. 64.

Description of the larva of Ethuria
zelleriella Chambers.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 3.

Description of the larva of Lito-
donta hydromeli Harvey.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 3.

Note on the distribution of the
red forms of Diacrisia.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 18.
parasitic upon
Fulgoridae in Japan.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 19.
New species, Epipyrops nawai.
570)

DYAR, Harrison G. Halesidota macu-
lata Harris and its varieties.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 19.
-— The larvee of the mosquitoes Mega-
rhinus retilus Coquillett and M. portori-

censis Roeder.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vi, 1904, p. 20.

Notes on the mosquitoes of British

Columbia.
Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 27.

A new variety of the Noctuid

Exyra semicrocea Guenée (Exyra semi-

crocea, variety hubbardiana, n. var.).
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, pp. 59, 60.
A new genus and species of Tor-

tricide.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 60.

Additions to the list of North

American Lepidoptera, No. 1.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 62-65.

Note on the larva of an Hawaiian

Pyralid (Hmiodes accepta Butler).
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 65.

Note on the larva of Therina som-

isiaria Hulst.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 76.

Note on the larva of Melanchroia
geometroides Walker.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 77.

Note on the genus Leusophobetron
Dyar.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 77.

Additions to the list of North
American Lepidoptera, No. 2.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 103.

New North American species of
Scoparia Haworth.
Ent. News, Xv, 1904, p. 71.

Life history of Culex cantans Mei-
gen.

«Journ. N. ¥. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 36-38.

Life history of Culex varipalpus.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 90-92.

DYAR, Harrison G., and CAUDELL,

ANDREW N. The types of genera.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 120-122.
A discussion of the first species as the type
of a genus.

WIGENMANN, Cart H. New genera of
South American fresh-water fishes and
new names tor some old genera.

Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue,
I, pts. 1, 2, Dee. 9, 1908, pp. 144-148.

|

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

FEWKES, J. Watrer. Precolumbian

West Indian amulets.
Am. Anthropologist (new series), v, No. 4
Oct.-Dec., 1903, pp. 679-691, pl. LII-LIy.

A paper devoted to the description and
illustration of smallimages carved from stone,
shell,and bone, and perforated forsuspension
from the person. The author’s notes are de-
rived from a study of the subject on the spot.

Preliminary report on an archeo-
logical trip to the West Indies.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar.
issue, pts. 1, 2, Dec. 9, 1903, pp. 112-133,
pls. XX XIX-XLVIII.

The archeological results of a former visit
to Porto Rico were so promising that in No-
vember Doctor Fewkes returned to the island
and continued his survey until the close of
May, 1903. The present paper gives the results
of this winter’s exploration.

| FISHER, Watrer K. Birds of Laysan

and the Leeward Islands, Hawaiian
group.
Bull. U. 8. Fish Com. for 1903, pp. 1-39
pls. 1-10, 4 text figs., 1 diagram.

An excellent account of the birds (27 spe-
cies) met with on these islands during the
cruise of the Albatross in 1902. The plates ac-
companying the paper illustrate many inter-
esting phases of bird-life as seen on Laysan.

FLINT, James M. Chinese medicine.
Smithsonian Misc. Colis., XLV, Quar. issue,
I, pts. 1, 2, Jan. 7, 1904, pp. 180-182.

Doctor Flint in this paper traces the origin

of Chinese medicine to the year 2700 B. C.,

under the Emperor Shen-nung. The theories

of disease and the method of treatment are
set forth.

FOWLER, Henry W.
JORDAN. )

GILBERT, Cuartes H., and STARKS,
Epwin Cuapin. Memoirs | of the |
California Academy of Sciences | Vol-
ume IV | The Fishes of Panama Bay |
By | Charles H. Gilbert and Edwin C.
Starks | Issued February 6, 1904 | San
Francisco | Published by the Acad-

emy | 1904. |
4to, pp. 1-304, pls. I-XxX XIII.

GILL, THropere. Note on

genera named Macrodon.
Proc. U. S. Nat..Mus., Xxvi, No. 1849, July
6, 1903, pp. 1015, 1016.

The name Macrodon can not be used for the
Trahiras of the South American rivers, as has
been done since 1842, inasmuch asit had been
taken in 1822 by H. R. Schinz for the genus
called Ancylodon by Cuvier. Macrodon Schinz
must be adoptedin place of Ancylodon Cuvier
(not Iliger 1811), and a new name (Hoplias)
is proposed as a substitute for the fish genus
of Miiller.

(See under D.S§.

the fish
GILL, THEopoRE.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

On the relations of
the fishes of the family Lamprididée or

Opahs.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, No. 1340, July
7, 1903, pp. 915-924, figs. 1-3.

The genus Lampris had been associated
with various fishes, mostly Scombroidean,
but in 19038 Boulenger, having homologized
some of the bones of the shoulder girdle in a
peculiar way, considered it as the representa-
tive of an independent group (Selenichthyes)
of a new suborder (Catosteomi) which fur-
ther included the Hemibranchii and Lopho-
branchii. The reasons given for this classifi-
cation are traversed, the bones called coracoid
and infraclavicle being homologized with
the fourth actinost and hypocoracoid, and
the existence of an independent infraclavicle
is denied. There is consequently no reason
for the association of Lampris with the Hemi-
branechii and Lophobranchii. The affinities
are rather with the Scombroideans, as for-
merly claimed, but the family is isolated as
the representative of an independent super-
family—Lampridoidea. A diagnosis of the
superfamily and synonyms of the family
name are added.

On some neglected genera of fishes.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XxXvi, No. 1344, July
11, 1903, pp. 959-962.

An analysis of an article published in 1790
by H. F. Linck (Versuch einer Eintheilung
der Fische nach den Zihnen) is given, and it
is shown that “ of the nine new generic names
proposed by Linck, three are well entitled to
adoption from him—WMustelus, Pristis, and
Mola. The others do not seem to be pre-
sented in suchform as to demand recognition.”

On some fish genera of the first
edition of Cuvier’s Régne Animal and

Oken’s Names.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, No. 1346, July
11, 1908, pp. 965-967.

It is remarked that ‘‘in the first edition of
the Régne Animal (1817) Cuvier introduced
many new genera or subgenera, but most of
them were named only in French guise.
Consequently many naturalists have refused
to accept them.”’ In an entirely overlooked
summary, also published in 1817, L. Oken
gave Latin or Latinized names and many (18)
date from his commentary.

——— O-words in the ‘‘New English
Dictionary.” ([I.]
Notes and Queries (9), x11, Aug. 29, 1903,
pp. 165, 166.

Comments on the section On-Out of the dic-
tionary, suggesting that quotations for words
“should be brought up more nearly to date,”
some in daily use being ‘‘ illustrated by quo-
tations twenty to forty or more years behind
time.’”’ A numbersuchare named. Oolakan,
Ophidia, Orator, Orbitolite, Ornithodelphia,
and Ortolan, words imperfectly treated in

L71

GILL, THroporE—Continued.

the dictionary, are elucidated. It issuggested
that ‘‘surely the word (ornithology) must
have been used before [1678].”’
The fishes of the African family
Kneriide.
Science (new series), Xvi1I, No. 454, Sept.
11, 1903, pp. 338, 339.

Attention is called to the agreement in
many respects between the descriptions of
two African genera—Aneria, described by
Steindachner in 1866, and Cromeria, described
by Boulenger in 1901. The discrepancies,
which are marked, it is suggested, may per-
haps be due to age, and possibly Cromeria
(known only from specimens about thirty
millimeters long) may be the young of Aneria.
The affinity of the family is doubtful, and it
appears to be entitled to distinction as a pe-
culiar superfamily, Kneriordea. It may be
referred to the group Haplomi or perhaps the
Iniomi.

— A little-known Devil-fish.

Science (new series), Xvi1I, No, 458, Oct. 9,
1903, p. 478.

Attention is directed to ‘‘ Description of a
new Ceratopterine Eagle-ray from Jamaica,”
published by Richard Hill in 1802, and the
suggestion is made that the species ( Cephalop-
tera massenoidea) is the same as the Ceratobatis
robertsii described by Boulenger in 1897.

American fishes | A popular treat-
ise | upon the | game and food fishes of
North | America | with especial refer-
ence to habits and | methods of cap-
ture | By | G. Brown Goode, Ph. D.,
LL. D. | [List of titles] New edition |
completely revised and largely extended
by | TheodoreGill, A. M., M. D., Ph. D.,
LL. D. | [List of titles] With numer-
ous illustrations, including a series | of
new color plates. | Boston | Dana Estes

& Company | Publishers |
8vO., pp. I-LXVIIT, 1-562, 6 colored pls. and
portrait. (Published Oct. 16, 1903.)

O-words in the ‘‘New English
Dictionary.’’ [II.]
Notes and Queries (9), X11 Oet. 24, 1903, pp.
330, 331.

An answer to Doctor Murray’s defense of
the dictionary (0. ¢., 209, 210) and claim that it
“does indeed give the earliest quotation (known
to us at the time) for every word and sense,”
ete., and that when the writer “can cite an
earlier instance of the word ornithology than
can be given in the ‘ dictionary,’ it will be time
to write about it.”

Improper usage of the word Oology is shown,
and earlier instances of the use of the words
Ophidia (1802), Ophidian, a. (1818), Ophidian, n.
(1813), and Ophiology (1817) are adduced. As
172

GILL, THropore—Continued.
examples of words ‘‘erroneously defined and
illustrations [that] do not illustrate,” Ophidium
and Ophidioid are noted and Ophidioid rede-
fined.

“Bulachon”’ and its variants.
Notes and Queries (9), x11, Dec. 5, 1903,
pp. 444, 445.

In answer to a request for information, the
variants of the name of the Candle-fish of
Washington and British Columbia (Thaleich-
thys pacificus) are enumerated and in some
instancescommented on. ‘In chronological
sequence of publication they are Ulken (Gass,
1807), Olthen (Lewis and Clark, 1814), Uth-
lecan (Irving, 1836), Oulachan (Richardson,
1836), Eulachon (Lord, 1866), Oulacon (Seam-
mon, 1874), Hoolakin (J. and G., 1881), Oola-
chan (Nature, 1881), Oolackan (Baillie-Groh-
man, 1886), Oulachon (Century Dict., 1890),
Oolakan (N. E. D. 1903).

A remarkable genus of fishes—the

Umbras.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls. XLV, Quar. issue,
I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 295-305,
with 5 figs.

A summary is given of (1) the bibliograph-
ical history of the genus, followed by (2) a
notice of its place in the system; (3) an ac-
count of the habits of the species is the most
prominent feature; (4) the distinctive char-
acters of the three species, and (5) a notice of
the desiderata to complete the biographies.

The Encyclopedia Americana on
Ichthyology.
Science (new series), XIX, No. 486, Apr.
22, 1904, pp. 675, 676.

Attention is called to the careless editorial
handling of an article on ‘‘Ichthyology”’ by
Dr. D. S. Jordan, and the misnaming of many
(twelve) figures. The act is declared to be a
wrong to the public as well as author of the
article; the latter should be relieved of re-
sponsibility for the errors noted.

Vernacular names of animals. [A

notice of Nemnich’s ‘‘Allgemeines
Polyglotten Lexicon der Naturges-
chichte.”’ ]

Am. Naturalist (XXxvul1), No. 447, March,
1904 (published May 8, 1904), pp. 241, 242.

?

‘* Horses’? not horses. :
Science (new series), XIX, No. 488, May 6,
1904, pp. 737, 738.

A notice of a number of errors in a little
book entitled ‘‘ The Tree Dwellers,” in which
the assumption is made that the ancestors of
the horses had five toes and lived partly in
trees. The error of such an assumption is
pointed out and protest is made against the
use of the word horse for the ancient forms,
which really belonged to a different family
from the recent horses. It should certainly

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

| GILL, TaHroporr—Continued.

not be used for the eocene many toed form
named Hyracotherium, which is differentiated
‘‘as the representative of a peculiar family—
the Hyracotheriids.’’ Objection is also made
“to the assumption that the early represent-
atives of the equine phylum were striped like
azebra, * * * The evidence, such as itis,
is against the assumption.”

Non-education of the young by

parents.
Science (new series), X1x, No. 492, June 3,
1904, pp. 861, 862.

In connection with pending discussions,
attention is'called to the ‘‘annual fishes”’ of
the family of Gobies known as Aphya pellu-
cidaand Crystallogabiusnilssonii. The parents
die when the breeding season is over, and con-
sequently the young have no care takers or
exemplars. An analogous instance is fur-
nished by the salmons of the genus Oncorhyn-
chus, the parents dying soon after their pro-
creative duties have been discharged. Asall
the parents die, ‘‘ the young can not have the
benefit of parental instruction or of learning
through association with their elders.”’

The name mammal and the idea

expressed.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1903 (1904), pp.
587-044.

The main portion of ‘‘ The story of a name—
mammals,’’ published by the author in the
Popular Science Monthly for September, 1902,
are embodied in the present article, but much
additional matter and literary illustrations
are intercalated and added.

GIRTY, Greorce H. Triticites, a new
genus of Carboniferous foraminifers.
Am. Journ. Sci., Xvi, Mar., 1904, pp. 234-
240, text figures.

Calls attention to the American so-called
Fusulina, that they have not the interior
structure of the Russian genus, and therefore
proposes Triticites for the American form
passing as Fusulina cylindrica. Thisshould be
called Triticites secalicus Say.

New molluscan genera from the

Carboniferous.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVU,
June 1, 1904, pp. 721-786, pls. 45-47.
This paper defines the new genera Limipec-
ten, Plewrophorella, and Clavulites. Also the
new species. L. tecanus, L. texanus grandicos-
tatus, P. papillosa, and C. howardensis. The
genus Orthotetes Fischer de Waldheim proyes
to be the same structurally as Waagen’s later
proposed Derbya, and the latter is, therefore,
a synonym. For Waagen’s redefinition and
misinterpretation of Orthothetes, the present
author proposes the new name Schuchertella,
using as his genotype Streptorhynchus lens
White.

No. 1372,

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 173

GRABAU, Amapeus W.

Fusus and its allies.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLIv, 1904, pp.
1-192, pls. I-xviil, and text figs.

As the title indicates, this important
work treats of the phylogeny of Fusuws and
its allies. New genera described: Falsifu-
sus, Fulgurofusus, Heilprinia, Clavellofusus,
Rhopalithes, and Cosmolithes. Of new spe-
cies and new varieties, many are described.

HOLMES, Wiuuiam H. Fossil human
remains found near Lansing, Kansas.“
Am. Anthropologist (new series), Iv, No.4,
Oct.-Dec., 1902, pp. 743-752, 2 pls., 2 text

figs.

Phylogeny of

Traces of aboriginal operations in
an iron mine near Leslie, Missouri.

Am. Anthropologist (new series), Vv, No. 3,
July-Sept., 1903, pp. 503-507, 1 pl., 2 text
figs.

Shell ornaments from Kentucky

and Mexico.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. is-
sue, I, pts. 1, 2, Dee. 9, 1908, pp. 97-99,
pls. XXIX, XXX, 1 text fig.

Report on the Department of

Anthropology for the year 1900-1901.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 51-61.

Flint implements and fossil re-
mains from a sulphur spring at Afton,
Indian Territory.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 233-252, pls. 1-26.

Classification and arrangement of
the exhibits of an anthropological mu-
seum.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 253-278, pl. 1.

Report on the Department of An-

thropology for the year 1901-1902.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1903), pp. 53-58.

——— Aboriginal pottery of the Eastern
United States.

20th Ann. Rep. Bureau Am. Ethnology,
1898-99 (1903), pp. 1-201, 177 pls., 79 text
figs.

(See also under FrREpERICK W.
TRUE. )

HOUGH, Watrter. Archeological field
work in northeastern Arizona. The

Museum-Gates Expedition of 1901.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 279-358, pls. 1-101.

HOUGH, Watrer—Continued.

A report on the extensive excavation made
in the ancient pueblo ruins of northeastern
Arizona during the summer of 1901, with de-
scriptions and discussion of the artefacts col-
lected.

HOWARD, Letanp O. The shade trees
of Washington.
The Capital, Oct. 10, 1903, pp. 14, 15.
trait.

An aecount of Washington shade trees and
their management, with suggested improve-
ments, mainly from the standpoint of insect
damage

Por-

Yellow fever and mosquitoes.

Century Magazine, LXvI, No. 6, Oct., 1903,
pp. 851-857, 10 figs., 1 map.
Hydrocyanie acid

household insects.

Public Health Reports, Public Health and
Marine-Hospital Service, Xvitt, No. 46,
Washington, Nov. 13, 1903, pp. 1977-1982.

gas against

The Mexican cotton boll weevil.
Science (new series), xv1i1, No. 465, Nov.
27, 1903, p. 693.
Concerning the geographic distri-
bution of the yellow-fever mosquito.
Public Health Reports, Public Health «nd
Marine-Hospital Service, xvit1, No. 46,
Nov., 1903, pp. 1-7, 1 map.
— The Moth Book. Review of W.
J. Holland’s work of this title.
Science (new series), XIX, No. 474, Jan 29,
1904, pp. 188, 189.

Sending insects through the mails.

Ent. News, XV, No. 1, Jan., 1904, pp. 25, 26.

An account of a revision of the U. S. Postal
Regulations,

The Mexican cotton boll weevil.
Am. Review of Reviews, xx1x, No. 169,
Feb. 1, 1904, pp. 188-191, 4 figs.

The Mexican cotton boll weevil.
Youths’ Companion, Feb. 4, 1904, pp. 55, 56,
9 figs.

A monograph of the Culicide of
the world. <A review of Volume III of
F. V. Theobald’s work of this title.

Science (new series), XIx, No. 478, Feb.
26, 1904, pp. 333, 334.

— [Review of] Monograph of the
British Coecide, by Robert Newstead.

Am. Journ. Sci., XVII, Feb., 1904, pp. 81, 82.

The transmission of yellow fever

by mosquitoes.
34th Ann. Rep. Ent. Soc. Ontario, Mar. 10,
1904, pp. 26-30.

aThis title was not received in time to permit of its insertion in the Bibliography for the preceding

year.

~
174

HOWARD, Letanp O. Recent work in
American economic entomology.
34th Ann. Rep. Ent. Soc. Ontario, Mar. 10,
18014, pp. 38-40.

>

Some miscellaneous results of the

work of the Division of Entomology.
Bull. Div. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric., No. 44,
Apr. 15, 1904.
These are all unsigned notes and articles.

[Review of] Monograph of the |

British Tyroglyphidee, by A. D. Mi-
chael.
Am. Journ. Sci., XVII, May, 1904, pp. 407,
408.

The United States Department of |

Agriculture and Silk Culture.

Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agric., 1903, pp. 137- |

148, 5 plates.
(Author’s extras published June 9, 1904.)

HRDLICKA, Axes. Anomalous articu-

lation and fusion of the atlas with the

occipital bone. Abstract.
Washington Medical Annals, 111, No. 1,
Mar., 1904, pp. [1], [2].

Further instances of parietal divi- |

sion.
Am. Naturalist, XXXVI, No. 448, Apr.,
1904, pp. 301-809, 4 figs.

Further instances of molar diyi-
sion.
Am. Naturalist, XXXvilI, No. 449, May,
1904, pp. 361-366, 5 figs.

HYATT, ALPHEuvSs.
the Cretaceous.
Monograph U. S. Geol. Surv., XLiv, 1908,
pp. 1-851, pls. 1-47.

This important monograph treats of a large
group of ammonites, the Pseudoceratites, from
all parts of the world. Quite a number of the
species described and figured are now in the
U.S. National Museum collection.

JENINGS, Foster H. Korean head-

dresses in the National Museum.
Smithsonian Misc .Colls., XLV, Quar. issue,
I, pts. 1, 2, Jan. 7, 1904, pp. 149-167, figs.
3-28.

This young author, whose premature death
is greatly deplored, finding that the hat is con-
nected with rank and custom to a large ex-
tent in Korea, brought together in a series of
drawings the yarious types of headgear,
showing their significance and varieties.

JORDAN, Davin Starr, and FOWLER,

Henry W. A review of the Cyprinoid

fishes of Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXV1, No. 1334, July
6, 1903, pp. 811-862, figs. 1-8.

Pseudoceratites of

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

JORDAN, Davin Starz, and FOWLER,
Henry W. A review of the Siluroid
fishes or catfishes of Japan.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXV1, No, 1338, July
7, 1903, pp. 897-911, figs. 1, 2.

JORDAN, DavinS., and SNYDER, Joun
O. On the species of White Chimera
from Japan.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvi1, No. 1356, Jan.
23, 1904, pp. 223-226, figs. 1, 2.
On a collection of fishes made by
Mr. Alan Owston in the deep waters of
Japan.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue,
I, pts. 3,4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 230-240.
Notes on collections of fishes from:
Oahu Island and Laysan Island, Hawaii,
with descriptions of four new species.
sProcy U. SusiNGt. Mss, XV UN On ul onns
June 2, 1904, pp. 939-948.

JORDAN, Davin S., and STARKS, Ep-
win CHAPIN. A review of the fishes of
Japan belonging to the family of Hexa-
grammidee.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi, No. 1348, July
15, 1903, pp. 1003, 1013, figs. 1-3.
A review of the Scorpznoid
fishes of Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,-xxvit, No. 1351,
Jan. 22, 1904, pp. 91-175, pls. 1, 2, text
figs. 1-21.
A review of the Cottidee or Scul-
pins found in the waters of Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvul, No. 1358,
Jan. 28, 1904, pp. 231-335, figs. 1-43.
A review of the Japanese fishes of
the family of Agonide.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xXvi1, No. 1365,
Feb. 23, 1904, pp. 575-599, figs. 1-13.
Description of a new Cyprinoid
fish, Hemibarbus joiteni, from the Pei
Ho, Tientsin, China.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue,
I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 241, 242.
Schmidtina, a genus of Japanese

sculpins.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxXvul, No. 13881,
June 27, 1904, p. 961.

LUCAS, Freperic A. A new batra-
chian and a new reptile from the Trias

of Arizona.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvit, No. 1853,
Jan. 22, 1904, pp. 193-195, pls. 3, 4.
Describes Metoposaurus fraasi, & new species
of labyrinthodont, and Placerias hesternus, &
new genus and speeies of large eotylosaurian
reptiles.-

a
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

LUCAS, Freprertc A. The Dinosaur

Trachodon annectens.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quay. issue,
I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 317-320,
pls. LXXII-LX XIII, figs. 40-43.
A somewhat popular account of this dino-

saur, its relationships and habits, and of the |

skeleton on exhibition in the U. S. National
Museum.
LYON, Marcus Warp, Jr. Classification
of the hares and their allies.

Smithsonian Mise. Colls. XLV, Quar. issue,
T, pts. 8, 4, June 15; 1904, pp. 321-447,
pls. LXXIV-C.

A revision of the genera and subgenera of |

the families Leporide and Ochotonide, based

-on their osteological and dental characters. |

New genera; Pronolagus (p. 416) and Pentala-
gus (p. 428); new subgenera, Pecilolagus (p.
395), new subgenus of Lepus, and Conothoa
(p. 488), new subgenus of Ochotona.

McDOUGAL, D. T. (See under Fred-
erick Vernon Coville. )

McGREGOR, RicHarp C. Birds from
Benguet province, Luzon, and from the
islands of Lubang, Mindoro, Cuyo, and

Cagayancillo.
Bull. Philippine Museum, No. 3, Jan. 30,
1904, pp. 1-16.

Notes on
named islands for the Philippine Museum.
The notes are arranged under the following
headings: Introductory note; Zoographical

notes; Undescribed plumages and notes on |
the rarer species; New locaties for known |

species; and species from Irisan, Benguet
Province, Luzon.

The birds of Calayan and Fuga,
Babuyan group.
Bull. Philippine Museum, No. 4, May 15,
1904, pp. 1-34, pls. 1-5.

An annotated list of the species collected
on the islands of Calayan and Fuga for the
Philippine Museum. The following are
described as new: Turnix worcesteri (p. 8),
Macropygia phea (p. 9), Otus cuyensis (p.17),
Otus calayensis (p. 18), Eudynamis frater (p.
21), Zosterops flavissima (p.26), and Hyloterpe
fallax (p. 27). _—

MARSHALL, Witt1am B. James Smith-
son.
Am. Journ. Pharmacy, LXXvI, No. 4, Apr.,
1904, pp. 162-171.

A sketch of the life of the founder of the

Smithsonian Institution.

MASON, Orts Turron. Aboriginal Amer-
ican Basketry: Studies in a textile art

without machinery.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1904), pp. 171-548, pls. 1-248.

birds collected on the aboye- |

sigs:

MASON, Oris Turron—Continued.

The design of this work is to study out the
processes of weaving and other forms of tex-
tile work done by hand in America by the
aboriginal tribes. These processes antedate
machinery, and some of the primitive devices
connected with the Indian handwork led up
to the first looms. The materials for basket
work are enumerated, the processes of manu-
facture described and illustrated, and the sub-
ject of ornamentation, in form and design,
discussed. Symbolism is shown to have fol-
lowed the other arts in motives, but to have
taken on special details by reason of technic.
The many uses of basketry occupy a large
part of the work, which closes with a discus-
sion of the subject in its ethnic relationship.

MAXON, Witiiam R. Notes on the
birds of Madison County, New York,
with especial reference to Embody’s
recent list.

Auk, Xx, No. 3, July, 1903, pp. 262-266.
Notes on 36 species, intended to supple-
ment the ‘Birds of Madison County, New
York,’”’ by G. C. Embody.
A fern new to the United States.
Torreya, 111, Dee. 22, 1903, pp. 184, 185.
Records the occurrence of Aspleniwm auri-
tum Sw. in Florida.

Two new ferns of the genus Poly-

podium, from Jamaica.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvtI, No. 1374,
May 21, 1904, pp. 741-744.

P. rigens and P. aromaticum are described
as new.

A new fern, Goniophlebium pringlei,

from Mexico.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxXviI, No. 1879,
June 27, 1904, pp. 953-954, pl. 48, 1 text
fig.

MAYNARD, Gerorcrt C. Notes on the
manufacture of small arms for the
United States Army in Government
arsenals and by private makers.

Sporting Goods Dealer, St. Louis, Mo., Jan.,
1904, 1x, No. 4, pp. 36-39.

MERRILL, Grorce P. On the glacial

pothole in the National Museum.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue
I, pts. 1 and 2, Dec% 9, 1903, pp. 100-103,
ple

The above describes briefly the mode of oc-
currence and the method of extraction of a
large glacial pothole found at Georgetown,
Maine, and obtained in 1893 for the U. S.

National Museum.

Report on the Department of Geol-

ogy for the year 1900-1901.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp 81-91.
176

MERRILL, Grorcre P. Report on the |
Department of Geology for the year
1901-1902. |

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), |
*. 1902 (1903), pp. 77-84. |

— The | Nonmetallic minerals. | |
Their occurrenceand uses | By | George |
P. Merrill, | Head Curator of Geology |
in the U. $. National Museum, and |
Professor of Geology in the Corcoran |
Scientific School of Columbian Univer-
sity, | Washington, D. C., Author of
‘Stones for Building and Decoration,”’
| ‘‘Rocks, Rock-weathering, and
Soils,’’ etc. | First edition | First thou-
sand | New York: | John Wiley &
Sons. | London: Chapman & Hall,

Limited. | 1904.
8vo., pp. I-XI, 1-414, pls. I-xxx, text figs.
1-28.

This work, as its title suggests, is practically
a revised edition of the handbook and eata-
logue of the nonmetallic minerals, published
by the National Museum.

(See also under FrepericK W.
TRUE. )

MILLER, Gerrit S., Jr. A new Nata-
line bat from the Bahamas.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Sept. 30, 1903,
pp. 119, 120.
Chilonatalus tumidifrons, p. 119.

Seventy new Malayan mammals.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. isssue
I, pts. 1, 2, Nov. 6, 1903, pp. 1-73, pls. I-x1x.
Tragulus batuanus (p. 2), Tragulus russulus
(p. 8), Ratufa insignis (p. 4), Ratufa conspicua
(p. 5), Ratufa bale (p.6), Ratufa masz (p.7),
Ratufa piniensis (p. 8), Sciurus bilimitatus
(p.8), Sciurus pemangilensis (p.9), Seiwriusaoris
(p. 10), Sciurus peninsularis (p. 10), Seiurus
pannovianus (p. 11), Setwrus ictericus (p. 12),
Sciurusatratus (p. 13), Seturus piniensis (p.14),
Sciurus bale (p.14), Seiwrus pwmilus (p. 15),
Sciurus lancavensis (p. 16), Sciurus adangensis
(p. 17), Sciurus sullivanus (p. 17), Seciurus
domelicus (p. 18), Sciwrus bentincanus (p. 19),
Sciurus matthxus(p. 19), Sciurus lucas (p. 20),
Sciurus casensis (p. 20), Seiwrus altinsularis
(p. 21), Sciurus rubeculus (p. 22), Funambulus
obscurus (p. 23), Funambulus rostratus (p. 24),
Funambulus peninsule (p. 25), Sciuwropterus
merens (p. 26), Petaurista batuana (p. 27),
Mus stridens (p. 28), Mus mattheus (p. 29), Mus
stridulus (p. 29), Mus lucas (p. 30), Mus socca-
tus (p. 30), Mus masz (p. 82), Mus bale (p. 33),
Mus lugens (p. 83), Mus julianus (p. 34), Mus
gilbiventer, (p. 35), Mus luteolus (p. 36), Mus
umbridorsum (p. 87), Mus casensis (p. 88), Mus
domelicus (p. 89), Mus pagensis (p. 39), Chirop-

odomys niadis (p. 40), Atherwra zygomatica

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

MILLER, Gerrir S., Jr.—Continued.
(p. 42), Hemigale minor (p. 43), Paradoxurus
lignicolor (p.44), Galeopithecus pumilus (p. 46),
Galeopithecus aoris (p.47), Galeopithecus graci-
lis (p. 49), Galeopithecus natunx (p. 50), Galeo-
pithecus saturatus (p.51), Galeopithecustuancus
(p. 53), Tupaiacastanea (p.54), Tupaiapulonis
(p. 56), Tupaiatephrura (p.57), Tupaia chryso-
gaster (p.58), Tupaia cervicalis (p. 59), Pteropus
geminorum (p. 60), Macacus pagensis (p. 61),
Macacus pheura (p. 63), Presbytes rhionis
(p. 64), Presbytes batuanus (p. 65), Simias gen.
nov. (p. 66), Simias concolor (p. 67), Sympha-
langus klossii (p. 70).

A new hare from Greece.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Nov. 12, 1903,
pp. 145, 146.
Lepus parnassius (p. 145).

A new squirrel from Lower Siam.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Noy. 12, 1903,
pp. 147, 148.
Sciurus novemlineatus (p. 147).

Descriptions of two new Mole Rats.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Noy. 30, 1903,
pp. 161-164. .
Spalar dolbrogex (p. 161); Spalar berytensis
(p. 162).

A second specimen of Huderma

maculatum.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Novy. 30, 1903,
pp. 165, 166, fig. 1.
Records the second specimen of this bat,
from Mesilla Park, New Mexico, September,
1903.

— Notes on the bats collected by
William Palmer in Cuba.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mis., xxvii, No. 1159,
Jan. 238, 1904, pp. 337-348, Plate IX.
An annotated list of fifteen species.

The species of Geum occurring

near Washington.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XViI, Apr. 9, 1904,
pp. 191, 192.

MILLER, Gerrir §., Jr., and REHN,
James A.G. Systematic results of the
study of North American land mammals
during the years of 1901 and 1902.

Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. His., XxXx1, Aug. 27,
1903, pp. 61-145.
List of additions and alterations made dur-
ing the two preceding years.

MOORE, Crarence B. The so-called

“‘hoe-shaped implement.”’
Am. Anthropologist (new series), v, No. 3,
July-Sept., 1903, pp. 498-502, 6 text figs.
A diseussion of an aboriginal hoe-shaped
implement found in the United States, in
which a-ceremonial adz from Cook Islands,
belonging to the U. S. National Museum, is

figured and described.

vi.-
BIBLIOGRAPHY. Lee

NEEDHAM, James G. New Dragon-fly
nymphs in the United States National
Museum. .

‘Procy Gos. Nat. Mus, xxvil, No. 1371,
May 20, 1904, pp. 685-720, text figs. 1-11;
pls. XXXVIII-XLIY.

NELSON, E. W. Descriptions of new |

birds from southern Mexico.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Nov. 30, 1903,
pp. 151-159.

}

|

New birds are described as follows: Geo- |

trygon albifacies rubida (p. 151), Daetylorty«
thoracicus sharpet (p. 152), Syrniwm occidentale
lucidum (p. 152), Xiphocolaptes emigrans omul-
temensis (p. 158), Cyanolyca mirabilis (p. 154),
Aphelocoma guerrerensis (p. 154), Vireolanius
melitophrys goldmant (p. 155), Geothlypis chap-
alensis (p. 156), Thryophilus sinaloa russeus
(p. 157), Troglodytes brunneicollis nitidus (p.
158), Henicorhina leucophrys festiva (p. 158),
Hemiura leucogastra musica (p. 159), and
Sialia mexicana australis (p. 159).

A revision of the North American

mainland species of Myiarchus.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv1I, Mar. 10,1904,
pp. 21-50, fig. 1.

Two subgenera (Myiarchus and Onychopte-
rus) with nineteen species and subspecies are
here recognized. All are minutely described,
and three subspecies are named for the first
time, viz: Myiarchus lawrencei bangsi (p. 45),
m. l. querulus (p. 47), and m. 1. tresmarizx
(p. 49).

NORTON, C. A. Q. The lights and
lamps of early New England.

Connecticut Magazine. vi11, 1903. No.1, pp.

95-100, 5 figs.: No. 2, pp. 248-255, 6 figs.

A series of articles appearing at intervals

since Feb.-Mar., 1903, based on the collections

of the U. S. National Museum and the private
collections of Doctor Norton.

NUTTING, CHarLesCLEVELAND. Smith-
sonian Institution. | United States Na-
tional Museum.'—|Special Bulletin.{—
American Hydroids.|—/|Part II. | The
Sertularidee, | with forty-one plates. |
By | Charles Cleveland Nutting, | Pro-
fessor of Zoology, University of lowa.'|—
Washington: | Government Printing
Office. | 1904.

Special Bulletin, U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 4
(Part II), June 24, 1904, 4 to pp. 1-325,
pls. 1-41, text figs. 1-139.

A continuation of the monograph of Ameri-
can hydroids, the first part of which, the
Plumularide, appeared in 1900. Under the
heading ‘‘ Morphology,” the Trophosome,

Gonosome, Gonangium, and the Development
of the Sertularide are separately treated. Un-

NAT mus 1904——12

NUTTING, CHarLEs CLEVELAND—Con.

der the Systematic Discussion keys are given
to the genera and species. Cne hundred and
thirty-one species representing 10 genera are
described; many species are new.

OBERHOLSER, Harry C. The North
American forms of Astragalinus psaltria
(Say ).

Proc. Biol. Soe. Wash., Xvi, Sept. 30, 1903,
pp. 113-116.

Two forms only of this species are recog-
nized from North America, true A. psaltria
and A. p. hesperophilus, the latter new. A. p.
arizone and A. p. mexicana are shown to be
equivalent to true A. psaltria.

Description of a new Telmatodytes.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Nov. 12, 1903,
pp. 149, 150.

Telmatodytes palustris thryophilus (p. 149), is
described as new, from the coast region of
Louisiana and eastern Texas.

A revision of the American Great
Horned Owls.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XXviI, No. 1352, Jan.
22,1904, pp. 177-192.

A study of over 200 specimens of Asio ( Bubo
of recent authors), from various parts of
America, has enabled the author to recognize
sixteen forms, all subspecies of A. magellani-
cus (Gmelin). The following are described
as new: Asio magellanicus mesembrinus
(p. 179), A. m. melancerus (p. 180), A. m. tcelus
(p. 185), A. m. lagophonus (p. 185), A. m. heter-
ocnemis (p. 187), and A. m- algistus (p. 190).

A review of the wrens of the genus
Troglodytes.
Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi1, No. 1354, Jan.
23, 1904, pp. 197-210, pl. v.

Thirty-seven species and subspecies of Trog-
lodytes are here recognized, of which the
following are described as new: Troglodytes
musculus acosmus, p. 204, T. m. atopus, p. 207,
and TJ. m. enochrus, p. 207. A new generic
name, Thryorchilus, p. 198, 4 proposed for
Troglodytes brownt Bangs.

Description of a new African
weaver-bird.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XxX v1, No. 1370, Apr.
13, 1904, p. 683.

Philetairus cabanisi enchorus, collected in
Somali Land by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, is
described as a new subspecies.

Description of two new birds from

Somali Land.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XxX v1, No. 1373, May
21, 1904, pp. 737-739.
Merops superciliosus donaldsoni, p. 737, and
Polihierax semitorquatus homopterus, p. 738,
are described as new.
178

ORTMANN, A. E. [Review of] The
cosmopolitan character of the deep-sea

fauna.
Science (new series), XIX, No. 491, May 27,
1904, pp. 827, 828.

A review of a paper with the above title
read before the Academy of Science and Art
of Pittsburg, Feb. 2, 1904. The paper is based
onasmall collection of deep-sea schizopoda
from the Hawaiian Islands, collected by the
U.S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross,

and now belonging to the U. S. National |

Museum.

PHALEN, Wituram C. Notes on the
rocks of Nugsuaks Peninsula and its

environs, Greenland.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar.
issue, I, pts. 1, 2, Jan. 7, 1904, pp. 183-
212, 3 pls.
Describes the rocks of the peninsula, their
mineral composition, microscopic structure,
and chemical composition. An attempt is
also made to classify them by the method
suggested by Messrs. Cross, Iddings, Wash-
ington, and Pirsson.

A new occurrence of unakite.

Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar.
issue, I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 306-
316, 3 pls.

The paper describes an interesting occur-
rence of the epidotic granite, such as was first
named unakite by Bradley, and which here
occurs as a contact rock in connection with
more basic eruptives. —

PRENTISS, Dante, Wepster. Descrip-
tion of an extinct mink from the shell
heaps of the Maine coast.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 13386, July
6, 1903, pp. 887, 888, 1 text fig.
Lutreola macrodon (p. 888) .

RATHBUN, Mary J.

crab name.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVil, Apr. 9, 1904,
p. 102.
Melia Latreille, in common use, should be
superseded by Lybia Milne-Edwards.

A preoccupied

Decapod crustaceans of the North-
west coast of North America.
Harriman Alaska Expedition, X, Apr. 18,
1904, pp. 1-190, pls. I-x, text figs. 1-95.
Based on material collected by the Harri-
man Expedition, and by the U. S. Bureau
of Fisheries, Dr. W. H. Dall and others.
Descriptions and figures of all
known species are given, and also a check
list of all the speeies of the region. One
species, Belwus harrimani, is described as new.

the little-

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

RATHBUN, Ricuarp. Report upon the
condition and progress of the U. S.
National Museum during the year end-
ing June 30, 1901.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),

1901 (1903), pp. 1-174.

Report upon the condition and
progress of the U.S. National Museum
during the year ending June 30, 1902.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),

1902 (1903), pp. 1-168.

RAVENEL,W. pr C. The United States
Commission of Fish and Fisheries, and
its exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase

Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., 1904.
8vo., pp. 1-54, frontispiece. (Press of
Gibson Brothers, Washington, D. C.)

REHN, James A. G. Studies in Ameri-

can mantids or soothsayers.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvil, No: 1364,
Feb. 6, 1904, pp. 561-574.

Studies in old world forficulids or

earwigs, and blattids or cockroaches.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviI, No. 1363,
Feb. 16, 1904, pp. 5389-560.

(See also under Grerrir 8. MiL-
LER, Jr.)

RICHARDSON, Harrier. Isopods col-
lected at the Hawaiian Islands by the
United States Fish Commission steamer
Albatross.

Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1903, Sept. 17,
1903, pp. 47-54, text figs. 1-8.
Nine species were collected, of which four
are described as new and two represent new
genera.

Contributions to the natural his-

tory of the Isopoda.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX vil, No. 1350, Jan.
19, 1904, pp. 1-89, text figs. 1-92; No.
1369, Apr. 18, 1904, pp. 657-681, text figs.
1-39.

No. 1350 includes the following: An intro-
duction dealing with the classification, anat-
omy, development, habits, distribution, ete.,
of the Isopoda; and four systematic papers
bearing the subtitles:

I. Isopoda collected in Japan in the year
1900 by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer
Albatross, and in the year 1881 by the U.S. 8.
Palos. ;

II. Isopoda collected in Japan by Jordan
and Snyder.

Ill. Two new Cymothoids from the west
coast of Central America,

IV. American Epicaridea,
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

RICHARDSON, Harrier—Continued.

No. 1369 comprises two papers reprinted
respectively from the Harriman Alaska Ex-
pedition, Vol. x, and from the Bulletin of
the U.:S. Fish Commission for 1903. (See
above.).

The whole was reprinted as a separate with
pagination I-1x, 1-113, and presented as a
thesis for the Doctorate of Philosophy at Co-
lumbian University, Washington, D. C., 1903.

Isopod crustaceans of the North-

west coast of North America.
Harriman Alaska Expedition, x, April 18,
1904, pp. 213-230, text figs. 96-117.
Besides the Isopoda of the Harriman Expe-
dition a number of Californian species are in-
cluded. Five new species and two little
' known are described and figured.

RICHMOND, CHartes W.
name for the American crow.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv, Sept. 30, 1903,
p. 125.
Note directing attention to the name Corvus

Earliest

brachyrhynchos Brehm as antedating Audu-

bon’s Corvus americanus.

Scolecophagus preoccupied.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Sept. 30, 1903,
p. 128.
Scolecophagus Swainson is shown to be pre-
occupied, and Euphagus Cassin is suggested
for use in its stead.

On the name Eniconetta.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Sept. 30, 1903,
p. 128.
Polysticta Eyton is suggested as the proper
name for the genus currently known as Eni-
conetta.

[Review of] Sherborn’s ‘‘ Index

Animalium.’’
Auk, xx, No. 4, Oct., 1903, pp. 448-450,

[ Review of] ‘‘ Index Zoologicus.”’
Auk, XX, No. 4, Oct., 1903, pp. 450, 451.

RIDGWAY, Roserrt.
Beolophus.
Auk, Xx, No. 3, July, 1903, p. 308.

Note showing the name Lophophanes to re-
fer to the old-world Crested Tits. The Amer-
ican species should be included in the genus
Beolophus.

Lophophanes vs.

Description of new genera, species

and subspecies of American birds.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVv1, Sept. 30, 1903,
pp. 105-111.

The following birds are here briefly diag-
nosed: Budytes flavus alascensis (p. 105), Alo-
pochelidon (type, Hirundo fucata Temminck)
(p. 106), Orochelidon (type, Petrochelidon mu-
rina Cassin) (p. 106), Diplochelidon (type,
Hirundo melanoleuca Wied) (p. 106), Lampro-
chelidon (type, Hirundo. euchrysea Gosse) (p.

ie

RIDGWAY, Rosert—Continued.

106), Stelgidopteryx salvini (p. 107), Vireosylva
gilva brewsteri (p. 107), V. joseph costaricensis
(p. 107), Vireo huttoni cognatus (p. 107), V.
huttoni mexicanus (p. 107), V. bellii arizonx (p.
108). Pachysilvia ochraceiceps pallidipectus
p. 108), Vireolanius pulchellus viridiceps (p.
108), Lanius ludovicianus mearnsii (p. 108),
Aphelocoma unicolor celestis (p.108), Beolophus
inornatus restrictus (p. 109), B. i. murinus (p.
109), Psaltriparus minimus saturatus (p. 109),
Chama fasciata rufula (p. 109), Polioptila nel-
soni(p. 109), P. bairdi (p. 110), P. superciliaris
magna, (p. 110), Telmatodytes palustris iliacus,
(p. 110) and Heleodytes nelsoni (p. 111).

Diagnoses of nine new forms of
American birds.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Nov. 30, 1903,
pp. 167-169.

Brief descriptions are given of the follow-
ing new species and subspecies: Thryophilus
pleurostictus ravus (p. 167), T. modestus pullus
(p. 167), Salpinctes obsoletus notius (p. 168),
Henicorhina leucophrys castanea (p. 168), H. 7.
berlepschi (p. 168), ‘H. hilaris bangsi (p. 168),
Cistothorus polyglottus lucidus (p. 169), Saipine-
tes obsoletus exsul, (p. 169), and S. maculatus
(p. 169).

RILEY, J. H. _A new subspecies of

night hawk from the Bahama Islands.
Auk, XxX, No. 4, Oct., 1908, pp. 431-433.
Chordeiles virginianus vicinus (p. 432), is de-
scribed as new, and comparisons are made
with nearly related forms.

TheSnowy Ploverin the Bahamas.
Auk, xx, No. 4, Oct., 1908, p. 433.
Note on the capture of gialitis nivosa on
Long Island, Bahamas.

The second known specimen of
Centurus nyeanus Ridgway.
Auk, XX, No. 4, Oct., 1908, p. 434.
Record of a second specimen of Nye’s Wood-
pecker, from Watlings Island, Bahamas.

ROSE, Josepn N.
nov. |
Rep. Mo. Botan. Garden, vol. 15, 1904, pp.
80, 81; pls. 28, 29.

ROSE, J. N., and BRITTON, N. L. New
or noteworthy North American Crassu-

laceze.
Bull. N. Y. Botan. Garden, 3, Sept., 1903,
pp. 1-45.

This paper is a preliminary treatment of
the Crassulaceze for North America, and will
soon be followed by an exhaustive mono-
graph of the family. A large number of new
species are described and the following gen-
era: Dudleya, Hasseanthus, Sedella, Urbinia,
Altamiranoa, Villadia, Stylophyllum, Gorman-
nia, Oliverella, Clementia, and Tilleastrwm.

[ Begonia wnifolia sp.
180

SCHUCHERT, Cartes. On the faunal
provinces of the Middle Devonic of
America and the Devonie Coral sub-
provinces of Russia, with two paleo-
graphic maps.

Am. Geologist, XXXII, Sept., 1908, pp. 157-
162, and 2 maps.

This paper points out some of the salient
differences between the Devonie faunas of
the Dakota Sea having Euro-asiatie charac-
teristics and those of the Mississippian Sea,
which is of the ‘‘American Province.’ The
probable lands separating these seas are de-
scribed and mapped.

On new Siluric Cystoidea, and a
new Camarocrinus.
Am. Geologist, XXXII, Oct., 1903, pp. 2380-
240.

Describes two new genera, Jexkelocyslis and
Celocystis, and the following seven new spe-
cies: Jekelocystis hartleyi, Spherocystites globu-
laris, Pseudocrinites gordoni, P. stellatus, P.
clarki, P. perdewi, and Camarocrinus ulrichi.

All the material isin the national collection.

SHARPE, Ricnharp W. Report on the
fresh-water Ostracoda of the United
States National Museum, including a
revision of the subfamilies and genera
of the family Cyprididee.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 1347, July
15, 1903, pp. 969-1001, pls. LXIV-LXIX.
Includes keys to the subdivisions of the
family Cyprididz, keys to North American
species, revised descriptions of genera. One
genus and two species are described as new.

SMITH, Hueu M. Description of anew
species of blind eel, of the genus An-
guilla.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV11, June 9, 1904,
pp. 121, 122.

SNYDER, JoHNn OTTERBEIN.

Davin STarr JORDAN. )

STARKS, Epwrn CHaPin.
of some Berycoid fishes.
Proc. Us Sy) Nate Muss xxvii, No:
Feb. 18, 1904, pp. 601-619, figs. 1-10.
(See also under CHArtes H. GIL-
BERT and Davip STARR JORDAN. )
STEARNS, R. E. C.
Philippines.
Science (new series), XVIII, No. 457, Oct.
2, 1908, pp. 439, 440.
STEBBING, THomas R. R.
from Costa Rica.
Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 13841, July
9, 1903, pp. 925-931, pls. LX, LXI.
Two new species collected by Prof. P.

Biolley, of the National Museum of Costa
Rica— Talorchestia fritzi and Hyalella faxont.

(See under

The osteology

1366,

Eucalypts in’ the

Amphipoda

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

STEERE, Josep BEAL. Narrative of a
visit to Indian tribes of the Purus River,
Brazil.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 359-398, pls. 1-9.

STEJNEGER, Leonnarp. Report of the
delegate to the Fifth International Zoo-
logical Congress, Berlin, Aug. 12-16,
1901.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1903), pp. 167, 168.

A new hognose snake from Florida.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Sept. 30, 1903,
pp. 128, 124.
Described as new species, Heterodon browni,
type No. 32089, U.S.N.M.

A new species of large iguana from
the Bahama Islands.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Novy. 12, 1903,
pp. 129-1382.
Described as new species, Cyclura rileyi,
type No. 31969, U.S.N.M.

A new lizard from the Rio Grande

Valley, Texas.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvul, Feb. 5, 1904,
pp. 17-20.
Described as new species; Sceloporus mer-
riami, type No. 330389, U.S.N.M.

A reply to recent strictures on
American biologists.
Science (new series) X1Ix, Mar. 4, 1904,
pp. 371-376.

Written principally in order to show the
necessity of the American museums acquir-
ing more biological material from the paleare-
tie region.

— The Herpetology of Porto Rico.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1904), pp. 549-724, pl. 1, figs. 1-197.
A full account of all the reptiles and batra-
ehians found in Porto Rico, including de-
tailed descriptionsaccompanied by numerous
text figures of all the species, as wellas general
chapters on their origin and distribution.
The following species are described as new:
Eleutherodactylus richmondi, Eleutherodactylus
unicolor, Spherodactylus grandisquamis, Ano-
lis monensis, Anolis evermanni, Anolis poncen-
sis, Amphisbena bakeri, Typhlops rostellatus,

Typhlops dominicanus, Leimadophis stahli.

STEVENSON, Matiupa Coxe.
games.
Am. Anthropologist (new series), V, No. 3,
July-Sept., 1908, pp. 468-497, pls. XLVIII,
XLIX, 11 text figs.

A paper devoted to the study and illustra-
tion of all the important games (seventeen
in number) of the Zuni Indians. These do
not include children’s games.

Zuni
BIBLIOGRAPHY. 181

STILES, CwHar“tEs WARDELL. Clinical
diagnosis of intestinal parasites.
Journ. Am. Med. Assoc., X11, No. 3, July
18, 1903, pp. 172, 173.

The dwarf tapeworm ( Hymenolepis
nana), a newly recognized and proba-
bly rather common American parasite.

New York Med. Journ., UXxyit, No. 19,
Noy. 7, 1903, pp. 877-881, figs. 1-5.
STILES, CHartes WaARDELL, and HAS-
SALL, Apert. Index catalogue of
medical and veterinary zoology.

Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. 8.
Dept. Agric., No. 39, Part 4, Authors,
D-Dziembowski, pp. 325-403 (issued,
July, 1903); Part 5, Authors, E-Eyssel,
pp. 405-435 (issued, Sept., 1903); Part 6,
Authors, F-Fynney, pp. 437-510 (issued,
Feb., 1904).

TASSIN, Wirt. The Persimmon Creek
meteorite.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvit, No. 1380,
June 27, 1904, pp. 955-959, pls. 49, 50.
A description and analysis of a meteoric
iron found on Persimmon Creek, Cherokee

Co.,N.C. The iron is described ‘‘as a granu- |

lar octahedrite, containing numerous troilite
and some silicate areas.’’ Analyses of the
mass and of the nickel-iron alloys and the
silicate are given.

TRUE, Freperick W. First record of |

the Pollack whale (Balznoptera bore-
alis) in the western North Atlantic.
Science (new series), xvu, No. 421, Jan.
23, 1903, p. 150.
A note on the common Bottle-
nosed Porpoise of the North Atlantic,
Turscops truncatus (Montagu).

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., March, 1903 |

(issued July 3, 1903), pp. 313, 314.

On species of South American
Delphinidze described by Dr. R. A.
Philipp in 1893 and 1896.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVI, 1903 (issued

Noy. 12, 1903), pp. 133-144.

On some photographs of living
finback whales from Newfoundland.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue,

No. 1423, Dec. 9, 1903, pp. 91-94, pls. 24-26.

Notes on a porpoise of the genus
Prodelphinus from the Hawaiian
Islands.

U.S. Fish Com. Bull. for 1903, pp. 41-45,
pls. 1, 2.

TRUE, Freperick W. Report on the
Department of Biology for the year
1900-1901.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),

1901 (1903), pp. 63-80.

——— Report on the Department of
Biology for the year 1901-1902.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),

1902 (1903), pp. 59-76.

Notes on a Killer Whale (genus
Orcinus) from the coast of Maine.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxv, No. 1357,

Jan. 27, 1904, pp. 227-230, pls. 7, 8.

A summary of general observa-
tions on the sports and movements of
whales. By Emile G.  Racovitza.
(Translation. )

Rept. Smithsonian Inst. 1903 (1904), pp. 627-

645.

——— [Articles prepared on the follow-
ing subjects:] Mammals, grampus, killer,
narwhal, porpoise, rorqual, spermaceti,
whale, whalebone, whaling.

Encyclopedia Americana, 1904.

TRUE, Freprerick W., HOLMES, W1-

| waM H., and MERRILL, Grorce P.
Report on the exhibit of the United
States National Museum at the Pan-
American Exposition, Buffalo, New
York, 1901. :

Rep. Sinithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),

1901 (1903), pp. 177-231, pls. 1-72.

UHLER, Puiuie R. List of Hemiptera-
Heteroptera of Las Vegas Hot Springs,
New Mexico, collected by Messrs. E. A.
Schwarz and Herbert 8. Barber.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi1, No. 1360, Jan.
27, 1904, pp. 349-364.

| ULRICH, E.0O.,and BASSLER, R.S. A
| revision of the Paleozoic Bryozoa. Part
| I.—On the genera and species of Cten-

ostomata.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. Issue,
I, pts. 3 and 4, Apr. 11,1904, pp. 256-294,
pls. 65-68, 2 text figs.

As the title indicates, this is a revision of
the Paleozoic ctenostomatous bryozoa. All
the old species and genera of the order are
defined, besides the new ones, a§ follows:
Heteronema (H. capillare, H. carbonarium, and
H.? contextum), Allonema (A. botelloides, A.
waldronense, A. suffusiforme, and A. monili-
Sorme-aggregatum), and Ptychocladia (P. agel-

aThis title was not received in time to permit of its insertion in the Bibliography for the preceding

year.
182

ULRICH, E. O., and BASSLER, R. 8.—

Continued.
lus). Other new species are Rhopalonaria
’ attenuata, R. robusta, R.tenuis, R. medialis, R.
keokukensis, Vinella ? multiradiata, Ascodictyon
floreale, A. parvulum, and A. sparsum.

VAUGHAN, T. Waytanp. [Anthozoa. ]
Memoirs Cal. Acad. Sci., 111, 1908, pp. 86-89,
pl. ili, figs. 1-4a.

Four species are described, three of which,
Caryophyllia californica from the Pliocene,
Caryophyllia pedrensis and Paracyathus pe-
dransis from the Pleistocene are considered
new. Included in ‘‘ Ralph Arnold’s Paleon-
tology and stratigraphy of the marine Plio-
cene and Pleistocene of San Pedro, Califor-
nia.”’

A Californian Tertiary coral
reef and its bearing on American recent

coral faunas.
Science (new series), XIX, Mar. 25, 1904,
p. 503.

This is an abstract of a paper read before
the Geological Society of Washington, Janu-
ary 27, 1904. It was shown that during Lower
Miocene time the West Indian type of coral
fauna extended westward into the Pacific
and it was subsequent to that time that the
Atlantic and Pacific faunas of America have
been so markedly differentiated.

Zoology and the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature.
Science (new series), XIX, June 8, 1904,
pp. 860, 861.

Review of Coelenterata in The International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature. First
Annual Issue, N, Zoology (for the year 1901);
1904 (February).

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

| WHITE, Davip, Summary of the fossil
plants recorded from the Upper Car-
boniferous and Permian formations of

Kansas.
Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 211, 1903, pp.
85-117.

This paper on the fossil plants of the coal
measures of Kansas contains a summary of
all the genera and species as yet made known
from the Upper Carboniferous of that State, ]
with a discussion of the age of the beds and
provisional correlations of the plant-bearing
terranes with the coal measures of the Ap-
palachian trough. The greater part of the
material in question is included in the Lacoe
collection, which furnished nearly all the
types of a number of new species described,
as well as for several species not before re-
ported in North America. The article also
gives the names of a number of new species
embraced in unpublished manuscript by
Leo Lesquereux, the Kansas types of which
are all preserved in the Lacoe collection.
The Museum catalogue numbers of the speci-
mens are cited throughout the paper under
the records of the various types.

WILSON, CHartes Brancm. <A new
species of Argulus, with a more com-
plete account of two species already
described.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviI, No. 1368,
Apr. 9, 1904, pp. 627-655, text figs. 1-38.

Argulus trilineatus new species and fuller
accounts of A. americanus and A. versicolor.

LIST OF AUTHORS.

ArNotp, Raupn, U. 8. Geological Survey.

AsHMeApb, WiutramM H., U. 8. National Museum.

Baker, Cart F., Havana, Cuba.

Banas, OurrRAm, Boston, Mass.

Banks, NatHan, U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

Barrtsco, Paun, U. S. National Museum.

Basser, R. §., U. 8. Geological Survey.

Bean, Barton A., U. S. National Museum.

Bents, FLtorencE E., Stanford University, Cal.

Benepict, JAMES E., U. 8. National Museum.

Bensamin, Marcus, U. 8. National Museum.

BowonrisH, B. S., New York City.

Brirron, N. L., director, Botanical Garden, New York City.

Buscx, Aucust, U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

Casanowicz, I. M., U.'S. National Museum.

CAUDELL, ANDREW Ne son, U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
CHAPMAN, FRANK M., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.
CiarkK, Austin H., Boston, Mass. ,
CLARKE, SAMUEL FESSENDEN, Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.
Coie, Leon J., Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.
Coquitierr, D. W., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

CoviLLE, FRepERIcK Vernon, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.
Currif, Rotua Parreson, U. 8. National Museum.

Dat, WitiiAM Heratey, U.S. Geological Survey.

Davenvort, CHarues B., Coldspring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.
Dyar, Harrison G., U. S. National Museum.

EiGENMANN, Caru H., Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.
Frewkes, J. Water, Bureau of American Ethnology.

FIsHER, WALTER K., Palo Alto, Cal.

Fuint, JAmEs M., U. 8. Navy (retired), U. S. National Museum.
Fow er, Henry W., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal.
GILBERT, CHARLES H., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal.
Git, THEoporE, U. 8. National Museum.

Girty, GEORGE H., U. 8. Geological Survey.

GRABAU, AMADEUS W., Columbia University, New York City.
Hassauu, ALBERT, U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

Ho.tmes, W. H., Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology.

Houeu, Watrerr, U. 8. National Museum.

Howarp, L. O., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

Hroricka, Atgs, U. 8. National Museum.

Hyarr, AvpHevs. (Deceased. )
184 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.

Jentnes, Foster H. (Deceased. )

JORDAN, Davin Starr, President Lelana Stanford Junior University, Stanford Uni-
versity, Cal.

Lucas, Freperic A., U. 8S. National Museum.

Lyon, Marcus Warp, jr., U. S. National Museum.

McDoueat, D. T., Botanical Garden, Bronx Park, New York City.

McGregor, RicHarp C., Manila, P. I.

MarsHatu, WiiiiAM B., U.S. National Museum.

Mason, Oris Turron, U. 8. National Museum.

Maxon, Witi1am R., U.S. National Museum.

Maynarp, GrorGe C., U. 8. National Museum.

Merritt, G. P., U. S. National Museum.

MILLER, Gerrit §., jr., U. S. National Museum.

Moore, CLARENCE B., Philadelphia, Pa.

NerEepHAM, JAMES G., Lake Forest, Ill.

Netson, E. W., U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.

Norton, C. A. Q., Hartford, Conn.

NurtinG, CHARLES CLEVELAND, University of lowa, Iowa City, Iowa.

OsBERHOLSER, Harry C., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

OrTMANN, A. E., Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, Pa.

PHALEN, WiuuiAM C., U. 8. Geological Survey.

Prentiss, DanteL WesstER, Washington, D. C.

Ratusun, Mary J., U. S. National Museum.

RarHsuN, RicHarpD, U. 8. National Museum.

RAVENEL, W. DE C., U. S. National Museum.

Rean, James A. G., Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.

RicHarpson, Harrier, U. S. National Museum.

RicHMOND, CHARLES W., U. 8. National Museum.

Ripaway, Rosert, U. 8. National Museum.

Rixey, J. H., U. S. National Museum.

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.

ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.

SHARPE, RicHarp W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington,

