mm

588
Set

.

«
Altes t

7 by ;
ee! ay Be
# ‘ace 3 Nene as ate 2
fos, AA, 5 ee
ia “ i) By! a
gs ae ‘ ‘.

+ 78) a i ‘os * "hie iw ." a ieee
eiateteate ts a ee na) i.
eatata’ ae ne atatatatete’

- ee \- Rt i oe
| iets ve ar sah oe » i sr at mw

i +a) ie 3 ls fit ie ys
cB Ie #1 . ee ye . 5
of ad a i

J saa Ww sitet Be

we
Be
; Paced
| et
Ph 4
2Ge :
a
‘3 iets

Pu i" cee |
8) i ate 7 P 3 va F "yt ¥, Pi Pin

ce uf ” ae ee ee Pe Bh
poo a ait .* . if ‘és fu 4, Pe Fs yy 5 Ys a,
ut gs he i: at a a

wk. 4
ie TE
“4 et

y i ew ee ie
t } Z a is Re ay ye *
ewe in hw i

it he ye % oe ;
H e

' % . rs
- oh cr Ph ape — : : a a i De ae mt . & a ake # an LS ~ bad r
) Se oO Ye NN Sy Se ye. ee. 5
; ot ¥ ae Te a a ae Te ae : iy oy "
: "Vip . gr ye mT ‘ Be me o ih ne iat Aa. a Fae na ae
3 . . € Pe ye i. ait + Go iy ee oe oe
¥

-* iu i‘. >
BRS »

i ail Ds nee Oe
a PEE

+ =
pe ets
=
Ronee =
iy ae
| ; = peti te See : ay
res . ee Se
. or oasyeen : et ree

:

NS
$3

Hight ol = NGuse | fxn

NS

wn = <= i ay ie =

a NVINOSHLINS S31YVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITU
n z ” z ve 2 z we.
ae a = ‘ S& = < St
= z = z NS = > wy:
= 5 ark Oo MS BR = oO ¢

Bs : g ZR 2 z |

a - 2. Es » 2 fe

: : act eee ;

1~ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS S3I1YVY

pee w = Ww os w
i rs .o : a Xe &
= <. = ao at SN * fea
a <' pat < 7 Ss my iat
Cc oc = ac c QQ o
oO Kae a oO _ oO oi
- a a — iz pn ae
} NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVY¥GIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITU
= & eet Sp = - z y ~
5 2 a = = nd
ioe = See SS - > im iy =
= _ <r @ = ae <=
= | Pails — B z op
put BRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3INVUE
= 2 ” oe wn z n ry
=! = < = < = |
é = No: 8 2
= 3 zr MANS SG me 3
a = = SS 2 = Z
> * — o-_*
ai 2 A. - & a 2
_NVINOSHLINS S3ZIYVYS!IT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUT!
w Z “fr z M- | z
Ww 77) ud 7) al / “
_ = we =i ney . =
3 - < a “4 ‘a
C oy. Ss 5 e 5
seh = = = ae
1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI S31YUVe'
. z 2 z . z
w “wy ‘wo = wo S
~ ca ‘e = ran 5
2 he a ‘a 2 :
=< ae) g a wo ay w”
Oo ) = ) o z eS z
N NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3INYVUEIT LIBRARIES
w = w te we: wn” zm
= "4 = 6 < Ns = <
= Ea = 4 z w\ ~s a S
bs: Oo 7 ae 9 QS. K ~ oO
z g 2K 8 s
2 = = c Ye = e
> = > = : > Ss
= *% : w = ” - = ”
1_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
z “t z uw z us
n mu “a ne 7) a
in a = oc = ow
baa. < Pa. < “ <
<n ao _- o od ea)
Oo = “el oO _ (eo) i
Fo — za - 4 “3 ae
N NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3!IYVYUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUT
z ES i = 48
2 = er O ° 50N
5 2 3 5 - $2 &
E z : : © OE:
5 RY - 5 = ae, a
am somes, it. 2 a: 2 z a

——

Ni

SMITHSONIAN

RARIES SMITHSONIAN

SA1YVYUEIT LIBRARIES

RARIES SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLIWS

LNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS Sa luva Qty tl BRARI ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION a

, = = en = - Sa es

4 = w 3 o a SW Qs. fe

is ci oO EG he a oy cy ES a

g ZR 3B :

3 E MO 2 = :

> = > = 5

2 w”) = oe Ww a >

_INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS Sa 1YVeaiT.

ae WwW 3 wee lu a

a = 2 WN =

g < 2X =

ar a be | EQ om ti

WP s a YL =

z a 4 ae oe ;

NVINOSHLIWS _ Sa 1YVua Pe LIBRARI Ba SMITHSO IAN INSTITUTION _

“\ «

S) — e) I ee C

E © - Gy =

> w 5 bye Gp. “ed :

= > i= LGtE = :

fc 2 = Ff KG 2

es m kta a m

4 n = w
INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS

: ” z n :

‘SQ 2 GYG.5 = 7

BWY OC GG i x 9 ;

S\S = > 7 a, =, s

Mit > = > :

2 7 2 C

ALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS

NOILNLILSNI

RARIES_ SMITHSONIAN

SSIUVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

Sa1uvualy LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

LIBRARIES
NOLLNLILSNI

NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVuaII

= F ‘ : rad
2) fe) = Nea Oo :
= ie WS 5 ea
— = a cs RY =
Ks i “tn NX i
- E a y -
” w” ee . ”
oe | = O _ Z
ENLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS Sa 1yYVud Hui BRARI Fe ESN
=< = _< —< = =<
SZ. = iS QS = z
re) a o) Ne age * Oo
w Yn vy ° REN wn Y”)
r O % 7 ¥ \. 8g +
es = E NE < -
= > = ae Ss
‘ w = a cy = Tp.
RARIES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
ts z 2 ww
A aM” pee wn ah
ee: = oe m. a
ss = < = <
ae = oc = a
fit ance incall MN
ram
LNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3Iy¥Vud!y
ee S Z i :
x E . : :
te > = a is
; Ww
. z i m4 ie

teh ‘“ ;
,

Ua
ity sit

. h ey
hy
i
i Mag ‘) ; wn ;
he ae

a
yal Lee ee
' A a

be
J

x

p ; a
1d tik 8 Wi Ui

Pr ER Me Ae { ae
Pals Ca ot f “i it * mn ;
T Ha hh, ee '
b Dall ics ee! ;

BUS pi ee
Pere Aca
i ig Ty aio at Z

<
oe | rn : @Q hy
ey) ae & ne; vat
: aa A! AY ea" pi), 4)
i , »y 7

le

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

LYS?

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
WASHINGTON

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

Lo.

(Publication 3451)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1938

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. - - - - - - Price $1.00 (paper cover)
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 2, 1937.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1937. J have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Assot, Secretary.

Tit
«
ee

- ad ame: a; ‘sha Ye nigel a
4 idee ale «ata BES pontine ‘Athy
ss ia ital a Sai} gat ny

wetav

+s}? + ? machi Aye Whe _
: ne + Ba i ao

er ee te Pai: 1oreHe * sth ae ale

,
£
>

CONTENTS

Page
LOSES THACL EEN 11 CHI | li nee tide ee cx. on ya ad ps gi aia nf en v
TUS EN 3 Waa Vag 92 2a 0 eg ail Sy 2 a a a lige ea a ae 1
: Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution____--- 2
Sire esi TORINO ee is eee le a ee eee ee 5
rer horretnr Werenths oso. ts 5 = eee ee ea ee ee ee 5
VETERE St eld eal AP ll a aan > kl ale Ra ee gen eh Dulane ict ke pie rs
miViatlersromeeneraleimbenests sa eee ee ee en iG
Andrew W..Melion’s art pift to the Nation... = =~ == Se if
Proposca emitusonan (Gallery OfvArt_ 2. ° = 22-2 ii
SIMPSON A METAL OM IN OD Rea ere ee ay ees a se ek = ee re te 18
Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship_-____-__--_----------- 21
rit ae URE OIOU NEO Sa fas a ee is a, 2 See ee Acute 22
Peper oun ane: HEIG WOLK— 5. So 2 = ek ee ecb ee eek 22
Lory SUG in oS i ee ee ee ere meee F 23
PRU pee eee toe ee ee let Ae ot Ch oh eon 24
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum_-_-_--------- 25
2. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts_____-.------ 35
a. heportion tne wtrecs-Gallery of Art... 22-203. 0225462 Lec 43
4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_--_---------- 49
5. Report on the International Exchange Service___-_-_------- 59
6. Report on the National Zoological Park_____------------- 69
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory_-_--------------- 99
8. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms____--_- 103
Cerne variON the IMOEAT Yee. 60 a an ons oe eee Se 107
Oy eon Ol PUNGRIONA 522 9. 862 sea o ee eens eee 113
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents_____-_------- 119
GENERAL APPENDIX
Constitution of the stars, by Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington_________--_-- 131
Discoveries from solar eclipse expeditions, by 8. A. Mitchell___________- 145
Changes in the length of the day, by Ernest W. Brown___-_______-_------ 169
The thunderstorm, by E. A. Evans and K. B. McEachron_____________-_ 177
The electron: Its intellectual and social significance, by Karl T. Compton_-. 205
Photography by polarized light, by J.W. McFarlane__._.__________--_-_- 225
Measuring geologic time: Its difficulties, by A. C. Lane___________-_--- 235
- The earth’s interior, its nature and composition, by Leason H. Adams_... 255
Origin of the Great Lakes basins, by Francis P. Shepard___---_--_------- 269
The biography of an ancient American lake, by Wilmot H. Bradley_-_-__-_- 279
Wur-water supply, by Oscar B. Meinzer)=.225-.-2+ 2 291
The first crossing of Antarctica, by Lincoln Ellsworth_______________-_- 307
Moving photomicrography, by W. N. Kazeeff__________--------------- 323
Fresh-water fishes and West,Indian zoogeography, by George S. Myers... 339
The breeding habits of salmon and trout, by Leonard P. Schultz___-_-____- 365
What is entomology: by Lee A. Strong_..2-..-2.4 22-2 Se eee 377
Maize—our heritage from the Indian, by J. H. Kempton____._.-____--- 385
vr CONTENTS

Page
The emergence of modern medicine from ancient folkways, by Walter C. .
BIVGOTEG 2 oa Ot ot a ee Cee eee ee 409
National and international standards for medicines, by E. Fullerton Cook. 431
The healing properties of allantoin and urea discovered through the use of
maggots in human wounds, by William Robinson_---_.-...---------- 451
The aims of the Public Health Service, by Thomas Parran_____-_____--- 463
Excavations at Chanhu-daro by the American School of Indic and Iranian
Studies and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston: Season 1935-36, by

Mrnes MAGkay | iia5 acme do ceteces Holt hee ie eee 469
Ras Shamra: Canaanite civilization and language, by Zellig 8. Harris.__. 479
Hlood-groups and race, by J." Mot... «3 - eden cn ose ~ yee elie 503
Early Chinese cultures and their development: A new working-hypothesis,

by Wolfram Tierharg sn nae ctcks occas e += teens lee 513
Origin and early diffusion of the traction plow, by Carl Whiting Bishop. 531
Historical notes on the cotton gin, by F. L. Lewton_____.--------_----- 549

The world’s longest bridge span, by Clifford E. Paine___--_-_---_------ 565
LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s Report:
Tate lan oe net ese Beet Se 2S. AN ee ee ee ee ee
era estss =O meer Ur den Me) SU eee Pes eee Ae

Eclipse expeditions (Mitchell):

TEREST TE es oh a Poel Sa 8g Or PO gle cane tome renee Oe Np
The thunderstorm (Evans and McEachron):

2 TRE IT ee RIN A a ESS BRE oe CPOE RE RAR SED RNCE rho reo pe Oe Seed
Photography by polarized light (McFarlane):

lates pl Gee ee oe reese Deke ee Pepe ee) ng 2s Tks So Be
Measuring geologic time (Lane):

Team iee a eae! Ae ays Rite kta ate octet Be ee At ee
Earth’s interior (Adams):

Li) BU ETT eset ite PRD af ad OT cA a iat nee Soyer CR NT pees oo
Ancient American lake (Bradley):

Pintedele-dies 2 nce Bee Re ee et as Be ae a Be eee BRS a
First crossing of Antarctica (Ellsworth):

EUS eia he Or ts St OM cll rhe ee etn gt bel icy taal igs eae
Moving photomicrography (Kazeeff):

EYES PSSPa A At thal aaa Ill nn i ia pees Pe edhe Gee wa
Fresh-water fishes (Myers):

Salmon and trout (Schultz):

ECS ah — pees en ed Se nO oe eee Pe ee ee ee aS
Entomology (Strong):

Per geeret eal Gere ene ih hye ie ee es es PL Ce eS ee
Maize (Kempton):

IDiatesht- Um ek teen INE! 206 ee I a ea ee eh
Modern medicine (Alvarez):

Chanhu-daro (Mackay):

Pe epese Oe ete ea a a Sento erst 8 he fae ee
Ras Shamra (Harris):

[Plates sameeren 0. 25° 37 Bn 2 geen ee cert. Seek Pe eater
Traction plow (Bishop):

Plategel eae meh a Fey te eee ee Se EC ele a
Cotton gin (Lewton):

1 Be nye Pt Rel a Daa ee ty VERT RR Res et gn pe ee ee
World’s longest bridge (Paine):

HOt 4 tee gee ee eee 2 ed a se et te Soe ee ee
TVA

7

8 4
24

a nig

g
o

ae Se ee
"eps sa Sal ‘ ey acl aso he ef

tee

et Tay tapes: Arle § ee be

ram eye a al puke

f. «fo 044 ae ferin ey r ut agen

| so. Gavi
ee

hae =

ee ve ; iis = to

2s) ee?

a
: - ilheto a - jet

0 oe

y
- ode  PO-Ge=

i~sine}- ‘ hm} & 1a8
‘(tom ty os » wl Sree
¢ te
pink ~iveasiwd at
< ; , ) eel
4+ el) otal eal (eee -
; 7 $-4 rt: j
c rons ie) ols peic? Wi enieie os
ee se |
vas Meador Salon 4
oh pal
) al rity da Os
: bite
vid@el) grmattehae oe t
(th awieee ee witatl

‘eni®) meal

u

> Sl Ait-]s ort ee
eer S tet
ait oes
, rae at: . eh
27a }
ae - -
rr oe
ivy

Ae . bat eat
aot ts 7h ated | -

= — es
Aqiel) win! deal

Antes
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1937

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the op-
erations and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1937, with statistics of exchanges, etc., including the proceedings of
the meetings of the Board of Regents.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1937.

3. General appendix comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1937.

IX
f *
s

(T 40 Tr A0mH AU
<3 HOE sectal

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1937

Presiding officer ex officio—FRANKLIN D. ROoosEvVELT, President of the United
States.
Chancellor —CHARLES EvANS HuGHES, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
FRANKLIN D. Roosevett, President of the United States.
JouHNn N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
CHARITIES Evans Huaues, Chief Justice of the United States.
CORDELL Huu, Secretary of State.
Henry MorcentHay, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
Henry Hrnes Wooprine, Secretary of War.
Homer 8. Cummrinas, Attorney General.
JAMES A. FAarLEy, Postmaster General.
CLAUDE A. SWANSON, Secretary of the Navy.
Haroitp L. Ickes, Secretary of the Interior.
Henry A. WALLACE, Secretary of Agriculture.
Danie C. Roprr, Secretary of Commerce.
WRANCES PERKINS, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
CHARLES Evans Hueues, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
JoHn N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
JosEPH T. Rogstnson, Member of the Senate.
M. M. Logan, Member of the Senate.
CHARLES L. McNary, Member of the Senate.
T. ALAN GOLDSBOROUGH, Member of the House of Representatives.
CHARLES L. GirrorD, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
Frepreric A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Joun C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D. C.
R. WALTON Moore, citizen of Virginia.
Rosert W. BINGHAM, citizen of Kentucky.
Aveustus P. Lorine, citizen of Massachusetts.
Rouanp 8S. Morris, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Eeccutive committee.—FrevEeric A. DELANO, JOHN C. MerriAm, R. WALTON
Moore.
Secretary.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Harry W. DorsEyY.
Treasurer.—NIcHOLAS W. DORSEY.
Editor —WEBSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian. WIti1AmM lL. CorgsBIN.
Personnel officer. —HELEN A. OLMSTED.
Property clerk.—Jamrs H. Ht.

Xi
Deni ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio —CHARLES G, ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Associate director—JouHn E. GRAF.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, acting head curator; W. H. Egberts, chief pre-
parator.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; H. B. Collins, Jr., assistant
curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Section of Musical Instruments: Hugo Worch, custodian.
Section of Ceramics: Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, assistant
curator; R. G. Paine, aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary assistant cura-
tor of Old World archeology.

Division of Physical Anthropology: AleS Hrdlitka, curator; Thomas D.
Stewart, assistant curator.

Collaborators in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy; D. I. Bush-
nell, Jr.
Associate in historic archeology: Cyrus Adler.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist.

Division of Mammals: Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator; Remington Kellogg,
assistant curator; A. J. Poole, scientific aid; A. Brazier Howell, collabo-
rator.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; J. H. Riley, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton col-
lections; Casey A. Wood, collaborator; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris
M. Cochran, assistant curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, assistant curator; BE. D. Reid, aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; William Schaus, honorary assistant curator; B. Preston Clark,
collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Hemiptera: W. L. McAtee, acting custodian.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe-
maker, assistant curator; James O. Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Rich-
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; Maynard M.
Metcalf, collaborator; J. Percy Moore, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman,
collaborator in Foraminifera; Charles Branch Wilson, collaborator in
Copepoda.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Barisch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, assistant
curator; Joseph P. B. Morrison, senior scientific aid; Mary Breen, col-
laborator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Maurice C. Hall, custodian.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937 XI

DEPARTMENT oF BioLocy—Continued.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

Division of Plants (National Herbariwn): W. R. Maxon, curator; Ells-
worth P. Killip, associate curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator;
Conrad V. Morton, aid; Egbert H. Walker, aid; John A. Stevenson,
custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection.

Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian.

Section of Cryptogamiec Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, custodian.

Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, Mary J. Rathbun, C. W. Stiles,
Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall.

Associate Curator in Zoology: Hugh M. Smith.

Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (systematic and applied) :
W. F. Foshag, curator; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; Frank L.
Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustav
A. Cooper, assistant curator; Margaret W. Moodey, aid for Springer
collection.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C.
Lewis Gazin, assistant curator; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associate in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller.

Associate in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.
Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator.
Section of Mechanical Technology: Frank A. Taylor, in charge; Fred
C. Reed, scientific aid.
Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, assistant curator.
Section of Mineral Technology: Carl W. Mitman, in charge.
Division of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Mrs. EB. W. Rosson, ald.
Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, assistant curator.
Section of Organic Chemistry: Aida M. Doyle, aid.

Diwision of Medicine: Charles Whitebread, assistant curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator; C. Allen Sherwin, scien-
tifie aid.

Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator.
Division or History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator;
Mrs. C. L. Manning, philatelist.
Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. Bryant.
Assistant chief of correspondence and docwments.—L. BE. COMMERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor—R. H. TREMBLY.
Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLES C. SINCLAIR.
XIV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Hditor.—Pavut H. OFHSER.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

Accountant and auditor.—N. W. Dorsey.
Photographer.—A. J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—LAWRENCE L. OLIVER.
Assistant librarian.—Lema F. CLARK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
The CuHirer Justice of the Unrrep STATES.
‘THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
The Srorerary of the TREASURY.
The Secretary of the SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Davin K. EE. Bruce.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
S. PARKER GILBERT.
DonaALp D. SHEPARD.
ANDREW W. MELLON.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Acting Director—Rur. P. ToLMAN.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator—JouN ELLERTON LopGE.
Associate curator.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator.—GRAcCE DUNHAM GUEST.
Assistant.—ARCHIBALD G. WENLEY.
Superintendent.—JoHN BuNpy.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Ohief.—MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

ELthnologists—JoHn P. Harrincton, Jonn N. B. Hewitt, TRuMAN MICHELSON,
JOHN R. Swanton, WILLIAM D. Srrone.

Archeologist.—FRANK H. H. Roperts, Jr.

Associate anthropologist.—JuLIAN H. STEWARD.

EHditor—StTaANLey SEARLEs.

Librarian.— Miriam B. KercHum.

Iilustrator—Epwin G. CASSEDY.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES
Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—CoAtTEs W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WiILtIAM M. MANN.
Assistant director—Ernest P. WALKER.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director.—LoyauL B. ALDRICH.

Research assistant.—FREDERICK HB. Fow Le, Jr.
Associate research assistant.—WILLIAM H. Hoover.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Director.— CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director.—HARL §. JOHNSTON.

Associate research assistant.—Epwarp D. McALISTER.
Assistant in radiation research.—LELAND B. CLARK.
Research associate.—FLORENCE H#. MEIER.

XV
4 n

pn i atin ha
= ba oo ; ie 7 Fe

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1937

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1937. The first 24 pages contain a sum-
mary account of the affairs of the Institution, and appendixes 1 to
10 give more detailed reports of the operations of the National Mu-
seum, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the Freer Gallery of
Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Ex-
changes, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, the Division of Radiation and Organisms, the Smithsonian
library, and of the publications issued under the direction of the
Institution. On page 119 is the financial report of the executive com-
mittee of the Board of Regents.

OUTSTANDING EVENTS

The most notable event of the year was the establishment of the
new National Gallery of Art as a bureau of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, the result of the munificent gift by Andrew W. Mellon of
his great art collection and funds exceeding $10,000,000 for the con-
struction of a suitable gallery building.

The equipment of the National Zoological Park was greatly im-
proved by the completion, under a P. W. A. grant, of three new
exhibition buildings, a machine shop, a garage, and new heating
and electric installations. Dr. W. M. Mann, Director of the Zoo,
headed the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution Ex-
pedition to Sumatra for the purpose of obtaining specimens of the
interesting animals of that region for the National Zoo. The ex-
pedition was still in the field at the close of the year, but reports in-
dicate a highly successful trip.

In the Division of Radiation and Organisms, notable advances
have been made in the studies of photosynthesis, phototropism, and
the reactions of ultraviolet rays on plant growth.

31508—38——2 1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

The Smithsonian radio program, a weekly half-hour dramatiza-
tion of the Institution’s researches and exhibits, put on the air
through the cooperation of the Office of Education and the National
Broadcasting Co., continued throughout the year with undiminished
popularity. The little magazine issued in conjunction with the
broadcasts, presenting popular articles and reading lists on the sub-
jects treated, had reached a circulation of 150,000 for the June issue.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—The total appropriation for the maintenance
of the Museum was $763,970, an actual increase of $28,228 over the
previous year. Specimens added to the collections, mainly as gifts
or through Smithsonian expeditions, numbered 361,951. It is diffi-
cult to select the outstanding accessions among this great amount of
valuable material, but the following may be mentioned as examples
of the interest of the year’s additions: In anthropology, a valuable
collection of skeletal material resulting from Dr. Hrdlitka’s archeo-
logical excavations in Alaska; in biology, welcome specimens of the
little-known fauna of Siam, including 1,100 birds, 800 fishes, as well
as mammals, insects, and other forms; in geology, specimens repre-
senting 29 distinct meteoric falls, obtained through the Roebling
fund, bringing the number of falls represented in the Museum to 635 ;
in arts and industries, the gondola of the successful stratosphere bal-
loon Explorer IT, presented by the National Geographic Society. A
number of expeditions went out during the year in the interests of the
Museum’s researches in anthropology, biology, and geology. These
were financed mainly by Smithsonian private funds or by the assist-
ance of friends of the Museum. The number of visitors to the sev-
eral Museum buildings for the first time in its history exceeded
2,000,000, the actual number for the year being 2,288,532. The Mu-
seum published an annual report, 2 bulletins, and 29 proceedings
separates.

National Collection of Fine Arts—The name of this bureau of the
Institution was changed by act of Congress on March 24, 1937, from
“National Gallery of Art” to “National Collection of Fine Arts”, in
order that the former name might be assigned to the collection of
fine arts and the building to house it given by Andrew W. Mellon
to the Nation. The sixteenth annual meeting of the National
Gallery of Art Commission was held on December 8, 1936. Dr.
George Harold Edgell was nominated as a member of the Commis-
sion to succeed Joseph H. Gest, deceased. A number of portraits
and other art works were accepted by the Commission for the Gallery,
and two paintings purchased by the council of the National Academy
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

of Design from the fund provided by the Henry W ard Ranger
bequest were recalled and claimed, according to the terms of the
Ranger will. Two miniatures were acquired through the Catherine
Walden Myer fund. The Gallery held two special exhibitions, as
follows: Paintings and etchings by Thomas Moran, installed in the
lobby of the Natural History Building on the one hundredth anni-
versary of the painter’s birth; and the exhibition of the Second
Annual Metropolitan State Art Contest, 1937, including 305 prints,
paintings, and pieces ef sculpture, by 148 artists.

Freer Gallery of Art—The year’s additions to the collection in-
clude a bronze Cambodian Buddha, a bronze Chinese ceremonial ves-
sel, and three early Chinese mirrors; three Armenian volumes of the
fourteenth and seventeenth centuries—the Gospel, a psalter, and a
hymnal; a thirteenth century New Testament in Aramaic; Arabic
volumes and paper and parchment leaves from several Arabic manu-
scripts of various periods from the ninth to the seventeenth cen-
turies; a sixteenth century Persian volume and 3 leaves from a Per-
sian manuscript of the same period; 1 Chinese, 4 Indian, and 11
Persian paintings; and in pottery 1 Chinese cup holder and 2 Chinese
vases, a Persian bowl, and 2 Syrian pitchers. Curatorial work was
devoted to the study of Chinese, Tibetan, Japanese, Aramaic, Ar-
menian, Arabic, Persian, East Indian, and Cambodian objects in the
collection and of the texts and seals associated with them. During
the year 810 objects and 286 photographs of objects were submitted
to the curator for opinion as to provenance, age, quality, or other sig-
nificance, and 31 inscriptions for translation. Visitors totaled 140,881,
and 10 groups were given docent service. Three illustrated talks
were given by members of the Gallery staff before three local
organizations.

Bureau of American Ethnology—The researches of the Bureau
covered a wide variety of archeological and ethnological studies of
the Indians of North, South, and Central America. Mr. Stirling,
Chief of the Bureau, completed his ethnological report on the Jivaro
Indians of Ecuador, and examined a number of mounds in Georgia
and Florida. Dr. Swanton, as chairman of the United States De
Soto Expedition Commission, made two field trips through that part
of the South crossed by De Soto’s route; he later completed a 600-
page report, which was submitted by the Commission to Congress.
Dr. Michelson continued his ethnological researches among the Algon-
quian tribes of James and Hudson Bays, Canada. Dr. Harrington
prepared papers on ethnological and linguistic subjects relating
to a number of tribes including the Karuk, Kiowa, Navaho, Apache,
Hopi, and Shoshonean; he also completed a report on the Siberian
origin of the American Indian. Dr. Roberts continued his archeo-
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

logical excavations at the Lindenmeier site in Colorado, adding im-
portant material to that which he had already discovered relating
to Folsom man. In March 1937 he represented the United States
at the International Conference of Archeologists at Cairo, Egypt.
Dr. Strong devoted the year to completing the report on his archeo-
logical expedition of the previous year to Honduras. Dr. Steward
continued ethnological studies of the Shoshonean tribes of the Great
Basin and Plateau areas. Mr. Hewitt continued his researches on
the League of the Iroquois. The Bureau published its annual report
and one bulletin.

International exchanges——Since the conclusion at Brussels in 1886
of two exchange conventions between the United States and a number
of other countries, the Smithsonian Institution has been charged by
Congress with the important duty of carrying on the exchange
with other countries of governmental and scientific documents on
behalf of the United States. During the year the exchange service
handled a total of 657,346 packages weighing 651,461 pounds. The
number of full and partial sets of governmental publications for-
warded abroad is now 111, and 105 copies of the Congressional Rec-
ord and the Federal Register are sent to other countries in exchange
for their parliamentary journals. Four new depositories in Swit-
zerland were added to the interparliamentary exchange list, and
one in Germany, the Bibliothek des Preussischen Landtags, Berlin,
was discontinued, as the Lantags was abolished.

National Zoological Park.—The fiscal year 1937 was outstanding
in the history of the Zoo. The construction under the P. W. A. grant
of $892,920 of five new buildings was completed. Under this same
grant, three 250-horsepower down-draft boilers were installed in the
central heating plant, the conduit system was extended to two mam-
mal houses, and the electric supply distribution system was rear-
ranged. An expedition headed by Dr. William M. Mann, Director
of the Zoo, and financed by the National Geographic Society left
Washington in January to collect animals in the Far East for the
Zoo. They took with them 28 animals which were intended for zoos
in the regions visited. The expedition is expected to return to
Washington in October with a large collection of rare animals, ad-
vance reports indicating that the trip has been a very successful one.
Accessions of animals during the year numbered 1,067. Losses by
death and otherwise totaled 916, leaving the collection at the close of
the year at 2,342 animals, representing 701 different species. Visitors
numbered 2,435,520, including groups from 638 schools and organiza-
tions from 20 States and the District of Columbia.

Astrophysical Observatory.—Measurements of the solar constant of
radiation have been continued on all favorable days (amounting to
about 80 percent of all days) at the three Smithsonian observing sta-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

tions at Table Mountain, Calif.; Montezuma, Chile; and Mount St.
Katherine, Egypt. A flaw was discovered in the “short method”
reduction of observations, used since 1923, making it necessary to de-
vise a new method. After this was done, the field observers remeas-
ured the photographic records of observation since that date, and
great progress has been made by an augmented computing staff at
Washington in recomputing by the new method all observations since
1923. A solar radiation steam boiler (pl. 7) was prepared under the
direction of Dr. Abbot and successfully operated in September
1936. Dr. Abbot later devised a small solar flash boiler which em-
bodies many improvements and which holds much promise of prac-
tical application in the future. Frederick E. Fowle, a member of
the staff of the Astrophysical Observatory since 1894, was retired for
disability at the close of the fiscal year.

Division of Radiation and Organisms.—The staff of the Division
obtained important results from studies on the following subjects : the
normal growth of tomatoes under laboratory conditions; photosyn-
thesis in wheat; perfection of a spectral absorption method of meas-
uring carbon dioxide concentration in air; time relations in photo-
synthesis; the efficiency of different wave lengths of light to promote
germination in light-sensitive lettuce seed; the inactivation of plant
growth substance by light; and the stimulation of multiplication in
algae by minute dosage of ultraviolet rays known to be lethal in
doses of sufficient intensity. Four papers describing the investiga-
tions of the staff were published during the year in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, and others were in preparation.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The law establishing the Institution specifies that the three Senator
Regents shall serve during the term for which they shall hold,
without reelection, their office as Senators, and the three Members of
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

the Senate on the Board of Regents, Joseph T. Robinson, of Arkan-
sas; M. M. Logan, of Kentucky; and Charles L. McNary, of Oregon,
having been reelected to the Senate for a new term beginning Janu-
ary 3, 1937, the Vice President on January 6, 1937, reappointed them
to succeed themselves on the Board of Regents.

The roll of Regents at the close of the year was as follows: Charles
Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor;
John N. Garner, Vice President of the United States; members from
the Senate—Joseph T. Robinson, M. M. Logan, Charles L. McNary;
members from the House of Representatives—T. Alan Goldsborough,
Clarence Cannon, Charles L. Gifford; citizen members—Frederic A.
Delano, Washington, D. C.; John C. Merriam, Washington, D. C.;
R. Walton Moore, Virginia; Robert W. Bingham, Kentucky; Augus-
tus P. Loring, Massachusetts; Roland S. Morris, Pennsylvania.

Proceedings.—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was
held on January 14, 1937. The Regents present were Chief Justice
Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor; John N. Garner, Vice President
of the United States; Senators Joseph T. Robinson and M. M. Logan;
Representatives T. Alan Goldsborough, Charles L. Gifford, and
Clarence Cannon; citizen Regents Frederic A. Delano and R. Walton
Moore; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

The Secretary presented his annual report, detailing the activities
of the several Government branches and of the parent institution
during the year, and Mr. Delano presented the report of the execu-
tive committee, covering financial statistics of the Institution. The
Secretary also presented the annual report of the National Gallery
of Art Commission.

In lieu of his usual special report the Secretary presented to the
Regents a brief review of the principal achievements of the Smith-
sonian Institution during the 10 years since the death of Secretary
Walcott in 1927. In accordance with the wishes of the Regents, this
résumé has been printed in pamphlet form.

The Regents also adopted resolutions approving in principle the
proposed gift of the Hon. Andrew W. Mellon of a collection of
masterpieces of painting and sculpture, and of a gallery to house
them. This matter is treated in detail on pages 7-17 of this report.

In addition to the annual meeting, there was a special meeting of
the Board of Regents on June 24, 1937, at which the following
Regents were present: Senators Joseph T. Robinson and M. M.
Logan; Representatives T. Alan Goldsborough and Clarence Cannon;
citizen Regent Roland S. Morris; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G.
Abbot. This meeting was called to take action on matters connected
with the above-mentioned offer by the Hon. Andrew W. Mellon, of
which full details will be found on pages 7-17.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY )
FINANCES

A statement will be found in the report of the executive committee,
page 119.
MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST

ANDREW W. MELLON’S ART GIFT TO THE NATION

Probably the greatest impetus ever given to the development of art
in the Nation’s Capital and in the Nation itself will result from
Andrew W. Mellon’s munificent gift to the American people of his
unexcelled art collection, a $10,000,000 building to exhibit it, and
an endowment fund to pay the salaries of the directing officials and
for the acquisition of additional art works. The proposal was made
by Mr. Mellon in a letter to President Roosevelt dated December 22,
1936, which began as follows:

Over a period of many years I have been acquiring important and rare paint-
ings and sculpture with the idea that ultimately they would become the property
of the people of the United States and be made available to them in a national
art gallery to be maintained in the city of Washington for the purpose of
encouraging and developing a study of the fine arts.

* a * * * * *

In order to carry out this purpose, and with the approval of the other trus-
tees, I wish to propose a plan to give the art collection which I have brought
together to the Smithsonian Institution or to the United States Government for
the benefit of the people of this country, and also to erect or cause to be erected
on public land a suitable building for a national gallery of art, the design and
materials of which shall be subject to the approval of the Fine Arts Commission.

Following an exchange of correspondence with the President, Mr.
Mellon made his formal offer in a letter dated December 31, 1936. In
consultation with representatives of the Department of Justice and
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution a bill was prepared by
representatives of Mr. Mellon as House Joint Resolution 217 covering
the matter. After hearings, the resolution was agreed to by Congress
and approved by the President on March 24, 1937. The full text of
the resolution follows:

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That the area bounded by Seventh Street, Con-
stitution Avenue, Fourth Street, and North Mall Drive, Northwest, in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, is hereby appropriated to the Smithsonian Institution as a
site for a National Gallery of Art. The Smithsonian Institution is authorized
to permit the A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust (hereinafter re-
ferred to as the donor) to construct on said site for the Smithsonian Institution
a building to be designated the National Gallery of Art, and to remove any exist-
ing structure and landscape the grounds within said area. The adjoining area
bounded by Fourth Street, Pennsylvania Avenue, Third Street, and North Mall
Drive. Northwest, in the District of Columbia, is hereby reserved as a site for
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

future additions to the National Gallery of Art. The project shall be in ac-
cordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commission of Fine Arts.

Sec. 2. (a) There is hereby established in the Smithsonian Institution a bu-
reau, which shall be directed by a board to be known as the Trustees of the
National Gallery of Art, whose duty it shall be to maintain and administer the
National Gallery of Art and site thereof and to execute such other functions as
are vested in the board by this Act. The board shall be composed as follows:
The Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio; and
five general trustees who shall be citizens of the United States, to be chosen as
hereinafter provided. No officer or employee of the Federal Government shall
be eligible to be chosen as a general trustee.

(b) The general trustees first taking office shall be chosen by the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, subject to the approval of the donor,
and shall have terms expiring one each on July 1 of 1939, 1941, 1943, 1945, and
1947, as designated by the Board of Regents. A successor shall be chosen by
a majority vote of the general trustees and shall have a term expiring ten years
from the date of the expiration of the term for which his predecessor Was
chosen, except that a successor chosen to fill a vacancy occurring pricr to the
expiration of such term shall be chosen only for the remainder of such term.

Sec. 3. Upon completion of the National Gallery of Art, the board shall accept
for the Smithsonian Institution as a gift from the donor a collection of works
of art which shall be housed and exhibited in the National Gallery of Art.

Sec. 4. (a) The faith of the United States is pledged that, on completion of
the National Gallery of Art by the donor in accordance with the ternis of this
Act and the acquisition from the donor of the collection of works of art, the
United States will provide such funds as may be necessary for the upkeep of
the National Gallery of Art and the administrative expenses and costs of opera-
tion thereof, including the protection and care of works of art acquired by the
board, so that the National Gallery of Art shall be at all times properly main-
tained and the works of art contained therein shall be exhibited regularly to the
general public free of charge. For these purposes there are hereby authorized to
be appropriated such sums as may be necessary.

(b) The board is authorized to accept for the Smithsonian Institution ane to
hold and administer gifts, bequests, or devises of money, securities, or other
property of whatsoever character for the benefit of the National Gallery of Art.
Unless otherwise restricted by the terms of the gift, bequest, or devise, the board
is authorized to sell or exchange and to invest or reinvest in such investments
as it may determine from time to time the moneys, securities, or other property
composing trust funds given, bequeathed, or devised to or for the benefit of the
National Gallery of Art. The income as and when collected shall be placed in
such depositaries as the board shall determine and shall be subject to expendi-
ture by the board.

(c) The board shall appoint and fix the compensation and duties of a director,
an assistant director, a secretary, and a chief curator of the National Gallery of
Art, and of such other officers and employees of the National Gallery of Art as
may be necessary for the efficient administration of the functions of the board.
Such director, assistant director, secretary, and chief curator shall be compen-
sated from trust funds available to the board for the purpose, and their appoint-
ment and salaries shall not be subject to the civil-service laws or the Classifica-
tion Act of 1923, as amended. The director, assistant director, secretary, and
chief curator shall be well qualified by experience and training to perform the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

duties of their office and the original appointment to each such office shall be
subject to the approval of the donor.

(d) The actions of the board, including any payment made or directed to be
made by it from any trust funds, shall not be subject to review by any officer or
agency other than a court of law.

Sec. 5. (a) The board is authorized to adopt an official seal which shall be
judicially noticed and to make such bylaws, rules, and regulations, as it deems
necessary for the administration of its functions under this Act, including,
among other matters, bylaws, rules, and regulations relating to the acquisition,
exhibition, and loan of works of art, the administration of its trust funds, and
the organization and procedure of the board. The board may function notwith-
standing vacancies, and three members of the board shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.

(b) In order that the collection of the National Gallery of Art shall always
be maintained at a high standard and in order to prevent the introduction therein
of inferior works of art, no work of art shall be included in the permanent col-
lection of the National Gallery of Art unless it be of similar high standard of
quality to those in the collection acquired from the donor.

(ec) The board shall have all the usual powers and obligations of a trustee in
respect of all trust funds administered by it and all works of art acquired by it.

(d) The board shall submit to the Smithsonian Institution an annual report of
its operations under this Act, including a detailed statement of all acquisitions
and loans of works of art and of all public and private moneys received and
disbursed.

Sro. 6. (a) The Commissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby author-
ized and directed to close Sixth Street, Northwest, within the boundaries of the
site for the National Gallery of Art. The National Capital Park and Planning
Commission shall determine the building lines and approve the plan of ap-
proaches for said gallery, and shall also make recommendations for the widen-
ing and adjustment of Third, Seventh, Ninth, and such other streets in the
vicinity as may be necessary and desirable to provide for the traffic which
would otherwise use Sixth Street.

(b) Section 10 of the Public Building Act, approved March 4, 1913 (37 Stat.
L., p. 881), relating to the George Washington Memorial Building, and all pro-
visions of law amendatory thereof, are hereby repealed.

(c) The existing bureau of the Smithsonian Institution now designated as a
national gallery of art shall hereafter be known as the National Collection of
Fine Arts.

(d) The fifth paragraph under the heading “Smithsonian Institution” in the
Independent Offices Appropriation Act for the fiscal year 1924, approved Feb-
ruary 18, 1923 (42 Stat. L. 1235), relating to the erection of a national gallery
of art, is hereby repealed.

Approved, March 24, 1937.

At a special meeting of the Board of Regents of the Institution held
on June 24, 1937, there were submitted copies of a trust indenture
between the A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, the
Smithsonian Institution, and the trustees of the National Gallery
of Art. After consideration, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved: That the trust indenture between the A. W. Mellon Educational

and Charitable Trust, the Smithsonian Institution and the trustees of the
National Gallery of Art, a draft whereof has been presented at this meeting,
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

and hereby is directed to be inserted in the minute book of the Regents im-
mediately following the minutes of this meeting, be, and hereby it is, approved,
and the Secretary of the Institution be, and hereby he is, authorized and di-
rected to execute such indenture, in triplicate, in the name and under the corpo-
rate seal of this Institution, and upon its due execution and by the other
parties thereto to make proper delivery thereof.

The full text of the trust indenture is as follows:
TRUST INDENTURE

Dated the 24th day of June 1987, and intended to be effective upon that date,
although executed by the parties hereto on various other dates, by, between, and
among

Andrew W. Mellon, Paul Mellon, Donald D. Shepard and David K. EB. Bruce,
as trustees of the A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, established
under and by virtue of a deed of trust of Andrew W. Mellon to said trustees,
dated December 30, 1930, parties of the first part, and hereinafter sometimes
referred to as the “Donor”;

Smithsonian Institution, an establishment created and existing under and by
virtue of an act of the Congress of the United States of America, approved
August 10, 1846, party of the second part, and hereinafter referred to as the
“Institution”; and

The trustees of the National Gallery of Art, constituted under and by virtue
of a Joint Resolution of the Congress of the United States, entitled “Joint
Resolution providing for the Construction and Maintenance of a National Gal-
lery of Art,” approved March 24, 1937, parties of the third part, and hereinafter
sometimes referred to as the “Trustees.”

Whereas in December 1936, by correspondence between the President of the
United States of America and Andrew W. Mellon, the donor proposed to give a
collection of works of art for the benefit of the people of the United States of
America and to cause to be erected on public land a suitable building in which
to house and exhibit such collection, copies of such correspondence being here-
unto attached and made part hereof; and

Whereas by said joint resolution of the Congress, there was established a
bureau in the Institution to be directed by the trustees, and provision was made
for the construction of said building, the acceptance of a collection of works of
art as a gift from the donor and the exhibition thereof and of other appropriate
works of art in said building, and the administration by the trustees of said
building, the site and contents thereof, and all matters and affairs that pertain
to the use thereof for the public benefit; and

Whereas it is now desired to consummate the gift of said building and said
collection of works of art and to specify more particularly the terms and con-
ditions upon which said gift is made by the donor and accepted by the
Institution and the trustees, and

Whereas by said correspondence, one of the conditions of the gift was that
the upkeep of the gallery building and other administrative expenses and costs
of operation and functioning of the gallery would be provided for annually in
appropriations to be made by Congress; and by said joint resolution, the faith of
the United States was pledged that it would provide such funds as would be
necessary for the upkeep of the gallery and the administrative expenses and
costs of operation thereof, including the protection and care of works of art
acquired by the trustees;

Now, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH ;}
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11

I
ERECTION OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

In accordance with the provisions of said joint resolution of the Congress,
the Institution hereby permits the donor to construct, and the donor hereby
agrees to construct for the Institution, a building to be designated and herein-
after referred to as the “National Gallery of Art’ upon the area bounded by
Seventh Street, Constitution Avenue, Fourth Street, and North Mall Drive,
N. W., in the District of Columbia (being the site appropriated to the Institu-
tion by said joint resolution), and to remove any existing structure and to land-
scape the grounds within said area, all in accordance with plans and specifica-
tions approved by the Commission of Fine Arts. The building line and plans of
approaches for said building shall be approved by the National Capital Park
and Planning Commission. The donor, in its uncontrolled discretion but at its
sole expense, shall engage such architects, contractors, builders, and others, and
shall take or cause to be taken any and every other action necessary or ad-
visable in connection with the construction, completion, equipment, and furnish-
ing of said building, and the landscaping of said area upon which it is erected.
The donor shall pay all costs and expenses in connection with, or incident to,
said project. In no event and under no circumstances shall the Institution or
the trustees be responsible or liable for any part of such cost or expense, and
the donor shall indemnify and save harmless the Institution and the trustees
from any and every liability whatsoever with reference to anything done or
omitted to be done in connection with the carrying out of said project or any
part thereof. The Institution and the trustees are expressly relieved of any
responsibility or duty pertaining to said project, and the entire and exclusive
jurisdiction and responsibility thereover and with regard thereto are imposed
upon and vested in the donor. Said project shall be commenced as soon after
the execution and delivery hereof as, in the judgment of the donor, the necessary
plans, specifications, and arrangements can be made and effected, and will be
proceeded with as expeditiously as, in the judgment of the donor, the execution
of the work can properly be effected, but as the building is of monumental char-
acter and is intended to have outstanding architectural merit, it is agreed that
undue haste is not desirable, and no time for the final completion of the project
ean be fixed. As and when said project shall be finally completed by the con-
struction, equipment, and furnishing of said building and the landscaping of
said area in accordance with said plans and specifications, the donor will give
written notice thereof to the Institution and the trustees and thereupon, with-
out further action by any of the parties hereto, the legal title to said building
shall be deemed to be vested in the Institution, but the maintenance and ad-
ministration of said building and of the site shall be vested exclusively in, and
shall be the sole obligation and duty of, the trustees as a separate bureau of
the Institution, and distinct from the other activities of the Institution, which
are under the management of its Board of Regents.

II

NAME OF GALLERY

Said gallery shall be known and designated perpetually as the ‘National
Gallery of Art”, to which the entire public shall forever have access, subject
only to reasonable regulations from time to time established by the trustees.
19 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
III
GIFT OF COLLECTIONS OF WORKS OF ART

The donor hereby gives to the Institution and the trustees, and they hereby
accept from the donor, in trust, however, for the uses and purposes and subject
to the provisions and conditions hereinafter expressed, the collection of works
of art listed in the schedule hereto attached, made part hereof and marked
“BHxhibit 1.”

IV
OUSTODY OF COLLECTION PENDING COMPLETION OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Pending the completion of the National Gallery of Art, said collection of works
of art shall remain in the custody of the donor. During such period of custody,
the donor will care for all said works of art, and will keep the same insured in
favor of the Institution and the trustees, as their respective interests may appear,
against loss or damage by fire, theft, or burglary, in such amounts and with
such parties as the donor, in its discretion, may determine, if and to the extent
that such insurance may be obtainable. The donor shall pay all costs, premiums,
and other charges incident to such care and insurance. Upon the completion of
the National Gallery of Art, said collection shall be delivered to the trustees and
thereafter shall remain under their exclusive control.

y
PASSAGE OF TITLE AND RESPECTIVE FUNCTIONS OF INSTITUTION AND OF TRUSTEES

Forthwith upon the execution and delivery hereof, the title to said collection
of works of art shall pass to and be vested in the Institution. While it is the
intention that the title to said works of art shall be forever vested in the Insti-
tution, yet it is also the intention of the parties hereto, and this gift is made
upon the express understanding, agreement, and trust, that from and after the
completion of the National Gallery of Art, the actual custody, control, manage-
ment, and exhibition of said works of art, as well as of such other works of art
as, in accordance with the provisions of said joint resolution, from time to time
may be housed or exhibited in said National Gallery of Art, and all the details
pertaining thereto, shall be, and hereby are, delegated to and vested solely,
exclusively and forever in the trustees.

VI
DISPLAY OF COLLECTION

Subject to the subsequent provisions of this section VI, the said collection of
works of art shall always be kept in the National Gallery of Art, and none
thereof shall be removed from said building or from their settings therein except
for most cogent reasons therefor, such as repairs to said building or said works
of art, or temporary exhibition of some of such works of art elsewhere, and
then only with the prior approval of a majority of the entire membership of the
trustees. The works of art constituting said collection shall receive such care
and attention from time to time as shall be necessary for their preservation and
exhibition, shall always be exhibited in said National Gallery of Art in spacious
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

arrangement so that overcrowding will be avoided, and shall always be displayed
with dignity, in appropriate units, with suitable settings and with due regard
to their importance and quality.

While the parties hereto presently recognize that all the works of art con-
stituting said collection are of such high standard of quality that it is essen-
tial that such collection perpetually remain intact and be a part of the per-
manent collection on exhibition in the National Gallery of Art, and such is
the purport of this indenture, the donor at the same time recognizes the inad-
visability of perpetually foreclosing any discretion in the trustees in regard
to the disposition of any of the works of art constituting such collection and,
consequently, the donor authorizes and empowers the trustees, but only upon
the prior approval of not less than three-fourths of the entire membership of
the trustees, to exchange or otherwise dispose of any particular work of art
then a part of said collection, if in such exchange or by reason of such other
disposition the trustees are enabled to obtain for the Institution, to be and
become a part of the collection under this Indenture, some other work of art
which, in the judgment of the trustees, would be a highly desirable acquisition
to such collection. Furthermore, the donor recognizes that with the passing
of time it may come to be thought by at least three-fourths of the entire mem-
bership of the trustees that some particular work of art, then constituting a
part of said collection, has become unsuitable longer to remain as a part of
said collection, and therefore the donor provides that in the event that, in the
opinion of at least three-fourths of the entire membership of the trustees, any
particular work of art then a part of said collection is not in keeping with
said collection as a whole, the trustees are authorized and empowered to make
such disposition thereof as they, in their uncontrolled discretion, shall deem
advisable by sale, exchange, gift, loan, or otherwise.

VII
MAINTENANCE OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

The National Gallery of Art shall be the permanent home of the said collec-
tion of works of art hereby given by the donor. It shall be used exclusively for
the storage and exhibition of works of art and the administration of the affairs
of the trustees. In order that the collection of the National Gallery of Art
shall always be maintained at a high standard and to prevent the introduction
therein of inferior works of art, no work of art shall be included in the per-
manent collection of the National Gallery of Art unless it be of similar high
standard of quality to those in the collection hereby given by the donor. The
building and the contents and operations thereof shall at all times remain in
the exclusive jurisdiction and control of the trustees in accordance with such
by-laws, rules, and regulations as they from time to time shall prescribe.

It is an express condition of the trust of said collection of works of art,
hereby created, that the faith of the United States is pledged that, on comple-
tion of the National Gallery of Art by the donor in accordance with the terms
of said joint resolution and the acquisition from the donor of the collection of
works of art, the United States will provide such funds as may be necessary
for the upkeep of the National Gallery of Art and the administrative expenses
and costs of operation thereof, including the protection and care of works of art
acquired by the Board, so that the National Gallery of Art shall be at all times
properly maintained and the works of art contained therein shall be exhibited
regularly to the general public free of charge.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
Vill
THE TRUSTEES

The trustees shall always be not less than nine persons, of whom a minority,
to be known as ex-officio trustees, shall be officers of the United States or of
the Institution, ex-officio, and of whom a majority to be known as general
trustees, shall be citizens of the United States, none of whom at the time of
his or her election to the office of general trustee shall be an officer or employee
of the United States of America. Any vacancy in the office of general trustee
by reason of the expiration of the term, death, or resignation of the incumbent,
or otherwise howsoever, shall be filled by the election of a competent a
by a majority of the remaining general trustees.

IX
ALTERATION OR MODIFICATION OF THIS INDENTURE

(a) During the existence of the donor

At any time and from time to time hereafter, with the consent of the Insti-
tution, the trustees, and the donor, this trust indenture may be altered, modified,
cr supplemented in any respect whatever, as the parties hereto may deem
advisable or necessary, which shall not be inconsistent with the general pur-
pose and scope of this trust indenture and of the said joint resolution.

(b) After the termination of the donor

While this trust indenture is entered into by the parties hereto with the
intention, and it is the purport hereof, that the trust hereby created shall
be administered strictly in accordance with the terms, provisions, and con-
ditions of this indenture and of said joint resolution, the parties hereto recognize
that with the passing of time and changed conditions, some of such terms,
provisions, or conditions may become inconvenient or impossible of observance
or the observance thereof may become detrimental to the primary purpose of
the donor that the National Gallery of Art and the contents thereof, including
the donor’s collection of works of art, shall at all times be available for the
benefit and enjoyment of the public, or situations or conditions, not now thought
of or inadequately provided for in this indenture, may arise and the -proper
administration of this trust may require such conditions or situations to be
properly and practically dealt with, and consequently, the parties hereto agree
and expressly provide that if at any time and from time to time, but only'
after the termination of the A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust by
the terms of the deed of trust creating such trust or otherwise, three-fourths
of the entire membership of the trustees and three-fourths of the entire num-
ber of the regents or other duly constituted governing body of the Institu-
tion shall be of the opinion that in order properly to administer the National
Gallery of Art and the site and contents thereof in the interest and for the
benefit of the public, this indenture of trust should be altered, modified, or
amended as respects any of its terms, provisions, or conditions, or should be
supplemented so as adequately to provide for new conditions or situations,
then and in every such event the trustees, with the approval of at least three-
fourths of the entire membership of the trustees, and the Institution, pursuant
to approval of at least three-fourths of its Board of Regents or other duly con-
stituted authority, shall have the right, power, and authority, by supplemental
indenture, to effect any such alteration, modification, or amendment hereof, or
supplement hereto, provided however, that no alteration, modification, or amend-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

ment of this trust indenture, or any supplement thereof, shall be made which
shall be in violation of the provisions of said joint resolution or of any future
act of Congress relating to the National Gallery of Art; and provided further,
that in no event and under no circumstance shall this trust indenture be
altered, modified, amended, or supplemented as respects the provisions of article
VIII hereof, it being the intention and one of the express conditions of the
gift hereby made by the donor that the trust hereby created shall perpetually
be administered by trustees constituted in accordance with the provisions of
article VIII hereof.

For the purpose of this section IX, the A. W. Mellon Edutational and Char-
itable Trust shall be conclusively deemed to have been terminated if three-
fourths of the entire membership of the trustees, after such careful inquiry
as they shall deem to be sufficient, shall be of the opinion that such trust no
longer continues to exist.

In witness whereof, the A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust has
caused this indenture of trust to be executed by the hands and seals of the
trustees thereof; the Smithsonian Institution, pursuant to a resolution duly
adopted by its Board of Regents, has caused this indenture of trust to be
signed and its official seal to be hereunto affixed by its secretary; and the
trustees of the National Gallery of Art have caused this indenture of trust to be
executed by the hands and seals of the trustees, all as of the day and year
first above written.

Tur A. W. Metron EpucaTIonAL
AND CHARITABLE TRUST,
By (Signed) ANDREW W. MELLON,
(Signed) Pav MELLoN,
(Signed) Donatp D. SHEPARD,
(Signed) Day K. E. Brucs,
Trustees thereof.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
[SEAL] By (Signed) CC. G. Axspot, Secretary.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART,

By (Signed) CHARLES Evans HuGHEs,

(Signed) Corprii Hurt,

(Signed) Henry MorcentHay, Jr.,

(Signed) C. G. AxBsor,

(Signed) <A. W. MELLON,

(Signed) Davin K. E. Bruce,

(Signed) DuNcAN PHILLIPS,

(Signed) S. PARKER GILBERT,

(Signed) Donatp D. SHEPARD,

Trustees thereof.

At the same meeting of the Board of Regents the following gentle-

men were appointed as general trustees of the National Gallery of
Art:

Mr. Donald D. Shepard, for the term expiring July 1, 1939;
Mr. S. Parker Gilbert, for the term expiring July 1, 1941;
Mr. Duncan Phillips, for the term expiring July 1, 19438;
Mr. David K. E. Bruce, for the term expiring July 1, 1945;
Mr, A. W. Mellon, for the term expiring July 1, 1947.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1987

Following this final step in the consummation of Mr. Mellon’s gift
to the Nation, work was started promptly on the preparation of the
site. The architect selected for the building by Mr. Mellon was John
Russell Pope, the architect for many art galleries, museums, and pub-
lic buildings here and abroad, including the National Archives Build-
ing, Constitution Hall, the Masonic Temple, and others in Washing-
ton. According to Mr. Pope, the building will follow the finest tradi-
tions of American architecture and will be carefully scaled in pro-
portion with the surrounding buildings. Constructed of marble, the
gallery will be 829 feet long, about 350 feet wide at its greatest width,
with the central dome 150 feet high. Mr. Pope has assured that the
building will incorporate all the best features of the world’s art
galleries, and in certain respects will be in advance of any existing
gallery, notably in relation to lighting and in provision to lessen the
fatigue of visitors.

Regarding the collection itself, which will be installed in the build-
ing upon its completion and which will form the nucleus and estab-
lish the standard of excellence of the National Gallery of Art, the
following brief description was given before the House Committee
on the Library by Mr. David E. Finley:

Mr. Mellon has been making this collection for more than 40 years. It is not
large as regards the number of pictures. It contains something like a hundred
paintings by old masters. But practically all are important, for Mr. Mellon
has tried to buy not only paintings by the greatest masters, but also the best
examples of their work obtainable. As a result, everyone who sees the collec-
tion—and many of the greatest experts in this country and Europe have seen
it—is impressed with the exceptional quality of the pictures.

+ * * sd a .

In range it covers all the important schools of western European painting.
The Italian school is particularly well represented by painters such as Raphael,
Perugino, Botticelli, Fra Angelico, Titian, Bellini, Antonella di Messina, and by
such rare and early masters as Cimabue, Masaccio, and Andrea del Castagno.
There is a Byzantine Madonna and Child, painted in Constantinople early in
the thirteenth century, which takes the collection back to the very source of
western art, and with the other paintings gives a historical sequence to the
collection that will prove very valuable to students.

The Flemish school is represented by most of its greatest painters, beginning
with the Annunciation by Jan van Byck, and continuing through Petrus
Christus, Rogier van der Weyden, Memling, Gerard David, and ending with
two magnificent Rubens from the Hermitage Gallery and three Van Dycks,
including the exceptionally fine portrait, painted in Genoa, of the Marchesa
Balbi.

In the Dutch school there are several outstanding examples of Rembrandt
and Frans Hals and three Vermeers, as well as several Hobbemas, and works
by Terburg, Metsu, deHoogh, and so forth.

The Spanish paintings include three portraits by Velasquez, one of Pope
Innocent X from the Hermitage, being particularly important. There are also
four Goyas and two El Grecos, while the German and French paintings include
such names as Holbein, Diirer, and Chardin. The British school is quite
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY al;

largely represented by works of Gainsborough, Reynolds, Raeburn, Romney,
Lawrence, Hopner, Turner, and Constable.

In addition to these paintings, Mr. Mellon also acquired a number of por-
traits by important American painters, such as Gilbert Stuart, Copley, West,
Sully, and others. He bought also, in its entirety, the Clarke collection of
American portraits, containing some 175 paintings by practically all our edrlier
well-known American painters. This was not done with the idea that these
should go into the National Gallery of Art, but rather that such as were
suitable and of general or historic interest should form the nucleus of a
National Portrait Gallery, which should be entirely distinct from the art
gallery and would be housed, eventually at least, in its own building. A few
of the finest of these portraits, which have the greatest artistic merit, will
find their place in the art gallery and will form a fitting sequence to the
British art of the eighteenth century represented in the collection.

There is just one other matter that I must mention. Mr. Mellon’s idea had
been originally that the gallery should be for paintings only. Then an oppor-
tunity came to buy the Dreyfus collection of Renaissance sculpture—a collection
that had been in the making in Paris for many years and included outstanding
works by such great artists as Donatello, Verrocchio, Desiderio da Settignano,
Luca della Robbia, and others. Naturally, such an opportunity could not be
refused and he acquired these sculptures. He also bought two very important
large bronzes by Sansovino and a Mercury by Giovanni da Bologna, all of
which will find their place in the new gallery, either with the paintings or near
them.

This report covers only the year ending June 30, 1937, but to an-
ticipate slightly the next fiscal year, I must record here with pro-
found regret the death of Mr. Mellon on August 26, 1937, and of
Mr. Pope on August 27, 1937. It is indeed tragic that these two men
could not have lived to see the completion of this splendid project—
a remark which will be repeated by many of the millions of Ameri-
cans who in future years will enter the National Gallery of Art to
benefit from Mr. Mellon’s patriotic gift to the Nation.

PROPOSED SMITHSONIAN GALLERY OF ART

On March 15, 1937, a joint resolution was introduced in the House
of Representatives by Mr. Keller of Illinois to establish a Smith-
sonian Gallery of Art for the proper housing and display of the
national collections of fine arts. These collections have been in the
custody of the Smithsonian Institution for many years, and since
1920 have been administered by the Institution as a Government bu-
reau officially designated the National Gallery of Art. Lacking a
building for their public exhibition, these valuable art collections
have been shown in the Natural History Building of the United
States National Museum. With the creation in 1937 of the new Na-
tional Gallery of Art as a result of the munificent gift of Andrew W.
Mellon, the Smithsonian gallery was officially renamed the National
Collection of Fine Arts. It is for the proper housing of this collec-

31508—38——3
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

tion, now valued at approximately $10,000,000, that the present joint
resolution provides.

The resolution sets aside a tract of land on the Mall between
Twelfth and Fourteenth Streets and Constitution Avenue and North
Mall Drive; creates a Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission to
make preliminary investigations and obtain designs for the building;
authorizes the appropriation of $4,800,000 for the building; author-
izes annual appropriations for the maintenance of the gallery; and
states the policy of the gallery as follows:

Sec. 7. It shall be the policy of the gallery to maintain a worthy standard for
the acceptance of art objects for exhibition in the Smithsonian Gallery of Art;
to foster by public exhibitions from time to time in Washington and other parts
of the United States a growing public appreciation of art both of past and con-
temporary time; and further, as funds are available, to encourage the de-
velopment of art by the purchase of worthy examples of contemporary or other
art works, and to invite the private donation of funds therefor.

Sec. 8. The Smithsonian Gallery of Art shall be under the administration of
the Regents and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

The resolution did not pass the first session of the Seventy-fifth
Congress, but it is hoped that favorable action may be taken at the
next session.

For many years the Smithsonian Institution has urged the con-
struction of a suitable building for the housing and public exhibition
of the art collections belonging to the Nation. These collections
contain many works of art of high quality, mainly gifts from private
citizens, and there is no doubt that many more such gifts would be
made were proper exhibition space available. As much of the col-
lection as possible has been exhibited to the public in the halls of
the National Museum, but the available space there was not specifi-
cally designed for the display of art works, and in spite of being
overcrowded, the space is entirely inadequate, so that many things
which should be on exhibition are forced into storage. It is the
urgent hope of the Institution that the proposed Smithsonian Gallery
of Art may become a reality in the near future.

It will in no sense be a duplication of the newly received National
Gallery, for the National Gallery is restricted to classic painting
and sculpture, leaving the fields of National collections in contem-
porary art of all kinds, portraits, jewels, glass, tapestry, and other
kinds of art unprovided for. There is already a large national
collection of such objects, and every reason to expect great increase
if a suitable gallery were available.

SMITHSONIAN RADIO PROGRAM

The Smithsonian’s newest activity, its weekly radio broadcast in
cooperation with the United States Office of Education and the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

National Broadcasting Co., has now operated for a full year. The
series, known as “The World is Yours”, was initiated by the Office
of Education as part of the radio project of the Works Progress
Administration. Its purpose was to bring to the people of the United
States more of the wealth of knowledge and vitally interesting in-
formation on the earth and its inhabitants available in the labora-
tories and exhibit halls of the Smithsonian Institution. It was
further intended as a pioneering experiment in educational radio
to determine the most effective means of presenting to a Nation-wide
audience solid information in a form that would hold the listener’s
interest. Before listing the titles of the broadcasts and telling some-
thing of the success of the series, it may be of interest to describe
briefly the series itself.

The character of the series and the subjects to be covered were
worked out in collaboration between the radio experts of the Office
of Education and the Smithsonian’s editorial office. The basic re-
quirement was that each subject must be presented in dramatized
form. Radio lectures and dialogues have apparently failed to hold
the listener’s interest, but dramatic incidents well written and pro-
duced appeal to listeners of all age groups. The subjects to be
dramatized covered all phases of the Institution’s activities—science
in all its branches, art, invention, and history. About half of the
year’s broadcasts were on Smithsonian research activities, the other
half being based on the exhibits in the National Museum and the art
galleries under the Institution’s direction. The various subjects were
carefully planned to come around in fairly regular rotation, so that
those listeners with decided preferences for one or another feature
could count on hearing their favorite subjects if they listened
regularly.

The subject once selected for a particular broadcast, the Office of
Education’s expert script writers conferred with the Smithsonian
authority in that field. After preliminary research, they then pre-
pared the script, which was carefully checked by the Smithsonian.
The script then went to New York, where it was produced by the
National Broadcasting Co. in their Radio City studios by a selected
cast.

Beginning on June 7, 1936, the series covered up to June 30, 1937,
the following subjects:

1936
The Smithsonian, and Famous Exhibits. 20.2222. te June 7
persue Leploraiions. 628. Le ER AS ey Satta hog)? | June 14
LAU SEN Sil loa Os Mga OR PO PI PRACT BE June 21
MUNGO PTET LCR TACT EP id al te Sk) 2 eligi tn June 28
Costumes of Ladies of the White House____________________________ July 5
Se RSINP SENT LEE eee ere ee ace ha ak Tin aha ere MRT ok Ne Tn July 12

LATE So GR. fan ie tah han I Ra) Sie hd cic 1h ail Oya 20 kD Re bad July 19
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

1986
Tae Eh Ride MATH... «<0 isin cn ek antes eee eee een eee July 26
NA on ei as a= Se a ae ee ee EE Aug. 2
eon a neice ts hl ene er am gg ee Aug. 9
The wooryor Matin Amevien | 2 O12). 5202 Sooo ee J eae Aug. 16
pres a hes ei et Sak « knoe ae ns eee eee aee Aug. 23
Peopinan pbamem ss i382 oi as 3 5256-4 3 se ete ee ae ae oe Aug. 30
Site Moadele seek oct ade dat, st nagestd eisai Sept. 6
PN et sas ei et ea ae a ed Sept. 13
Ci TLE os OS 8 ey Sahl A Epi Rie, Wiad Ee es he Sem rghit bye Sept. 20
moulpbure ie 2.2 2¢ Sabb so ae ee a a Sept. 27
Insecta tec ace jh 2 ier Sb ee ee ere es See eee Oct. 4
edi 6 oe fice Ae See bk. on Be eae a eee Oct. 11
CIF OTR oot Ra Pans epwin wos Ask ke Be ape e eee eee Oct. 18
Pndian PeLrop DUR! 2. So ee 2 eas Soe ee eee ee Oct. 25
ition of Tile. 55. essen We eis ne ee eee Nov. 1
eer Maas ASS. OS tb Ree eS A Ri ea eee Nov. 8
uate Chow to Belned=: sso d a owe ee ee Nov. 15
Calor and Tile feadiaton) 3 5 as¥ no 4s cain cece Stee see Nov. 22
TE SIIROINOG 50 oe BO es aires eb et aan ae Nov. 29
A ee Ei wih, wiring aie ies pienit ane nel erence Dee. 6
Lele LED QAR 42 ERS ly Se RS es LS Magee PES ey pit Ce te ee Dec. 13
Bee Gene oh os Soe See a re . SEeSE LG eee Dec. 20
Pits Biro of Geoltheaninn | oc nesiae phere se Ls sce epee lake Sa Dec. 27
19387
TN NT een ts oh one parte eis aah tS vas oe Jan. 3
NN ae aan os a asks at pe py oe nc oh my > ob so gh gees Seg ee at Jan. 10
gr dt AS Se ee Alec SC eed ee ies GAP ph pays Seed ope Pa Jan. 17
erie Sit iste Coe eile eb ee 2a ee Le eee Jan. 24
elbes Of Atieben ss nb ipa oe seeded teens peal eae ee Jan. 31
ia ai Fe ee ee oe a ee ee
CO Dr BO. DROCNTS SATOTY no ice whe om id ep ae he ee S Feb. 14
Ee ili ll I eat le ele ie Ei le tt Pa el, 4 Feb. 21
Animmis in Wreaor (molhisks) 22.2205 Des eee CS eee ee Feb. 28
PHOGMMEIEY 2... een eee oan tes ae ee Bh ne EO es) eee Mar. 7
rei 5 8 ec OE atieh ere i ee ee oe, ed 2 Mar. 14
I) DOI ona Ds nit Be Se ne eek Cte ep eden a Me Mar. 21
1S ITY rE i ce Ree an al ai eens gt Biataameapteieaie nets Be SS Pe Beats Pet Mar. 28
EER SOMEONE PRYOR 5 nn ee eee et eee ee Apr. 4
Upeaul WIGOHCL suse 2c 0 sl SSE ee Le Apr. 11
SolénGfic Manlientien so: 2. ass0n--».5 0b 31g Bl eae Apr. 18
peace wee Ta cee a te ho ee 8S wa ee Apr. 25
(RIRROR a2 2 ee eee ee! ft ee ee PL ee May 2
Cea Fe Cn oo els May 9
Carre So Ee The Meer ec oe SS a eee ee May 16
PNYOG ge teen ee hk eee ee =o ae ee May 23
Mound Builderaias seers = ee I Re eee May 30
Commiininaiione. ich. 22-2... ---.-.=.20nUees seers bee eee June 6
Mansfield Theatrical Costumes... ....-.--4-.<......- 222s ae. June 13
SGbteriancan OCawdine cs ites is io 2 cate Sept os ee eee June 20

Tridian: ‘Arrowheads: |... 22. ose. enc cn ccecd too oeda+ eee June 27
REPORT OF THE SHCRETARY oT

From the beginning the broadcasts were supplemented by brief
illustrated articles on the subjects covered, at first issued in mimeo-
graphed form, and from January on, printed as a small monthly
magazine. Copies were mailed by the Office of Education to those
who wrote in to request them, and the demand for the magazine
showed a steady increase, as follows:

1937 : 1937:
PSU Veneer 35, 000 Aygrilie oh A: i eae 100, 000
GDI Ly sa. ae eee 50, 000 Mays aes ee eee 125, 000
March: eee 75, 000 ey TG Te Frade Sa) eS 2 150, 000

The success of the series is indicated by the enthusiastic approval
of the listeners as voiced in the more than 160,000 letters received.
This almost unanimous mail approval is believed to be unique among
sustaining programs and is very gratifying to both the Institution
and the Office of Education in justifying their efforts toward better
educational radio.

I wish again to express here the appreciation of the Institution to
the Office of Education and to the National Broadcasting Co. for
making available this unsurpassed means of carrying out the Smith-
sonian’s function, “the diffusion of knowledge among men.”

WALTER RATHBONE BACON TRAVELING SCHOLARSHIP

The Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship of the Smith-
sonian Institution was awarded in June 1935 to Dr. Richard E.
Blackwelder for studies of the Staphylinidae of the West Indies.
In 1935-86 Dr. Blackwelder collected specimens on the islands of
Jamaica, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, St. Thomas, Guadeloupe, Trinidad,
Tobago, Grenada, Carriacou, St. Vincent, Barbados, St. Lucia, and
Dominica, as previously reported.

During the second year, to June 1937, collections were made on the
islands of Montserrat, Antigua, St. Kitts, and St. Croix, and return
visits were made to Puerto Rico and Jamaica. It was found to be
impracticable to revisit Hispaniola in spite of the importance of that
island in the series.

The collections obtained from the 21 months’ field work include
more than 45,000 staphylinids and 10,000 other Coleoptera. A con-
siderable part of this number were taken by the use of equipment for
mass collection which was used on St. Croix and Jamaica. (On the
latter island Dr. Blackwelder worked in conjunction with Dr. E. A.
Chapin for 5 weeks. The collections were made jointly.)

After finishing the collecting Dr. Blackwelder returned to Wash-
ington, where he prepared the staphylinid collections and sorted the
specimens to genera and species. A set containing each species found
was then prepared to be taken to England, where it will be compared
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

with the types of West Indian and tropical American Staphylinidae
in the collections of the British Museum and Dr. Malcolm Cameron.

The extension of the award for a third year made possible the
additional 9 months of field work in 1936. Dr. Blackwelder plans
to visit Cuba for a week in the fall of 1937 to study the collection
of Staphylinidae of Alexander Bierig. The remainder of the year
will be occupied with the preparation of a revision of the 500 to 600
species collected or known from the islands.

SIXTH ARTHUR LECTURE

The sixth Arthur lecture, Discoveries from Solar Eclipse Expedi-
tions, by Samuel Alfred Mitchell, director of the Leander McCormick
Observatory, University of Virginia, was given in the auditorium of
the National Museum on the evening of February 9, 1937. Dr.
Mitchell, a leading authority on eclipses, has personally observed
nearly all the total solar eclipses of the present century. In his lec-
ture he touched upon the frequency of eclipses and their prediction,
facts learned from a study of the gorgeous corona which accompanies
a total eclipse, the use of eclipses in the verification of the relativity
theory, and many other interesting aspects of this grandest of natural
phenomena—an eclipse of the sun. The lecture will be published in
full with illustrations in the 1937 Smithsonian Report.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Field expeditions play an important part in many of the Institu-
tion’s researches in biology, geology, anthropology, and astrophysics.
During the last calendar year 19 expeditions were in the field; the
regions visited included, besides 18 States in the United States, Green-
land, Alaska, Canada, the Bahamas, Honduras, Guatemala, England,
Germany, Holland, and Siam.

Secretary C. G. Abbot continued at Washington his work on per-
fecting an engine to convert the sun’s rays into power. Dr. R. S.
Bassler studied the geology of several classic European areas and
conducted researches on fossil echinoderms and corals in European
museums. E. P. Henderson collected epidote and other minerals in
southeastern Alaska. Dr. G. Arthur Cooper studied and collected
fossils from the Devonian beds of the midwestern United States.
Dr. C. Lewis Gazin conducted a successful search for fossil mammals
in New Mexico and Arizona. Dr. Alexander Wetmore studied and
collected the birds of the Guatemalan highlands. Watson M. Perrygo
and Carleton Lingebach collected birds and mammals in an area in
West Virginia hitherto unrepresented in the National Museum’s
collections. H. G, Deignan made a zoological survey of the little-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

known easternmost districts of North Siam, journeying through the
provinces of Nan and Chiengrai. Capt. Robert A. Bartlett’s 1936
Greenland expedition collected for the Institution specimens of the
marine plant and animal life in the seas along the east and northeast
coast of Greenland. Austin H. Clark continued his exhaustive in-
vestigation of the butterfly fauna of Virginia. E. P. Killip collected
series of specimens of the flora of the Florida Keys, hitherto poorly
represented in the National Herbarium.

Dr. Alés Hrdlicka continued his archeological investigations in
Alaska in connection with his study of the origin and early migra-
tions of the American Indian. Henry B. Collins, Jr., conducted
archeological investigations in the vicinity of Bering Strait, Alaska,
to coordinate the results of his previous work at St. Lawrence Island
and at Barrow. Herbert W. Krieger made an archeological recon-
naissance of the Bahama Islands and excavated prehistoric village
sites on five of the larger islands. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
continued his investigations of the Folsom complex, mainly at the
Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado. Dr. William Duncan Strong
led an archeological expedition to northwestern Honduras, excavat-
ing sites on the Ulua River and at Lake Yojoa which gave a strati-
graphic section from the historic occupation at Naco, through the
various polychrome horizons on the Ulua and at Lake Yojoa, and
down to the Playa de los Muertos culture which preceded the Maya
culture. J. N. B. Hewitt continued his studies of the League of the
Troquois in New York State and Ontario, Canada. Dr. Julian H.
Steward made an ethnological reconnaissance of the desert Shoshoni
of southern Idaho, northern Utah, and a part of eastern Nevada.

PUBLICATIONS

The “diffusion of knowledge”, one of the Institution’s primary
functions, is accomplished chiefly through its several series of pub-
lications. As is to be expected from the nature of the Institution’s
scientific work, the large majority of its publications are technical in
character, presenting the results of researches in astrophysics, radia-
tion, geology, biology, and anthropology. The Smithsonian annual
report, however, is intended primarily for the layman, for in it are
presented each year a series of understandable articles written by
recognized authorities, which together constitute a survey of ad-
vances and interesting developments in nearly all branches of science.
The wider diffusion of knowledge is accomplished by a system of
news releases furnished to more than 300 newspapers and press serv-
ices describing in popular form the Institution’s researches, expedi-
tions, and publications; and recently by a weekly radio program
94. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

dramatizing the work and exhibits of the Institution put on the air
through the cooperation of the Office of Education, the Works Prog-
ress Administration, the National Broadcasting Co., and the Institu-
tion’s editorial office.

Of the 80 volumes and pamphlets published during the year, 46
were issued by the Smithsonian proper, 32 by the National Museum,
and 2 by the Bureau of American Ethnology. Details of these vari-
ous publications are given in the report of the editor, appendix 10.
The total number of copies of publications distributed was 144,817.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library gomprises 10 major and 35 minor units,
which together contain a total of 876,522 volumes, pamphlets, and
charts. The new accessions for the year numbered 11,469, most of
these coming in exchange for the publications of the Institution and
its branches. The library received many gifts during the year, out-
standing among which was the botanical library of the late Dr. Fred-
erick V. Coville, numbering 4,500 items, presented by Mrs. Coville.
The routine work of the staff included cataloging 6,766 publications,
preparing and filing 28,967 cards, entering 24,212 periodicals, and
making 10,995 loans, of which 196 were to libraries outside the Smith-
sonian system. In addition to considerable work on the union cata-
log, much time was spent on the preparation of periodicals for bind-
ing, and a total of 3,803 volumes were bound. This unusually large
amount of binding was made possible by the deficiency appropriation
of $12,000 approved toward the close of 1935. There still remain
thousands of volumes in urgent need of binding to prevent loss of
parts, many of which would be very difficult to replace.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Anzor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 80, 1937:

Funds provided for the maintenance of the National Museum for
the year totaled $763,970. This was a net increase of $3,228 over
the previous year, but since $25,000 was expended last year for the
purchase of the airplane Winnie Mae for the aeronautical collections,
the actual increase was $28,228 for purposes of maintenance and
operation, printing and binding, and preservation of collections.

COLLECTIONS

Additions to the Museum collections during the year, coming
mostly as gifts from individuals or from expeditions sponsored by
the Smithsonian Institution, comprised the usual wide variety of
material in all departments. A total of 361,951 specimens were re-
ceived in 1,800 separate accessions and distributed as follows: An-
thropology, 1,790; biology, 292,250; geology, 62,757; arts and indus-
tries, 3,180; and history, 1,974. These accessions are all listed in
detail in the full report on the Museum, printed as a separate pam-
phlet, but the more important are summarized as follows:

Anthropology—tImportant archeological material included two
Guatemalan vases—a replica of a stuccoed vase from Uaxactun and
an original Maya vase from Lake Petén. Alaska was represented by
52 bone and stone artifacts from the Rat Islands, Aleutians, and by
an ivory harpoon socket from St. Lawrence Island belonging to the
Old Bering Sea culture. From South Africa came 29 Neolithic stone
artifacts and potsherds. Other valuable specimens came from the
Bull Creek archeological site in Georgia; the Black Mountains, Ariz.;
and the Rappahannock River, Va.

Of special interest among the ethnological material received were
unusual specimens presented by Mrs. Charles D. Walcott representing
the Kiowa Indians of Oklahoma, the Navahos, the Jivaros of South
America, and from Hawaii. Other accessions include Madagascan
woven fabrics and basketry and Kashmir copper and silver objects
collected nearly 50 years ago by the late Dr. W. L. Abbott; baskets,
idols, combs, figurines, and other objects from Dahomey, Cameroons,

25
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Nigeria, Belgian Congo, Portuguese East Africa, and Southern
Rhodesia; jewelry from Tibet; a collection of ethnological material
from Guatemala; and costumes and ceremonials of the Blackfeet and
the Indiana Algonkians. Nearly 100 specimens were received in the
division of ceramics, 57 in musical instruments, and 48 in period art
and textiles.

The 600 specimens added to the physical anthropology collection
came mostly from Alaska, as a result of the field work of the curator,
and from Florida, as a result of Smithsonian-C. W. A. projects.
Another lot of skeletal material came from three ossuaries in Mary-
land and the District of Columbia.

Biology.—Nearly 300,000 biological specimens a year now come to
the Museum, and the total now exceeds 12,000,000. Of those received
during the past year the following are outstanding: An unusually
large number of mammals from Panama, West Virginia, Siam, Japan,
Formosa, and the Philippine Islands, and Dr. Ira N. Gabrielson’s
private collection, numbering 855 specimens, which were transferred
from the Biological Survey; more than 1,100 skins and skeletons of
birds from Siam, 360 from Guatemala, and 1,090 from West Virginia;
types and paratypes of many new forms of reptiles and amphibians,
both North and South American; 90 large fishes from Lower Califor-
nia, over 1,700 fishes collected on the Smithsonian-Roebling expedi-
tion, over 800 Siamese fishes, nearly 6,900 fishes deposited in the Mu-
seum by the University of Washington, and over 4,400 fishes from
Maryland, Virginia, and miscellaneous localities; 60,000 insects trans-
ferred from the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, 60,000
more collected in the West Indies by Drs. E. A. Chapin and R. E.
Blackwelder, and the J. F. G. Clarke collection of 10,000 Lepidoptera,
mostly from the Pacific Northwest; over 15,000 marine invertebrates
chiefly from various expeditions cooperating with the Smithsonian;
108,000 mollusks from many sources, including 10,000 from Siberia,
from the Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship, and 11,000
purchased through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund; and more
than 45,000 plants, about a fourth of which were transferred from
the United States Bureau of Plant Industry.

Geology—tIncome from several Smithsonian funds brought valu-
able mineralogical specimens. Through the Roebling fund, crystal
groups and mineral examples from many localities; through the Can-
field fund, minerals from the copper mines at Tsumeb, Southwest
Africa, and crystals of various kinds that make up an unusually
colorful exhibit ; and through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund, four
rare gem stones. There were also many donated specimens of rare
crystals, ores, and other minerals that notably enhance the Museum’s
collections.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY a7

Additions to the meteorite collection were obtained largely through
the Roebling fund. The total number of distinct meteoritic falls
represented in the Museum was increased from 606 to 635 during the
year. The new material came from Chile, Australia, Canada, and the
United States. Outstanding additions to the rock collections were
from Easter Island, Mexico, the Carolinas, Arkansas, Wyoming, and
Colorado.

In the field of stratigraphic paleontology most of the year’s acces:
sions were obtained by members of the staff : 30,000 Devonian inverte-
brates collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper and P. E. Cloud in the Eastern
States and 20,000 Tertiary and Cretaceous invertebrates obtained by
Dr. R. S. Bassler in Europe. Exchanges arranged with other mu-
seums and with individuals brought in many other specimens from
Africa, Australia, Austria, Bohemia, England, France, Hawaiian Is-
lands, Italy, and the United States, representing various geologic
periods and formations and many classes of fossil animals and plants.

About 625 fossil vertebrates were added to the paleontological series.
These included 600 Paleocene and Pliocene mammals collected by Dr.
C. L. Gazin and party in New Mexico and Arizona last year, a mount-
able skeleton of the giant sloth Mylodon harlani from the Rancho La
Brea deposits in California, a mounted skeleton of the antilocaprid
Merycodus from the Miocene of Montana, an excellently preserved ex-
tinct musk-ox skull (Symbos cavifrons) from the Pleistocene of Indi-
ana, a nearly complete fossil turtle (Aspideretes superstec) from the
Paskapoo formation of Alberta, and two eggs of Struthio andersoni,
an extinct ostrich, from China.

Arts and industries—The outstanding accession in aeronautics was
the gondola of the stratosphere balloon Haplorer IZ, in which Capts.
A. 8. Stevens and O. A. Anderson in 1935 established the present
altitude record of 72,395 feet for a manned balloon, presented by the
National Geographic Society. The collection of scale models of air-
craft was increased by 12 of commercial airmail planes (made for
the Great Lakes Exposition), 4 of current Navy types, 2 of World
War German planes, and several others including the Stinson De-
troiter and Lockhead Vega used by George Hubert Wilkins in his
1927 and 1928 Arctic flights. Mrs. Wiley Post presented instruments
that were used on the Winnie Mae. There were also accessioned vari-
ous objects connected with the historic flights or aircraft of Calbraith
P. Rodgers (1911), Maj. Russell L. Maughan (1924), John Moisant
(1910), and Alberto Santos-Dumont.

An interesting accession in watercraft is a collection relating to
the life and work of John W. Griffiths, naval architect, writer, and
editor, whose ships the Rainbow, 1845, and the Sea Witch, 1846, were
the first of the famous American clippers. A number of half-models,
a8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

many as a result of the Historic American Merchant Marine Survey
work, also were added. For the transportation group came the first
Franklin automobile (no. 3) to leave the factory in 1902, the oldest
existing example of that car; a gig phaeton of about 1840; and a fine
operating scale model of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad’s Royal
Blue train. Many objects of historical radio equipment, phono-
graphs, typewriters, calculating machines, clocks, tools, and electrical
devices continued to come in, as well as over 2,000 specimens pertain-
ing to textiles, organic chemistry, wood technology, history of agricul-
ture, and medicine, and about 500 photographs, prints, drawings, en-
gravings, books, tools, and other material relating to the graphic
arts.

History.—Nearly 2,000 objects of historic and antiquarian interest
and value were received, many of them pertaining to the lives and
public careers of eminent Americans and other historic characters,
such as Lafayette, Benjamin Franklin, Napoleon I, and President
Benjamin Harrison. The numismatic collection was increased by
321 coins, including an important series of United States commemora-
tive half-dollars; and the philatelic collection by 1,884 stamps, most
of which were specimens of current foreign postage stamps trans-
ferred from the Post Office Department.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

The scientific explorations of the year were financed mainly by
grants from the invested funds of the Smithsonian Institution or by
the assistance of friends of the Museum.

Anthropology.—Henry B. Collins, Jr., assistant curator of ethnol-
ogy, in October 1936 terminated his archeological investigations on
St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, conducted under the joint auspices of
the National Geographic Society and the Smithsonian Institution.
Previous work on St. Lawrence Island and at Point Barrow had
revealed the existence of an ancient but highly developed Eskimo
culture, with intermediate stages between it and the modern Eskimo.
One objective of the expedition was to search for pre-Eskimo re-
mains in the vicinity of Bering Strait, where man may first have
entered the American Continent. Mr. Collins and his assistants,
James A. Ford and Harrison Prindle, obtained definite evidence on
the sequence of prehistoric Eskimo cultures, but nowhere did they
find traces of human occupancy antedating that of the Eskimo.

From October to February, Herbert W. Krieger, curator of ethnol-
ogy, conducted archeological investigations in the Bahaman Archi-
pelago under a Smithsonian grant. He excavated kitchen middens
and burials on Long Island, Inagua, and New Providence Island and
uncovered data pointing to a close cultural contact between the Luca-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

yan Indians of the Bahamas and the Arawak of Hispaniola and to
the tribal migration of the Lucayans at a comparatively recent date
from the island of Hispaniola.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, assistant curator of archeology, devoted some
time to the supervision of excavations at an Indian village site near
Seneca, Montgomery County, Md. On May 15 he left to conduct a
general archeological survey of northeastern Kansas and to excavate
part of an old Kansa site near Kansas City; he was still in the field
as the year closed.

Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology, assisted by
four students, during July and August 1936 investigated sites on the
Aleutian Islands, in continuation of his Alaskan researches. He un-
earthed an important burial cave on Kagamil Island, transportation
being furnished through the cooperation of the United States Coast
Guard. In May 1987 he returned again to the Aleutians to continue
the work.

Dr. T. Dale Stewart, assistant curator of physical anthropology,
visited Indian-burial sites along the Potomac River, assisting private
investigators. Also, with the help of Dr. Wedel, he excavated two
ossuaries at Bolling Field, D. C.

Biology.—Gerrit S. Miller, curator of mammals, assisted by Charles
M. Wheeler, spent 3 months in Panama making collections for the Mu-
seum. With Corozal, C. Z., as a base, he worked over most of the
Canal Zone from Gatun and Barro Colorado to the Pacific coast and
along the national highway of Panama, with side trips to the Pearl
Islands, Taboga Islands, and the Indio River. The material brought
back includes about 450 mammals, 150 birds, 150 reptiles and amphibi-
ans, and 400 plants, as well as fishes, shells, marine invertebrates, and
Indian artifacts.

Dr. Remington Kellogg, assistant curator of mammals, was one of
the three delegates to represent the United States at a whaling con-
ference, which convened in London on May 24, 1937, on invitation
of the British Government.

H. G. Diegnan continued collecting in Siam and sent three large
shipments of birds and other material to the Museum. Dr. Alexander
Wetmore collected birds in the highlands of Guatemala in the fall
of 1936 and brought back a series of valuable specimens. W. M.
Perrygo and Carleton Lingebach collected birds during the year
in West Virginia and Tennessee. Dr. David C. Graham continued
his work in western China, forwarding collections mainly of birds
and insects.

Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, assistant curator of fishes, and E. D. Reid,
aid, made several successful collecting excursions into Virginia as
part of a survey of the fresh-water fish fauna of that State.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Dr. E. A. Chapin, curator of insects, spent about 6 weeks in
Jamaica, where, after examining entomological collections in Habana,
he collected insects on the island in conjunction with Dr. and Mrs.
Richard E. Blackwelder. Several families of beetles, hitherto un-
known from the island, were taken, as well as many species recognized
as new to science. They also took over a thousand specimens repre-
senting seven species of the family Dryopidae, previously recorded
as nonexistent on the island. A new and interesting coccinellid of
the genus Psyllobora was found feeding on a mold growing upon the
leaves of beach-grape (Coccoloba wvifera), and at least two unde-
scribed species of Scarabaeidae have been recognized in the material
collected.

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, was
naturalist on the Smithsonian-Hartford expedition to the West In-
dies, traveling on one of the last of the square-rigged ships afloat,
the Joseph Conrad, through invitation of the owner, G. Huntington
Hartford, and accompanied by Robert G. Lunz, of the Charleston
Museum, as assistant. The party began work on March 15 at Nassau
in the Bahamas and in 2 months traveled as far south as Barbados.
In all they covered about 4,500 miles, making 19 stops for collecting
on 15 different islands. The expedition, aided greatly by the excellent
equipment provided by Mr. Hartford, was eminently successful.
More than 4,000 specimens of marine invetebrates were obtained,
chiefly Crustacea, but including also sponges, coelenterates, annelids,
mollusks, echinoderms, and lower chordates. Vertebrate material
brought back included fishes and two adult porpoises, in one of which
was found an embryo.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, was a member of the Smith-
sonian-Roebling expedition to the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of
Mexico in the spring of 1937. Traveling on Donald Roebling’s
yacht Jorano, the party worked from Habana, Cuba, around the
western end of the island and along the south coast as far as
Guantanamo. Extensive marine collections were obtained over a
wide area. These include material previously poorly represented in
the Museum, which is now being studied and rapidly identified.

Geology.—Sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. R. 8.
Bassler, head curator of geology, spent the first 3 months of the fiscal
year in geological studies of several classic European areas and in
researches on echinoderms and other fossils in English, German, and
Dutch museums. He completed studies on several groups of Paleozoic
corals and sponges. prepared about 600 casts of Upper Paleozoic
crinoid types, collected Tertiary fossils from the Paris, Vienna, and
London Basins, and visited the Devonian area of Germany and
Czechoslovakia.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY af

Under the auspices of the Roebling fund, E. P. Henderson, assistant
curator of physical and chemical geology, spent several months on
Prince of Wales Island, Alaska, for the purpose of collecting speci-
mens of epidote and other minerals for which this locality is noted.
With the aid of his assistants, Arthur Montgomery, Edwin Over, and
C. B. Ferguson, he collected hundreds of fine crystals of epidote,
thousands of garnets, and many miscellaneous minerals. In May
1937 Mr. Henderson left to attend the Seventeenth International Geo-
logical Congress at Moscow.

In the summer of 1936, Dr. G. A. Cooper, assistant curator of strati-
graphic paleontology, with Preston E. Cloud as field assistant, visited
Middle Devonian localities in the Middle West to collect fossils and
study the Middle Devonian rocks. In June 1937 these two men pur-
sued further field work on the Middle Devonian rocks of Michigan,
New York, and Ontario.

Dr. E. O. Ulrich, associate in paleontology, accompanied by R. D.
Mesler, of the Geological Survey, collected fossils and studied Lower
Ordovician stratigraphy in Arkansas and nearby States.

C. W. Gilmore, curator of vertebrate paleontology, with Dr. Rem-
ington Kellogg, made two short trips to the Chesapeake Bay region to
collect cetacean specimens, including several porpoise skulls, previ-
ously located by Dr. W. F. Foshag.

Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, assistant curator of vertebrate paleontology,
under funds provided by the Smithsonian Institution, conducted an
expedition to the San Juan Basin, N. Mex., during the summer of
1936 to explore the Eocene Wasatch and the Puerco and Torrejon
formations of the Paleocene for fossil mammal remains. Besides Dr.
Gazin, the party included G. F. Sternberg and Harold Shepherd.
They were successful in gathering a representation of the important
faunas from these classic early Tertiary horizons, about 500 deter-
minable specimens being collected from the Paleocene alone. Later
in the season they went to Arizona and explored the Gila and San
Pedro Valleys for fossils.

Dr. R. Lee Collins, of Bryn Mawr, was given a small grant by the
Smithsonian Institution for work in the Miocene deposits along Chesa-
peake Bay, during the course of which he collected a number of
cetacean specimens, parts of a sirenian, and two bird bones.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visttors——For the first time, the number of visitors to the various
Museum buildings exceeded the 2 million mark, the total for the year
being 2,288,532, which is 314,859 more than the previous year. The
351,219 visitors during August 1936 is the largest number ever re-
corded for asingle month. The attendance in the four Museum build-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

ings was recorded as follows: Smithsonian Building, 364,057; Arts
and Industries Building, 1,050,388 ; Natural History Building, 702,657 ;
Aircraft Building, 171,480.

Publications and printing. —The sum of $22,000 was available dur-
ing the year for printing the Museum Annual Report, Bulletins, and
Proceedings, an increase of $17,950 over the previous year, and a cor-
responding increase in volume of publication was reflected. Thirty-
three publications were issued—the Annual Report, 1 volume of
Proceedings (completed), 2 Bulletins, and 29 Proceedings separates.
The two Bulletins issued were: No. 153, part 2, “Birds Collected by the
Childs Frick Expedition to Ethiopia and Kenya Colony: Passeres”,
by Dr. Herbert Friedmann; and no. 167, “Life Histories of North
American Birds of Prey: Part 1, Order Falconiformes”, by Arthur
Cleveland Bent, the tenth volume in this series of life histories of North
American birds. ‘The total number of octavo pages printed was 1,604;
and of plates, 135. Volumes and separates distributed during the year
to libraries and individuals throughout the world aggregated 68,822,
more than twice as many as last year.

An important step in the advance of Museum efficiency was the
thorough overhauling and equipping of the Museum’s Branch Print-
ing Office early in the year. Through the generous cooperation of the
Public Printer, a reconditioned and fully equipped linotype machine
was installed by the Government Printing Office, together with new
type faces suitable for the printing of Museum labels. As a direct
result of this new equipment, the labeling and job-printing work of
the Museum is practically up to date for the first time in many years.

Assistance from work relief agencies ——The Museum profited much
by the continued assignment of workers from the Works Progress
Administration of the District of Columbia. The number of such
workers increased from 66 at the beginning of the year to 88 at the end,
and the work totaled 89,419 man-hours, covering the following tasks:
Checking, labeling, and repairing library material; preparing draw-
ings and photographs; typing; arranging, cataloging, labeling,
mounting, and numbering specimens; model making; translating;
work on plaster casts; and drafting.

Special exhibitions—Sixteen special exhibitions were held during
the year under the auspices of various scientific, educational, and Gov-
ernment agencies, such as the Works Progress Administration, Third
World Power Conference, Association of Federal Architects, and the
District of Columbia Federation of Women’s Clubs.

The division of graphic arts featured 18 special exhibits—9 in
graphic arts and 9 in photography.

Changes in organization and staff—No major change in adminis-
trative organization occurred during the year and but few changes
in the scientific staff. The designation of the carpenter shop was
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

changed in April to cabinet shop, and steps were taken for the ap-
pointment of an assistant foreman of the shop to be directly charged
with its building-repair activities.

Eight persons were retired for age or disability, as follows—
through age: Frank H. Cole, assistant mechanical superintendent in
charge of the carpenter shop, on February 28, 1937, with over 39 years
of service; William F. Wicks, guard, on May 31, 1937, with 10 years
of service; Minor R. Stonnell, tinner’s helper, on June 30, 1937, with
nearly 27 years of service; Mrs. Hanorah Downey, attendant, on Oc-
tober 31, 1986, with nearly 25 years of service; and Mrs. Elizabeth
Merritt, charwoman, on November 30, 1936, with nearly 22 years of
service. Through disability: William Henry Goldsmith, foreman of
laborers, on April 30, 1937, with 41 years of service (Mr. Goldsmith
died on May 4, 1937, 4 days after his retirement) ; Mrs. Elizabeth E.
Dorsey, foreman of charwomen, on June 15, 1937; and Mrs. Ger-
trude Green, charwoman, on May 6, 19387.

Dr. George S. Myers resigned as assistant curator of fishes on
September 15, 1936, to accept an appointment at Stanford University.
Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, of the University of Washington, was ap-
pointed to succeed Dr. Myers, December 31, 1936. Dr. Waldo R.
Wedel was appointed assistant curator of archeology on August 15,
1936. The designation of Dr. William R. Maxon as head of the di-
vision of plants (the National Herbarium) was changed from asso-
ciate curator to curator on February 1, 1937. Mrs. Agnes F, Chase,
senior botanist in the United States Bureau of Plant Industry, long
associated with the late Dr. A. S. Hitchcock, was given honorary
appointment on February 15, 1937, as custodian of the section of
grasses in the Museum.

Other additions to and changes on the staff during the year in-
cluded the appointments of Henry Kaskowitz as junior scientific
aid in the division of vertebrate paleontology on August 1, 1936,
and of Andreas J. Andrews as scientific aid in the department of
anthropology on May 14, 1937; the reallocation of Mrs. Bertha T.
Carwithen to senior clerk, assistant personnel officer, on February 16,
1937; the appointment of Owen F’. Croggon, senior mechanic (senior
cabinetmaker) on July 1, 1936, to fill a new position included in the
appropriations for the year; the advancement of John H. Chance to
assistant engineer, on September 19, 1936; of Ernest Desantis from
guard to principal guard (sergeant of watch) on November 1, 1936,
and of John J. Queeney from guard to foreman of laborers on June
19, 993 te

On January 1, 1937, Norman H. Boss, chief preparator, inverte-
brate paleontology, returned to duty from temporary detail to the
Texas Centennial Exposition, at Dallas, and on June 16, 1937, he

31508—38——4
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

was detailed as exhibit supervisor for the Smithsonian for the Greater
Texas and Pan American Exposition at Dallas.

Necrology.—Through death the Museum lost during the year three
employees from its active roll: William H. Vanneman, principal
guard, on August 20, 1936, after 39 years of service; Frank M. Cheeks,
laborer, on January 3, 1937, after 27 years of service; and William C.
McKinnon, guard, on February 13, 1937, after 13 years of service.
From its list of honorary workers the Museum lost by death on
January 9, 1937, Dr. Frederick Vernon Coville, honorary curator of
plants since March 28, 1893, associated with the division of plants for
many years, and one of those deeply interested always in furthering
the Museum’s botanical work.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuartes G. ABpor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1937:

For nearly 8 months of the fiscal year, this bureau of the Smith-
sonian Institution carried the name “National Gallery of Art”, but
this was changed by an Act of Congress, approved by the President
on March 24, 1987, to “National Collection of Fine Arts”, and the
old name was assigned to the new Smithsonian bureau created as the
result of Andrew W. Mellon’s gift to the Nation of his unexcelled art
collection and funds to erect a splendid building to house it.

A new system of lighting was installed over gallery 3, which pro-
duces a pleasing soft light and also does away with the lighting fix-
tures and gives a ceiling to the gallery. This also made possible the
installation of four stained glass windows, two by John La Farge
and two by William Willet.

Miss Louise A. Rosenbusch, who had been connected with the Smith-
sonian Institution for 44 years and had served as Recorder of the
National Gallery of Art since it was made a separate unit in 1920,
was retired on November 30, 1936.

Visitors to the office concerning art matters numbered 111 during
the last 5 months.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts by
the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary
employees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses,
$34,275.00 was appropriated, of which $16,893.29 was expended for
the care and maintenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the
National Collection of Fine Arts.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The sixteenth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art Com-
mission was held on December 8, 1936. The members met at 10:30
at the National Gallery of Art, where, as the advisory committee on

35
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

the acceptance of works of art which had been submitted during the
year, they accepted the following:

Two lithographs: “Drying Fish Nets, Charlevoix” and “Edge of the Canyon”,
by Grace Neville Carrothers. Gift of the artist in the name of her son, Edgar
M. Carrothers, Jr.

Bronze relief portrait of Daniel Chester French (1850-1935), by Evelyn
Beatrice Longman (Batchelder). Gift of Mrs. E. B. L. Batchelder, of Windsor,
Conn. (Accepted for the National Portrait Gallery.)

A water color by Samuel Prout (1785-1852). Gift of Mrs. John T. Devine,
of Washington, D. O. (The legal status of this gift is in the hands of the
executor and has not been decided to date.)

A collection of 197 intaglio prints, by members of the Chicago Society of
Etchers, to be added to the 497 intaglio prints given last year. Gift of the
Chicago Society of Etchers.

Two line engravings “The Old Tinker” and “The Sister’, and two pencil
drawings both entitled “Study for ‘The Hedger’”, by Stanley Anderson. Gift
of the artist.

The following two paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger be-
quest were recalled and claimed, according to the terms of the will: “Central
Park and the Plaza”, by William A. Coffin (1855-1925) and “Cliffs of the
Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory”, by Thomas Moran (1837-1926).

A pair of stained glass windows, “Peacock and Peony”, by John LaFarge
(1835-1910). Gift of Henry LaFarge.

An oil painting entitled “Dressing for the Rehearsal”, by Seymour J. Guy,
N. A. (1824-1910). Gift of Miss Jennie A. Guy, the artist’s daughter.

(In 1928, a Portrait of George Inness, by F. C, Courter, offered as a gift
by an anonymous donor, was accepted by the Commission. It was actually
received in May 1937, but as a gift of August Franzen.)

The members then proceeded to the Smithsonian Building, where
the annual meeting was called to order by the chairman, Mr. Borie.
The members present were: Charles L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank
Jewett Mather, Jr., vice-chairman; Dr. Charles G. Abbot (ex officio),
secretary ; and Herbert Adams, Frederick P. Keppel, John E. Lodge,
Paul Manship, George B. McClellan, Charles Moore, Edward W.
Redfield, Edmund C. Tarbell, and Mahonri Young. Ruel P. Tol-
man, curator of the division of graphic arts in the United States
National Museum and acting director of the National Collection of
Fine Arts, was also present.

Mr. Moore, chairman of the executive committee, stated that Mr.
Mellon had had tentative plans for the National Gallery of Art
building prepared by John Russell Pope. These plans, as well as the
present status of the National Portrait Gallery, were discussed.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the nomi-
nation of Dr. George Harold Edgell, director of the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, to succeed Mr. Gest, deceased.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the re-
election for the succeeding term of 4 years of the following members:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

John E. Lodge, Andrew W. Mellon, Edward W. Redfield, and Paul
Manship.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Charles
L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman;
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary; as well as the members of the
executive committee—Charles Moore, Herbert Adams, and George
B. McClellan (Charles L. Borie, Jr., as chairman of the Commis-
sion, and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, as secretary of the Commission, are
ex officio members of the executive committee).

The following minute was adopted to express the policy of the
Commission in connection with its action in accepting or rejecting
Ranger fund paintings:

In reaching a decision as to the acceptance of paintings purchased from the
Ranger fund, it was the sense of the Commission that the artistic quality of
the painting in question should not necessarily be the only factor to be
taken into consideration. The presence of other examples of the artist’s work
in the national collection, for example, may properly be taken into considera-
tion, or the desirability of a wide distribution of these paintings in the
permanent collections of the country.

SPECIAL MEETINGS

In accordance with the request of the chairman, Mr. Borie, the
Commission met at the Smithsonian Institution April 6, 1937, for
the purpose of affording the members an opportunity of discussing
the acceptance by Congress of the Mellon gift under the title of the
National Gallery of Art, and the project for the proposed
Smithsonian Gallery of Art.

The Commission’s attention was also called to the desire of Mrs.
Mabel Johnson Langhorne, daughter of the donor of the Ralph
Cross Johnson collection of old masters, to name the Smithsonian
Institution in her will to receive certain pictures left to her by her
father, if the Institution thought them worthy of acceptance for
the national collection.

After the adjournment of the meeting the members inspected the
Mellon and Langhorne collections.

On May 11, 1937, a committee of three, appointed by Dr. Abbot
and Mr. Borie, consisting of Mr. Redfield, Mr. Tarbell, and Mr.
Young, met at the home of Mrs. Langhorne to select the paintings
which eventually will come to the Institution to be closely associated
with the Ralph Cross Johnson gift. Almost every painting was
considered of such high quality that it would be a valuable addition
to the collection.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Two miniatures were acquired from the fund established through
the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer, “for the purchase of
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

first-class works of art for the use and benefit of the National Gallery
of Art”, as follows: “Portrait of Charles Boynton Darling” and “Por-
trait of Elizabeth Ellis Darling”, by unknown artist; from Laurence
B. Darling, New York, N. Y.

This endowment, although small, has in 5 years made possible the
purchase of 11 first-class miniatures, illustrating how a small endow-
ment can be used to build up over a period of years an important
collection.

DEPOSITS

Portrait of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, Head Curator of the Depart-
ment of Biology, United States National Museum, by Bjorn P. Egeli,
presented to the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Stejneger’s friends
on his birthday, October 30, 1936, was deposited in the Gallery by the
Smithsonian Institution.

Portrait bust in bronze of Lord Kelvin (William Thomson 1824—
1907), British physicist, by Herbert Hampton, given by the Kelvi-
nator Co. to the English Speaking Union for presentation to the
Smithsonian Institution, and presented by the British Embassy
through the American Branch of the Union, October 9, 1936, was de-
posited in the Gallery by the Smithsonian Institution.

LOANS ACCEPTED

A stained glass window, “Consumatum Est”, designed and executed
by William Willet (1869-1921) in 1906, which won the contract for
a sanctuary window in the United States Military Chapel at West
Point; also a pair of small stained glass windows, “Dante” and “Bea-
trice”, by William Willet. Lent by Mrs. William Willet, of
Philadelphia, Pa.

LOANS MADE

Two portrait drawings in red chalk of Victor Chapman and Nor-
man Prince, by John Elliott, were lent to the Art Association of New-
port for exhibition at the Tercentenary Retrospective Exhibition,
Newport, R. I., from July 25 to August 16, 1936. (Returned Aug. 20,
1936.)

The painting, “High Cliff, Coast of Maine”, by Winslow Homer,
was lent to the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York, N. Y.,
for the Winslow Homer Exhibition which was held from December
15, 1936, to January 15,1937. (This was sent directly to the Carnegie
Institute at the close of the exhibition.)

Two paintings by Winslow Homer, entitled “High Cliff, Coast of
Maine” and “The Visit of the Mistress”, were lent to The Carnegie
Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa., for the Winslow Homer Memorial Exhibi-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

tion held January 28 through March 7, 1937. (These were returned
Mar. 13 and 19, 1937, respectively.)

Through the cooperation of Miss Leila Mechlin, director of the
Southern Art Projects, 16 paintings were lent to the New Mint Mu-
seum of Art, Charlotte, N. C., for its special inaugural exhibition
from October 22 to December 31, 1936, as follows:

June, by John Alexander.

Caresse Infantine, by Mary Cassatt.

Summer, by Charles H. Davis.

Portrait Sketch of Walter Shirlaw, by Frank Duveneck.
Illusions, by Henry B. Fuller.

Sundown, by George Inness.

An Interlude, by Wm. Sergeant Kendall.

Visit of Nicodemus to Christ, by John La Farge.
Three Trees, by W. L. Lathrop.

A Family of Birches, by Willard L. Metcalf.
Bradbury’s Mill Pond No. 2, by Henry W. Ranger.
The Torrent, by John H. Twachtman.

November, by Dwight Tryon.

The Cup of Death, by Elihu Vedder.

A Gentlewoman, by J. Alden Weir.

Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander H. Wyant.

Seven of the above paintings were returned January 5, 1937. The
following nine paintings were shipped directly from the New Mint
Museum of Art at the close of the exhibition to the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C., for an exhibition from January
15 to February 20, 1937; the paintings were then forwarded to Sa-
vannah, Ga., where they were exhibited at the Telfair Academy of
Arts and Sciences from March 7 to 28, 1937. (They were returned
Apr. 2, 1937.)

Portrait Sketch of Walter Shirlaw, by Frank Duveneck.
Bradbury’s Mill Pond No. 2, by Henry W. Ranger.

The Torrent, by John H. Twachtman.

A Gentlewoman, by J. Alden Weir.

Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander H. Wyant.

Visit of Nicodemus to Christ, by John La Farge.

A Family of Birches, by Willard L. Metcalf.

Caresse Infantine, by Mary Cassatt.

Three Trees, by W. L. Lathrop.

Three paintings, by undetermined artists, were lent December 17,
3936, to the Public Library of the District of Columbia, as follows:

Madonna with Halo of Stars.

Adoration of the Christ Child.
The Christ Child with Cross and Torch.

An oil painting, “Mother Love”, by Charles F. Naegele, was lent
March 10, 1937, to the High Museum of Art, Atlanta, Ga. (It was
returned May 5, 1937.)
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

A bronze statue of Lincoln, by Augustus Saint Gaudens, was lent,
with the consent of the owners, the Estate of Mrs. John Hay, to the
Great Lakes Exposition, Cleveland, Ohio, for exhibition from May
29 to September 6, 1937.

LOANS RETURNED

The painting entitled “The Moose Chase”, by George de Forest
Brush, lent through the Carnegie Public Library at Fort Worth,
Tex., to the Fort Worth Frontier Centennial Exhibition, held at
Forth Worth, was returned November 20, 1936.

Two small bronzes by Edward Kemeys, entitled “Bear” and
“Coyote”, lent with permission of their owner, Mr. William Kemeys,
to the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts for exhibition at the Texas
Centennial Exposition, were returned December 7, 1936.

The painting “Fired On”, by Frederic Remington, and the “Por-
trait of Premier Georges Clemenceau”, by Cecilia Beaux, lent to
The Dallas Museum of Fine Arts for exhibition at the Texas Cen-
tennial Exposition, were returned December 8, 1936.

The following five paintings, lent to the Public Library of the
District of Columbia on February 28, 1936, were returned December
17, 1936:

Portrait of Henry B. Fuller, by George Fuller.
Portrait of Jessie J. Burge, by Abbott H. Thayer.
Portrait of Wyatt Eaton, by J. Alden Weir.

The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer.
Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder.

The “Portrait Sketch of Walter Shirlaw”, by Frank Duveneck, lent
to the Cincinnati Museum of Art, Cincinnati, Ohio, for an exhibition
of the works of Duveneck, was returned September 15, 1936.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two portraits in pastel by James Sharples (1751-1811) of Gen.
James Miles Hughes, original member of the Society of the Cincin-
nati, and Mrs. James Miles Hughes, his wife, lent in 1932; with-
drawn by their owner, Madame Florian Vurpillot on December 15,
1936.

One oil painting entitled “A Farnese Investiture”, lent in 1928;
withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Estelle Bakewell-Green on March
2, 1937.

A reproduction in silver, made in England about 1850, of a silver-
gilt wine pitcher, attributed to Benvenuto Cellini, lent in 1933;
withdrawn by the owner, Capt. Frank O. Ferris, on April 20, 1937.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

A painting entitled “Adoration of the Kings”, by B. Van Orley
(1493-1542) ; withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Marshall Langhorne,
on May 3, 1987.

A bronze bust of Dr. John Wesley Hill, by Joseph Anthony
Atchison, lent by the sculptor in 1930; withdrawn by Mr. Wade H.
Cooper, the owner, on May 5, 1937.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

Since it is a provision of the Ranger bequest that paintings pur-
chased from the fund and assigned to American art institutions may
be claimed by the National Gallery during the 5-year period be-
ginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, five paint-
ings were recalled for action of the National Gallery of Art Com-
mission at its meeting December 8, 1936.

Two paintings were accepted by the Commission to become per-
manant accessions of the Gallery, as listed earlier in this report.

The following three paintings were returned, thus becoming the
absolute property of the respective art institutions:

“The Maumee River’, by Carlton T. Chapman, N. A., to the Toledo Museum
of Art, Toledo, Ohio.

“Dawn”, by Dwight W. Tryon, N. A., to the Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.

“Repose of Evening”, by Ben Foster, N. A., to the University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Mich.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Two exhibitions were held as follows:

January 12, 19387—A special exhibition commemorating the one-
hundredth anniversary of the birth of Thomas Moran, N. A. (18387-
1926). This exhibition remains on view.

April 9 to 29, 1937.—Exhibition of the Second Annual Metropoli-
ton State Art Contest, 1937, under the auspices of the department
of fine arts of the District of Columbia Federation of Women’s
Clubs, cooperating with the following Washington art organiza-
tions: The Arts Club, the League of American Pen Women, Minia-
ture Painters Sculptors and Gravers Society, Society of Washing-
ton Artists, Washington Landscape Club, Washington Society of
Ktchers, Washington Water Color Club, and a free lance group.
There were 305 exhibits, prints, paintings, and sculpture by 148
artists. Cards were issued by the Gallery to an opening view.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

The 388 publications accessioned during the year were obtained
through purchase, transfer, gift, and exchange. One hundred and
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

nine volumes of periodicals were sent to the bindery. The physical
equipment of the library was improved by replacing the remaining
wooden bookcases with steel shelves.

Miss Lucile A. Torrey was appointed librarian January 18, 1937.

SPECIAL DETAILS

The Acting Director was detailed from November 4 to 7, 1936,
to visit the Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts. This made possible a
careful study of the contemporary work in ceramics being done in
the United States. He also visited the Walters Gallery, the Balti-
more Museum of Art, and the Municipal Museum, which is devoted
to the relics of Rembrandt Peale and his time.

A second detail from December 18 to 20, 1936, was granted to
visit the art galleries at Chapel Hill and Charlotte, N. C.

PUBLICATIONS

ToLtMAN, R. P. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 380, 1986. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1936, pp. 29-35.

Lopez, J. E. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June
30, 1936. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for the year ending June 30, 1936, pp. 36-39, pls. 1-2.

Respectfully submitted.

R. P. Totman, Acting Director.
Dr. C. G. Axnsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the seventeenth annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1987:

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:
BRONZBD

37.29. Cambodian (Khmer), twelfth century. A seated Buddha. Coppery
bronze with a green patina. 0.240 by 0.182 over all.

87.1. Chinese, early Chou dynasty. A ceremonial vessel of the type yii. White
bronze with a rough green patina; small areas of unaltered metal and
earthy inerustation. Decoration in low relief. Inscription in seven
characters. 0.418 by 0.565 over all. (Illustrated.)

37.80. Chinese, Han dynasty. A mirror; so-called TLV type. The surface is

immaculate, with a glossy black patina slightly clouded with green
on the face. Diameter, 0.143.

87.15. Chinese, late Han or later. A mirror. The surface has a glossy gun-
metal black patina with small areas of green aerugo on the back;
brilliant gray clouded with black and green on the face. The decora-
tion is in high and countersunk relief. Inscription of 56 characters.
Diameter, 0.135. (Illustrated.)

37.14. Chinese, Six Dynasties or earlier. A mirror. The surface has a dark
olive green patina on the back; brilliant bluish gray on the face;
earthy adhesions. The principal decoration is of figures and horse-
drawn chariots in moderately high relief. Diameter, 0.210.

MANUSCRIPT

37.6. Arabic, ninth-tenth century. A section of the Qur‘dn (from Chapter II)
written on 32 parchment leaves; later binding of “marbled” paper.
Kufie script in dark brown ink; diacritics in red; golden ‘ashiras and
verse-stops. 0.245 by 0.330, average leaf.
87.11. Arabic, ninth-tenth century. A parchment leaf from a Qur‘dn with full
page designs in gold, marking, respectively, the end of a chapter and
the beginning of another. 0.122 by 0.190.
37.28. Arabic, A. D, 1283. Yaqit al-Musta‘simi, calligrapher. A bound book;
later leather binding (broken): The collected verses of al-Hadira.
Thulth and naskhi scripts in black. Dated colophon. 0.277 by 0.205,
average leaf.
37.31. Arabic, fourteenth century (?). A paper leaf from a Qur‘én. Naskhi
seript in gold, nine lines to a page; diacritics in blue and light red.
Illuminated verse-stops and two marginal ‘ashiras. 0.340 by 0.217.

43
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

37.82. Arabic, fourteenth-fifteenth century (?). A paper leaf from a Qur‘dn.
Naskhi script in gold, 11 lines to a page; diacritics, verse-stops, and
marginal ornaments illuminated in gold and blue. 0.835 by 0.254.

37.37. Arabic (Turkey), seventeenth century (?). A bound volume; leather
binding (damaged): A collection of prayers entitled Munajat Qur‘dn
sharif. Small, clear naskhi script in black on 53 paper leaves; head-
ings in thulth script in gold and silver. Golden verse-stops; illumi-
nated corner-pieces. 0.252 by 0.172.

387.40. Arabic (Turkey), sixteenth-seventeenth century (?). <A section of the
Qur‘in (Chapters LXVII-LXXVII) ; leather binding. Alternations of
naskhi and thulth scripts in black on 28 paper leaves. Titles in gold,
green, or blue. 0.309 by 0.270, average leaf.

37.38-87.34. Arabic (Persia), Jate tenth century. Two leaves from a Qur‘dn.

Slender Kufie script in dark brown ink on paper; diacritics
in red, brown, and blue. Illuminated chapter heading (87.34
verso), marginal lectionary marks and verse-stops. 0.240 by
0.340. (87.38. Illustrated.)

37.41. Aramaic (Syriac), A. D. 1213-14. A bound volume (covers missing) :
The New Testament. LEstrangelo script in black and red on 7 paper
leaves plus 824 parchment leaves. Two colophons. 0.257 by 0.193,
average leaf.

36.15. Armenian, A. D. 1669 and 1670. A volume in contemporary binding of
leather overlaid with red velvet and silver appliques: The Gospel
according to the four Evangelists. Black, red, blue, green, and golden
round-hand (bolorgir) on 293 parchment leaves. Initials, paragraphs,
title-pages, arcades, and 6 full-page miniatures, all in colors and gold.
Dated colophons. 0.252 by 0.185 over all; 0.248 by 0.178, average leaf.

87.13. Armenian, fourteenth century. <A leather bound volume: The Psalter of
the orthodox Church. Black, red, blue, and golden, round-hand
(bolorgir) on 3802 parchment leaves. Miniatures (12); illuminated
headings (9), initials (71), and paragraphs (70). Colophon. 0.124
by 0.086 over all; 0.115 by 0.088, average leaf.

37.19. Armenian, A. D. 1650-1. A leather bound volume with silver clasps:
the orthodox Hymnal (Sharaknotz). Black, red, and golden round-
hand (bolorgir) with musical notation on 437 parchment leaves.
Miniatures (16) ; illuminated headpieces (9), initials (145), and par-
agraphs (145 plus 1). Dated head-piece and colophon. 0.121 by 0.085
over all; 0.119 by 0.078, average leaf.

37.2-37.4. Persian, sixteenth century. Three leaves from a manuscript of

Yusuf u-Zulaikha by Jami. Each leaf is inlaid in a larger leaf
of colored paper upon which border designs of animals, birds,
a grapevine, and floral scrolls are executed in gold. 0.252 by
0.150, average leaf. From the same manuscript as 36.9-36.12.

37.35. Persian, sixteenth century. A leather bound volume containing three
manuscripts :

I, Shah Mahmid Nishapuri, calligrapher. Fine nasta‘liq script
on 28 paper leaves. Illuminated headpiece. Colophon
dated in correspondence with A. D. 1523.

II. A collection of lyric poems. Minute nasta‘liq script on 13
paper leaves, much illuminated.

III. Salim al-Katib (Nishipiri), Calligrapher. Bold nasta‘liq
script in white on 5 green paper leaves. Colophon.

0.261 by 0.168, average leaf.
Secretary's Report, 1937.—Appendix 3 PLATE

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
PLATE 2

Secretary's Report, 1937.—Appendix 3

a

Ss

Ha I

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45
PAINTING

37.12. Chinese Yiian period, A. D. 1852. By Wu Chén (A. D. 1280-1354). A
river landscape entitled “Fishermen”, after a design by Ching Hao.
Ink on paper. Signature, label, poem, and dated colophon by the
artist. Makimono: 0.825 by 5.622.

37.36. Indian, Rijput, Rajasthani, sixteenth century. A musical mode (@Gujari
ragint) : a night scene with two figures—a distraught lady and her
attendant. Full color on paper. Inscription. 0.196 by 0.145.

37.42. Indian, Rijput, Pahari (Kangra), eighteenth century. A girl with a pet
antelope. Full color on paper. 0.211 by 0.149.

37.48. Indian, Rajput, Pahari (Kiangri), late eighteenth century. A musical
mode (Pirvd, rdgé): Radha’s toilette—a scene on a terrace. Colors
on paper. 0.154 by 0.108.

87.44. Indian, Rajput, Pahari (Kangra), eighteenth-nineteeuth century. A
musical mode (Pirvd raga): Ridha’s toilette—in a garden. Colors
on paper. 0.169 by 0.107.

37.38-37.39. Persian, fourteenth century. Two paper leaves (trimmed) : Studies

of trees, from Qaswini’s Cosmography. Colors on paper. 0.090
by 0.118; 0.064 by 0.120.

37.22. Persian, Herit school, late fifteenth century. A dromedary, hoppled, with
its keeper. Full color and slight gold on paper. 0.115 by 0.145.

37.24. Persian, Herat school, late fifteenth century. The prophets Elias and
Khadir at the Fountain of Life: An episode from Nizami’s Sikan-
darnadma. Colors and silver (darkened) on paper. 0.157 by 0.184.

87.25. Persian, Herat school, fifteenth century. Two demons, fettered—one with
cup and wine flask, one playing a musical instrument. Tinted drawing
with additions of gold on paper. 0.146 by 0.220.

87.26. Persian, Herat school, fifteenth century. A horseman killing a lion.
Colors and gold on paper. 0.140 by 0.210.

37.27. Persian, Herat school, fifteenth century. The abduction by+sea: an
illustration of an episode in the poem “The Hight Paradises”, in-
cluded in the Khamsah of Amir Khusraw Dihlawi. Full color, gold
and silver (darkened) on paper. 0.270 by 0.198.

37.7. Persian, Safawi period, mid-sixteenth century. By Shah Qiuli. An
angel, flying, with cup and wine flask. In ink, slight tint and gold
on paper. Signature. 0.180 by 0.185.

37.8. Persian, Safawi period, sixteenth century. By Muhammad of Herat.
Portrait of a prince wearing a mantle of gold brocade figured with
pairs of captors and captives. Full color and gold on paper. Sig-
nature. 0.195 by 0.105.

37.20. Persian, Safawi period, early sixteenth century. A horse, saddled and
bridled, attended by a groom. Full color and gold on paper. In-
scribed with an attribution to Master Haydar ’Ali. 0.113 by 0.110.

87.21. Persian, Safawi period, sixteenth century. A camel, richly caparisoned,
and his conductor. Full color and gold on paper. Signature and
date written within the border: Shaykh Muhammad, 964 (A. D.
1556-7). 0.109 by 0.182. (Illustrated.)

87.28. Persian, Safawi period, sixteenth century. Portrait of a young prince,
with a parrot on his wrist. Line drawing, with additions of color,
on paper. 0.147 by 0.083.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
POTTERY

87.16. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Kuan yao: a miniature vase with tubular
handles and two corresponding holes in the foot-rim. Dense, hard
clay; lustrous gray glaze with large, irregular crackle. 0.102 by
0.061.

37.17. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Ju yao: a cup holder, with wide five-foiled
flange. Hard, gray porcelaneous clay; lustrous grayish green glaze,
medium crackle. 0.067 by 0.166.

87.18. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Jung-ch‘iian yao: a vase with long neck and
two handles of fish form. Hard, dense clay; lustrous celadon glaze.
0.259 by 0.118.

87.5. Persian, Rhages (Raiy), thirteenth century. By ‘Ali bin Yusuf. A
bowl (broken and repaired). Soft, sandy, white clay; white tin
enamel glaze (crazed) and a transparent wash under the foot. The
decoration of people and horses is painted in polychrome enamels
and leaf-gold. Kufic inscription inside; maskhi inscription outside ;
both with signature. 0.087 by 0.206.

87.9. Syrian, eleventh-twelfth century. A pitcher, thin-walled, with a low
foot-rim (broken and repaired). Soft, sandy white clay; cream-
white enamel glaze with traces of iridescence. Decorated with a
band of Kufie lettering in low relief. 0.130 by 0.120.

87.10. Syrian, twelfth-thirteenth century. A pitcher (broken and repaired).
Fairly hard, white clay; lustrous white enamel glaze of egg-shell
texture. The decoration is carved in relief, with details in pierced
work filled with glaze. 0,100 by 0.083.

Curatorial work has, as before, consisted largely in the study of
Chinese, Tibetan, Japanese, Aramaic, Armenian, Arabic, Persian,
East Indian, and Cambodian objects in the collection, of the texts
and seals associated with them, and in the preparation of this ma-
terial for Gallery records. In addition, 810 objects and 286 photo-
graphs of objects, Oriental for the most part, were submitted to
the Curator for expert opinion as to provenance, age, quality, or
other significance. Written or oral reports on these things were
made to the institutions or private owners who had requested this
service. Written translations of 31 inscriptions in Oriental lan-
guages were also made upon request, and 2 inscriptions—one in
Chinese, the other in Egyptian hieroglyphics—were composed for
the use of two Departments of the Government.

Changes in exhibition have involved a total of 92 objects, as
follows:

NCAR, oh CURIS So ee a eee ee 1
BS mii tlc: Ren O15) is T: < : Ge  eL — CR PENNS RID LS SES 2
Paintings:
JA War crn rh A ec Er 62
BALE Ce Sc Ei EE St RE IR ia Ey BN 8 Sy ES Sec ae 25
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 until
4:30 o’clock, with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and
New Year’s Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 140,881. The total attendance for week-days, exclusive of Mon-
days, was 94,221; Sundays, 46,660. The average week-day attend-
ance was 365; the average Sunday attendance, 897. The highest
monthly attendance was reached in April (30,837) and in August
(14,084) ; the lowest monthly attendance in December (6,418).

There were 1,600 visitors to the main office during the year. The
purposes of their visits were as follows:

MOrPCeRer Ale ni OEM el ON eae ee ee 8 ee oe ee eee 304
ree er ON eCIs tit SeOn ae en nn ee eee eae 348
PEAS CERN oN T INOS <5 ee eee eS eee os eee 98
DF | ay SY aes SOM Ae pr a ts fs aa Ba RS ee ee 3
Near Hastern paintings: and manuscripts == 22-22 33
EDP ISY aud WGC IES ayy 6 0s alee a se ead mee a we ens bf ea eee 5
PACVPTL CO Ty PETS AMEE Soe ne eee 83
‘W/L EUESY ALES Chey eh G0 SP gen a cca ey Sa Sey a 1 eee eee 14
Oriental, pottery, jade, bronzes, sculptures =~... = 82
By Zantinexonj;eete se seen Se ee eed 2
AINE TICATIe POULELYS..U see: eee i Sei eee eee eee ih
Mashing ton i anwserip att ee es ees ee ee ee 27
To nea Ghipyhne: MW OTan yes se eee Ea Sa os Mk ee eee ses Se 201
To make tracings and sketches from library books__----__-______-_-_-_- 5
MoySeer DUllGIneoangs INStalAhiONs sone oe ee ee ab
To obtain permission to photograph or sketch_-___-____---________________ vé
To;supmit- opjects Lor examination-285-o0° bee Use ee 159
Tovexamine ‘or purchase photorztaphs=-22e. +2 Be eee 370
MosRee MmemberstObuther stati oe Fle ae iw ed be Be be Ee ee 230
To see the exhibition. galleries on Mondays... =-4 = 2 40

LECTURES AND DOCENT SERVICE

Three illustrated talks were given by members of the staff before
three local organizations. Upon request, 15 groups, ranging from
2 to 15 persons (total 149), were given instruction in the study
rooms, and 10 groups, ranging from 10 to 50 persons (total 262),
were given docent service in the exhibition galleries,

PERSONNEL

On February 15, 1937, Thomas R. Fullalove, painter, retired, after
16 years of most excellent service. )
Grace T. Whitney worked intermittently at the Gallery between
October 15, 1936, and June 30, 1937, on translations of Persian texts.
Respectfully submitted.
J. E. Loner, Curator.
Dr. C. G. Aszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
s le " ®
od ae
hight ze GG»

* ee 3
+H 1-ega boat:

poole Sin a 0 sae a? ata od a7)
; . it v2 sar fi ar Ray

» «
(ow. era
\ we»

i te ds er 4

baa a

gt Wako ae ay
Ew deol to inert OL

APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1937, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of March 19, 1936. The act
referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the Amer-
ican Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation of
archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, includ-
ing necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and illus-
trations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses, $58,730.00.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

M. W. Stirling, Chief, spent the major part of the fiscal year in
Washington, during which time the ethnological report on the Jivaro
Indians of Ecuador was completed and submitted to the printer.

At the end of February 1937 Mr. Stirling left Washington for St.
Augustine, Fla., in order to attend the conference held under the
auspices of the Carnegie Institution of Washington for the purpose
of outlining a program of research concerning the historical and
archeological past of the city of St. Augustine and vicinity. At the
conclusion of this conference he continued to Manatee, Fla., in order
to examine some interesting newly discovered mounds in that vicinity.
Continuing up the Gulf Coast of Florida, a visit was made to Bristol,
on the Apalachicola River, where a sherd collection was made on a
large mound near the river south of the town. Mr. Stirling then pro-
ceeded to Panama City, Fla., in order to photograph several private
archeological collections.

From Panama City, Mr. Stirling went to Macon, Ga., for the pur-
pose of examining the large archeological project there which was
inaugurated by the Smithsonian Institution with the Society for
Georgia Archeology and now being conducted under the auspices of
that society by Dr. A. R. Kelly. From Macon, Mr. Stirling proceeded
to Philadelphia, Pa., in order to attend the International Conference
on Early Man, held under the auspices of the Philadelphia Academy
of Sciences. On the conclusion of this conference Mr. Stirling
returned to Washington.

31508—88——5 49
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Mr. Stirling was delegated to represent the Smithsonian Institu-
tion at the meeting held at Media, Pa., on May 13, 1937, in honor of
the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Daniel Brinton.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, devoted the greater part of his
time during the past fiscal year to work as chairman of the United
States De Soto Expedition Commission. This involved field expedi-
tions from November 11 to December 9, 1936, and from May 16 to
June 4, 1937, except for 3 days, December 3 to 5, devoted to a meeting
of the Commission at the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala.
The first field trip extended over parts of Florida, Georgia, Alabama,
Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas. The second was confined to an
intensive study of that section of De Soto’s route which passed through
northern Mississippi. During these expeditions small collections of
potsherds were made, which will be of assistance in studying the cul-
tures of the prehistoric inhabitants of the several areas visited. As
chairman of the fact-finding committee of the same Commission, Dr.
Swanton prepared a report covering about 600 typewritten pages, and
this was adopted by the Commission at its Tuscaloosa meeting and
embodied in its report to Congress. The entire report has since been
submitted, but, as publication has not yet been ordered, it is still pos-
sible to add material, and he is engaged in doing so.

During the year Dr. Swanton also made some additions to his data
on the Indians of the Southeast, and he has been collecting from orig-
inal sources the most important references to the Quapaw Indians.

Until the end of the fiscal year Dr. Swanton continued as a member
of the executive committee of the Division of Anthropology and
Psychology of the National Research Council and as vice-president
of section H of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science for the current calendar year.

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, renewed his researches among
the Algonquian tribes of the James and Hudson Bay region under
a grant-in-aid by the American Council of Learned Societies. He
spent some time at Moose Factory, and a short time at Fort George,
Attawapiskat, and Weenusk. Owing to the presence of some Albany
Cree at Moose Factory and some Indians from Rupert’s House as
well as on shipboard, he was able to do personal work with them.
By correspondence he obtained some additional text-material from
Rupert’s House; by meeting the manager of the Hudson Bay Co.’s
post at the Ghost River and an Indian from Lac la Ronge he ob-
tained data from these regions. The results of the previous expedi-
tion were checked up as much as feasible. It results that the state-
ment made previously that east of Hannah Bay Cree leaves off and
Montagnais-Naskapi begins is confirmed. Besides texts and vocabu-
laries from the general area, a rather complete schedule of kinship
terms for the Great Whale River Indians, those of Fort George,the Cree
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

of Moose Factory, Albany, Attawapiskat, and Weenusk was obtained.
Very obviously the system of consanguinity favors cross-cousin
marriage; and it is to be noted that at the Great Whale River and
Albany both types of this marriage occur; at Moose and Attawapiskat
it is restricted to marriage with paternal aunt’s daughter ; at Weenusk
apparently neither type obtains. It may be mentioned that by lin-
guistic technique it is possible to show in the places named that a
number of old terms have been replaced, e. g., the term for cross-
nephew has been replaced by the term originally restricted to son-in-
law, etc. Also the kinship systems favor exogamy, but he has not
been able to find a true gens or clan organization in the whole area.

Dr. Michelson returned to Washington September 20, where he
studied the material gathered on this and previous expeditions. By
correspondence with Hudson Bay Co.’s officials and a missionary
he obtained data on the Cree of Cumberland House, Norway House,
Oxford House, Trout Lake, God’s Lake (all dialects in which original
Z is replaced by 7), Montreal Lake, Stanley, Pelecan Narrows (dia-
lects in which original 7 is replaced by y). A study was made of the
Montagnais of Le Jeune, over 300 years ago; the orthography plainly
indicates kh, tch, and some other variations are representatives of
one and the same sound, namely, the one usually transcribed by Ze.
This study enabled him also to make at least one correction to the
Handbook of American Indians, and prove one supposed Algonkin
tribe actually was Montagnais-Naskapi. From correspondence it
would appear that the dialect spoken at Island Lake is a mixture
of Cree, Ojibwa, and possibly Algonkin proper. This indicates that
in a number of places there is such a mixture, but apparently not on
the same scale. A map showing the distribution and interrelations
of the Cree and Montagnais-Naskapi dialects has been made. Tech-
nical papers have appeared in professional journals, and others have
been prepared and are awaiting publication. The Bureau published
Fox Miscellany (Bulletin 114), the proof-sheets of which were
corrected during the fiscal year.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. John P. Harrington,
ethnologist, prepared a report on the Use of Ferns in the Basketry
of the Indians of Northwestern California, centering on the use of
fern species among the Karuk tribe. The baskets of this section are
really built of lumber, that is, of the shredded roots of the Oregon
pine. But the two materials which make the baskets beautiful are
the glossy black of maidenhair fern stems and the handsome red of
Woodwardia fern filaments, dyed with alder bark.

Dr. Harrington next prepared a paper on Kiowa Memories of the
Black Hills and of the Devil’s Tower. The Kiowa Indians, 600
miles to the south, still have memories of the Black Hills country
of South Dakota, which they occupied some 150 years ago. They
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

also retain knowledge of myths regarding the remarkable basalt
column near Sundance, Wyo., on the northwestern slope of the
Black Hills, known as the Devil’s Tower, but to the Kiowa as the
Rock Standing Like a Tree. An elaborate paper was finished on
the subject, going into the geology, history, and mythology of the
Devil’s Tower.

Dr. Harrington next finished a report on The Northern Pro-
venience of the Navaho and Apache, tracing related languages in
detail to Alaska, northwestern Canada, and the Pacific Coast of
the United States, and telling in detail how the relationship of
Navaho and Apache to the Indians of the far northwest was dis-
covered by W. W. Turner, librarian in the Patent Office, Wash-
ington, D. C., in 1852. This voluminous report resulted in the
discovery by Dr. Harrington of a curious distribution of these lan-
guages, the map of which takes the form of a wishbone. Their
nucleus is in the far Northwest, one prong extending down the
Pacific Coast and terminating a little north of San Francisco Bay,
another eastern prong extending down through the Rocky Moun-
tain region and culminating in the Navaho and Apache of the
Southwest. An exhaustive study was made of the earliest docu-
ments and maps on the subject, in the compilation of which Dr.
Harrington was assisted by the Geographic Board of Canada.

A report was completed on the Siberian Origin of the Ameri-
can Indian, presenting the background, the earliest historic writ-
ings on the subject, the Eskimo problem, the problem of the means
of crossing (whether by boat, over ice, or by means of former land
bridge), the distribution of tribes and density of population as
bearing out the theory, and general aspects. In this study he was
assisted by many other students, including native interpreters of
the Bering Strait region. This report suggests that America was
first discovered as a result of over-population which developed in
the east of Asia and forced Paleo-Siberian peoples to enter the
Chukchi Peninsula. From this point they sighted and spilled over
into America, using the Diomede Islands as resting places on their
transit, if this were during the period of the existence of the Ber-
ing Strait, and followed the food supply down what is now the
Alaskan coast, without realizing that they had discovered anything
more than an outlying island.

A paper was prepared on the Life of Jeronimo, Apache Indian
Chief, and the Indian leader whose expeditions probably cost the
United States Government more money and trouble than did those
of any other chieftain. The life and times of Jeronimo were
minutely searched, and data were compiled in chronological order.
The material of this paper is especially interesting to the American
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

public as it deals with a period already dimming in the memories
of living men. The name, Alope, of the first wife of Jeronimo,
was discovered to be merely a corruption of the Mexican Spanish
name Guadalupe.

Studies on linguistic relationship in the Southwest and California
were continued. These studies have resulted in the discovery that
Tano-Kiowan and Aztecan are genetically related, and to this larger
group Dr. Harrington gave the name Patlan. The discovery was
also made that Hopi is a Southern California Shoshonean dialect,
showing developments in common with the Southern California Sho-
shonean dialects, and constituting with them a dialectic group of the
Aztecan family in contradistinction to any other group. This unity
of Hopi with Southern California Shoshonean was first noticed many
years ago, the word for wood-rat (e. g., Hopi gdala, wood-rat, South-
ern California Shoshonean gdala, wood-rat) leading immediately to
the discovery. It was also noticed by Dr. J. R. Swanton and Dr.
Harrington that Tano-Kiowan and Shoshonean have genetic rela-
tionship with the languages of the Southeastern United States (Musk-
hogean, Chitimacha, Atakapa, Tonkawa, Timucua), Tano-Kiowan,
_for instance, and all the Southeastern languages above-mentioned
showing the characteristic prefix na-, something, used in deriving
nouns from verbs (e. g., Tanoan tha, to dwell; natha, house).

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
archeologist, was engaged in excavating at the Lindenmeier site in
northern Colorado. At this place remains attributable to the ma-
terial culture of Folsom man, one of the earliest Known inhabitants
of the New World, are found. The 1936 investigations constituted
the third season’s work there, and valuable new information was
obtained on this important phase in the study of the history of the
American Indian. Digging was carried on at three different por-
tions of the site, and considerable new bone material and several new
types of implements came from the excavations. Most of the bones
were from the large extinct species of bison (Bison taylori) which
the people hunted, but in addition a number of bones from the Amer-
ican camel, probably Camelops, were obtained in direct association
with the bison bones and with stone implements. This adds one more
extinct species of animal to the list of those found with Folsom
artifacts. One of the significant facts established by the work is
that the site was occupied before and during a period characterized
by the formation of a thick, black soil layer produced by heavy vege-
tation that thrived when conditions were more favorable than those
of recent times. That the people were there before the inception of
this era of abundant growth points to an even greater antiquity than
that suggested by the presence of implements and bones in the bottom
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

of the soil level. The work was brought to a close September 5, 1936.

In the latter part of August Dr. Roberts also investigated a site
near Kersey, Colo., where Folsom type objects were found by F. W.
Powars and his son Wayne, residents of Greeley. This location is
on a low terrace of the rolling terrain lying along the south side
of the South Platte River valley. Present evidence indicates that
it was a camp, but one occupied for a relatively short period of time.
Specimens obtained there represent a typical Folsom complex. ‘They
are so similar to those from the Lindenmeier site that it is difficult
to distinguish between specimens from the two sites. Bones are
scarce, and those recovered are so fragmentary that they are valueless
for determining the species of the animals represented.

After the completion of the Lindenmeier and Powars site investi-
gations Dr. Roberts proceeded to Sterling, Colo., where he visited
and inspected a number of sites in that vicinity. All proved to be
of more recent origin than the Folsom type material. From Sterling
Dr. Roberts returned to Washington. The autumn months were
spent in the office working over the material obtained during the
summer’s investigations.

February 24 Dr. Roberts sailed for Cairo, Egypt, where he served
as one of two American experts at the International Conference of
Archeologists held March 9 to 17, under the auspices of the Com-
mittee for Intellectual Cooperation of the League of Nations. As his
part of the agenda for the sessions, Dr. Roberts presented a paper
on the subject “The Material Organization of an Archeological
Mission.” This included a discussion of the choice of personnel for
a field staff, the securing of equipment, the establishment of field
headquarters, and the general administration of such a project. At
the close of the conference he visited a number of sites in Egypt
and had an opportunity to study methods of excavation and general
archeological procedure as practiced in the Egyptian area. From
Egypt he went to Greece, Italy, France, and England and studied
collections in the museums at Athens, Naples, Rome, Paris, and
London. He returned to Washington April 24.

On May 21 Dr. Roberts left Washington for Kingman, Ariz.,
where he and C. W. Gilmore, curator of vertebrate paleontology,
United States National Museum, investigated a find of mastodon
bones and man-made objects. The deposit is located near a large
spring 24 miles west of Kingman. A week’s study and excavation
demonstrated that the material was a secondary deposit, washed in
from surrounding slopes, and of no importance from the stand-
point of the association of man and extinct mammals. Dr. Roberts
left Kingman on June 2 for Denver, Colo., and Fort Collins. On
June 12 he resumed excavations at the Lindenmeier site. By the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

end of the fiscal year an area covering 375 square feet had been
uncovered. Numerous implements and considerable additional in-
formation were obtained from this work. These data serve to round
out more fully the story of the customs and habits of Folsom man.

During the winter months Dr. Roberts also prepared several
manuscripts on the subject of the work at the Lindenmeier site and
on Southwestern archeology in general.

Upon his return from Spanish Honduras early in the fiscal year,
Dr. W. D. Strong, anthropologist, spent his entire time in working
over the archeological collections from the Ulua River. With the
assistance of Alfred Kidder II, and Drexel A. Paul, Jr., Dr. Strong
completed the report on this work which is to be published in the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections under the title “Preliminary
Report on the Smithsonian Institution-Harvard University Archeo-
logical Expedition to Northwestern Honduras, 1936.”

From July 1 until late October 1936, Dr. Julian H. Steward, asso-
ciate anthropologist, continued his work of the previous year among
Shoshonean tribes in the Great Basin and Plateau areas. He had
two objectives: First, to study the ecological basis of the social and
political organization of the bands of horse Shoshoni in Utah and
Idaho to supplement his previous study of the foot Shoshoni of
Nevada; second, to continue his ethnographic survey by means of an
element list. An element list and satisfactory ecological material
were procured from the following: Bannock, Fort Hall Shoshoni,
Lemhi Shoshoni, and Grouse Creek (northwestern Utah) Shoshoni
at Fort Hall, Idaho; Promontory Point (Great Salt Lake) Shoshoni
at Washakie, Utah; Pahvant Ute (now almost extinct) at Kanosh,
Utah; Gosiute (determined to be actually Shoshoni) at Skull Valley
and at Deep Creek, Utah. Before returning to Washington, Dr.
Steward drove to Fallon, Nev., to examine guano caves said to hold
promise, but found little of interest. He returned by way of south-
ern Nevada and southern Utah, making brief visits to several South-
ern Paiute reservations. The remainder of the year was devoted to
preparation of research material for publication, and eight manu-
scripts have been completed.

The beginning of the fiscal year found J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnolo-
gist, on the Tuscarora Reservation near Lewiston, N. Y., where he
went to continue his researches on the League of the Five Iroquois
Tribes. From Lewiston Mr. Hewitt proceeded to the Grand River
Grant to the Six Nations in Ontario. Here he had the good fortune
to obtain a complete Mohawk text embodying the so-called Hand-
some Lake religious teaching, this document consisting of more than
5,700 Mohawk terms. Considerable additional information was ob-
tained concerning the interesting dual nature of the tribal organiza-
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

tion. On his return to Washington Mr. Hewitt completed the trans-
lation of the Mohawk text giving details of the birth and early child-
hood of Deganawida, also another Mohawk text giving an account of
the dancing lads who finally became the Pleiades.

During the month of June 1937, Mr. Hewitt again left Washing-
ton for Brantford, Canada, in order to check over in the field his
two large manuscripts in Onondaga text, one being the Iroquois
New Year Ceremony and the other consisting of the four Thanks-
giving Festivals. The end of the fiscal year found Mr. Hewitt still
in the field engaged in this task.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the Bureau was continued
through the year by Stanley Searles, editor.

Bulletin 114, Fox Miscellany, by Truman Michelson, was issued
during the year.

Bulletin 115, Journal of Rudolph Friederich Kurz, edited by J. N.
B. Hewitt, was released for printing.

Bulletin 116, Ancient Caves of the Great Salt Lake Region, by
Julian H. Steward, was released for printing.

An index of Schoolcraft’s Indian Tribes, in six volumes, has been
further advanced toward completion.

Work has been done on other manuscripts in the custody of the
editor.

Publications distributed totaled 14,708.

LIBRARY

Miss Miriam B. Ketchum continued in charge throughout the year
as librarian.

Accessions during the fiscal year numbered 580 volumes, bringing
the total number of volumes in the library to 31,115; there are also
about 20,000 pamphlets and about 2,000 volumes of unbound periodi-
cals and society transactions.

The number of volumes prepared and sent to bindery was 1,330.

Library of Congress cards have been obtained for practically all
of the new books received during the year and for some of the older
material. All new material is being classed in the Library of Con-
gress scheme of classification and separately shelved. A partial
depository set of Library of Congress catalog cards has been estab-
lished and will shortly be installed in working order.

The work of refiling the catalog continues. Thirteen drawers are
now finished.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

A great many missing numbers have been requested and nearly
all of these have been supplied, amounting in some cases to several
volumes of a set. Of the exchange sets, 8 old sets which had been
allowed to lapse have been reestablished, and 11 new sets have been

established.
ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of the work accomplished by E. G. Cas-
sedy, illustrator :

Wine’ drawings ee eS a es es ae SS SE SS ee 266
ASRS hi Sete ieee eS UE ee ees ae 13
Platessletteredzorsmumpered..= <= 222 ones ee 199
PlateSsaASSCIMDlOGe See= oes ee eS 64
Plates'sized tor engraver-——- 2 == a a ee 129
(Aum rusht | ODS tee = woe ante od: SE Beate ee ae eee 6
Photos retouched 22s ee ee eee 51
POOP TALC. TANS ee ES Os ee ae 3
1 6) 1s ae eee ee ere ee oe 3
Mechanical drawin es) 2—- so a ee ee 3
LOGY ev ero ae, (0) fsa a Ns See eatett a eet, Staal es ete, - eter 3
HN STOSSINGS Sse ee en eae ee ee 2
Water:color paintings==s. ee es | ee eee ee Se a
oben e ki Be ot eo a 8 eee eee eee 743
COLLECTIONS
Accession
number

140,528. Skeletal material from two sites on Canaveral Peninsula, Brevard
County, Fla., collected by the Bureau in cooperation with the Fed-
eral Civil Works Administration during the winter of 1933-34. (250
specimens. )
142,561. Archeological specimens and human and animal bones collected during
mound excavations in Florida during the winter of 1933-384 in
cooperation with the Federal C. W. A.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by
members of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concern-
ing the North American Indians, both past and present, and the
Mexican peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Vari-
ous specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them
furnished for their owners.

Personnel.—Miss Helen Heitkemper, junior stenographer, resigned
March 16, 1937. Miss Ethelwyn E. Carter was appointed May 1,
1937, to fill the vacancy.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Srtrauine, Chief.

Dr. C. G. Axpgort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
aka _ 5 <i toying <r
—' Ger roelpeiat ie {os
a" ‘ PTY

*. STi

ie 8

e
at

SA ¥
TTS

APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1937:

For that year the congressional appropriation was $44,260. Some
years ago, in order to supplement the amounts granted by Congress,
which have never been sufficient to meet the entire expenses of the
Exchange Service, the Board of Regents of the Institution gave au-
thority to charge governmental establishments 5 cents a pound for
forwarding their publications abroad through exchange channels.
The collections from that source during the year were $3,871.49,
making the total resources available $48,131.49.

The number of packages handled during 1937 was 657,346, an
increase of 60,395. The weight was 651,461 pounds, an increase of
32,672 pounds.

The following table gives the number and weight of packages sent
and received through the Exchange Service separated into three
classes: Parliamentary documents, departmental documents, and
scientific and literary publications.

Packages Weight

Sent Received Sent | Received

Pounds | Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad___________ B00; ot: Losewces ees Bd Ce 1 a (ee

Publications received in return for parliamentary documents___}___.-____- si) ane 29, 316
United States departmental documents sent abroad___-________ AZ 2B asec e 12g, a0 fons
Publications received in return for departmental documents____|_..__-___- FORO) [PE seteeesase 32, 624
Scientific and literary publications sent abroad________-_______- TOO; BST, fore a0; 402: on Je See
Scientific and literary publications received from abroad for
distribution:in:the United: States... 209) ts bie eee ofp yay Ly tl ees See 112, 394
Py Gat ee wee Te oo See 585, 946 71, 400 477, 127 174, 334
Grpeiliintalses, Reis SiO ME Siete; F dave 657,346 651,461

The number of boxes shipped abroad was 2,620, an increase of 145
over the preceding year. Of these boxes, 540 were for depositories
of full sets of United States governmental documents, and the re-
mainder (2,080) were for distribution to miscellaneous establish-
ments and individuals. In addition to the packages forwarded in
these boxes there were transmitted by mail 87,296, an increase of

16,397 over last year.
59
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
BRUSSELS EXCHANGE CONVENTIONS

In 1886, some years after the organization of the Smithsonian
system of exchanges, there were concluded at Brussels between the
United States and a number of other countries two exchange conven-
tions. The first, Convention A (Stat., XX V, 1465), provided for the
international exchange of official documents and scientific and literary
publications; and the second, Convention B (Stat., XXV, 1469), pro-
vided for the immediate exchange of the official journal. The Smith-
sonian Institution was charged by the Congress with the duty of
carrying out the provisions of those conventions on the part of the
United States (Stat., XIV, 573—Congressional Resolution approved
Mar. 2, 1867, setting aside 50 copies of all governmental documents
for exchange purposes; Stat., X-X-XI, 1464—Congressional Resolu-
tion approved Mar. 2, 1901, increasing the number of documents for
exchange to not exceeding 100 copies; Stat., XLII, 1106—Printing
Act approved Mar. 2, 1901, further increasing the number to 125
copies; and Stat., XX XV, 1169—Congressional Resolution approved
Mar. 4, 1909, setting aside copies of the Congressional Record for
exchange with foreign parliamentary bodies).

Kight countries signed the first convention, namely the United
States, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal, Serbia (now Yugoslavia),
Spain, and Switzerland. The second convention was signed by all
of those countries except Switzerland. Since the ratification of the
Brussels Conventions the following countries have signified their
adherence thereto in the order in which they are listed:

. Uruguay—both conventions, 1889.

. Argentine Republic—convention A, 1889.

. Paraguay—convention A, 1889.

. Czechoslovakia—both conventions, 1919.

. Poland—convention A, 1920; convention B, 1921.
. Rumania—both conventions, 1923.

. Hungary—both conventions, 1923.

. Dominican Republic—both conventions, 1923.

. Latvia—both conventions, 1924.

10. Free City of Danzig—both conventions, 1924.

11. China—both conventions, 1925.

12. Egypt—convention A, 1925.

Although not all countries joined the exchange conventions, most
of those not listed above have entered into exchange relations with
the United States and have established official bureaus to conduct the
work.

CONA AF wh

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

There are forwarded to foreign depositories 111 sets of United
States official publications, 61 of these being full sets and 50 partial
sets. The depository of the full set forwarded to Peru has been
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

changed from the Biblioteca Nacional to the Secciodn de Propaganda
y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Lima.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.
Buenos Aires: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La
Plata. (Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.)
AusTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
New SourtH Wates: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
Souru AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Victor1A: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Austria: National Bibliothek, Wien I.
Beteium: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
Braziu: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
OnTaRIo: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QuEpEc: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso, Santiago.
CHINA: National Central Library, Nanking.
CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
Cusa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
Heyer: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium des Innern, Berlin C 2.
Baven: Universitits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of
Baden. )
Bavaria: Bayerische Staatsbibliothek, Miinchen.
Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Saxony: Sichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.
WurTEMBURG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
GLaseow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Hunecary: A Magyar orsziggyiilés kényvtarai, Budapest.
Inp1A: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IrRIsH FREE State: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
Iraty: Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Latvia: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
LEAGUE oF Nations: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico, D. F.

NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

NoRTHERN IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)

Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones
Exteriores, Lima.

PoLtanD: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.

PortucaL: Bibliotheea Nacional, Lisbon.

RuMANIA: Academia Romfna, Bucharest.

Spain: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, Madrid.

SwEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

TurKEY: Ministére de l’Instruction Publique, Ankara.

Union oF SourTH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Union oF Sovier Socrarist REpusiics: State Central Book Chamber, Moscow 4.

UxraineE: All-Ukrainian Association for Cultural Relations with Foreign
Countries, Kiey.

Uruauay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

YUGOSLAVIA: Ministére de l’Mducation, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Publications Department, Kabul.
AustriA: Vienna: Magistrat der Stadt Wien, Abteilung 51-Statistik.
Boiv1A: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
MinAs GreRAES: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
Rio dE JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
Burearta; Minist®re des Affaires Etrangéres, Sofia.
CANADA:
ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
BrRiTIsH COLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.
NEw Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
Prince Epwarp IstAnp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.
SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.
CryYLon: Chief Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Colombo.
CuInA: National Library, Peiping.
Danzig: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DOMINICAN RerusBLic: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo.
Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.
GERMANY :
BreMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.
HAmboure: Staats-und Universitits-Bibliothek.
HEsseE: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Giessen.
LtsBeck: President of the Senate.
THuRINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitit, Jena.
Greecn: Library of Parliament, Athens.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Harrt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
IcetaAnp: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
AssSAM: General and Judicial Department, Shillong.
BENGAL: Secretary, Bengal Legislative Council Department, Council House,
Calcutta.
BiHAR and Orissa: Revenue Department, Patna.
Bompay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, Generai Depart-
ment, Bombay.
Burma: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,
Rangoon.
CENTRAL Provinces: General Administration Department, Nagpur.
Mapras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Depart-
ment, Madras.
Pungas: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LisertA: Department of State, Monrovia.
LITHUANIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Kaunas (Koyno).
Matra: Minister for the Treasury, Valletta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
NrcARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.
PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
ParAqguay: Secretario de la Presidencia de la Reptiblica, Asuncidén.
SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
Srraits SerrLeMeNTs: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.
Vatican City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The forwarding of copies of the Congressional Record and the
Federal Register to the Bibliothek des Preussischen Landtags, Berlin,
has been discontinued as the Landtag has been abolished. The fol-
lowing have been added to the list of those receiving the Congres-
sional Record and the Federal Register: Staatskanzlei des Kantons
Berne, Staatskanzlei des Kantons St. Gallen, Staatskanzlei des Kan-
tons Schaffhausen, and Staatskanzlei des Kantons Ziirich. 'The total
number of copies of these documents now forwarded abroad is 105.
A complete list of the depositories is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

ALBANIA: Ministrija Mibretnore e Punéyeté Jashtme, Tirana.
ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA }
Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
New SourH Waters: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Austria: Bibliothek des Hauses der Bundesgesetzgebung, Wien I.
Betarum: Bibliothéque de la chambre des Représentants, Bruxelles.
Bortv1a: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Amazonas: Archivo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Manfos.
Baus: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sio Salvador.
Esprriro SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE Do Sut: “A Federacio”, Porto Alegre.
Srrarre: Bibliotheca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaji.
SAo Pauro: Diario Official do Estado de Sio Paulo, Sio Paulo.
Britisoh HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CxuinA: National Central Library, Nanking.
Cusa: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’'Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danzic: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo.
Dutou Hast Inpies: Volksraad von Nederlandsch-Indié, Batavia, Java.
Eayrt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FRANCE:
Chambre des Députés, Service de l’Information Parlementaire EKtrangére,
Paris.
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
Bibliothéque, Direction des Accords commerciaux, Ministére du Commerce,
Paris.
GERMANY:
Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Reichsfinanzministerium, Berlin, W. 8.
ANHALT: Anhaltische Landesbiicherei, Dessau.
BRAUNSCHWEIG: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums,
Braunschweig.
MECKLENBURG: Staatsministerium, Schwerin.
OLDENBURG: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. O.
ScoHAUMBUKG-LipPE: Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg.
GIBRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.
GREAT Brirarn: Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GREECE: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Honpurgas: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Huneary: A Magyar orsziggyiilés kinyvtard, Budapest.
InpIA: Legislative Department, Simla.
IrAN: Library of the Iranian Parliament, Téhéran.
Iraq: Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad.
IrkisH Frep STATE: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
ITALY :
Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome.
Ufficio degli Studi Legislativi, Senato del Regno, Rome.
Latvia: Valsts Biblioteka, Riga.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

LEAGUE OF Nations: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
LieertA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Mexico: Secretaria de la Camara de Diputados, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CuHr1APAs: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoaHuILA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CorimA: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DuRANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GuANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
Guerrero: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JAtisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
LOWER CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C., Mexico.
Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico.
MicHoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
Moretos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NAyARIT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nugvo Leon: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey.
OAxACA: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
PuesbLA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccidn de Archivo, Queretaro.
San Luis Porost: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
Srnatoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
SonokA: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TasBasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 3a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAxcALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxeala.
Vera Cruz: Gobernador del Estado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacioOn y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yueatin, Mérida, Yucatén.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Storthingets, Bibliothek, Oslo.
Peru: Camara de Diputados, Lima.
POLAND: Bibljoteka Narodowa, Warsaw.
PortuGAL: Secretario da Assemblea Nacional, Lisboa.
RUMANIA: i
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.
Ministére des Affaires Eitrangéres, Bucharest.
SPAIN :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Madrid.
Catalunya: Biblioteca del Parlament de Catalunya, Barcelona.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.
Berne: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Berne.
St. Gallen: Staatskanzlei des Kantons St. Gallen.
Schaffhausen: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Schaffhausen.
Ziirich: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Zitirich.
SYRIA:
Ministére des Finances de la République Libanaise, Service du Matériel,
Beirut.
Governor of the State of Alaouites, Lattaquié.
31508—38——6
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

TurRKEY: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Ankara.
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA:
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urvavay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.
Vatican Crry: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

The work of the Peruvian Exchange Agency has been transferred
from the Biblioteca Nacional to the Seccién de Propaganda y Pub-
licaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Lima.

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENOIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisién Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Canje Internacional,
Calle Callao 1540, Buenos Aires.

Austria: Internationale Austauschstelle, National-Bibliothek, Wien, I.

Azores, via Portugal.

Brereium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Biblioth@que Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

30LIVIA: Oficina Nacional de Estadfstica, La Paz.

Brazit: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

British GuIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Buta@ariA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. de Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANADA: Sent by mail.

Canary IsLANps, via Spain.

Cute: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.

CotompraA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,

Cuspa: Sent by mail.

CzeECHOSLOVAKIA : Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzig: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Bovuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eeyret: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,
Helsingfors.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Eehanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

Germany: Amerika-Institut, Universitatstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 2-4 Earnshaw St., New Oxford
St., London, W. C. 2.

Greece: Bibliothégque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Hair: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hunaary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

IcELAND, via Denmark.

InpIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

Iraty: R. Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’ Educazione
Nazionale, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Latvia: Service des Hichanges Internationaux, Bibliothtque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LisertA: Bureau of Hxchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LouRENCO MArquez, via Portugal.

LUXEMBOURG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

MAperrra, via Portugal.

Mexico: Sent by mail.

MOZAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Ixchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

New SourH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

NIcARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Wehanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
VUniversité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA: Sent by mail.

Paraguay: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Hxteriores, Asunci6n.

Peru: Seccion de Propaganda y Publicationes, Ministerio de Relaciones HEx-
teriores, Lima.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw. 5

PortuGaL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisboa.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

Rumania: Bureau des Wchanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique
Central, Bucharest.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AvsTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Span : Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, bajo derecha, Madrid.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

SuMATRA, via Netherlands.

SweEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwITzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Sygra: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

Tunis: via France.

TurRKEY: Robert College, Istanbul.

Union oF SoutH ArricA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape
Town, Cape of Good Hope.

UNION oF Sovier SocrAList Reruslics: Library of the Academy of Sciences of
the U. 8S. 8S. R., Exchange Service, Leningrad, V. O.

Urvuevay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Ministerio de Rela-
ciones Exteriores, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicrorIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yuaostavia: Section des [changes Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires

Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
C. W. Suormaxer, Chief Clerk.

Dr. C. G. Aszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1937:

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance
of the Park was $225,000, all of which was expended.

IMPROVEMENTS

The fiscal year 19837 was probably the most outstanding in the
history of the Zoo. The construction under the Public Works Ad-
ministration grant of $892,920 was completed. These improvements
include a brick exhibition building for small mammals and great
apes; a stone exhibition building to house large mammals; a new
wing to the bird house; a two-story building for machine and car-
penter shops; a stone garage; the installation of three 250-horse-
power down-draft boilers in the central heating plant; an extension
of the conduit system to the small mammal house and large mammal
house; and rearrangement of the electric supply distribution sys-
tem, a portion of which was put underground.

The small mammal and great ape house was completed and opened
to the public in May 1937. It is approximately 185 by 115 feet and
contains 96 cages and tanks varying in size from 18 by 12 by 26
inches to 12 by 40 by 10 feet, which provide accommodations for a
considerable variety of animals. The building consists of four sec-
tions: A large central room with cages in the center and around the
sides, some with glass fronts and others with steel bars; a wing for
the great apes with a glass partition between the animals and the
public; a third room for the gibbons, which are likewise partitioned
from the public by glass; and a fourth room, semicircular in form,
which is termed the nocturnal room and is designed to house an array
of small creatures that are rarely shown in collections. The build-
ing is fairly easy to keep clean, and the system of forced ventilation
eliminates practically all the odor.

The contract work on the large mammal house was completed in
June 1937, but considerable still remains to be done before it is ready
for occupancy. This work is being carried on by the Zoo’s regular
personnel which it is hoped will be augmented by assistance from

69
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

W. P. A. It is anticipated that the building will be occupied by
animals late in the summer of 1937.

The structure is about 227 by 90 feet and is designed to accommodate
elephants, rhinos, hippos, pigmy hippos, tapirs, and giraffes, for
which it has 13 inside cages ranging in size from 12 by 19 feet to
22 by 58 feet. Several of the inside cages have pools, and each
cage connects with an outside yard in which the animals are re-
tained by dry moats in lieu of fences. The design of the building is
simple, well proportioned, and beautiful. The public space is 30 by
165 feet, and the sound-deadening effect of the acoustical tile on the
ceiling produces a highly satisfactory condition. The walls of the
cages for the hippo, African and Indian elephants, and giraffe have
been painted with appropriate backgrounds by artists of the Treasury
art relief project.

The addition to the bird house, 43 by 133 feet, was completed in
November 1936. This wing contains 27 glass-fronted cages, one of
which has insulated walls and a glass top and is provided with a re-
frigeration system which makes it a well-lighted cold storage room.
This was stocked with penguins, which are thriving in the uniform
temperature of 63° F. The backs of a number of the cages, including
that of the penguin room, have been decorated with scenes representing
various geographical regions, which greatly enhances the attrac-
tiveness of the exhibits. The art work was done by the Treasury
art relief project.

The installation of new boilers in the central heating plant was
completed late in the summer of 1936, and the plant was used during
the winter of 1936-7.

The mechanical shop building is of stone, 51 by 100 feet, 2 stories;
the lower story accommodates a stockroom and iron and machine
work, and the upper story is mainly for carpentry work. The im-
proved facilities provided by this have permitted much greater effi-
ciency of operations in the maintenance of the Park than had been
possible heretofore.

The stone garage, 56 by 64 feet, was built near the boiler room
and completed late in the summer of 1936.

From July 1, 1936, until January 27, 1937, a small and diminishing
group of W. P. A. laborers was available for miscellaneous work
about the Park. With this labor a variety of work was accomplished,
including repairing and resurfacing some roads and walks. A trench
600 feet long was dug for the laying of electric conduit from the
bird house to the large mammal house. Trenches also were dug
for the laying of about 600 feet of sanitary sewers and drains. More
than 400 cubic yards of sand was hauled from the creek bed, cleaned
and screened for use in concrete work. Miscellaneous grading was
Secretary's Report, 1937.—Appendix 6 - PLATE 3

1. LARGE MAMMAL HOUSE AS SEEN FROM THE WEST. ELEPHANT YARD AND
POOL IN FOREGROUND, AND GIRAFFE YARD AT LEFT.

2. INTERIOR OF LARGE MAMMAL HOUSE LOOKING TOWARD HIPPO POOL.
Secretary's Report, 1937.—Appendix 6 PLATE 4

IT
|

il

[ae ~

1. HIPPO IN POOL IN LARGE MAMMAL HOUSE,

2. REFRIGERATED PENGUIN CAGE IN BIRD HOUSE.
Secretary's Report, 1937.—Appendix 6 PLATE 5

1. EXTERIOR OF NEW ADDITION TO BIRD HOUSE.

2. INTERIOR OF NEW ADDITION TO BIRD HOUSE.
Secretary's Report, 1937.—Appendix 6 PLATE 6

1. SMALL MAMMAL HOUSE AS SEEN FROM THE ROAD

2. INTERIOR OF NOCTURNAL ROOM OF SMALL MAMMAL HOUSE.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY fal

done about the Park. General improvement work about the grounds,
including seeding, sodding, and planting of trees and shrubs, was
carried on as well as the continuance of eradication of poison ivy
in the sections of the Park most used by the public.

Normal maintenance operations of the Park required all the mate-
rials and personnel that could be supplied under the regular appro-
priation, so almost no improvements were made under the regular
funds. Indeed, a great deal of finishing up work remains to be
done around the newly constructed buildings or in them but is
progressing very slowly because of lack of manpower and materials.

A bookbinder assigned to the Smithsonian Institution by the
W. P. A. has bound, rebound, or repaired a considerable number of
publications in the Zoo branch of the Smithsonian Institution
library, resulting in a great improvement in the condition and use-
fulness of the library.

The work of classifying and arranging in their proper places in
the library various publications of use in the Zoo has progressed
very satisfactorily through the arrangement whereby a member of
the Smithsonian Institution’s regular library force comes to the
Zoo once a week and carries out this type of work.

EXPEDITION

The National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution East
Indies Expedition, which is financed by the National Geographic
Society to obtain animals for this Zoo, left Washington in two sec-
tions. Dr. William M. Mann, Director of the Park, Mrs. Mann, and
Dr. Maynard Owen Williams, chief of the foreign editorial staff
of the National Geographic, left Washington January 12 and sailed
from Vancouver, B. C., January 19 on the Empress of Asia for south-
ern Asiatic points. On February 9, Roy Jennier, assistant head
keeper, and Malcolm Davis, keeper, in the National Zoological Park,
left Washington with 28 animals (2 black bears, 2 pumas, 2 jaguars,
4 raccoons, 3 opossums, 10 alligators, and 5 hellbenders), sailed from
New York February 11 on the steamer J alisse and arrived at Bel-
awan-Deli, Sumatra, March 22, 1937, where Dr. Mann had previously
landed and had established headquarters for the expedition. The
American animals were intended for zoos in the Far East. At the
close of this fiscal year the expedition is still in the field, and it will
not return to Washington until late in September or October 1937.
Information as to the animal collection being assembled indicates a
satisfactory trip.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

The remaining two most important structural needs of the Zoo
are a new antelope building and a new restaurant building.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

The old frame structure now called the antelope house accom-
modates animals of a higher total value than any other single struc-
ture now occupied in the Park. It is an unhealthful type of struc-
ture, a dangerous fire hazard, is difficult to heat and expensive to
maintain. A new building adapted for the magnificent and re-
markable group of rather delicate even-toed hoofed creatures is much
needed.

The old frame shelter now housing the restaurant and concession
stand is badly deteriorated and entirely inadequate to accommodate
the large volume of business that has developed with the increasing
attendance at the Zoo. The construction of a suitable building
would be a self-liquidating undertaking, as the annual revenue de-
rived from the restaurant concession has been $6,012 per annum for
the past 3 years, and for the forthcoming 3 years will be $9,012
per annum.

There is also need for some additional walks and roads that we
hope may be constructed with the aid of the W. P. A.

VISITORS FOR THE YEAR

5 fix (a OS, Sah a Le a — Sete, DOO I MeDIUaLYy.— 2 ee 95, 000
T7421 | Ae ee RY Ce ae a ee eR ae A BE 176, 500
ere per = =a A ee 200; OU) Atle 2 or ee ee ee 239, 700
MOOLODGIS Ey 5 der Se ed Sh eels 2G6, 4004 May.ce ete ee ee 318, 350
LCE CIE C2) ack eae ae ne pr UE bh pee ee eC ae ieee 265, 600
Mecem pers. a. 8 sie eee 81, 250 ———_
TOS nc is SaaS EE a a 88, 450 pf eee 2, 435, 520

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of
which there is definite record was 34,120 from 688 different schools
in 20 States and the District of Columbia, as follows:

Number | Number Number | Number
State of of State of of

persons parties persons | parties
7 ne eee ee 20 1 |} North Carolina.........--.--- 1, 262 37
Oonnectiont_ wc. ~~ 22..52-.22-. 109 A) 3 (Oe a ES SR bens Sees eee 934 26
(ORC) ai ee eee eee 486 10 |] Pennsylvania-.....----------- 8, 552 167
District of Columbia__------- 6, 638 18311) Rhode island. co ade cite 40 1

SOTMIO Acca eek sakes 363 11 || South Carolina...-...--.----- 234 7

1 ee ee a eee 107 2 1) “Dennessee 22.25.26... 1 1
MARVIANG Jo S25 eos lates 4, 659 2 Ul), Waren ea es en ats Ss 4, 870 85
Massachusetts_.......-.....-- 337 Ol West Virginm. 20 2S 452 10
Wien pan o-* ica cc bac ewes 86 2 || Conventions—Members of
Wilesaite s2 ali vo east aS 46 1 various States_..........--- 140 2
New Hampshire_.-.--.------- 72 i
Wew darssys 62 20s a4. Se 2, 519 32 Potal ste ee 34, 120 638
INSW.Re Omi s eske fonc cee 2,178 24

About 3 o’clock every afternoon, except Sundays and holidays, a
census is made of the cars parked on the Zoo grounds. During the
year 32,668 were so listed, representing every State in the Union,
Canada, Mexico, Canal Zone, Alaska, and Cuba. Since the total
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY rhe.

number is merely a record of those actually parked at one time,
it. is not of value as indicating a total attendance but is of impor-
tance as showing the percentage attendance by States, Territories,
and countries. The District of Columbia comprised slightly over
48 percent; Maryland, 21 percent; Virginia, 14 percent; and the
remaining cars were from other States, Territories, and countries.
During years in which counts have been made on Sunday as well
as during the week it has been found that the percentage of cars
from the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia is less, and
the percentage of the more distant States is correspondingly in-
creased. This is brought about by tourists coming to the Zoo on
Sundays when other points of interest are closed to them.

The nineteenth annual meeting of the American Society of Mam-
malogists was held in Washington May 4 to 8, inclusive. Their
program included a trip to the Zoo on May 8, where luncheon was
served in the large mammal house. The small mammal house was
first opened to the public as this organization entered it.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts——Many specimens were received as gifts this year. Inter-
esting additions were a pair each of cheer pheasants and white-
crested kaleege from Dr. J. Delacour, Cleres, France; a pair of blue-
crowned hanging paroquets and a tui paroquet from Alan N. Steyne,
Washington, D. C., and a male Kaibab squirrel from the United
States Forest Service.

We take this opportunity to express appreciation for the assist-
ance and cooperation of the personnel of the United States Biological
Survey, National Park Service, and Forest Service, and Vernon
Bailey, of Washington, D. C., Theodore Scheffer, of Puyallup, Wash.,
Alex Walker, of Tillamook, Oreg., and John M. Davis, of Arlington,
Va., for gifts of American small mammals for stocking the small
mammal house when it was opened. More than 150 small mam-
mals were received through them from localities ranging from
Georgia to Washington and Oregon.

When the small mammal and great ape house was completed, the
Director of the Park was on an extended trip to the southern Asiatic
region to assemble a collection for the Zoo, so it was not advisable,
even if it had been financially possible, to stock this building with
exotic animals. Arrangements were accordingly made for plac-
ing on exhibition a collection of American small mammals. It was
probably the largest and best collection of its kind ever assembled,
and has attracted much favorable attention. It is particularly
valuable in showing the considerable diversity of forms common to
North America and which are frequently overlooked or ignored.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Also, it is of value because it has given visitors an opportunity to
study rather closely animals that are of great economic importance
either because of their beneficial or destructive habits or their value

for fur.
DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Mrs. Anna H. Anderson, Washington,. D. C., alligator.

A. M. Aytona, Washington, D. C., opossum.

L. D. Babbitt, Petersham, Mass., through Dr. Doris M. Cochran, copperhead
snake, hog-nosed snake, spotted turtle, musk turtle.

Miss M. B. Bailey, Hyattsville, Md., 3 Pekin ducks.

Vernon Bailey, Washington, D. C., 3 flying squirrels, short-tailed shrew.

Mrs. John B. Baker, Durham, N. C., rhesus monkey.

Marshall Banks, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Dr. Thos. Barbour, Cambridge, Mass., chicken snake, corn snake, 3 garter
snakes, 2 black snakes, 2 king snakes, 15 water snakes.

Mrs. Virgil Barker, Fort Myers, Fla., broad-winged hawk.

Mrs. Beavers, Mt. Rainier, Md., black widow spider and eggs.

C. T. R. Bohannon, Carlsbad, N. Mex., prairie rattlesnake.

V. BE. Bolton, Washington, D. C., opossum.

W. L. Bond, Fredericksburg, Va., 2 barn owls.

Julius Booker, C. C. C., Belvoir, Va., copperhead snake.

Miss Mary L. Borger, Chevy Chase, Md., white rabbit.

Harlie Branch, Washington, D. C., alligator.

R. D. Brands, Washington, D. C., groundhog.

Mrs. Richard Brickway, Washington, D. C., orange-fronted parrot.

Dr. Alice L. Brown, Washington, D. C., 18 black skimmers,

Miss Caroline Brown, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Elwood Brown, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

8. K. Brown, Eustis, Fla., 4 corn snakes, 2 pine snakes, 3 coral snakes, water
moccasin.

Mrs. T. R. Brown, Washington, D. C., Belgian rabbit.

L. J. Burner, Maurertown, Va., raccoon.

Dr. A. Busk, Washington, D. C., 2 grass paroquets.

Miss Anna Butler, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

Adjutant Carnahan, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Dr. Doris M. Cochran, Washington, D. C., blacksnake.

Frederick Cochrane, Washington, D. C., alligator.

C. P. Coe, Chevy Chase, Md., raccoon.

Mrs. J. L. Cotton, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mrs. 8. C. Cotton, Washington, D. C., 2 grass paroquets.

Mrs. J. M. Cox, Washington, D. C., 6 moles.

Raymond Crawford, Warren, Ohio, 2 sidewinder rattlesnakes, 2 chuckwalla
lizards, gopher tortoise, 2 horn snakes, king snake.

C. R. Cruey, Centerville, Va., great white heron.

Frank Cundall, Kingston, Jamaica, Jamaica boa.

P. B. Darling, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Miss Priscilla Deane, Washington, D. C., bobwhite.

B. L. Deitzel, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Dr. J. Delacour, Cleres, France, 2 cheer pheasants, 2 white-crested kaleege.

J. P. Delphey, Frederick, Md., Javan macaque, rhesus monkey.

Irving Denenberg, Washington, D. C., pied-billed grebe.

C. F. Denley, Glenmont, Md., 2 ring-necked pheasants, 2 white ring-necked
pheasants,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75

Mario DePrato, Washington, D. C., 3 geckos, garter snake.

Mrs. Catherine L. Devine, Washington, D. C., alligator.

¥. H. Dreyer, Laurel, Md., Cooper’s hawk.

Vernon Dye, Alexandria, Va., barred owl.

Billy Earman, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. C. W. Elliott, Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Mrs. J. H. Elvin, Washington, D. C., 3 Pekin ducks.

Dr. Wm. O. Emory, Washington, D. C., 5 salamanders.

Mrs. Arnold Flack, Washington, D. C., 2 grass paroquets.

Florida Reptile Institute, Silver Springs, Fla., 2 red-shouldered hawks.

Dr. R. H. Ford, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Mrs. C. R. Fornwald, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Mrs. Agnes L. Fort, Washington, D. C., double yellow-headed parrot.

M. B. Foster, Orlando, Fla., corn snake, mud or horn snake.

Mrs. Edith Frazier, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

C. B. Freeman, Washington, D. C., 4 screech owls.

R. L. George, King City, Calif., yellow-billed magpie.

Frank Glaisdell, Washington, D. C., 24 horned lizards.

Sol Gnatt, Washington, D. C., water moccasin.

W. R. Gorman, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Louis Granados, Riverdale, Md., blacksnake.

Donald Griffin, Cambridge, Mass., 9 hibernating bats.

R. Grove, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Joseph Gruss, Waldorf, Md., bald eagle.

Mrs. Emma T. Hahm, Washington, D. C., 3 fan-tailed pigeons.

Miss Matilda J. Hahn, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Miss Reba Haiden, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Hugh M. Hamill, Sells, Ariz., desert rattlesnake.

J. Harvey, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Thaddeus Hess, Marine Band, Washington, D. C., 5 pygmy rattlesnakes, 5
Florida diamond-back rattlesnakes, 12 water moccasins, blacksnake, corn
snake, 2 Florida king snakes, hoop snake or rainbow snake.

W. E. Hill, Petersburg, Va., banded rattlesnake.

P. J. Hollohan, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Mrs. N. Horan, Washington, D. C., African gray parrot.

L. C. Hosley, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

HH. N. Hosmer, Arlington, Va., alligator.

’ Billy Householder, Phoenix, Ariz., Agassiz’s tortoise.

Bob Householder, Phoenix, Ariz., Gila monster.

Tom Householder, Phoenix, Ariz., tarantula.

Dr. Claude Hudson, Washington, D. C., 18 red moon fish.

C. L. Hugh, Washington, D. C., opossum.

John H. Jackson, Oak Grove, Va., great horned owl.

W. B. Jones, Tuscaloosa, Ala., 2 water moceasins, 2 chicken snakes, copper-
head snake.

Ellis 8S. Joseph, New York City, 10 banded finches.

L, 8. Julier, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Java sparrows.

Mrs. Martha Junkin, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Wilbert Kaiser, Laurel, Md., bald eagle.

Walter Karig, Alexandria, Va., red-vented bulbul.

Mrs. A. S. Keever, Washington, D. C., ground squirrel.

Jacob W. Kennedy, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

C. T. Kettler, Washington, D. C., ribbon snakes.

J. B. Kimes, Silver Spring, Md., barn owl.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

R. Lambert, Washington, D. C., 2 bobwhites.

Lester Leigh, Dade City, Fla., 3 garter snakes, chicken snake, 3 southern
pilot snakes, 3 Florida king snakes, 3 mud or horned snakes.

M. Libert and Wm. Spawn, Washington, D. C., trap door spider and nest.

Letty L. Light, Washington, D. C., sparrowhawk.

Capt. G. E. Lightcap, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mr. and Mrs. F. CG. Lincoln, Washington, D. C., salamander.

A. Loveridge, Cambridge, Mass., 2 chicken snakes, black snake, king snake,
corn snake.

Rowland Lyon, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum.

W. Mackay, Washington, D. C., alligator.

E. B. Maddox, Hyattsville, Md., 2 raccoons.

Herbert Magruder, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Harry A. Mahone, Roanoke, Va., indigo snake.

Harold BE. Martin, Washington, D. C., horseshoe crab.

Maryland University through Dr. Burhoe, 8 hairless rats.

H. W. D. Mayers, Collinsville, Conn., 2 green guenons.

R. H. McCauley, Ithaca, N. Y., 2 pine snakes, indigo snake.

Miss J. McDuffie, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mrs. J. D. McDuffie, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

BH. A. Mellhenny, Avery Island, La., 10 wood ducks, black Carolina and
turkey vulture hybrid.

Dr. Kenneth Meyers, Detroit, Mich., 5 lizards.

Mrs. Robert Montgomery, Washington, D. C., 2 horned lizards.

R. 8. C. Morman, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Wesley McC. Morris, Ednor, Md., 2 Formosan ring-necked pheasants.

Miss F. C. Mortimer, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

B. C. Moyer, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Stanley Mulaik, Rio Grande City, Tex., through Dr. Doris M. Cochran, 2
sealy lizards.

Mrs. J. Murcelle, Washington, D. C., blue jay.

Miss Ann C. Murray, Cumberstone, Md., 2 gray foxes.

National Park Service, through A. BE. Borell, Phoenix, Ariz., 12 desert pocket
mice.

Mrs. E. Page, Washington, D. C., double yellow-head parrot.

Drury Parks, Washington, D. C., orange-crested cockatoo.

R. L. Parnell, Alexandria, Va., 2 great-horned owls.

Mrs. E. Penn, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

D. N. Pratt, Washington, D. C., mouse opossum.

L. C. Probert, Olney, Md., mute swan.

U. S. Randle, Randle Highlands, D. C., American black bear.

F, A. Rapp, Washington, D. C., great blue heron.

Miss Helen Roach, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Bi. H. Rolston, Alexandria, Va., 2 gopher tortoises.

Carroll W. Ruhle, Washington, D. C., pilot snake, queen snake, water snake,
3 ring-necked snakes, worm snake.

Mrs. Charles Saltzman, Silver Spring, Md., 2 flying squirrels.

Andrew Santorios, Washington, D. C., 2 tarantulas.

James R. Sarton, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Earl Saunders, Washington, D. C., Canadian porcupine.

Edward Saunders, Kensington, Md., screech owl.

Theodore H. Scheffer, Puyallup, Wash., 4 yelm pocket mice, 2 mountain beavers,
varying hare.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 77

Dr. Schultz and Mr. Reid, Washington, D. C., pilot snake.

W. W. Schwink, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Harry Sedley, Washington, D. C., marine turtle.

Miss Carolyn Sheldon, Woodstock, Vt., 2 eastern chipmunks.

W. H. Sherbert, Edgewater, Md., red-shouldered hawk.

John Shorey, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

G. W. Shuster, Washington, D, C., baby raccoon.

Allen Smith, Washington, D. C., 2 fence lizards.

Miss Betty Smith, Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Miss Daisy Smith, Newark, Del., ferret.

Otto Smith, Harpers Ferry, W. Va., gray fox.

Wm. Spawn and M. Libert, Washington, D, C., trap door spider and nest.

Miss Daisy R. Spradling, Athens, Tenn., osprey or fish hawk.

Miss Katherine Stafford, Baltimore, Md., white-throated capuchin, marmoset.

FI, EF. Stayton, Chestertown, Md., brown capuchin.

Alan N. Steyne, Washington, D. C., 2 blue-crowned hanging paroquets, Tui
paroquet.

H. I’. Stroup, Washington, D. C., grivet monkey.

J. J. Taleott, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Dr. W. M. Tallant, Manatee, Fla., indigo snake.

Ralph Taylor, Washington, D. C., black widow spider.

Mrs. 8. G. Taylor, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

M. R. Thorp, Washington, D. C., double-yellow-headed parrot.

Mrs. Ethel B. Timmons, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Miss Mary Troiano, Washington, D. C., salamander.

Carl Tucker, Washington, D, C., hog-nosed snake.

Horace A. Tucker, Washington, D. C., indigo snake.

U. S. Biological Survey, through C. HE. Beebe, St. Regis, Mont., puma; through
J. S. C. Boswell, Washington, D. C., 8 corn snakes; through H, N. Elliott, El
Paso, Tex., 9 prairie dogs, 6 pocket gophers; through J. Finley and C. E.
McFarland, Cashmere, Wash., 3 mantled ground squirrels, 5 Hollister chip-
munks; through John H. Gatlin, Albuquerque, N. Mex., puma, 2 prairie wolves;
through Gill Gigstead, Havana, Il., 4 coyotes; through A. S. Hamm and N. E.
Buell, Casper, Wyo., long-tailed weasel, 2 picket-pin gophers; through L. E.
Hicks and L, Baumgartner, Columbus, O., 4 red squirrels; through F. N. Jarvis,
Washington, D. C., 3 meadow mice, pied-billed grebe; through BE. V. Komarek,
Thomasville, Ga., opposum, 3 cotton rats; through Kenneth Krumm, Middle
River, Minn., muskrat; through C, R. Landon, San Antonio, Tex., 4 Baird wood
rats, 4 cotton rats, 3 Rio Grande ground squirrels, hispid pocket mouse; through
C. R. Landon and J. M. Hill, Jr., Bryan, Tex., 6 pocket gophers; through ©, R.
Landon and L. C. Whitehead, San Antonio, Tex., Baird wood rat, cotton rat,
hispid pocket mouse, 2 gray pigmy mice, 3 Merriam’s silky pocket mice, 2 nine-
banded armadillos, 3 pallid white-footed mice, ground squirrel, red house
mouse; through J. Manweiler, Baudette, Minn., 6 varying hares or snowshoe
rabbits; through Wm. H,. Marshall, Bingham, Utah, 3 marmots; through O. J.
Murie, Seattle, Wash., bald eagle, glaucous-winged gull; through C. E. Mush-
back, Cache, Okla., 8 prairie dogs, 2 cotton rats, 2 round-tail wood rats, Old
field mouse; through W. D. Parker, Fort Totten, N. Dak., 6 flag squirrels,
11 Richardson ground squirrels; through W. Taylor and V. W. Lehmann, Hagle
Lake, Tex., 7 Texan red wolves; through H. W. Terhune, DeWitt, Ark., 6
cotton rats; through Stanley Young, Washington, D. C., bay lynx.

U. 8S. Forest Service, Washington, D. C., Kaibab squirrel.

W. C. Varner, Washington, D. C., horseshoe crab.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Dr. Charles T. Vorhies, Tucson, Ariz., 2 Merriam kangaroo rats.

Alex Walker, Tillamook, Ore., Washington varying hare, Oregon creeping mouse.

Col. W. E. Welliver, Washington, D. C., 2 African monitors.

P. C. Wercks, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

W. David White, Washington, D. C., 3 red-shouldered hawks.

Mrs. J. H. Whitmore, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

L. Wilkins, Takoma Park, Md., banded rattlesnake.

Mrs. B. IF’. Williams, Chevy Chase, Md., Canadian porcupine.

G. B. Williams, Thurmont, Md., 12 banded rattlesnakes, 10 copperheads, 5 water
snakes, 2 hog-nosed snakes, 11 pilot snakes, 2 fence lizards.

Mrs. R. Williams, Washington, D, C., alligator.

R. W. Williams, Washington, D. C., 2 rhesus monkeys.

BE. W. Wilson, Washington, D. C., groundhog.

Lee Guy Wilson Estate, Tree Top, Va., barred owl.

John Wyman, Washington, D. C., duck.

Philip N. Youtz, New York City, kinkajou.

Yugoslav Legation, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Births.—There were 50 mammals born, 37 birds hatched, and 14
reptiles hatched or born in the Park during the year. These include

the following:
MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number
Ammotragus lervia._._._.__ yA SUNT Ci elle pitti ds satale spec Bag cs ae 3
a FI arte eee Boe fa 0 Lo 5 le I, ie ea i De Sone 3
ewe, TRONS ao et en Oe eae ee AeriCwn DNON eee 2
Dee AL), | ite MIR ae iets Selah tesa st oe ee ee eee eee Z
Pee SF ites ap at i iS aN Se ecltien 9 Ne esa te Blea note pt ig) |
Camelus dromedarius —_-__-___--_--_- PAU CHINE >< oo, ee nme. 1
Contes tupus lycaon____-________ Pte er Le agi (0 | leaned, EAS mB esa 2
Capromys, ptlorides_______________ -___ 23 1: nee Rate eae ae ee 3
RIOT Ur SAIS een ee ee eee a ns WAL: + alkiellialal att es tetera, Nye 2! 2
ROTTER CGD pate ee eee BAUOW UOer se eee eee 8
Dolichotis salinicola__________.________ WATE CV nie ne eee 4
AGUUS OFZewWaleiet- 8 Mongolian wild horse ___-__-______ i
Hrethizon dorsatum ——___-__-__-___ Dastern porcupine —~_____--_-_- 1
ITGUEE ORIN os re ee ee ee Pr 1 pea a Salle aE aan seh ate 3
SLUG LEE Ci Balad etal, Dig rt SR Dit Mn Sats ka CA peel ain eerpmdid dae cred be ples 3
MODUSNE GUNG Se ees ONPEIGLY SRT coe ge 1
Oryx beisa annectens_________________ We RR e 2G an, ace aits Mate amelie St 1
pe Ng TT | dal ann le a Sag A VODUMERS COR a. nn a ee 8
gle ge gt ila Ni este Ana Maat is Sl piace Alaska Peninsula bear____-_--____ 1.

BIRDS
Anes undulatus Al 2h e. lee oe African yellow-billed duck__-__-__- 1
Ardea herodius XA. occidentalis_______ Heron thy brid: =. tit) es es 3
Branta canadensiée 22.2 Gonads . spose. ert wees] bien 2
Chrysolophus pictus_.__.___.____.___.-___ Golden: PheaRantise ies scsi gi I 5
Larus novaehollandiae___._..-.____-___ Silyveryhett 222220) ge eee 14
Pavo ovtatatuel 226 ot AE ii ge re Penfawizeliteics teemertt sabinr pote 5
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

REPTILES
BOG CHING) a0 tee Lae Creed tree Ode. ere 6
Egernia cunninghami__--------------- Ciunnmegham “skink. 2" 2) 2
Sistrurus catenatus catenatus____---_- iN, [TISTSEV SET poe pice dle A Mae 6

Eechanges.—In an exchange with the Philadelphia Zoological
Gardens there were received the following: Hybrid tree kangaroo,
American elk or wapiti, 2 European water snakes, 4 Kuropean vipers,
6 green tree frogs, and 10 small European lizards. From Louis
Ruhe, Inc., New York City, were received a cock of the rock and a
koel, A pair of gannets was received from the Toronto Park Zoo,
Toronto, Canada. From Dr. Johan Beetz, Director, Service de
VElevage des Animaux a’ Fourrure, Province of Quebec, was re-
ceived a splendid specimen of ranch-bred mink obtained by him from
the mink farm of Dr. J. E. La Forest, near the city of Quebec.

Purchases.—Important purchases during the year were three
pronghorn antelopes, 6 jackass penguins, a pair of jabiru storks, and
3 black-tailed marmosets. In December 1936, 30 hummingbirds were
purchased in Habana, Cuba, and transported by airplane to the
Park. Only 2 died en route, the remainder arriving in good
condition.

REMOVALS

Deaths.—Important losses by death during the year include two
chimpanzees, one of which, “Soko”, had been in the collection since
September 8, 1915. A Komodo dragon received June 21, 1934, died
July 11, 1937. A Burmese deer and saiga antelope died during this
period.

During the year 405 specimens that died were sent to the National
Museum.

ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name
Callithrix argentata.-.. 2 Black-tailed marmoset.
Cricetomys gambianus________________ African pouched rat.
BIRDS
BEPOON WaUMCHR 80) 18.8 ke ne Cheer pheasant.
Gennaeus albocristatus_______________. White-crested kaleege.
REPTILES

Bavcrates subllavus 20.05 Sure Jamaica boa.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Statement of accessions

Received
Pre- : Pur- On de-
Class Born in ex- ; Total
sented change chased posit
WU 2 hn ae ee ae Bane = a5 Shae 185 50 3 26 15 279
ye es eh ee Uae SAR eae Te 97 37 26 204 18 382
1c) oe ne aS Sane as. \. Oe y 224 14 16 36 25 315
TAD MIIANS 0s. 2 ceo ak catce dase seeee ee q |axcuoseese 6 pt anaes Se 32
Loy CUT See eee ee ee a ee ee eee VW on! Sa 50

Summary
ATIMAIN ‘On DANG. JULY: 1, heO. ee 2F Se ee 2,191
Acceusions' during’ the. yenriitit Cero ery Beh ees es ee 1, 067
‘Total animals. in collection during years —._ + 545) eo ee 3, 258
Removal from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on
RRS. TAM cts Sone eRe el ec: osetia . Spies a 2 fic) Nis tein ne Bell’ 916
In eonection Jiime 80; Gets Or ear be et See 2, 342

Status of collection

Individ-

Class Species Species

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1937

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae: Number
Didelphis virginiana_____------_-_- OnORSTII: 52 Aor ae Re = pe ee 9
Metachirus opossum =_____.___--__. Zorro or banana opossum___—---~~ il
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagus ursinus XD. inustus.._ Hybrid tree kangaroo___------~-- i
CARNIVORA
Felidae:
Felis concolor azteca ———_ =. Mexican ‘puma’ a eee ‘!
Metachirus opossum_..____.-____. j Eg bic: Ngpeet ice send eve dat Soap nibh Pea tt en 4
TCUS 100. 2 eee eee oe TOT ee 6
TGUGR TOR GURU aaa ne ee een Uganda ‘wild. tabby u
; JRLTAT oe ere ee 5
teat eenceseeae Sabana Black taeuar 2 eee 2
CIS MOTOS ne eae eee ee ‘Biack leopard = eee 1
Felis pardus suahelicus_______-~_-. Hast African’ leopard... == 1
Fels temmincki_=—.—-__..~__...— Golden ent too es eee 1

Felis tigris longipilis___.c.______- Sileripn tiers eee 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Sl

Felidae—Continued.
Felis tigris sondaicus____________- Sumatranotirer 22 2
yn TOC CY ta ee Boley sclyux = eS oe eee, 1
EAD ECU OCU ae ee ee oe CCE WHTY OFF I pene on pepe atc od, iene Bel pale 1
U DAY INT PAPO PUI eS i Raa Rach ite ISS Vp yiisee ee ee ee a ee 5
Viverridae:
Cweitictis civetta____----__--=_—— Oly Cig one ee eee a
Genetta dongalana neumanni___—-- NMenmann’ Ss sSeneh= = eee il
Moschothera megaspila______----- CTE Fae a ES ee EE ne LOT 3
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans__---~~-- East African spotted hyena__--__ 1
YAGCNG ULUNNeb == ee Brown hyena =—— = ee 2
Canidae:
i Coyote; = 0522 =. a ee 13
Canis latrang.---—= apnea ne Albino: coyote=--===—- =. oae_ Senos af
Canis latrans X domestica____-_-. Coyote and dog hybrid____________ 2
Canis lupus lycaon_—-----_-_-----. Timber > wolfsec=-—- ass EB Ie 4
Canis tipus mubiluso2 == WOME ans ne age eens i oe 8
Canis lupus nubilus X domesticus. Wolf and dog hybrid___-_________ 1
Canrssniils = ees Texan red - woltetiees | ae if
Chrysocyonjubataz—- 2s _ be Maned-~wolt 2a Uree8 sana a al
Urocyon cinereoargenteus___-__-_- Gray “fox Se) See et 7
Anes lieu eee eee Red: for oes Sa Ie See Nee see 9
Procyonidae:
NGS NOTI CO Lae =e ae eer RE Gray’-coatimundi#2 2 2 eas 3
Pars cee Se 2 ee Kinks joua 2 a ae 3
Procyon cancriworus—2—2ie fee Crab-eating raccoon________-_____ 1
Rercoprres eS) LO eee 17
POCYUONNLOLOT ee Aibino (raccoons 2 00, Saas 1
Blacksraccoon=<-- ==" lens: Soles al
Bassariscidae:
Bassariscus astutus_--__-_---4___ Ring-tail or cacomistle____________ 2
Mustelidae:
Galictis barbara barbara____------ Whitestayra ==<-==2e re eee Z
Lutra canadensis vaga------------~ Moridar otters eae seer 2
Mellivora capensis __-__---__-__-__ Rate le atst canker See vee 1
Meniitiscnigra ==" =- 2 Denese ee ee ee ee ee a
Mustela cicognani cicognani_______ Bonaparte s weasel ofl
Mustela eversmanni _______--____~ HP errepesse = essere See 3
Mustela longicauda longicauda._-- Long-tailed weasel________________ 1
Mustela vison vison——__.__-_-§_-______ Ma er ee ee ee 1
Spilogale ambarvalis ________---__ Florida spotted skunk ___________ 1
Ursidae:
Huarctos americanus____________- American black bear__...____-_____ 6
Huarctos emmonsti__-_-___- GAACIETS CAT, nn eee eee of
Helarctos malayanus___-_---_-_- Malavior Sun bear==—— ere 1
Thalarctos maritimus____________ ROAR Dea ee eee 2
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus gyas Wybrid bear___-_______-____________ 3
UCL OR a European brown bear_____________ +
OU RUS OU US ena a Alaska Peninsula brown bear______ 4
GRSUS TACO Ci a ee Kadder’s\ bear 5.2 ee nee 2
Ursus middendorfii______-___.___- Kodiak. bear. 222 e task 3
Ursus -sithensig. os Sitka.brown. bear. - .5-= ae 3
Ursus thibetanus.._._____________. Fimalayanvbegr=2as ao esse ee 1

31508—38——_7
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Humetopias jubatus______.__.______ Steers Gil, ons) oe oe
Zalophus californianus_____-__--_- California seq lions.
Phocidae:
Phoca richardit__._._________-_____ Pacific harbor seal__________-_-___
PRIMATES
Callitrichidae :
Oallithria jacohus___—___.--_____ Common marmoset ——..-_-_-__--_
MOG OC UENCE eg Black-tailed marmoset-__---------
Oedipomidas geoffroyi__-__-______ Central American marmoset_-------
Cebidae:
Cebus angle) 8 ee Brown :capuchin.._-<= 222 ts Bea
Oebue capucinus._-.________.___ White-throated capuchin___--_--__
Cebus fatuctiae= 2 oes Weeping capuchin
ORT PR ok Oe ee he Brown. CANUCHIN sw. Soe
Cercopithecidae :
Cercocebus fuliginosus____________ Sooty meanpapey.—- =
Cercopithecus albigularis___..____ SyKeS Bhenon ek ere
Cercopithecus aethiops aethiops__. Grivet monkey_-_.________________
Cercopithecus aethiops roloway_.._. Roloway monkey —----------______
Cercopithecus aethiops sabacus__.. Green guenon__--_-----_--_______
Cercopithecus diana______________ Diatie INOWROY. Qos ee
Cercopithecus neglectus___________ De Brazza’s guenon_..___ ._+
Cercopithecus petaurista__________ Lesser white-nosed guenon____-___
Colobus polycomos caudatus______ White-tailed guereza __._.________
Colobus polycomos polycomos____— White-tailed colobus____.__________
Macaca fuscste oo on ce Japanese monkey_.----__-_-______
Macaca mordee? ..— a Javan macaque... ee
Macaca nulatia......._..-3..._. EENOBUS MONKGY oe ee
Macnee sens. WRHUSrOG MONKCY. 22 oa as
BE OGG Disb 2 re nn ice Bonnet monkey <2. 252. Se
ee ee Macaque monkey...
Mague maureus.__. se Moor MOnKey. = =e ae
Mandrillus leucophaecus __-_______ (07.1) SRE eRe eee aera ELE Sc
Mandrillus sphing___...__.._____. bE i ee
Papio comatus <n ORB sa ee
Papio hamedryae______.__._.____ Hamadryas baboon_.--_.__-____--
Papio papio cynocephalus___._____ Hast African baboon________.______
Papio papio papio________________ West African baboon _.___________
Theropithecus gelada_____________ Gelada’ baboon... eee
Ifylobatidae:
Symphalangus syndactylus_______ Slamane -P1DDOR =<. - os ee
Pongiidae:
PPORGO DOCU oie ce Sumatran orangutan______________
RODENTIA
Sciuridae:
Oallospermophilus saturatus______ Mantled ground squirrel__________
Citellus beecheyi douglassii_______ Douglas ground squirrel__________
Citellus mexicanus parvidens_____ Rio Grande ground squirrel____--_

Citellus richardsonii_-.____-_____- Richardson ground squirrel____-_~
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

Sciuridae—Continued.
Citellus richardsonui elegans___--- Picket-pin gopher —_--__-_-__-___- oe es I
Citellus tridecemlineatus___-_---- Hlagesquirrel_2 twas. sisiseere set 6
Cynomys ludovicianus____-------- Prairie, dog = ek eee “13
Eutamias amoenus ludibundus____ Hollister chipmunk —--___-___--_-_-~-- 2
Glaucomys volans___------------- Biying, squirrel... -eVaseen. yee 5
Marmota flaviventris____-__------- Marmot or whistler_________-__ Le ee
Woodchuck or groundhog_-__----- _ 7
Marmot Monde ————————— ana naa == eee woodchuck or groundhog-- 1
Sciurus fintaysoni__.-~-- 2522-2. Lesser white squirrel___________ ue
Sciurus hoffmani sub. sp_--------~ otiman’s squirrel 2 See ee a
Sciurus kaibabensis__._____-__-____ oa Dy Sg uinTebs a oe eee 1
Seirus: Nigeva= === eee Woxeisqairrel- 1
MaMias SITtOtUss = ee Hastern-chipmunk==2-25232 es. 2
Tamiasciurus hudsonicus___------ Rede Sq irre] ae os ee 2
Geomyidae:
Geomys arenarius______-__--_---.- Sand pocket gopher__-----__--___ 4
Thomomys douglasti yelmensis__-_-. Yelm» pocket ,gopherss-2 =: 2. 1
Heteromyidae:
Perognathus hispidus___._._.___.__—. Hispod pocket mouse_-_-_-__-____ 1
Perognathus merriami merriami___ Merriam’s silky pocket mouse---_ 2
Perognathus penicilliatus_______-_- Desert pocket mouse___.----~--~~ 2
Castoridae:
Castor canadensis.___._____.__.__—- IB ORViO Ts sascha 2 ee ee ae 2
Cricetidae:
Baiomys taylori taylori___-___----- Gray. pigmy: monse=- 23 1
Microtus oregoni oregoni____-----~ Oregon creeping mouse_-------_-_ 1
Microtus pennsylwanicus______---- Meadow sIMOuUses4 22 a 2
Neotoma floridana attwateri_--_-- Round-tailed wood rat___._--__-~~- 2
Neotoma micropus—_—__-_.—.=—=—== Baind swood, ate 2
Ondaira zibethica__.—.— = Black. muskrats. <= -- =2e 2 = i
Peromyscus leucopus.__—_.—.——_=— White-footed mouse_______--_-_-_ +
Peromyscus maniculatus pallescens— Pallid white-footed mouse___-_-~-_ 2
Sigmodon hispidus hispidus_______ (COUROD: Wiles oes Se ae 9
Sigmodon hispidus terianus_______ OOtbOn) Pata 22 ee ee ean 5
Muridae:
Cricetomys gambianus_______-____ Gambia pouched rat--__._--__-_~— 2
ITAL SON AUSCALIARS 3 et et Red ,housewmouses222—= = 2 2
IGE SRE LOCI se eee ee Waltzing. Moluse=s2).3.2 es ae ree 3
ACIS COMESTICH. 22 ee eee IG EPIORS rob ee ek re 4
Dipodidae:
Dipodomys merriami_____.__-_--_ Merriam kangaroo rat___-._---~~~—~ 2
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyurum______--_-_- Malay porcupines. = = 2
EU SUPAD” CALCU ass eee East African porcupine_____~----- 2
Erethizontidae:
Erethizon dorsatum_________----- Hastern: porcupines. = 2 a.) 1
Myocastoridae:
Myocastor <Coypu oss Og): a: | a ne eters e een 2
Capromyidae:
Capromys pilorides_.__.________._-_ 13 tiint oe eae Oe ee ee ae ee NS 9
Cuniculidae:

Citellus richardsonii____________ — Central American paca______-__-_- 2
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Dasyproctidae:
Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha_ Agouti-__.___-___.-.-__-__-_--______
Dasyprocta rubrata___-_---_------ Trinifad sageutitcsasn ts tie
Myoprocta..~p—_._sh_ ais =f Tailed agouti: +e Speak ot an
Caviidae:
Oavia .porcellue.___Lestives 2ue so Domestic guinea pig_--__-___-_____
Dolichotis magellanica____.___--_-~ Patagonian. cayy2ssisa® stapeett
Dolichotis salinicola__.___-___-----~ IDyate ACa Vy ee eee
Hydrochoeridae :
Hydrochoerus hydrochoerus____--- Oa DP DAED nen Pe BD te
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Lepus americdnusann24--.<-2-26 Varying hare or snowshoe rabbit——
Oryctolagus cuniculus___._____-__ pte RR tree
BOLOLS THUDIC. ee ee
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae:
Ammotragus lervia ________----_- BN 1 1) Ct Cen eC a eg la Iola
Anoa depressicornis______________ ROSS eee ee
Antilope cervicapra —.____-__..-_-- Black buck or Indian antelope___
Steun DiRONS ee ATIGMICHYDISON - ok eee
FOR TV OURGIAD wer? ss eS ee pee a eee
Pe ene oe eee Ra 2 eee ees Partha Mal he Ely
Boselaphus tragocamelus ____-___ ae 4:) EE Ree oe ee ee er ard!
Bubalus bubalis______.__._________ Indien butte. ee eee
Capra iinieG ee Sipetian ibexe- —— eee
Connochaetes gnu —_.______________ White-tailed gnu.
Connochaetes taurinus albojubatus White-bearded gnu_------_-----__
Hemitragus jemlahicus_____-___- ea! Ye et pee he eS bee hain at toe be |
Onotragus lechee_______________ — Anechesantelope___-
Orya beisa annectens_____________ Thean belsk Crys
Ovtscuropacis = REGYEO Oe en ee eee
Poephagus grunniens____-------- pT easel Nee A A tals Lateline
Taurotragus orye 2 THIN Up gecesi cela tat liebe ee tact as tot
Antiloeapridae:
Antilocapra americana __-_--_--__ Pronghorn antelope ~-__-__________
Cervidae:
A RR re ASIA RET en ey
Oervus canadensis.22 Amerionn clic 222" eee
Cervus duvaucellit —..__._..______ Barasineha. deers see
Cervus claphus___ 2 European red deer_____-_---__-__-
Cervus xanthopygus_____-________ Bedford: deer. 2. eee
Hatlow (Geer SS eee
PREY PARR te a AD A, Sits White fallow deer___--_-_-------
Muntiacus sinensis_______________ Barking or rib-faced deer____--__
Odocoileus costaricensis __________ Costa RicanwWeer ee
Odocoileus virginianus __-_--_-__- Virginia Geet... SS eee
Rusa moluccensis ———~_.-._____ Molucca deers see
Gin Hppon = 22! sea, Japanese deer’. 2. =e eee
Camelidae:
Camelus bactrianus _____--_-_____ Bactrian camel) ss soe
amit Gama eee. AB 1 BED Piatra eee ets tla ed bt Aad

Lema huanacus_.—. Guanaco
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

Tayassuidae:
Pecars anguiatus—=-_ Collared: peccary-—_ = sahiens 3
Tayassw pecan 22 2S ee ae White-lipped peccary__----__-__ Ae Bae
Suidae:
Babdirussa alfurus______-_-----__-_ Babirussa =a ttod ge oninnsaiet Gi
Phacochoerus aethiopicus mas-
SULCUS to ne Hast African warthog____________ 8
SAUSUSCLOIO se el ee ee Huropean wild boar_————~ 22-412 il
Hippopotamidae:
Choeropsis liberiensis____--------~ Pigmy hippopotamus_____________ 2,
Hippopotamus amphidius._----——~ ERB pHOPOLAINUS 22 5= 22s 2 Sw ee 1
PERISSODACTYLA
EHquidae:
HOWUS OTeUYli-8- = = see eet Grevy’s” . zebra. £2 - 2s 1
Hquus grevyi-asinus__-__--------- AENvAa-SS, NY DTG eee ee 1
Equus grevyi-caballus______-__---- Zebra-horse hybrid______~_---~--_ L
HQUUS KONAG Cra a ee Asiatic wild ass or kiang__---__-- 2
Equus przewalskit___._-__.___~——— Mongolian wild horse___-____-_--- 3
Equus quagga chapmani-_—_---~---. Chapman’s zebra=-2=2=- 5 -== 8
WOUUSIOCE UL Oe ee eee ee Mountain (zebras. = eee 2
Tapiridae:
Tanirenla CCindiias a= a Baird's: tapir. = a ee 1
RODINUS LCrVestris=—— a ae Brazilian “tapiro—- _ 22 ee ee 1
Rhinocerotidae:
DiCeros UiCOTni Sas =a eae Black rhinocer0s==_==3s====1- 28 1
PROBOSCIDEA
Hlephantidae:
Hlephas sumatranus_.__________--- Sumatra’ elephant 22255 2222 22a pf
Hiephas manimis—_—__ -— 32 eee Indian’ -clephant_____--_-- + sae a
Loxodonta africana oxryotis_______— African elephant=_ 2-2 52-55 22s 1
EDENTATA
Choloepodidae:
Choloepus didactylus__________-_- Two-toed .Ssloth=--3s=s- = pee 4
Dasypodidae:
Dasypus novemcinctus___—__-__-_---~ Nine-banded armadillo_____-___-__ 4
CHIROPTERA
Desmodontidae:
Desmodus rotundus_+—=—+-—=----+ Trinidad vampire. bat22--------=— 3
Birps
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
Struthio camelus____-— 22-2 =2 ek South African: ostrichs. S242 eee il
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:

TERE G QMCMiCANG. = oo ee ee Common rhea or nandu_____--_—-~ 1
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius unappendiculatus_____-_ Single-wattled cassowary_--_---_-
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius n. hollandiae___---_-_- Common. emu—__ 6) ss see
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae :
Spheniscus demersus________-___.- Jackass penguin._._._._ “$205 ese
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus californicus______-_____- California brown pelican____-____-_
Pelecanus conspicillatus_______-_- Australian pelican... = 2a
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos_--__--~- American white pelican__-______--
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos XP. oc-
cldontalie.— Ur Se eS Bybrid--pelican—° sos eee
Pelecanus occidentalis_____-__--___ Brown -pelican-=_.-— 22 bee
Pelecanus onocrotalus___---_----~ European pelican_____------__-___
Pelecamus roseus_.-—-~-- Rose-colored pelican-__-------_--_
Sulidae:
Morus: dDaseqnus ——...-—_. _-_..... Chammiotist fio ee
Sula orant A ee Blue-footed booby-_-------—-- ~~~
Phalacrocoracidae:
Nannopterum harrisi__.._._._..___-- Flightless cormorant—-.-~~----_--_

Phalacrocorar auritus albociliatus. Farallon cormorant. -_-.._.-----—-
Phalacrocorar auritus floridanus Florida cormorant --__-_--------~~

Anhingidae:

Anhinga anhinga__.______--._-.__ Avihings ool. Ss eee
Ardeidae: CICONITFORMES

Ardea herodtas. 22525 Great blue heron--~------.-----~-

Ardea herodias X A. occidentalis__ Hybrid heron _-_--_-----_--_---__

Ardea occidentalis.___________ 2 Great. white heron_—._._._.__..______

Casmerodius albus egretta__..____ American egret___.___._.= See

Nycticorar nycticoraw naevius____ Black-crowned night heron_--_--__
Cochleariidae :

Cochlearius cochlearius_._____--___ Boathbill- hergit}ss we Sea
Balaenicipitidae:

Balaeniceps re@.........__ 222 SC Biia Bit ho
Scopidae:

Scopus. amobretia t=. 2 ss, Hammerhesd.-Ase ee: se ea
Ciconiidae:

Dissoura episcopus____.________-. Woolly-necked stork _.______-__-__

Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis____ Saddle-billed stork____._.__-__-_-____

Jabiru. mycteria..—___._..--2 iv Daas i= theater oe

Leptoptilus crumeniferus _..-_-___ Marabou 22.222. 2S

Leptoptilus dubius._..-__ Indian .adjutant..2202 409 sips)

Leptoptilus javanicus _-___.______ Lesperiadietant: = eee

Mycteria americana___-__________ Wood ibis

1

1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

Threskiornithidae :

LEU THAD ge TANT el Rosexte, snoonbill-s-- 1
Gab PG BE ie Ra oe 8 oe VV L One 8 es eek al ee 4
Guara alba X G. rubra____------- Mtg it aise dt
Guare. rbbre. 2-2 ee SG RL RES 4 ee eS ee 2
Threskiornis aethiopica___-»-__--_ Scie 0 gn! 0) Ries) ee eee Z
Threskiornis melanocephala_____ ~~ Black-headed jibis= 2s =, 2
Anatidae: ANSERIFORMES
Aig spons@=— =... Sones at ieee Woodiiducke.3... a * ae 18
Alopochen aegyptiacus_ ~~---__-_---~ Heyptian: goose =22. 2s seer eee 2
Anas domestica_______~-~ cs sla at BReking ducks see eee 15
Anas platyryn clos aan ffosn-anee Grice) —AiboRll oat
FATS TALON RD OS ee a nee Black or dusky mallard_-_---__-~~_ 2
ANUS) MDW =e eee eae African yellow-billed duck--___--~- 8
PAMISCH, QLOt TONS 2222 American white-fronted goose___-—_ 3
PATTSCN! HOOGLUS sre oon scree es BEG SOpse se eee See 2
BT ONL UCTHACHT = ase ee Bran eset ee ee 3
Bronte canadensis Canada s00ser ee ee 6
Branta canadensis hutchinsii______ Hutchin'’s'gooses:-42" a eee 4
Branta canadensis minima_______— Gaickimet 2008e2 a eee 4
Branta canadensis occidentalis__._._°_ White-cheeked goose____-----~--~~ 20
EVOL LCUCOD SIG aa Barmacles cose ee eee ee 1
Carina’ moschataa. 2-2 Muscovyr ducka==* See eee 3
Oasarca variegata_—__..--_.--2-.-_ Paradise: duck= 222 he eee 1
Cereopsis novaehollandiae___-_-__ Cereopsis or Cape Barren goose____ 1
Ohenvatlonticas oe ee NNO WSEOUNG ee ee eee ee ees 7
Chen caerulescens-___—_--._-~____. Binerequsetee te a ee 9
Chloephaga leucoptera____________ Magellan t200s6 eee 1
Cygnopsis cygnoides______________ GINENE” (BOOSG. tase 2 Se i)
Cygnus columbianus. Wiiistiitiows wanes Pitts 3
OU IUEST OL OV Se ee Ea a tee, IMibers wath. Serre r erie 3
RE TOU CEOUL 2 ee ee Pin tally “QUCKS 2a ee 5
Dajfita bahamensis_____-~-_____-.. Bahantwnes pm tails. a |
Dafila acuta X D..sp____--._-.—-- Pintallny prides = =o eee il
Dendrocygna arborea______-_-----_- Blaek-billed™ duek2-—.-—-2- =. +2 5
Dendrocygna autumnalis Black-bellied tree duck __-______ +f
Dendrocygna viduata______._-_-_ White-faced tree duck ____________ ul
Hentotarsts eytonis 2. Hyitonys: tree! duck. 0 i
Mareca. americana_______________. Bags Wate See See ee ee 3
IVGGCIDCTESI IL UL = ee ee ne OTINOCOR. DOSE et ee es eee 1
Nettion carolinense______________ Green-winged teal__________._____ 1
IVROCEe COMMUN ea ee en neck: GUCk= 2h. ee ee i
Nyroce valisineria_______ Canvas-pack Quek. =o res if!
PALECTE  CONGOGLCG ee HIMpPeror “LOOSE. 6 3 eee, at
Plectropterus gambensis__________ Spur-winged goose________________ al
Querquedula cyanoptera__________ Cinnamon: {Teale 228 aioe s Deere A
Querquedula discors_.__.__.-_____- Bine-wineed™: teal = es ae 1
Sarkidiornis melanota____________ UGHONET LOPE UTE inst bi PY ge ae ae 1

ROT NG POUT eg tie eg COTES See en a e  D
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
FALCONIFORMES

Cathartidae :
Calhiries nirire se == ene te Torkey.- VOLT ess 3
Cathartes aura X Coragyps atra- Black Carolina and turkey vulture

|S) pA ee ae eed Al ot Ay brid once 1

Uoragyns trate Black..-vulture:ssis2 2 soe eee 1
Gymnogyps californianus__--_---- California: ‘condor2us 2 shina 3
Veli orvonhias 3 oS South American condor___------__ » |

Accipitridae:
Aegypius monachus— ..__.-------- CINCTEOUS - VULENTC. 2.2 ae ee 1
Aquila chrysaetos_____----------_ tie emma ees 2
Biuree pores. Red-tailed hawk. ee 5
iBGteo nema Soe i Red-shouldered hawk_------------ 3
Buteo platypterus___._._.._.-.-=--= Broad-winged hawk_ _----------__ 1
Buteo swainsoni_.....-._--...-—- Niwarnson s: MHawWwh=Se2 7 1
Gypaetus barbatus grandis__--___- DBO! ele 12! 5) ene AE el iL.
Gunes rucppellh.—-.=+- BAYT DGL' SV ULOTINC se x
ot ED a a a ee Malay brahminy kite..._..__.....- 1
Haliacetus leucocephalus-_______- ESC Oe Ed Fe Se ge 20
MRR MIGTONS = <a eeecteeeen Vellow-hilled. ‘klie Sey:
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis____ Osprey or fish hawk _ _----------__ 2
Stephanoactus coronatus___-__---_ Crowned hawk eagle__-__..______ 1
Torgos tracheliotus_____..._....—. African eared-vulture __-.--______ 1
Uroaetus aquden =... Wedge-tailed eagle________________ a |

TFalconidae:
Palco. sparvertue——___ - SDATEOW HAW eo te hee 1
Polihierar semitorquatus_________ African ‘pigniy “faleoMsecn cere eee 8
Polyborus cheriway..___.--_--_~= AndupOn’S. CATACATS 2 2
Polyborus plancus___--_---------- South American caracara--------- 1

GALLIFORMES

Cracidae:
Crag globulesa_—. 2S Spix’s wattled curassow__--__--__ 1
TRG TINO T ee Pani Carson... ee |
JY Os 1) CER Coe € sepia Se) 5 ethane Razor-billed curassow —-----_---__ x
META ROTO a nae Salvin’s ‘curdssows. a.

Phasianidae:
Argusianus Grguese 2: ALPS CANINE. eee a
Catopiasie- 6ihon_____ MIG Sy pHessaN 6 ee eee 1
Oatreus waliichit_____.. -_________ Shiver piensa ee 1
Chrysolophus amherstiae-____-___ Lady Amherst’s pheasant_____--_- 3
Chrysolophus amherstiae X Syr-

maticus reevest_______-______-_ ERY RIG ee oe eee 1

Chrysolophus pictus___.___________ Golden pheasant —.___-___________ 5
Colinus virginianus___-____-_____ Bobwhite.) ee ee 1
Coturnia japonica__________-_-__ Asiatic migratory quail_____-_-~~_ 3
Orossoptilon mantchuricum_______ Manchurian pheasant —_-_________ 2
Gennaeus albocristatus___________ White-crested kaleege--__------__ af
Gennacus lineadtus. =. - Linested: pheasant 3
Gennaeus nycthemerus______--___ Silverrphedsant ee 2
Gennaeus nycthemerus bellii______ Bell’s silver pheasant_____________ 1

Hierophasis swinhoei__._...__.._ Swinhoe’s pheasant ______________. 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Phasianidae—Continued.

Lophophorus impeyanus__—------- Himalayan Impeyan pheasant__—~

; Blue. pestowl 2322 85hee 22 asses
TONAL A tae gala Fane peafowl. === seebite
Pavoemutlique=——==28 2 ese Green. peafowl 2sdss22 24222) 25_
Ring-necked pheasant__---------~
fone ring-necked pheasant----~~

Phasianus torquatus formosanus__ Formosan ring-necked pheasant__

Phasianus torquatus.—_.=-=--___—

Syrmaticus reevesi_.2_---=---~-_+ Reeve’s pheasant----.--------_---
Numididae:

Numida mitrata reichenowi___~-- Reichenow’s helmeted guinea fowl_
Meleagrididae:

Meleagris gatlopavo____----_-2_-~ Domestic turkeys sites see

GRUIFORMES

Gruidae:

Anthropoides virgo_.__--.-222—" =~ Henrmiselle crane. ===

Antigone australasiana_____----~~ Australians Crane .-)—2 222

Balearica pavonina_______-~----—-- West African crowned crane__---~-

Balearica regulorum gibbericeps_. East African crowned crane__----

Grus canadensis canadensis___--- Little, brownyerane-= ==

Grus canadensis tabida__--------- Sandhill. cranes. 3-532 ee

Gris Gl COUCheN = seen nea White-naped crane __..._______

Grus leucogeranus..=.—-t—-===+= Siberian. crane se ee
Psophiidae:

'Ps0pnia Crepitans=-* 2. ee Gray-backed trumpeter______--- =
Rallidae:

Fulica americana =.= as - American (cogt =. 2225.2

Gallinula chloropus cachinnans__— Florida gallinule-_____________-_-_

Limnocoraz flavirostra____----__- Atniecan: black rales ss ese

Porphyrio melanotus_______—--=__— New Zealand mud hen_-__--____-~

Porphyrio poliocephalus______-___ Gray-headed porphyrio__-_--__----~
Hurypygidae:

Hurypyga; helias_-—_ se Sine DIltern = | ss eee
Otididae:

OUi8) COPROS = 4s 8 eee Denhanirs) bustard_-. 2. ese

Otis caffra jacksoni_2_—__._-__-- =. Jackson’sispustards== =

CHARADRIIFORMES

Haematopodidae:

Haematopus ostralegus__________- Kuropean oyster catcher________ a
Charadriidae:

Belonopterus cayennensis____---_- South American lapwing__--____--

Serciophorus tectus_- Black-headed plover--____________
Scolopacidae:

Philomachus pugnaw_____-__-____ 1 82 pee ge letra a eae aor
Laridae:

TAT US ON UCNUGUUS == ee erin: OU ee eee

Larus delawarensis_______-______ Ringe billed. gully sa. eee

OTUs QUALCESCENS 2 Glaucous-winged gull__-_---__-___

Larus novaehollandiae___________ Slvr OUR eer oe ee ee er

LOrusOCccidentauis._ WiEStEIn SUl 2 fae ee ee ee nee

LOrus SMAVOUndUs- eo European gull
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

COLUMBIFORMES
Pteroclidae :
Pterocles orientalis_t...u-=+-=-__- Oriental sandgrouse____________ =
Columbidae:
Caloenas nicobarica______------~- Nicobar) pigeon... gia the. 2
Columba leuconota______--------- SPIDETAR., QURRON io)
Columba palumbus___---------- BEA Wes (ON eee
Columba, domestic variety_------- Archangel: pigeoneus<<35-<e5n.52
Columba, domestic variety___-___- Fan-tailed . pigeon-=ss--e.saseee
Gourd Cielo. ee Victoria crowned pigeon__-_---_-__
Leptotila rufavilla.____.-___..-.--- Scaled pigeorises x43) ted ee
Streptopelia risoria___...._..._.____.- Ring-necked dove— =~ -<22).8)--=
Streptopelia senegalensis_____----- Bast African ring-necked dovye__--
Terie TR. Se Ore Ove. <-eee ueae
Zenaidura macroura macroura____- West: Indien ‘doves =e |
PSITTAOIFORMES
Loriidae:
Oe WANE ee eee en ne Red -iery- 22.2) eee eee
Trichoglossus cyanogrammus__-_--~ Green-naped lory 22222 See
Trichoglossus forsteni___-_-------~ Forsten’s paroquet_—-2- 20 Sete
Trichoglossus novaehollandiae__-- Blue-bellied lory___--___-____--_---
Psittacidae :
Agapornis lUlianae__---.---___.-- Nyassa lovebirds Seas
Amazona albifrons_____.______.-— White-fronted parrot-_.._.._--_-_--
Amazona amazonica_____--------- Orange-winged parrot-_--_----_----_
Amazona arausiaca_______------- Bouguets parrot... see
Amazona auropalliata____----_--_ Yellow-naped parrot____----_--_-_
Amazona fartmose__ 2 Mealy "Sarrot- oe eee
Amazona festiva___—_-.-_-__.~.=. Kestive- parrot... _ eee
Amazona leucocephala_____-_----- Guban‘: parrot! Uses Ore erie:
Amazona ochrocephala____-----_- Orange-fronted parrot--____------
Amazona ochroptera_--_--------_ — Yellow-shouldered parrot____---_--
Amazona oratrig______--_------~- Double yellow-head parrot-___---_
magoue. 100. os Bed-fronted. parrot... -- Ss See
Amazona ventralis_____-_-__-__-- Hispaniolan white-fronted parrot__
Amazona viridigenalis____-__-___-- Red-crowned parrot-.....-_._-_-.
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus__---- Hyacinthine macaw-__-_--------__
Arh: Grants oe ne Yellow and blue macaw _--------_
Ara chieropterg-.=>-. > Red and yellow macaw--_---------
AINE OO arate at Sha Red, yellow and blue macaw__----
Aa ADOI OO Tilieer’s machw =
ALG: MCMCING.2 Mexican green macaw--_--------~-
ASE ROOGT si cr eS Severe. macaw en ee
Aratinga holochlora_____-___------ White-eyed . parroL...o-—.—_.___..._
Aratinga jendaya___..—..___._.= JEnGAT CONUTPR. .- a
Aratinga solstitialis___._ctc..__i. Yellow: pareqteti. se
Brotogeris juguloris__.-___._-______ TOWd. PARONlas ee ne
COPaconsts: ANOTE 222 LOBSCY. VASA, DATTOL._.__-
Cyanopsitiacus spizt_______._______ DLE 8) AGH oe
Holophus roseicapillus___...__._____ Hoses he: Cockaine.

Hupstttuia aurea_____.________.... Golden-crowned paroquet-_---__---
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY
Psittacidae—Continued.
Eupsittula canicularis_____-_----- Petz. paroguetis =) 2 esate fs
Forpus gwianensis__._.--_____-_-- Green-rumped parrotlet_____---___
Kakatoe citrinocristata__.___-_-_-_-- Orange-crested cockatoo__-________
Ken catoe-gaterita__ = Sulphur-crested cockatoo__________
Kakatoe leadbeateri___________-__ Leadbeater’s cockatoo_____________
Kakatoe moluccensis_______------ Great red-crested cockatoo________
Kakatoe: sulphurea_2 i= Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo____
Leptolophus novaehollandicus_____ Cocks hi elas = ea tr be ss te
Melopsittacus undulatus ____---~ Grasswparogquet=— 23 see. eee
Microglossus aterrimus__--------~ Great black cockatoo—- ==.
Myopsitia monachus________--~--- Quaker paroquet=.—— 2. -2
Nandayus nanday____-___-.----.. INAnG ay epAarOguebeH2— se ee
INCSLORANOLUUL Re ee (cg ees ee ea as
Pionites santhomera____._._----- Amazonian: caique:—- ===
PiONUS MMONSUTUUSa< a Blue-headeds,parrot__—- 5 ==
Psittacula k.- krameri____._______- Long-tailed paroquet____________--
Psitiacula. nepatlensis_____________ Nepalese, paroguet=:--2 22. =
P3ittgeus, eTUthacus. = African jeray parrots -= ==
Tanygnathus megalorhynchus____— Great-billed:parrot,.-= >
CUCULIFORMES
Cuculidae:
Centropus sinensis_____.__-______ Sumatran: coucal-= "222 os ee
Cyeulus: Canorus o-— Nuropeany, cuckoo-2— = 2 ee ee
Hudynamis scolopaccus____--_--___ A C0 Y 5] em mapa: aboard. ts Seay ee ils DBs oie
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Tyto alta pratincola-___—__--____ Barmsuwli eo ee
Strigidae:
Bubo virginianus________-_______ Great horned owles ota
CRU Si SUS See na ee te Nereech/ Owls == eee
Simin Cunt sae ee oe oe IBSCreds OW esate eee eee ee
CAPRIMULGIFORMES
Caprimulgidae:
Chordeilesominor_ 2-2 Nighi aw kaise ee
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:
Proteus temnurus..—- Cuban: troeons 22 ee Se
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae :
TVACELOV GUS et ee eee eee Kookabutrasce<22. eee 2a
Momotidae:
Momotus momotus parensis_____-- Motmot2222 Se Tt sees
Bucerotidae:
Bueceros’ rhinoceros.—_ === 2 = Rhinoceros “hornbilla22le sees
Bucorvus abyssinicus_____-==—-—-- Abyssinian ground hornbill__------

Dichoceros bicornis__._-____.--_.. Coneave casque hornbill___-_---___
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

PICIFORMES
Ramphastidae:
Aulacorhynchus erythrognathus___ Venezuelan toucanette___.________
Pteroglossus bitorquatwus_________- Two-banded aracari______________
Ramphastos ariel..—._-._._..~..-- Atel tones ss ooo ses ee
Ramphastos toco_-______-___.___~ "ROGO GOT eta ee
Selenidera. cultks_—____.-.--—-~._- Guiana  ‘toucanette... 2.2
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
Chasmorhynchus nudicollis_______ Naked-throated bell-bird__--______
Graculidae:
Gracula palawanensis______-____-_ Palawan-mynan nee oe
Gracula religiosa__________.______ Southern hill mynah__-__-________
Tyrannidae:
Pitangus sulphuratus_____._______- Kidkades Tycatcher- eee

Corvidae :
Aphelocoma californica woodhousei. Woodhouse’s jay--_____-____--_--_

Calocitta formosa__-_—-_____-____- Mexican magpie jay--._._-_______

Cisaa chinensis____._______..--_.— Ghiviese iane 2 so 2s a ee

COTUUR GlOUS 8 a es Wiite-breasted crow - 2)

Corvus brachyrhynchos__-_------~ American. Crow. ee

Corvus coran sinuatus_-____-_---_-- AINGTICNN. “THVEN = 8 5 ee

Corvus coronoides__.____________.. BUSIWEMAN. Crow. ==. 3

Corvus cryptoleucus_____.__._-_-__- White-necked raven___._________--

Cyanocitta cristata____.__.__.__.__.-- lpe Syn eee ee

Cyanocorar cyanopogon____-_--~~ Wobite-naped aya. eee

tig a eee De eee Yellow-billed magpie----____--____

Pica pica hudsonia______._._______~ American mengnic..- 8... =e

Urocissa occipttalis.__._.__...._..._.. Red-billed blue magpie__-----_---__

Xanthoura luauosa guatemalensis. Guatemalan green jay_-----------
Paradiseidae:

Paradisea minor ________---~.---- Lesser bird of paradise_______._._--

Seleuouies ger. 12-wired bird of paradise____----_~
Timaliidae:

Pomatorhinus erythrogenys imber-

[| OEE See Ra SERN Salvadori’s scimitar-babbler_______

Pycnonotidae :

Molpastes haemorrhous__-_------~- Black-headed bulbul___._____.______

Otocompsa jocosus________.__--___ Hed-eared Jbribula a2
Turdidae:

Mimocichla rubripes____.______.-_- Western red-legged thrush__-----~-

STREP OUNNS «OT CANS ne a ie Bonaparte Ss. tarushe 22) 225) *s
Laniidae:

Donius Corsaie. ‘Teita.. fiscal shrike-— >. te
Sturnidae:

Cosmopsaris regitts_________.-__-- Splendid starlings. es

Galeopsar salwadorii____._-__-_-~~- Orested. starlings 2s ec ele

Lamprocolius sycobius____-__-__-__- Southern glossy starling_______--_
Coerebidae:

Cyamerpes cyaneus___.—~.~-___--= Blue honey creeper--._----—__.--.--
Icteridae :

Agelaius assimilis.______.____._..___ Cuban red-winged blackbird____-~

Agelaius icterocephalus___-.______ Yellow-headed marsh bird--------
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

Icteridae—Continued.

Amblyrhamphus holosericeus____- Red-headed marsh troupial___---- x
Gynnomystax mexicanus_—__----- Gianty oriole... =. setae ote eS if
Feterus: givqudt- 222.2—2 ee 8 ees= Giraudis? oriole__ alee of
IMOLOURT US GLEN Soa 5 ee eae @Cowbird)—222--- = = ee 1
Psomocolag oryxivora___-------~- Rieeweracklese she sh ye iy eee eS 1
Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus__- Yellow-headed blackbird_---~---~-- 4
Thraupidae:
Spindalis pretretzs22 5 Ss Se Cuban. spindnlis=_- orsesens she 3
Tanagra luteicapilla_______-----_- Yellow-crowned euphonia_---~~-~~ 1
PRIAUptSEiCOndi ast Sie See ees Blue \tanagern!ses ede enteoinws> ab
Thraupis palmarum melanoptera__ Palm tanager_-------~------------ a!
Ploceiidae :
Amadina fasciata__-~----_---__-~ Cut-throat finch 2tes 22a 1
Coliuspasser ardens_____-----=~--~ Red-necked whydah____--__-----~ 4
Diatiropura procne_——-——~-+- 22+ Giant why dahet2 2s. ee ee 8
Buplectes capensis. 29222-22282 Yellow-shouldered whydah___----—~ iH
Neochmia phaeton_-__--_----=- 22 Crimson or blood finch____--__---- il
POEL ORYLVOOT C222 a= Ea pas White. Java sparrowaes.2usese Z
Ploceus intermedius__-—-=---=--=- Black-cheeked weaver____----—--_~ 20
(PIOCEUS TUDIGMOSUS_ Eee ee Chestnut-breasted weaver ____—-_—— 8
Poephila aeuticauda=s—==-=22-—-- = Long-tailed “‘finch=..-+ 20a 9
Poephita: gouldiae. ee 22. secs Gouldian: finchi#2see) saeusges 5
Quelea sanguinirostris intermedia_ Southern masked weaver finch_-___ 1
Steganopleura bichenovii_____---- Banded finch: 22 = a ee eee 5
Steganura paradisea_____-____---- Paradise whydah< 2 1o8ee ues 7
Taeniopygia castanotis_________~_. Zebra. finchwe2 even. aul hee 3
Fringillidae:
Carduelis. carduelis_.222422-—22 22 Huropean gold finch—2—-~-22-~--- 1
Fringilla montifringilla____--__-__ Brambling “finchi=2-----..__ =e noms 1
Melopyrrha. nigra== 2a Se Cuban: bullinch 2s eee 2
POL OUrnit: <CriStQtd 2 22a en ose Red-crested or Brazilian cardinal. 1
Pheucticous tibialis £228 pase eas Yellow: .grosbeak2uletweny.saamus 1
Senrinus) COnarvuse a2 2 eta ees Canary <824.. Sse hn ete 8
Sicalis. minorss2—-- 2st. Ses Lesser yellow finch__________.____ |
Sporophila auritasss te oce eee Hick’s:seéd-eater:shietes _ eye 4
Sporophila gutturalis__._._________ Yellow-bellied seed-eater__________ 2
ROPES COMOROS = one ee Sena wat) ies Melodius' grassquit 2222226 anelios 2
TiQriussOUva ced =a 2a sete ee. ae ee ae Mexican) srassquits som.2 Sat 15
Volatinia jacarini_______- Blue-black grassquit_________-____ 2
REPTILES
LORICATA
Crocodylidae:
Alligator mvississipiensis__________ ANAT ON 5 ea ee 36
Commons scler ops WaiMan = sap Ake 2 ye a Sat ale 3
Crocodylus acutus. = 4 American crocodile:==- +4 ="-434 2% 1
Crocodylus cataphractus__________ West African crocodile__________-_ aL
Crocodylus porosus_.. 3223 2288 Salt water crocodile--._____-______ 1

Osteolaemus tetraspis__.________~ Broad-nosed crocodile_____________ a
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

SQUAMATA
Lacertidae:
Lacerta. murals. 5. etl seit Wall: ‘Visgyd obese ate et
Lacerta vrtdis__.-- a Green Jizard seers ee
Agamidae:
Physignathus lesueurii____--_---- Lesueur’s water dragon-____-_____
Iguanidae:
Anolis carolinensis________...._-_ False chameleon. aa
Anolis equcstris.._ siete ee Giant, nnolis. 2 = pete atte Se
Anolis porcatuets. uinee Cuban: anolis. 03.00 tot eae
Conolophus subcristatus__._._____-- Galapazos iguana _o225 stent
Oyclura. cornuta__.__2-22- 524+ Rhinoceros: iguana=ase es 2355 8
Leiocephalus cubensis_________-_- Cuban curl-tailed lizard___.________
Phrynosoma cornutum___---__---- Horned. lizard... 2s. + 4 ee
Phyrnosoma platyrhinos_____----- Horned. Uzard...e6-5 «<2. sehuts
Pie gcd... ee eS eee Plicated, lizard 2ss05 6. oho otet
Sceloporus magister______.__--_-_-_ Western spiny lizard. .-.u-2=..-
Sceloporus torquatus cyanogenys_— Sealy lizard___._--___-_--__________
Sceloporus undulatus____-_________ Nenee Dearden eB Gee
Gerrhosauridae:
Gerrhosaurus validus___._____-_-__ Robust plated lizard--__.._-__-__
Helodermatidae :
Heloderma horridum____---~----~ Mexican beaded lizard--__________
Heloderma suspectum_-__-_-----_ Gila. moniter sei ee ey
Teiidae:
Cnemidophorus 8s. sexlineatus____~ Six-lined limards= ten costes! aaa
Crocodilurus lacertinus________--~ Crocodile lizard. <-.:_ so s24tase 0
Dracaena guianensis_____-__--_-~ Dragon. linard... >. ee ee
Tupinambis nigropunctatus______- Teeu. Tigard. 2555514 3 iessaete
Scincidae:
Agernia cunninghami______---_--_- Cunningham’s skink______--______
RGCVRIG: WAGIOR2 ka be fe TG Grenter BkInE ..2t2 is) Seb
Bumeces fasciatus______..._---_— Bed-headed skink ies) eos
Eumeces obsoletus____._-____._---__ Brown Akink. set Se ee ee
Tiliqua nigrolutea_—-_____ = Mottled Tizard... - s2 = tee
Tiliqua scincoides_._.._-—~-______ Blue-tongued lizard-______________
Trachysaurus rugosus____________ Stump-tailed lizard________-_______
Varanidae:
Vaeranus gouldtisuesee ase Gould’s: monitor —s.284) >. es aut
Varanus niloticus_.-...._.______ African: monitor. sesso skate
Zonuridae :
Zonurus giganteus_______________ Black ‘spiny: lizard ee =
OPHIDIA
Boidae:
Hoe Pantha. WS 2 ete wees Wed te Green ‘tree ‘posi oe ht see pa
Constrictor constrictor.___.-______ Common “boas SE See
Constrictor mexicana_____________ Mexié¢an. boas +22) 628 eer
Ppicrates angulifer___._.____._______ Guban' tree Bont a eae cals
Ppicrates cenchris__.___________-__ Bainbow -beas== 2220 ee eee
Epicrates subflavus__..___________ Jamaica.-boaeee 8s fee
Eumectes murinus______-_________ Rubi ee ee eh ees og
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Pythonidae:
Python molurus_-—___ +. —-______.— indian python]. s.— 2. ee ee
PATCHON BROOUIS == Sane eee DSR Ls eS ee ee ae
Python reticulatus___.___-_-__.----- etal) python 4.—
Colubridae:
Abastor erythrogrammus___-----~ Hoopsnake or rainbow snake__--~-~
Alsophis angulifer__._._._____-_-_---- MpOnOL, GHlebra 9 = ae Ae
Coluber c. constrictor____-__------- 1 BUT Vd Paetoa 3 a oe esas a RS SS De a SNe Se
Drymarchon corais cooperi-__-—--- GI PO WSN AKe Fae ee se
Hiapne 2outtaraag es oe COUT 1s tr Pl ee Tee ee, ee a ae peli
anne (aes sa ee ee TUMOTY. 8 Sua ken ee ae
Elaphe obsoleta confinis-____------ Southern pilot snake_._-_._-____-
filaphe.o. obsolteta________.__---. EBL ONE ps0) GA Re aa sa ne
Elaphe quadrivittata_____________ Ohicken: snakes = 2 we;
Hiapvecupineg == GX AKO a eh ee
Farancia abvacuras..__--_--..=—== Miudorshormesnake..._- = ret
Heterodon contortriv_____--__-----~ Hoe-nosed'= snake... = =
Lampropeltis getulus floridana____ Plorida king snake______--_______
Lampropeltis g. getulus____-_-_---- ing: Snake so oe oe be) ee ee
Leimadophis andreade___-__-__-_- Jubito: or magdalena—___._.__ -
Liopelis vernalis.____________--.. Smooth green snake__-__-__--___-
MGStiCOpnis $pa-2 ea Coach whip wsnaken
Natrin cyctopion________...-.... Water. snaiietercd = 20. fe Lay
CHALE) bo) 1 Vis se see ane Re Waterman ake: oes aero
Opheodrys aestivus_____________. Rough-sealed green snake_.____ ze
Pituophis melanoleucus__-__-_____ Bul Snag
PATUODNAR SOY UE = = ao ee PENe ART Gee he ae PR gs
Thamnophis sauritus__._______._.__ Habbonr, snake dts
Thamnophis s. sirtalis___-________ Garter: Snakes 6 eee Lele
Tretanorhinus variabilis______-___- Cuban water snake.2 2.5 2s
Elapidae:
Micrurus fulwus______.___________ Wonal snake: 22-22 sles Soe eee
EN CHR TUG ts es Ss Golden ODih ee oe ee
Naja tripudians sumatrana___--__ Sumatran black-hooded cobra_____
Crotalidae:
Agkistrodon mokasen___---__-____ LOST 7 Tsu 11 1:7) RAO ean ie Rea Ree
Agkistrodon piscivorus________-_-_ Waters mocen sins =. ee
Crotalus adamanteus_____________ Diamond-backed rattlesnake______
Crovalis: C7 OT oo = Desert) rattlesnake.—-
Crotalus confluentus______________ Western rattlesnake___.___________
Orotalustnorridus = Banded) rattlesnake: =... =.
Sistrurus catenatus catenatus_____ 1 Lo Ca: en ee, eee he
Sistrurus miliariugs___._._.__._.____ Pismy: rattlesnake = 2).
Trimeresurus monticola__________ Mountain pit viper
Viperidae:
BitiSMOrietans ss cee ee See Puteeadder a eee ee
Pipers: bers NERO peAny Viper. ee
TESTUDINATA
Chelydidae:
Hydromedusa tectifera____._.______ South American snake-necked tur-
LLOene eerste Uren Bee ee NE ee

Platemys platycephala____________ Miat-head.. turtles 2.2) o. » ee eenaees
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Pelomedusidae:
Pelomedusa galeata__-_-___-_--_--- Common African water-tortoise____
Podocnemis ewpansa___-_--------- South American river tortoise__-_-
Kinosternidae:
Kinosternon flavescens__--------- Muck . turite <2 eee
Kinosternon subrubrum__-------- MISE. “LOD Gn oe en
Chelydridae :
Uncware osceulas..._- Osceola snapping turtle-______-_____
Chelydra rossignonii_______-_-_-- Rossignon’s snapping turtle_______
Chelydra serpentina_____-______-_ SOapnie ture. ee eee
Macrochelys temminckii_-------~- Alligator snapping turtle__--______
Testudinidae:
Chrysomys picta_— Painted “totic... ee
Olemmys guttata_—__-——_---___ SDOUEO LUTiG= ona ee eee
Clemmys insculpta___-___-_--____ W000, COLLUIRG—— ene
Clemmys muhlenbergii___-__-----~- Muhlenberg’s tortoise--___________
Cyclemys amboinensis______-___-__ Walivan pox Lure...
Gopherus agassizit__________-____ ASassiz ss tOrioise.-- 2 aan
Gopherus polyphemus_-_-_-----_~ GUDHEGR LOCLOING 60 eee
Graptemys pseudogeographica____ False geographic turtle______--__-~_
Malaclemmys centrata__--_--_---- Diamond-back terrapin------------
Pseudemys concinna____----_----- aL 2 ata ac Det pape ea TR fs | ie AS
Pseudemys decussata__.___.___--_- PigtGnn - PeLta ll eee
Pseudemys elegans——____ Cumberland terrapin--___._____--__
Pseudemys floridana____-____-__-- BIGTION “Derreiishn ee,
Pseudemys rugosués_______-__._-_ Chuan Letra eee ee
Terrapene carolina_______________ BE: CORPO eee eee
Terrapene Major____—_ Higtian VOL Wire ee
Terrapene™ ornata______-_-_ Cerne UsRIne Re eee
Testudo elephantina__.___._.-____-_- Hiéphant. tortoine
Testudo ephippium_—___-___._-__. Dunean Iland toro
Téstude noodenste—— Hoou island tortoise______..
Testudoe radiate. _-— TEALIRLOGLY LEE DONSE ee eee
Testude tabulata—_— South American tortoise______----
Teaude tornen_._.> Soft-shelled land tortoise__--_----
EERO HOR rn ae Albemarle Island tortoise_____--__
Trionychidae:
PETE, TORI ee ce Sort-shelied Turtle =. 2
AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA
Salamandridae:
Salamandra salamandra____--_--- HISAR ON so rae
Triturus pyrrhogaster________.__. Red-bellied Japanese newt__------
Triturus viridescens__.____..-.-..-— COMMON TO gy ts se he
Amphiumidae:
Amphiuma means... --_ 2-20 Blind eel or Congo snake _________
Amphiuma tridactylum___________ Blind eel or Congo snake _______ =
Cryptobranchidae:
Cryptobranchus alleganiensis_____ Belibenders. 2 a eee
Necturidae:

Necturus maculosue__.____....... Mud puppy~. eee

2
1

1
4

1

a!
4

2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Q7
SALIENTIA

Brachycephalidae:

Atelopus varius cruciger________-- WellOw rm atelOpus os eee 1

Atelopus varius varius_____------ Yellows atelopus = ee 6
Discoglossidae :

Bombine bombing___- = —*==="2 0 = Bine-peliedetOng == = =e ee 2
Dendrobatidae :

Dendrobates auraius____________-— ATTOW: POIsom Lroge= 2-2 se 30

Dendrobates pumilio __-_--------- Red, dendrobates22 = 1
Bufonidae:

Bul O: GUGTV eee ee ee Green toad 23) S091 ete 5

Bufo americanus..__-_-_-__.___.-- Common American toad_---_--____ 2

Bufo Cmpusuge= == = ee SapO ROG. CONCHhA = sta eee 15

BUT OMNOTINUS 22 aa oa eee Marine: [Osan ee ee eee 4

Bufo peltocephalus__-_-__-_-_----- @Cabandgiant-toad=32—=-== Se 10
Ceratophrydae:

Ceratophrys dorsata____-_________ Horned{oadsiasss-se Seer eat 2
Hylidae:

OTIS TYTN i Crieket Teo ia ee oe es 2

Hala. Or 00red.—. =- Green” tree frog. 2 eee a

EU COCTMICU so Australian tree frog. eee if

Hala emeregsil acd is Da es 8 Florida. tree frog ss>5 seen i

PEA CTUCI CN aaa oe ee See Tree. Trost. 225. se ee ee 4

Hyla. septentrionalis._____________~ Cubanitree: trop) 38a alts
Pipidae:

Pip GMeriCONnG=.= HULINAM tOad 4s een eee nee eee il

Xenopus ‘niulleriz_— -— == eee Muller’s clawed frog______________ 5
Ranidae:

EQN CES OD UG = ee et Fa Bees Gopherotrogh 42. 22. ee al

Rang catesveiang.222 52 2- = o Bull tro. 6 ee. Se ieee at

Rana, clamitans._ = Green Troe 2 es edie ates al

Rana sphenocephala______________ Southern leopard frog____________ al

FISHES

ACONTRONLOINANS WW s2 8 SS eo ch ke es ae es ee 5
PES OO Sun 8 eee eee oes a OS Se ON Se ee ee Se 8
Bertarsplendens= = 2-5 = a Siamese fighting fish_._.____________ al
Bracnyaanion Ferto._-— CDT RD efi Ser = ake eer nee eae oe eee 5
COrydoras’  Geneus 2a ee hee Trinidad armored catfish________-_ 4
Corydoras melanistius_______.___.___-_— ATMOTEE: (ea thshe ee es Pee ee 1
Hlectrophorus electricus.__..._..._.___- Hileetric.eele 2a. Sees res ene alt
Helostoma temminckii_______________- ISissine souram i ee 2
PLCTAOLUNLINALS AULALINC LES es a ee ee Pe ee il
EC LOLITA OTN OSC ate ae Se rey ee a ee ee ee 8
Hyphessobrycon bifasciatus__.___.______ Wellow “Characins. seers ee sees 1
EU POStOMUSIsp — 52 ee ee eS Armored: (Gathishe. 22s a 1
Jordanella floridae___________ Eee © FATTerican Nae HShe ss S22. ea 7
Kryptopierus bicirrhus_______________ Clas. ca thishes -2t  2 ee 4
Lebistes reticulatue-_— Guppy 222s St ee eee 50
Lepidosiren paradova_________________ South American lungfish________-_ 3
ICHOTUNUS TOR CIALUS ee aes Chere 2 eB Bem een Ad Ei eee Aen. Wel 1
Malopterurus electricus____._________-_ Hlectrichieathish- 2 SS fsa 1
Pantodon buchholzi____....__.________ Buttiertly fishe22- 2-32 2 eae Se 1

31508—38——8
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Platypoecilus maculatus___---__------- eral El es np ee

PERCE TUE en en er ae

Protopterus annectens________________. Atrican Tnpnely es se Sea ee

Pterophyllum scatare._____._.-__._...~ POE OBS 1 1 a «Oe UE ea

GRROTIE “OCOrOMmOr nition

Trichogaster trichopterus__._______.--- Three-spot gourami_____________

Atphophorus heterti________.______._. NwiOrrtbad) 2 ss
ARACHNIDS

Mary pounme06 =e Tarantula: 2. 2 ee

Latrodectus mactans__.-----_-.--___- Black widow spider___--------~ =

INSECTS

LOE eS. PES I SC ee TS Giant cockroach =. ae 2 oS
MOLLUSKS

Achatina variegata.__......._-_.-.... Gignt land; anette
CRUSTACEA

Cardisoma guanhumi______--_-------- Great land crab... see eee

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. C. G. Axsor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,

4
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 380, 1937:

WORK AT WASHINGTON
REVISION OF SOLAR-CONSTANT VALUES

At the beginning of the fiscal year preparations were being made
to publish a table of best values of the solar constant of radiation
since 1930. This table involved the comparison of results from three
field stations, searching for errors of reduction, and examining the
records of each individual day for evidences of imperfect observation
or unfavorable sky conditions.

But in considering certain discrepancies it suddenly occurred to the
Director that a flaw had been overlooked when he devised the so-
called short method of reduction in 1923. It will be recalled that in
the years 1903 to 1919 all observations of the solar constant had been
made by the fundamental or long method. This involved measure-
ments of the intensity of sun rays from early morning until mid-
forenoon, and about 2 days of computing to yield one value of
the solar constant of radiation. Moreover, if the sky gradually be-
came clearer or more hazy during the several hours of observation,
the value obtained would be too high or too low, without any means
of recognizing this error.

To save work, to avoid error, and to multiply results, the short
method was introduced in 1919. Two solar-constant values could be
obtained from observations of only 10 minutes’ duration for each, by
computations requiring only 1 day for both. In 1923, however, a
method occurred to the Director whereby the computing could be
almost eliminated, through the use of tables computed once for all.
All through the years which have since elapsed this method has been
used. Usually, five values were obtained without undue labor for
each day observed.

But some months ago, as above stated, the Director perceived that
this brief method has a fatal flaw. Without going into technicalities,
the defect consists in this: that if the results of two equally clear days
are to be compared, on one of which the sun actually emits 1 percent

99
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

more intense radiation than on the other, the brief method of 1923
will indeed distinguish the day of more intense radiation, but will
show less than the true 1 percent change. Moreover, the deficiency
of amplitude in solar variation, due to the method of 1923, is greater
the more hazy the days, and the lower in altitude the station from
which the sun is observed.

Consequently, although the published record of solar variation
since 1923 shows solar changes at their right times and in their right
directions, the amplitudes of variation found are too small. Also,
the hazier stations are at a disadvantage, not only because of their
less favorable sky conditions, which naturally give inferior results,
but because the method of reduction of 1923 inevitably diminishes the
resulting amplitude of the variation of the sun, which they were
established to determine, even more than it affects clearer stations.

Our first care was to devise a correct method of reduction, retaining
as far as possible the brevity of computation which was the merit
of that of 1923. Several months were occupied by the staff at Wash-
ington in comparing different proposed methods, checking their
results, and at length in computing tables for the one finally selected.
This new brief method, although somewhat shorter than the short
method used from 1919 to 1923, is far longer than that of 1923. It
requires, what was unnecessary for the method of 1923, the complete
measurement of the photographic records of observation, just as
complete, indeed, as the long method used prior to 1919.

Accordingly, orders were sent to all field stations to have measured,
if possible, three bolographs for each day since 1923 when the sun
was observed. This heavy task has been to a large degree accom-
plished by the field observers.

In the meanwhile, by financial aid of John A. Roebling, and by
the assistance of W. P. A., the computing staff at Washington has
been much enlarged. Great progress has been made in the rereduc-
tion of the solar-constant observations. Mount Montezuma observa-
tions since 1932 have been fully recomputed, and several years’
observations at Table Mountain are done. However, it will require
many months before the recomputations are fully completed.

SILVER-DISK PYRHELIOMETERS

As in former years, orders have come from foreign lands for
silver-disk pyrheliometers, either new or to be repaired and re-
standardized. These instruments are in use at nearly a hundred sta-
tions in many countries, in all of the continents of the world, to
measure the solar radiation. But nowhere are they used in coopera-
tion with the spectroscope, as with us, to make complete determina-
tions of the solar constant of radiation.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101
ADDITIONAL SOLAR STATIONS

Great hope had been aroused by favorable action of the Senate in
June 1936, with approval of the President and the Bureau of the
Budget, that as many as seven additional stations for observing the
solar constant of radiation could be established. But the hoped-for
appropriation having failed in the House, the item was rejected by
the Bureau of the Budget in the estimates for 1938, and with the
present stress on economy in Government expenditure seems un-
likely to be revived. It is still believed that valuable advance in
weather forecasting would follow the accurate daily determination
of solar variation, such as might be attained with additional solar-
constant stations.

LONG-RANGE FORECASTING, LAKE LEVELS, AND TREE RINGS

Letters have been received nearly every day by the Director from
drought-stricken areas, some telling of observations confirmatory
of his expectations as to the progress of the drought, but most of
them begging for predictions to cover ensuing years. The Director,
in his replies, has always pointed out the insecurity of such predic-
tions. He has limited himself to referring to indications arising
from the history of Great Lakes levels since 1837. These point to a
probability that drought conditions in the Northwestern States and
neighboring Canada will mend beginning in 1938, but recur in 1975.
This view is supported by a record of 400 years’ duration in tree
rings at Fairlee, Vt., measured by Professor Lyon, of Dartmouth
College. Periodicities of 23, 46, and 92 years are plainly apparent
therein, which have close relations to the levels of the Great Lakes.

SOLAR ENGINE

The Director caused to be prepared and tested in September 1936
a solar radiation steam boiler of his design. The machine is repre-
sented in the accompanying illustration. It exposed 36 square feet
(pl. 7) of mirror surface and was intended to produce about 14 horse-
power at the engine. Cinematograph records were made of it, and by
operating an electric generator a short program was broadcast by
solar power. However, the device had many defects, and was not in
that form practical for utilizing solar radiation for power. A small
solar flash boiler has since been prepared which offers much greater
promise.

FIELD WORK

Solar radiation observing stations have been maintained by public
funds, supplemented by private resources of the Smithsonian Insti-
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

tution, at Table Mountain, Calif.; Montezuma, Chile; and Mount St.
Katherine, Egypt. At these three stations the observations to de-
termine the solar constant of radiation have been made on all favor-
able days. The average number of days per year suitable for these
exacting observations is about the same at these three elevated cloud-
less desert stations and approaches 80 percent of all days.

PERSONNEL

Frederick E. Fowle, research assistant, who joined the staff of the
Astrophysical Observatory in the year 1894, was retired for dis-
ability at the end of the fiscal year. Mr. Fowle has been associated
with practically the entire history of the Observatory, and has taken
a large part in its observing, computing, theoretical studies, and
plans for its work. He will be especially remembered for his re-
searches on water vapor and ozone in the atmosphere, for his long
investigation of the extreme infrared spectrum of water vapor, and
for his authorship of numerous editions of “Smithsonian Physical
Tables”, which enjoy an enviable reputation.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Assor, Director.

The SrecreTary,

Smithsonian Institution.
‘9E6l HAGWALdAS “AYOLVAYMASEO TWOISAHdOYNLSY SHL SO GYVA AHL NI YaTIOG WV3SLS NOILVIGVY YVIOS LOgay SHL

3ivid 1 xtpuaddy—7¢6| ‘y10deyy s ArejaI00¢
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the
year ended June 30, 1937:

Notable successes have been attained during the year in the studies
of photosynthesis, of phototropism, and of special reactions of ultra-
violet rays in the economy of various plant forms.

W. H. Hoover published the results of several years’ study of
photosynthesis in wheat. This basic study was made with wheat
grown in glass tubes of measured temperature, humidity, and carbon
dioxide content, under nearly monochromatic selected spectral rays
of measured intensity... Various radiation sources were employed,
sometimes the Mazda electric light, sometimes the mercury arc, some-
times the sun. The results are of high accuracy. They give to a
probable error of only 2 percent in most spectral regions the de-
pendence on wave length of the assimilation of carbon dioxide by
wheat. The accompanying figure shows that photosynthesis in
wheat, starting from zero at the end of the visible red, reaches a
high maximum in the red at 6500 A, diminishes through the yellow
and green, reaches a subordinate maximum in the blue at 4400 A,
and then fades away in the violet.

Mr. Hoover’s work was accomplished by a chemical method of
estimating the air content of carbon dioxide. During the year Dr.
McAlister has further perfected a spectral absorption method of
extraordinary sensitiveness and extreme rapidity for measuring car-
bon dioxide concentration in air. The apparatus has been standard-
ized by him and has become a tool which bids fair to be of immense
value for the detection and measurement, not only of carbon dioxide,
but carbon monoxide, and other organic chemical compounds of ex-
treme interest in plant physiology, human metabolism, mine explora-
tions, and perhaps in other industrial fields. In connection with this
apparatus, L. B. Clark has developed an extremely sensitive and
rugged thermocouple, the evacuated housing of which is sealed by a
bubble window of microscopically thin glass. These beautiful devices
together add greatly to the practical success of the spectral absorption

1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, no. 21, pp. 1-13, figs. 1-4, pls. 1-3, 1937.
103
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

method. The new apparatus has been duplicated in our shop for in-
tensive use in photosynthetic studies. We expect to observe photosyn-
thesis quantitatively in various families of plants.

Dr. McAlister published preliminary results of a research on time
relations in photosynthesis. He showed that intermittent illumina-
tion gives very different growth rates depending on the rapidity of
intermittance. With alternations of light and darkness 60 times per
second the growth rate over a period of several hours was actually
twice as rapid as with continuous illumination of an equal total guan-
tity of light suppled. Owing to the practically instantaneous char-

acter of his measurements, he was able, for the first time, in studies

350
300
250
200

150

COz ABSORPTION

100

50

3500 4500 5500 6500 7500
WAVE LENGTH

Figure 1.—Wave-length assimilation curves.

of plant physiology, to turn on the light and continuously follow what
happens in plant growth. Many most interesting observations were
recorded.?

In a cooperative research with Dr. Flint, of the United States De-
partment of Agriculture, Flint and McAlister examined the efficiency
of different wave lengths of light to promote germination in light-
sensitive lettuce seed.* Their results tie in most suggestively with the

? Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 95, no. 24, pp. 1-17, figs. 1-10, pls. 1, 2, 1937.
38 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 96, no. 2, pp. 1-8, figs. 1, 2, pl. 1, 1937.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

curve of chlorophyll absorption. Wave-length regions inhibiting
germination were found in the blue and in the infrared spectrum.

Dr. E. S. Johnston continued with marked progress his investiga-
tions tending to produce normal growth of tomato plants under lab-
oratory conditions. The great difficulty is to obtain from artificial
sources light of sufficient intensity and proper wave-length distribu-
tion. By various ingenious expedients he has to a considerable degree
solved the problem.

He also continued phototropic experiments, studying the bending
of plants toward the light as well as carbon dioxide assimilation
with polarized as compared to normal light. It had been sug-
gested that a real difference would be found, but he found none.

With Dr. P. R. Burkholder, of Connecticut College, Dr. Johns-
ton investigated the inactivation of plant growth substance by light.‘
A very beautiful technique was developed, whereby live tips and
half tips of oat seedlings were applied in various ways to decapi-
tated oat seedlings in order to determine what are the circum-
stances which govern elongation under the influence of light. The
results appear to show that under considerable intensities of light
the growth hormones are inactivated rather than displaced in pro-
ducing the well-known lower stature of illuminated plants as com-
pared with plants grown in semidarkness. For further informa-
tion see their very interesting paper.

Dr. Meier did much work on the classification of a large col-
lection of algae for the National Herbarium. Her own investiga-
tions concerned a search for the stimulation of multiplication in
algae by ultraviolet rays known to be lethal in doses of sufficient
intensity. The research is not finished as yet, but plainly shows
great stimulative influence by minute doses of these lethal rays,
and that the degree of stimulation is most interestingly connected
both with wave length and with the lethal dosage.

The instrument maker, Mr. Fillmen, and the glass technician,
Mr. Clark, constructed apparatus of invaluable use in these inves-
tigations.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Anzor, Director.

The Srcrerary,

Smithsonian Institution.

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, no. 20, pp. 1-14, fig. 1, pls. 1, 2, 1987.
A

bie . . ’ of | oe Sat
me FAgek ae ae
= hea ; Tho ow waa hak

t

oo
r ee

ae

aa.

i

Bie gd avil yloryle, £
“inged o} yx etohisy aan cree pest? a Lad

Me tT tied Oa mit sia tri lye- one siab of) ) sale gaills
i oft: ddyil to sateenial-s } wha wotheui gp vag.
at detait to auiiizn: plik aktirefieaes robert bel aorta ob
| _ eng; at booalepe sad? ouliat baiavilsant<ee ssuonerodt
~Mitod 2) aleeakei Toa canine lo sitrale ith swocat-tloe ' 40) x
appari sul ran 107 thaudy oi sige fi cumy addalq f

®
%

's
©

ie ' 4 ; 1994 ay f yelieriaint ‘erre ia i
* ms tins ewial 2 Bo et gin oof! co diow doom bil
os mtthovat amp ‘init: .woriredwlt, leaotial Vicod) 70% omalaA
ie os at shttasifqilluer to sitet ietia ot) “tat aba a bane i
= Sraldnina to faeoh ati lesttel ul of « sunk vas doloiverthy 23
b} y sine ehitialiy to ee a headasatl tort rh iiriseurt eae aR
ee” Tet Last lat weuli To poh aitilict fu sorimatte 7 evitaluimiiien in
(gee badoinnoy saat diteroint Jdout si motte Limits % goraab ud}, me ;
a : rae TUS wh [naliol malt t ite Sith ilie rel vray Wy
i. > matotailan) aaalg oft ban amit AM patent scciure TO &
ig Pas”, ret, weil t vt avait ofelay ilewnt to wai ‘Legqa Bey acd aa
b. : % Sa 4 ite ted a mle fight o e
he. : Or ho ot pg bs thei ght sad Seti: ‘wel :
Hee _e. nA “ O81 ne a ae Pte = He: at a oso i noo om m3
Ah eT Oik id if tit nee Stsis ‘ar etemtniienl the 3 — = j
ot DTA Sears sei light cel catia perm: ait: co ie as lig
fans +i letiaos s iho “ila ic io in pet stingers rly wit
eeeant - 2 Ve, OF WE Whe noe stm td; oO», A, at _
Pe Peivaecetat hf 48ii. wyl OS 04 oe 3 aot ve" if, mabe

a

APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1937:

THE LIBRARY

The library, or library system, of the Smithsonian is made up
of 45 libraries, all more or less specialized and independent in their
nature and location, but all cooperating under the central purpose
of the Institution. They are the Smithsonian deposit in the Library
of Congress, which is the main unit of the system; the library of
the United States National Museum; the library of the Bureau
of American Ethnology; the Smithsonian office library; the library
of the Astrophysical Observatory; the library of Radiation and
Organisms; the library of the Freer Gallery of Art; the library of
the National Collection of Fine Arts (until recently the National
Gallery of Art); the Langley aeronautical library, since 1930 on
special deposit in the Library of Congress; the library of the National
Zoological Park; and, finally, the 35 sectional libraries of the
National Museum.

PERSONNEL

There were two changes in the permanent staff. Lucile A. Torrey,
senior stenographer in the office of the librarian, was appointed to
the newly established position of library assistant in the National
Collection of Fine Arts, and Mrs. George C. Rodgers was chosen
for the vacancy—a position she had formerly held. Carroll M.
Martin, assistant messenger in the National Museum library, was
transferred to the Social Security Board, and Joseph Salat, Jr.,
succeeded him.

The temporary assistants were Helen G. Rankin and Margaret
Kober. Fifteen workers were also assigned to the library for vari-
ous periods by the Works Progress Administration.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

The exchange work of the year brought to the library, as usual, a
wealth of publications. These represented most of the 22,714 pack-
107
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

ages received by mail and the 2,226 by the International Exchange
Service—a total of 24,940, or an increase of 764 over 1936. Each
package contained one or more items. Among the largest sendings
were those from the Australian National Research Council, Sydney;
Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft, Berlin; Royal Society of Tas-
mania, Hobart; Royal Society of Victoria, Melbourne; Société
Géologique de Belgique, Liége; Society for the Preservation of the
Fauna of the Empire, London; Verein der Freunde der Naturge-
schichte in Mecklenburg, Rostock; and Zoological Society of London.

The number of dissertations received was 5,367, or 1,654 fewer than
the year before. Of these, 2,292 were sent to the Smithsonian
deposit ; the other 3,075, being medical in character, were forwarded
to the Surgeon General’s library. They came from the Academy of
Freiberg, the universities of Basel, Berlin, Bern, Bonn, Braun-
schweig, Breslau, Cornell, Delft, Erlangen, Freiburg, Giessen,
Heidelberg, Helsingfors, Jena, Johns Hopkins, Kiel, K6nigsberg,
Leipzig, Liége, Lund, Lwéw, Marburg, Neuchitel, Pennsylvania,
Rostock, Strasbourg, Tiibingen, Utrecht, Wittenberg, Wiirzburg,
and Ziirich, and the technical schools of Berlin, Braunschweig, Dres-
den, Karlsruhe, and Ziirich.

The staff wrote 2,307 letters, most of which had to do with the
exchange of publications. They obtained by special correspondence
and by search among the Smithsonian duplicates 4,580 volumes and
parts needed in various sets, particularly in the Smithsonian deposit
and the libraries of the National Museum, Astrophysical Observatory,
and National Zoological Park. They also arranged for 262 new
exchanges.

It should be noted that, while the number of small sendings received
has increased somewhat during recent years, the number of large ones
has diminished. This falling off in the large sendings would indicate
that the special effort of the employees in the libraries of the Smith-
sonian, begun sometime ago, to recheck the main sets for missing
numbers and obtain by exchange as many of these as possible while
they were still available, has been highly successful, at least so far
as the gaps, especially the longer ones, can be filled in this manner.
It is reasonable to expect, therefore, that most of the substantial send-
ings in the future will not be to fill out old sets, but rather to supply
the library with earlier numbers of comparatively new serials needed
in the work of the Institution. For the staff in taking up new ex-
changes have two aims constantly before them—to serve Smithsonian
scientists and to conserve Smithsonian publications. They also, of
course, do what they can, in cooperation with the offices of publica-
tions, to encourage the return of duplicates not wanted by institutions
to which they have been distributed, that these may be used again
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109

in the exchange work of the Institution. The success of this coopera-
tive service the past few years has been noteworthy.

GIFTS

There were many gifts during the year. The Philosophical Society
of Washington turned over to the library several thousand copies
of its Bulletin to be used for exchange purposes. The Geophysical
Laboratory presented 838 miscellaneous publications; the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, 525; the American Art
Association, Anderson Galleries, 38 priced catalogs of art objects; and
both the Anthropological Society and the Biological Society of Wash-
ington, a substantial number of journals. The outstanding gift, how-
ever, was a collection, numbering nearly 4,500, mainly on botany,
that had been part of the working library of the late Dr. Frederick
V. Coville, chief botanist of the Department of Agriculture and hon-
orary curator of the division of plants in the National Museum. The
collection was presented by Mrs. Coville.

Among other important gifts were, Ancient Egyptian Paintings,
in three volumes, by Nina M. Davies, with the editorial assistance of
Alan H. Gardiner, from John D. Rockefeller, Jr.; Red-Figured
Athenian Vases in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in two volumes,
by Gisela M. A. Richter, from the Metropolitan Museum; Catalogue
of Hispanic Pottery, by Alice Wilson Frothingham, and Catalogue
of Laces and Embroideries, by Florence Lewis May, in the collection
of the Hispanic Society of America, from the Society; Index Cata-
logue of the Library of the Surgeon General’s Office, fourth series,
volume 1 (two copies), from the Army Medical Library; A Cata-
logue of the Collection of Martinware Formed by Frederick Johu
Nettlefold, together with a Short History of the Firm of R. W.
Martin and Brothers of Southhall, by Charles R. Beard, from Fred-
erick John Nettlefold; Nel Cinquantenario della Societa Edison,
1884-1984, in four volumes, edited by Giacinto Motta, from the ed-
itor; Gregorio Vazquez de Arce y Ceballoz, by Roberto Pizano Res-
trepo, from the Government of Colombia; Georg Wilhelm Steller,
the Pioneer of Alaskan Natural History, by Leonhard Stejneger,
from the author; French Arts and Letters and Other Essays, by
W. Francklyn Paris, from the author; An Essex Index, in four vol-
umes, compiled by Fred J. Brand, from the compiler; Bibliography
and Index of Geology Exclusive of North America, volume 2, by
John M. Nickles and Robert B. Miller, and volume 3, by John M.
Nickles, Marie Siegrist, and Eleanor Tatge, from Marie Siegrist;
Oceanic Birds of South America, in two volumes, by Robert C.
Murphy, from the American Museum of Natural History; The Birds
of the Malay Peninsula, volume 3, by Herbert C. Robinson and Fred-
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

erick N. Chasen, from Gertrude Abbott; Proboscidea, volume 1, by
Henry Fairfield Osborn, from the Osborn Library; Fragments of
Entomological History, by Herbert Osborn, from the author; Moss
Flora of North America North of Mexico, volume 1, part 1, by A. J.
Grout, from the author; Praktikum der Edelsteinkunde, by Georg
O. Wild, from Alfred N. Goldsmith; and several publications, in-
cluding J. M. W. Turner, by W. L. Wyllie, and the De Luxe Illus-
trated Catalogue of Early American Portraits Collected by Thomas
B. Clarke, from Theodore Bolton.

Finally, there were gifts from members and associates of the
Smithsonian staff, notably Secretary Abbot and Assistant Secretary
Wetmore. Mrs. Charles D. Walcott also gave a large number of
items, including two copies of her recently published Illustrations of
North American Pitcherplants.

SOME STATISTICS

Accessions to the various libraries:

Approxi-
Pamphlets mate
Volumes Total | holdings
and charts June 30,
1937
po I) Oy ee eae ee ee eee 326 95 421 9, 197
Bureau of ona s 9 pia ao le ei ae ta ee y ARC, BAO biccdccnattensd 580 51, 000
TS fC oP, aa ee ee eee 629 114 743 12, 674
Langley ja Ake ton SERS fl As sa EERE EBs WINS Ss ae Et 34 25 3, 328
National Collection of Fine Arts. ..............-...--.-.----. 402 355 757 5, 784
pS po et or eS TRS Tal SEES) HI aS 2, 486 951 | 3,437 207, 142
National Sechenleal aia SO ER ae SS ORES 8 SRE 89 10 99 3, 571
Jeeiagson ei. Ormpaninnnn. SiS ee re 4 3 7 245
Smithsonian de epost, a ierary Dt aE ee ee ees 3, 037 2,006 | 5,043 553, 078
ce ia ee Be Se Beale ET ee 302 21 323 30, 503
ir) he a A le | Rie Ba 2 $l et ip et Beare co ee 1g 7, 889 3,580 | 11,469 1 876, 522

1 These holdings do not, of course, include the thousands of volumes still unbound, uncataloged,
or incomplete.

The number of periodicals entered was 24,212; of publications
cataloged, 6,766; of cards prepared and filed, 28,967; of loans made,
10,995, of which 196 were to libraries outside the Institution and its
branches. From the Library of Congress 1,942 publications were
borrowed, and from other libraries, 386.

The index of Smithsonian publications was kept up to date; the
index of exchange relations was advanced; and the union catalog
received considerable attention, as the following table will show:

Voltimes; catalocet oS a a ee ee 4, 122
Pamphlets and. charts cataloged. _—=—~— 2. +. - 5 aes — 2,427
New “Serial G@iTtties 3800. Fn 218
Typed cards added to catalog and shelf list_-_____-__----------~ do: 4, 733

Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list--__-___-_____-_- 2, 239
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111
BINDING

More time than usual was spent by the staff in preparing periodi-
cals for binding, with the following results: the library of the Na-
tional Museum sent to the bindery 1,846 volumes; the library of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, 1,330; the Smithsonian office li-
brary, 271; the library of the Astrophysical Observatory, 189; the
library of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 113; and the library
of the Freer Gallery of Art, 54. The binding of these 3,803 vol-
umes—or all but 106 of them, which were otherwise provided for—
was made possible by the deficiency appropriation of $12,000 ap-
proved toward the close of 1935. Mention should also be made
of the fact that an experienced binder, assigned to the National
Zoological Park under the W. P. A., bound 389 volumes for the li-
brary of the Park and several other libraries of the Smithsonian;
and of the further fact that this expert and two other W. P. A.
workers repaired about 500 books, thus extending their period of
usefulness.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Special attention was given during the year to the libraries of the
National Collection of Fine Arts and the National Zoological Park.
As a consequence, much progress was made in sorting their accumu-
lations of miscellaneous material and rendering .the publications
retained available for use. Many items needed in the files were
supplied by the Library of Congress, National Museum, and Smith-
sonian Institution.

The work of the 15 W. P. A. employees assigned to the library
consisted largely of typing letters, copying cards, repairing books,
putting pamphlets into binders and labeling them appropriately,
preparing, mounting, and filing aeronautical clippings, checking and
sorting publications, shelving duplicates, recording periodicals, and
assisting with the cataloging.

Smithsonian duplicates were sent, on special exchange, to the Bu-
reau of Mines, Ecuador, and the following colleges and universities:
Brown, Columbia, Franklin and Marshall, Harvard, Pennsylvania,
Princeton, Rollins, and Yale.

Steps were taken late in the year to provide a third lot of steel
shelving for the technological library. When this is installed, it
will increase materially the shelf space for this important collection
and make possible, it is hoped, the early completion of the reorgani-
zation of the libraries in the Arts and Industries Building begun
some years ago.

The reference and bibliographical work of the various libraries
of the Institution, which has steadily increased since 1924, reached
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

in 1987 a high point of effectiveness, requiring much time from sev-
eral members of the staff and involving service, not only to the
scientists and associates of the Smithsonian and to other Government
employees, but to many inquirers outside of Washington.

NEEDS

‘he library needs a larger annual allotment for binding, so
that this essential activity may be brought and kept up to date.
There should also be an increase in the funds available for purchas-
ing publications that have a direct bearing on the projects, both
present and prospective, of the scientific staff and cannot be found
in Washington or obtained by exchange. Two other needs should
be considered in due time: more trained catalogers to correct and
revise the catalog of the National Museum library and more shelf
room for its collections.

Respectfully submitted.

WituiaM L. Corsin, Librarian.

Dr. C. G. Axsor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
publications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government
branches under its administrative charge during the year ended
June 30, 1937:

The Institution published during the year 16 papers in the series
of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report, and
pamphlet copies of the 27 articles contained in the report appendix,
and 2 special publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 2
bulletins, and 29 Proceedings papers.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 annual report and 1
bulletin.

Of the publications there were distributed 144,817 copies, which
included 70 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge, 34,178 volumes and separates of the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 23,906 volumes and separates of
the Smithsonian Annual Reports, 2,220 Smithsonian special publi-
cations, 68,822 volumes and separates of the National Museum
publications, 14,708 publications of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, 90 publications of the National Gallery of Art, 110 publica-
tions of the Freer Gallery of Art, 24 annals of the Astrophysical
Observatory, 16 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and
673 reports of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 73, there
was issued 1 paper; volume 91, 2 papers; volume 95, 12 papers and
title page and table of contents; and volume 96, 1 paper, making 16
papers in all, as follows:

VOLUME 73

No. 8. Opinions rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature. Opinions 124 to 138. 44 pp. (Publ. 3395.) October 28, 1936.

VOLUME ?1

Reports on the collections obtained by the first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea
Expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep.

31508—38——9 113
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

No. 25. A new Actinian, by Oskar Carlgren. 4 pp., 3 figs. (Publ. 3401.)
January 30, 1937.

No. 26. New species of mysidacid crustaceans, by Walter M. Tattersall. 18
pp., 10 figs. (Publ. 3413.) May 7, 1937.

VOLUME 95

No. 13. A comparative study of the labium of coleopterous larvae, by W. H.
Anderson. 29 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 3393.) August 11, 1936.

No. 14. Morphology of the insect abdomen. Part III. The male genitalia
(including arthropods other than insects), by R. E. Snodgrass. 96 pp., 29 figs.
(Publ. 3396.) October 12, 1936.

No. 15. Further evidence on the dependence of terrestrial temperatures on
the variations of solar radiation, by C. G. Abbot. 4 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 3397.)
August 12, 1986.

No. 16. A seventeenth century letter of Gabriel Diaz Vara Calderén, Bishop
of Cuba, describing the Indians and Indian missions of Florida, by Lucy L.
Wenhold. 14 pp., 12 pls. (Publ. 3398.) November 20, 1936.

No. 17. A new race of the song sparrow from the Appalachian region, by
Alexander Wetmore. 3 pp. (Publ. 3399.) September 26, 1936.

No. 18. Two original photographic negatives of Abraham Lincoln, by Alex-
ander Wetmore. 2 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 3400.) October 16, 1936.

No. 19. Cycles in tree-ring widths, by C. G. Abbot. 5 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3402.)
December 16, 1936.

No. 20. Inactivation of plant growth substance by light, by Paul R. Burk-
holder and Earl S. Johnston. 14 pp., 2 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 3403.) February 5,
1937.

No. 21. The dependence of carbon dioxide assimilation in a higher plant on
wave length of radiation, by W. H. Hoover. 13 pp., 3 pls., 4 figs. (Publ. 3406.)
February 27, 1937.

No. 22. Third contribution to nomenclature of Cambrian trilobites, by Charles
Elmer Resser. 29 pp. (Publ. 3408.) April 5, 1937.

No. 23. On the corrections to be applied to silver-disk pyrheliometry, by
C. G. Abbot. T pp. (Publ. 3409.) March 10, 1937.

No. 24. Time course of photosynthesis for a higher plant, by E. D. McAlister.
17 pp., 2 pls., 10 figs. (Publ. 3410.) May 4, 1937.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3415.)

VOLUME 96

No. 2. Wave lengths of radiation in the visible spectrum promoting the
germination of light-sensitive lettuce seed, by Lewis H. Flint and E. D.
McAlister. 8 pp., 1 pl., 2 figs. (Publ. 3414.) June 16, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1985 ——The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1935 was received from the Public Printer
in October 1936.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-

ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1935. xiv+580 pp., 95 pls., 89 text figs. (Publ. 3348.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 115

The appendix contained the following papers:

Weather governed by changes in the sun’s radiation, by C. G. Abbot.

Seasonal weather and its prediction, by Sir Gilbert T. Walker.

The sun’s place among the stars, by Walter S. Adams.

The atmospheres of the planets, by Henry Norris Russell.

The surface features of the moon, by F. E. Wright.

The upper atmosphere, by G. M. B. Dobson, D. Sce., F. R. S.

The nature of the cosmic radiation, by Thomas H. Johnson.

What is electricity? by Paul R. Heyl.

New facts about the nucleus of the atom, by Carl D. Anderson.

The approach to the absolute zero of temperature, by F. Simon, D. Phil.

Discovery and significance of vitamins, by Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins,
Phas:

The salinity of irrigation water, by Carl S. Scofield.

Selenium absorption by plants and their resulting toxicity to animals, by
Annie M. Hurd-Karrer.

The glacial history of an extinct volcano, Crater Lake National Park, by
Wallace W. Atwood, Jr.

Concretions—freaks in stone, by R. S. Bassler.

Biology and human trends, by Raymond Pearl.

The relation of genetics to physiology and medicine, by Thomas Hunt Morgan.

Conservation of the Pacific halibut, an international experiment, by William F.
Thompson.

The swallowtail butterflies, by Austin H. Clark.

Those ubiquitous plants called algae, by Florence E. Meier.

The Boulder Canyon project, by Wesley R. Nelson.

Wings over the sea, by Louis Blériot.

The coming of man from Asia in the light of recent discoveries, by Ales
Hrdlitka.

The antiquity of man in America in the light of archeology, by N. C. Nelson.

A survey of southwestern archeology, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Nuzi and the Hurrians: The excavations at Nuzi (Kirkuk, Iraq) and their
contribution to our knowledge of the history of the Hurrians, by Robert H.
Pfeiffer.

The ruins of Tenampua, Honduras, by Dorothy H. Popenoe.

Report for 1936.—The report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and will form part of the annual report of the Board of Regents to
Congress, was issued in January 1937.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of

the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ending June 30,
1936. 107 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3404.)

The report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in
1936. 100 pp., 98 figs. (Publ. 3407.) April 6, 1937.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Statement to the Smithsonian Board of Regents on 10 years of
Smithsonian affairs, by Secretary C. G. Abbot. 10 pp. (Publ.
3412.) April 1937.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 annual report, 2 bulletins, 1 volume of the Pro-
ceedings, and 29 separates from Proceedings volumes 83 and 84, as
follows:

MUSEUM REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States Na-
tional Museum for the year ended June 30, 1986. 8vo, 111+115 pp.,
January 14, 1937.

PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 83

Complete volume:

Proceedings of the United States National Museum, Vol. 83, 8vo, viii+617
pp., 37 pls., 71 figs.

Separates:

No. 2990. A revision of the chalcid flies of the genus Perilampus Latreille
occurring in America north of Mexico. By M. T. Smulyan, Pp. 369-412.
October 16, 1936.

No. 2991. Pycnogonids from Puget Sound, By Harriet I. Exline. Pp. 413—
422, fig. 83. July 9, 19386.

No. 2992. California Crustacea of the order Cumacea. By Carl Zimmer.
Pp. 423-439, figs. 34-89. August 27, 1936.

No. 2993. A comparison of the shallow-water sponges near the Pacific end
of the Panama Canal with those at the Caribbean end. By M. W. deLauben-
fels. Pp. 441-466, figs. 40-45, July 31, 1936.

No. 2004. New species of polychaetous annelids of the family Nereidae from
California. By Olga Hartman. Pp. 467-480, figs. 46-53. July 11, 1936.

No. 2995. Four new species of Chalcidoidea parasitic on cactus insects, By
A. B. Gahan. Pp. 481-486. August 7, 1936.

No, 2996. The Tertiary Foraminifera of the genera Operculina and Opercu-
linoides from North America and the West Indies. By T. Wayland Vaughan
and W.S. Cole. Pp. 487-496, pls. 35-38. October 8, 1936.

No. 2997. Review of the seahorses (Hippocampus) found on the coasts of the
American continents and of Europe. By Isaac Ginsburg. Pp. 497-594, figs.
54-71. January 18, 1937.

—— Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-viii, 595-617. March 17,
1937.

VOLUME 84

Separates:

No. 2998. Report on the fishes collected by H. C. Raven in Lake Tanganyika
in 1920. By George S. Myers. Pp. 1-15, pl. 1. September 24, 1936.

No. 2999. The ichneumon-flies of the genus Brachycyrtus Kriechbaumer. By
R. A. Cushman. Pp. 17-24, figs. 1-4. September 26, 1936.

No. 3000. New cottid fishes from Japan and Bering Sea. By Rolf L. Bolin.
Pp. 25-38, figs. 5-8. October 10, 1936.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

No. 8001. Revision of North American beetles of the staphylinid subfamily
Tachyporinae—Part I: Genus Tachyporus Gravenhorst. By Richard B. Black-
welder. Pp. 39-54. November 17, 1936.

No. 3002. Revision of the fishes of the family Microdesmidae, with descriptions
of a new species. By Harl D. Reid. Pp. 55-72, pl. 2, figs. 9-12. December 10,
1936.

No. 3008. Two new species of hawks from the Miocene of Nebraska. By
Alexander Wetmore. Pp. 73-78, figs. 18, 14. November 3, 1936.

No. 3004. A new North American mason-wasp from Virginia, with notes on
allied forms. By Joseph Bequaert. Pp. 79-87, fig. 15. November 24, 1936.

No. 3005. The nest of Odynerus tempiferus var. macio Bequaert, with notes on
the habits of the wasps. By Austin H. Clark and Grace A. Sandhouse. Pp.
89-95. November 24, 1936.

No. 3006. Crested millipeds of the family Lysiopetalidae in North America,
with descriptions of new genera and species. By H. F. Loomis. Pp. 97-135,
pls. 3, 4, figs. 16-18. May 15, 1937.

No. 3007. Notes on phallostethid fishes. By George S. Myers. Pp. 1387-143.
January 6, 1937.

No. 3008. The deep-sea zeomorph fishes of the family Grammicolepidae. By
George S. Myers. Pp. 145-156, pls. 5-7. January 18, 1937.

No. 3009. New North American species of earthworms of the family Megas-
cvolecidae. By Frank Smith. Pp. 157-181. January 8, 1937.

No. 3010. Observations on the trematode genus Brachycoelium Dujardin. By
Klon KE. Byrd. Pp. 183-199, pls. 8,9. April 7, 1937.

No. 8011. New muscoid flies (Diptera) in the United States National Museum.
By David G. Hall. Pp. 201-216, figs. 19-26. April 6, 1937.

No. 3012. The pupa of Myocera tabanivora Hall (Diptera). By Charles T.
Greene. Pp. 217-218, fig. 27. April 6, 1987.

No. 3013. A new subspecies of the nymphalid butterfly Polygonia faunus. By
Austin H. Clark. Pp. 219-222, pl. 10. April 9, 1937.

No. 3014. A new species of trematode from the mud-eel (Siren lacertina). By
C. Courson Zeliff. Pp. 223-226, pl. 11. May 4, 19387.

No. 3015. Mexican fossil Echini. By Robert Tracy Jackson. Pp. 227-237,
pls. 12-15. June 12, 1937.

No. 3016. Two new beetles of the family Mordellidae from orchids. By
Eugene Ray. Pp. 239-241. April 21, 1937.

No. 3018. A revision of the clapper rails (Rallus longirostris Boddaert). By
Harry C. Oberholser. Pp. 318-354. June 30, 1937.

No. 3020. Synopsis of the Puerto Rican beetles of the genus Mordellistena,
with descriptions of new species. By Eugene Ray. Pp. 389-399, fig. 28. June
26, 1937.

BULLETINS

No. 153, part 2. Birds collected by the Childs Frick expedition to Ethiopia
and Kenya Colony: Passeres. By Herbert Friedmann. xii-++506 pp., 14 pls., 30
figs. (colored frontispiece). June 25, 1937.

No. 167. Life histories of North American birds of prey. Part 1: Order
Falconiformes. By Arthur Cleveland Bent. viii+409 pp., 102 pls. May 3, 1937.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERIOAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year one annual
report and one bulletin were issued, as follows:
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Fifty-third Annual Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1935-86. 8 pp.
Bulletin 114. Fox miscellany. By Truman Michelson. 124 pp., 9 figs.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

Volume I of the report for 1935 and volume III of the report
for 1981 (Writings on American History, 1932) were issued during
the year. The annual report for 1936, volume I, and Writings on
American History, 1983 and 1934, were in press at the close of the
year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirty-ninth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with law, December 3, 1936.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the
Government bureaus under the administration of the Institution
were virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation
for the coming year ending June 30, 1938, totals $65,000, allotted as
follows:

Ninithseian: sis be plOn je Se Sa ek ee $12, 500
UREN IVECIRG DM som tere, De mest Se 30, 000
Bureau: @f American: Siwdloey. - =  s e hk ee 13, 300
Intemational lisclanpe Service 5-4 ok Be eee 200
a ME ON 2, ee are STR Ae oS a rents ER 200
ASUPOPR VSI CAL ADD SOR Vata T ysis es Oe re Sr Es 400
American Historical Assocth tions.) bes, Ses a 8, 000
INS tons LaGoMection Svrine Arts. jo To” ee or a -_ 400

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. Troe, Editor.
Dr. C. G. Asgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTHE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1937

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, to-
gether with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the
Government bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d—

$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the

claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the

fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the

lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the

DTG UT en eae ee ee SP i SR er ie ee ee ee $550, 000. 00
Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from

various sources chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income

from which may be used for the general work of the Institution.
To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income,

gain from sale of securities, etc., bringing the total endowment

for general purposes to the amount of_______________________ 1, 132, 868, 57

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the
income of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested
and stand on the books of the Institution as follows:

Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of

AUnwang Lecturer on: the sun 22- a eae $39, 993. 48
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to
investigate fauna of countries other than the United States___ 50, 101. 00

Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird_ 13, 489. 06
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the

HOOLOSICAI ERAT Ke 29.20 0 inte Jee A eee Ae oe 760. 67
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield

COMECHONU OL * MIN CEAIS se a2 hen re Ee ARR Gln: + elves neers 38, 247. 22
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collec-

tion and promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera______ We teen oe
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks___________________ 28, 160. 59
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer

colleceongofelishtin=s Obj ectge ae ee nee 6, 572. 25

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
Special Research fund, gift, in form of real estate_____._-__________ $20, 946. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove__-_---_--_________ 15, 150. 12
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works
of art for the use of, and benefit of, the National Gallery of Art__ 18, 956. 10
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane
en jeomectiqn ©)" ) 8:2 3 eS ee eee 2, 413. 55
Poore, Lucy T., and George W., fund, for general use of the In-
stitution when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000______ 67, 717. 14
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory
ys A WT TMB Uc hr | eee es ene seo eamoe ene einenace: dete. Seow eRe Tae Se 29, 084. 86
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling
OLIEREIOM Gl. ere ee en ee ee 120, 682. 75
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund for investigations in physics
gud? Ghemistry: (ices ee SE ye eee oe ee 52, 902. 67
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete., of Springer collection and
Ty Sey an 2 Sn nes Sees ee Wee ees SEES Toate kone sen as 17, 932. 90
Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing
rp Lebo ity MeO a ee Ree Ne eo ee a NIA S a RUNES bE. 10, 736. 20
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust-_____-__-_____-_______ 50, 112. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_____- 761. 08
Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endewmen tite * aioe fe re ee ee ee eee 692, 448. 47

The capital funds of the Institution, except the Freer funds, are
invested as follows:

Fund — Consolidated| Separate Total
Treasury fund fund

pr AE ei BASS Fe SR oes (geoweeree 3 $30,008) 48 |. <...-4.. , 993.
Bacon, Mei xg ye ee a Ee ae Read FMT A. S Op, 100. OD teen 50, 101. 00
ORI BAO Preps ntrhaasien pn 5a ccsgeedsn shphe wecaetnndee | warninttagsseee 15; 600,00; 1.1.< eccnenes 13, 489. 06
Barstow, Frederio Eppes ins Merten b/g: SLA) bn wh, eee MOG, OF Tat cen aicuan 760. 67
he 8) A IES EE SES ES Y EL oe es a 88, 247. 22
ee AQ So 2 AE See eee LER A ahi eek db a a is (OS Ioaewesonenae 7, 728, 33
oo RE EERE RNS Firs Coe Meche RL AEN LAL C GR aE” = Oe SI Oe ae ee 28, 160. 59
pI a, | eh ee a Re PS Tee ee eed EES ee eee SS ee 6,072. 28} occ le see 6, 572. 25
CO ee eae ee $100, 000 tances ee eae 00, 000. 00
BROIL TOONNOTOH | atten es Fe eases HALE me cee mal cea deinete Be $20, 946. 00 20, 946. 00
ERE SEAR ac saad lances ener bined Bars olnnae  haoka eeabll ocnaan om tepaee eas 20, 060, 02) be oe 15, 150. 12
Tpomer intbenind Wha eee ee een bee ie i woe 18, 958. 10
Pell, Dernelie Livinesten 62. 2ossi. 5. eslh uae echt S016: Ba eee 2, 413. 55
Poore, Lacy T. ana George W.-..<..s22 25-53 26, 670 hi Va GO ees 67, 717. 14

pS SS Oe ee eS STEN 11, 000 3, 584. 4, 500. 00 , 084.
Perey PoE i ae oe Cee eae KE. i va 120, 682. 75
ons Miirians We Wy PIE oe en loamanieneemi 43, 402. 67 9, 500. 00 52, 902. 67

Smithsonian unrestricted:

SS RS eee Al ee, Pes Pale 1, 400. 00 1, 400. 00
DO SS 535 12 95 RSet aes ees es Ph 8 Bi, BO Oh Aa cacenstccce 51, 236. 81
Endowment 103, 460. 08}. 5- 193, 460. 03
2 LY a Se RIS paella et aE tne, (elie Mi i («| | fl aoc atleast bene Ee SE 500. 00
Hachenberg oun) a 4,021. 50
maaan IOI LON EAE RAE IS 2, 500 08: 08 fw wanceadus 2, 903. 68
} EE OP ea ree Ek EE SS Te pot os SS MOM SS le 1, 200. 42
Hodgkins {711 1b DNASE See eNO eee 116, 009 Ey Sa eee 146, 223. 12
Pea. Dla a AS SS OE a ale , 640 RE Te eeacconnces 728, 860. 78
120° SRR eR HR REA ERE ENS TES. 590 rt 4 Pe eee 1, 063. 07
OTE Ss ESOS NRA SANE ER al SEERA IEE SN SoC 1, 100 | ee ee 1, 990. 16
Springer. - 5022 ES tee ae), Eee eee bf Eos eS cee 17, 932. 90
Waloott, Oharies D., and Mary Vaux... 20220212. ca as 10, el 2 10, 736. 20
Younger, Fielen: W al00tt onsen ee eee 50, 112. 50 50, 112. 50

worbee, Prancel Brincki6. oo og ok See ateoliensomns ames cA 1) ee eae 761.
Total... 2 eee ee eed 1, 000, 000 738, 858.54 | 86,458.50} 1,825,317. 04
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTED 121

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for the construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally, in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment
fund for the operation of the gallery. From the above date to the
present time these funds have been increased by stock dividends,
savings of income, etc., to a total of $4,881,986.96. In view of the
importance and special nature of the gift and the requirements of
the testator in respect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from
the other funds of the Institution, and the accounting in respect to
them is stated separately.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:

Oodrmand-eroqgnGgs tund!2 =o See ee ee — $646, 932.11
Court, and” zrounds’ maintenance find— 2. | a ee ee 137, 506. 17
(GAVE Woy ehh AUG ANG ices Pats ARE siete il aN ee Rs eee re oe 556, 567. 59
BRESLOUAITY LO RHCy en oe Se Sa eS a ee ee 3, 640, 981. 09
TD Ue ee ee A ae et peace ey SN pe Ee, 4, 881, 986. 96
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes______________________ $1, 132, 868. 57
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
CITGO WaT GING sce oes es eet aS ee dase Th ey ae 692, 448. 47

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment. 1, 825, 317. 04
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes____________ — 4,881, 986. 96

Total invested endowment for all purposes_.____________ 6, 707, 304. 00

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as

authorized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591__ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or

market value at date acquired) :

Bonds (19?difierent groups)... — $300, 367. 81
Stocks (41 different groups) ——-_____-________ 474, 721.18
Real estate and first-mortgage notes-___________ 41, 746. 00
Mininvested-enpitake 2 8, 482. 55

825, 317. 04

Total investments other than Freer endowment_-——_ — 1,825,317. 04
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired) :

Bonds)(44: different: groups) == -=- === $2, 379, 555. 93

Stocks (54 different groups) -~------------_--- 2, 449, 697. 40

Real estate first-mortgage notes__________ = 24, 500. 00

ininvested: capital > ee ee 28, 233. 63
———————— $4, 881, 986. 96

‘Total “isivestments. 2 on ee

6, 707, 304. 00

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL YEAR

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1986-----_----------

Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
Work or the- Insicnon jn
Cash gifts and contribytions expendable for
special scientific objects (not to be invested) ~-
Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be in-
Bf hi ae eee ee ee eee et es ee ee
Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from miscel-
laneous sources (including refund of tempo-
ELE, PPLEL RISRCON ) eo oe
Cash received as royalties from Smithsonian Sci-
PIG ARTION 6 ee ee
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to
pO eat te a eee

Total receipts other than Freer endowment-_----------~

Cash receipts from Freer endowment, income

$72, 439. 29

33, 440. 45

105. 00

Prom anvestments, Ste 250. Aes ee $280, 969. 53

Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (to
Neer Ven bee) ne ee

754, 718. 98

Total receipts from Freer endowment—----__---_-_--__-

Disbursements :
From funds for general work of the Institution:

Buildings, care, repairs, and alterations_____~ $4, 717. 66
Morminire and fixtures! si2s4~ 0 3 Sor See es 570. 51
Generel: mdministration <2: tceke: (tot ows fe: 28, 464. 76
PADTATY@ 2c. 2 pt een S| eee Fa, 2, 101. 26
Publications (comprising preparation, print-

ing. ned aightipintion yes ee da — 14,689. 95
Researches and explorations_____.___________ 27, 254. 20
International :-Wixchanges ead 3, 263. 08

$222, 452. 43

263, 970. 01

1, 035, 685. 51

1, 522, 107. 95

81, 011. 42

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative

charge of the Institution.
2 This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 123

Disbursements—Continued.
From funds for specific use, other than Freer en-
dowment :

Investments made from gifts, from gain from
sale, etc., of securities and from savings on
INCOME =~ ee $26, 168. 15

Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, increase and care of
special collections, etc., from income of en-
dowment funds and from cash gifts for
specific use (including temporary ad-

VELA Sc te Ps eet a RS ae ce 78, 947. 71
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
OfeSCCUTINES veb@lo nln es oe 44, 383. 42

Cost of handling securities, fee of investment
counsel, and accrued interest on bonds pur-
Ch ENS 6 OR BR a ae Ee EE et Ae ee oe eet 2, 079. 24
——————_ $1511, 578. 62
From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,

fiel deexPenSes: sClOs =a eee ee 49, 422.18
Purchases of att. Objectss a= ee ee 141, 942. 96
Investments made from gain from sale, etc.,

Of PRECUTITICS ete ee eee hie. ee eee SEE 230, 665. 78
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call

OlmsSeCUnIMIES I etCs =< 2S 02 = eels ee ee as 490, 327. 70

Cost of handling securities, fee of investment
counsel, and accrued interest on bonds pur-

[oF | a oe a ee ee a ee ee ae 22, 864. 69
935, 223. 31
Onehibalance: Sune,.30, JOR sas ane cee IO 354, 294. 70
TG a ttre ee te eae SO ae 1, 522, 107. 95

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, PUBLICATIONS, EXPLORA-
TIONS, CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC.

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution:

AEA GTI oe ere See 20. 3 eA ale Secs Pl $17, 090. 34
Researches and explorations____-__________________ 27, 254. 20
$44, 344, 54
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches: and explorations... te 49, 757. 28
Care, increase, and study of special collections_____- 10, 787. 39
Puplications=... ft sssatgr ire) seater Os tect elt) 5, 606. 02
— 66, 150. 69
NG | [Ss a ea ES SAE an Pel ACG Re oo Ci ER pene acl heise ean 110, 495. 23

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con-
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $1,249.26.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from
the following:

Dr. William L. Abbott, portion of bequest left to the Smithsonian Institution.

Friends of Dr. Albert S. Hitchcock, for establishment and care of a library
in his name.

Edith C. Long, bequest for care of collection of laces, ete., presented to the
Institution.

Mr. John A. Roebling, further contributions for researches in radiation.

Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for certain publications and purchase of specimens.

Research Corporation, further contributions for researches in radiation.

The Garden Club of America, the Amateur Gardener’s Club of Baltimore,
the Herb Society of America, and others, for the publishing of the Badianus
Manuscript.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are
deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress
for the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the
Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year 1937:

Salaries and @xpenses—. oa shel ees ee a ee $36, 330
Tntermetional siemens. a 44, 260
Cee SG RAT Da a I a cts A Sse ee A tr apne DO 58, 730
Astronnyaical Ghrervatory_._. ee, oe ee ee 30, 850
National Museum:
Wrennnce fd. Onern on ee $134, 390
Preservalon Uf Couecnons = Ses Se 604, 580
738, 970
bea SLC a ag 8, syle A ated RE ee aoe i SP ah ea aa 34, 275
Printing antl bindines oh Ee a eet ae 55, 500
INSLIOURYCOOLOMICAL PATE 5. on 3 Sn ee 225, 000
iy ROR RA A RES Alea 2 eed ee ES ec oe as Pi J alee ate tae ae et 1, 223, 915

1 Name changed to National Collection of Fine Arts by Public Res. 14, 75th Cong., 1st
sess., approved Mar. 24, 1937.

The expositions at Cleveland, Ohio, and Dallas, Tex., were con-
tinued from last year and the following allotments made for par-
ticipation therein by the Smithsonian Institution:

Gfeat bakes Hepoesition, A987 and..1088 2 = ee a $350
Greater Texas and Pan American Exposition--__._____-__---_---------_---- 5, 000
An allotment of $500 was also made to enable the Smithsonian

Institution to place an exhibit in the International Exposition held
in Paris, France.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 125

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed
below:
AvaustT 27, 1937.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEF, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sims: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1937, and certify the bal-
ance of cash on hand, including petty cash fund, June 30, 1937, to be $356,194.70.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1937, together with the author-
ity therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expendi-
tures and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each
trust fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1937.

Respectfully submitted.

Wr11am L. Yarcer & Co.,
Witi1Am L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.

Freperic A. DreLano,
R. Warton Moors,
JouHn C. Merriam,

Eauecutive Committee.
wiih ‘i ‘ ay wl ae
we a’ wT Tis an ae es
i vbr pts ¥' "7 Wis
j F 6 aegis
ing 1S] >
7 I Err ita

sett fhatri’d of ?

ries
a -
ei iP
su se ie .
7S A
-fD Ya
ta 1 Base side » | a
(oe? he wo rit 7
pias 7 Aub
“fliehe ie
i ae ’
4d Py ari S -*
nf alt Jo. aot iy
» tte fe »
vita ioag Ps
—_ An
7 pes

7

.
“-
©

. |
Ta reyes
7 _

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1937

127
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the GznreRAL Aprrnprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellancous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1937.

129

31508—38——-10
" s > *
&  ifoupsets
i, an
: . orn tacks.

: 7 2
Hudtitar, saigomdinuage =
— ae - 4 a
Ls $0 Sooke ae
’ Te ae my pe
i bas ides Mie

4 7,

=

7 it c
: 7: r
oe =

LF "a 0.0 att.

Ae

ea a
é

CONSTITUTION OF THE STARS!

By Sir ArrHur STaNnLey EDDINGTON
Professor of Astronomy, University of Cambridge

When we turn a telescope on the sun, we look at it through its
tenuous envelopes—the corona and chromosphere—then down through
a few hundred kilometers of its outermost atmosphere, to a level
where it becomes too opaque for us to see further; just as, in looking
down on the ocean, we can see down a few feet but no further. At
the vaguely defined level which is the limit of our vision, the tempera-
ture is about 6,000°. What lies below that level? What is it like
deep down in the interior of the sun—and the other stars?

The exploration of the deep interior of the stars began in 1869
with a paper by Homer Lane of Washington, which he entitled, “On
the Theoretical Temperature of the Sun, Under the Hypothesis of a
Gaseous Mass, Maintaining Its Volume by Its Internal Heat and
Depending on the Laws of Physics as Known to Terrestrial Experi-
ment.”’ Evidently he didn’t believe in snappy headlines. This paper
has been the foundation of developments by Ritter, Emden, and
others, which are being continued at the present day.

There is a phrase in the title of Lane’s paper which I would under-
line: “Depending on the laws of physics as known to terrestrial excperi-
ment.” ‘That expresses the principle of which I profess myself a
devotee. We want to find out how far the phenomena which we
observe in the sky agree with, and are a consequence of, the laws that
have been assigned to matter as the result of terrestrial experiment.
Take ordinary matter—some mixture of the elements that we know—
and apply on a large scale the properties of matter and radiation that
have been found by experiments on a small scale. Treat it as though
you were designing a large dam instead of a large star—with just the
same kind of calculations and exercising so far as possible the same
kind of foresight. The conditions in the star are very extreme; but
the ultimate things to be dealt with—electrons, atomic nuclei, X-rays—
are the same in the star as in the laboratory, and we can apply our
laboratory knowledge of them. Calculate in this way what will be

1 Address given at the Harvard Tercentenary Conference of Arts and Sciences. Published by permission
of the Director of the Harvard Tercentenary.

131
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

the properties of the huge mass—what, for example, will be its output
of heat and light, what will be its period if it is set pulsating. Cal-
culate “according to the laws of physics as known to terrestrial
experiment”; and then turn to the man with the telescope and ask, “Is
that anything like the stars you come across in the sky?” It may be
that he will point out differences. If the stars have anything new to
reveal to us—which the physicist with his limited conditions of experi-
ment has been unable to foresee—we shall in this way sort it out from
that which is a direct consequence of what we already know or think
we know.

Investigations which follow this course of procedure are clearly
not speculative. They may have other faults, and their conclusions
may be uncertain; but their method is the very opposite to flighty
conjecture. Parenthetically, may I ask whether it is not possible for
critics of theoretical investigations of the stars to find some other
term of disapprobation than the term “speculative” ; one prefers to have
even one’s faults called by the right name. I do not class all specula-
tion as a fault; and it has sometimes happened that important ad-
vances have begun in a speculative way. The real harm is when
speculative attempts are not sufficiently discriminated from the
straightforward application of existing knowledge. And the con-
verse is no less harmful—when Lane’s pattern of investigation, that is
to say, the results of applying on the stellar scale the laws found in
the laboratory, is confused with the frankly speculative theories that
have at times been put forward; and (perhaps I may add for the bene-
fit of the mathematicians here) worst of all, when stars constituted of
matter obeying the laws of physics so far as they have been unraveled
to-day, are confused with mathematical creations whose only claim
on our attention is that they satisfy elegant differential equations.

I will not guarantee that the conclusions that I shall put before you
will survive the progress of knowledge in the next 50 years. If by
then the stars of gaseous constitution which we accept today have
given place to liquid stars or solid stars or, as I once suggested, crys-
talline stars composed of gaseous erystals—well, there have been more
surprising changes in science than that. But I believe firmly that the
conclusions are such as fit our present scientific knowledge; and that
they represent present-day astronomy in step with present-day
physics. To use a rather favorite word nowadays, wnification, the
interest of these investigations is, I think, not so much dependent on
the absolute information they yield, as in the unification of physics
and astrophysics—enabling us to see one underlying cause or one
elementary equation at the root of the most diverse manifestations,
tracing its effects in the vacuum tube, in the interior of stars, in the
diffuse nebulae, and—not least—in the system of galaxies which con-
stitutes the cosmos.
CONSTITUTION OF THH STARS—EDDINGTON 133

I want to leave time to speak of recent problems, so [ will run over
rather briefly the older part of the subject. Let us suppose that by
‘ observation from outside we have ascertained the mass M and the

radius R of a star—just those two data. Armed with this informa-
tion, what can we deduce (by laws of physics) about its interior?

The first difficulty is that, although we have ascertained the total
mass, we have not found how it is distributed—whether it is fairly
uniform throughout the volume of the star or strongly concentrated
to the center. I will not stop to explain how we have got over this
difficulty ; but it is a side of the problem in which considerable progress
has been made in the last year or two. Although we cannot deter-
mine the concentration accurately, we can assign limits by purely
theoretical deduction. The central density is not less than 5 times
the mean density, and not more than 50 times the mean density—so

that we know roughly the degree of concentration that we are up
against.

Knowing then how the mass is distributed in the structure we can
calculate the pressure at any depth. Any civil engineer will tell you
that that is possible; so that we know the pressure as well as the den-
sity at each point in the interior. Now the density, pressure, and
temperature are connected by a relation called the equation of state
of the material; if any two of them are known we can find the third.
In this case we know the pressure and density and we can therefore
find the temperature—which is, of course, an extremely important
thing to find out, in order to realize the sort of conditions we have to
deal with. For all the stars except white dwarfs, the equation of
state, which connects the temperature with the pressure and density,
is the well-known equation of a perfect gas. For the extremely dense
matter in white dwarf stars the equation is more complicated; but
the theoretical physicist by his terrestrial studies has worked out for
us the required equation. (Incidentally he has worked it out wrong—
but that is another story, and I’ll speak about the white dwarfs
later. For the present we will keep to the ordinary stars.)

The internal temperatures determined in this way are of the order
10 to 20 million degrees Centigrade. Having ascertained this, we
begin to realize the state of things that we have to deal with. At
this temperature all the atoms will be highly ionized. Light elements
such as oxygen will be stripped bare to the nucleus, and heavy elements
such as iron and lead will retain only a few of the innermost satellite
electrons. The rest of the electrons will be free. We have therefore
to deal with a population consisting of free electrons, the shattered
remnants of atoms and photons or quanta of radiation. Planck’s law
determines both the amount and kind of radiation present at a given
temperature. At 10 to 20 million degrees the radiation consists of
rather soft X-rays.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Now we can see more or less what is happening at 10 million degrees
in the interior of the sun. Crowded together within a cubic centi-
meter there are more than a quadrillion atoms, about twice as many
free electrons and 20,600 trillion X-rays (British reckoning). The
X-rays are traveling with the speed of light, and the electrons at
10,000 miles a second. Most of the atoms are hydrogen atoms or
rather, since they have lost their satellite electrons, simply protons
traveling at 300 miles a second. Here and there there will be heavier
atoms such as iron lumbering along at 40 miles a second. I have told
you the speeds and the state of congestion of the road; and I will leave
you to imagine the collisions. Small wonder if the atoms are found
with their garb of electrons badly torn or even stripped naked.

The stripped atoms are continually capturing free electrons and, so
to speak, repairing their dress; but scarcely has the captured electron
settled when an X-ray bears down on it and explodesit away. This is
not a fanciful picture. These are phenomena which have been found
happening in the laboratory when we use X-rays of the same wave-
length and electrons of the same speed asin the sun. There is no need
to go beyond the limits of terrestrial experiment to discover what is
happening to the population, and all the calculations have an experi-
mental basis.

The atoms and electrons are rushing violently hither and thither; but
on the whole they do not get any forwarder; gravitation pulls them
back and keeps the material of the star in equilibrium. But the
X-rays gradually leak outward. They are subject to gravitation, it is
true; but their velocity of 186,000 miles a second is sufficient for escape
from any star. Itis just the same as in the theory of planetary atmos-
pheres, where gravitation is sufficient to retain the heavier constituents,
but the lightest atoms have sufficient velocity to escape. The planet
thus loses the lightest gases; and in the same way the star loses (or, as
we say, radiates) photons of radiation. I should explain that, although
these photons are X-rays in the interior of the star, they are trans-
formed down to longer wave length in passing through the last few
thousand kilometers of comparatively cool matter; so that it is in the
form of light and heat waves that they finally escape.

So you may picture a photon of radiation, barging first one way,
then another, like a man in a rioting mob—absorbed by an atom and
flung out again in a new direction. In this way a photon in a star
will wander aimlessly round in the interior for a million years or more
until, just by accident, it finds itself at the exit of the maze—shoots
through—and makes a bee-line across space to the Oakridge reflector,
where Professor Shapley photographs it.

Having first ascertained the particulars about the population that
I have been describing, we can apply the laws (based on laboratory
experiment) which determine the amount of obstruction offered by
CONSTITUTION OF THE STARS—EDDINGTON 135

atoms and electrons to the passage of X-rays, and so find how many
photons leak out into space per second. We can compare this result
with observation—that is to say, we can see whether Professor
Shapley catches as many of them with his telescope as (according to
our calculation) he ought to catch—in short, whether the star is
actually as bright as our caleulation makes it.

In the last few years we have found a complication in the calculation
which I must now explain. At an earlier stage we had to ask the
physicist to supply a formula giving the temperature of a gas when the
pressure and density are known. Not unreasonably he will object:
“You have not given me enough information. What is the gas?—
oxygen? iron vapor? mercury vapor? or what?” We cannot say.

But on second thoughts he withdraws the objection. ‘Never
mind. Ordinarily it would make a big difference, but at the high
temperatures we are concerned with it makes practically no difference
what element we take. The atoms will be almost completely ionized;
that is to say, their satellite electrons will be moving as free particles.
We only want to know the average weight per free particle. The
number of satellite electrons in an atom is roughly half the atomic
weight—so that we shall have roughly 2 units of weight per particle;
for example, oxygen of atomic weight 16 breaks up into 9 particles,
namely 8 electrons and a nucleus; iron of atomic weight 56 breaks up
into 27 particles.”” Owing to this remarkable property it has been
possible to make considerable progress with the theory of the interior
of a star without knowing what chemical elements it is composed of.

Those are the physicist’s second thoughts. But on third thoughts
he exclaims, “Bother! There’s hydrogen.” The rule that there are
two units of weight per particle does not work for hydrogen. It has
atomic weight 1 and splits up into a proton and electron, so that the
average weight per particle is 4’—instead of 2. That makes a vast
difference.

A year or two ago the physicist had some alarming fourth thoughts
about neutrons; but neutrons are absorbed very easily by atomic
nuclei, and I think they will have only a transitory existence on the
sun, as on the earth, and never form an appreciable part of the
population. So we won’t worry about fourth thoughts. The crux of
the matter is that, for the purposes of these investigations, there are
just two kinds of matter, namely, hydrogen and not-hydrogen. UHydro-
gen gives a much lower temperature than not-hydrogen, and therefore
lower brightness for a star of the same mass and radius. Our compari-
son of theory and observation can therefore be used in two ways. We
can calculate the brightness of a star, assuming the material to be
not-hydrogen, compare it with observation, congratulate ourselves on
the partial agreement we find, and ponder over the possible sources of
the discrepancies which remain—one possible source of discrepancy
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

will be the presence of a significant proportion of hydrogen. The
other way is to try various combinations of hydrogen and not-hydrogen
until we find the proportion which gives precise agreement of the cal-
culated and observed brightness. That is the method we generally
employ nowadays; the observed brightness of a star tells us what
proportion of its mass consists of hydrogen.

Dr. Bengt Strémgren found in this way that the sun, Capella, and
other typical stars contain 33 percent of hydrogen. My own calcula-
tions agreed precisely. This agreement is rather specially interesting
because we adopted different composition for the remaining 67 per-
cent of the mass. Strémgren used a mixture of rather light elements,
familiarly known as ‘‘Russell’s Mixture,” believed to agree with the
composition of the outer layers determined with the spectroscope; I
used a mixture about three times heavier. Our precise agreement
confirms what I have already said—that it makes no difference what
kind of stellar material you assume, so long as it is not-hydrogen. Itis
still doubtful to what extent the proportion of hydrogen varies in
different stars; there is some evidence that it is greater in the most
massive stars, but the evidence is not very good. An important paper
presented by Prof. H. N. Russell to the Tercentenary Conference was
partly devoted to this question.

I must say a word about the agreement of theory and observation.
Since we determine the proportion of hydrogen so as to make the
observed and calculated brightness agree, we obviously cannot claim
that the agreement is a confirmation of the theory. Nevertheless it
does furnish a fairly efficient check. Unless the theory were pretty
near the truth, we should find that for some of the stars which we
try it would be impossible to find any proportion of hydrogen that
would bring about agreement. It is satisfactory, therefore, that all
the stars give a reasonable proportion. If Strémgren had found,
instead of 33 percent, an answer which involved the square root of
—1, as might easily have happened, we should have concluded that
there was something fishy about the theory.

The recognition of white dwarf stars with density far transcending
that of any terrestrial matter is one of the more spectacular develop-
ments of the study of stellar constitution. A cubic inch of the mat-
ter of the companion of Sirius weighs about a ton, and some of the
more recently discovered white dwarfs appear to have higher den-
sities even than that. In order to explain a new point which has
arisen in connection with the theory of these stars, I must go back
to past history. In 1924 the mass-luminosity relation—that is, the
formula expressing the result of the calculation I have been describ-
ing—was worked out; and, on comparing with observation, it turned
out that it was obeyed not only by the diffuse giant stars for which
it was intended but also by the dwarf stars with densities greater
CONSTITUTION OF THE STARS—EDDINGTON 137

than water for which it was not intended. This was a complete sur-
prise. But the explanation was not difficult to find. We had been
taking it for granted that stellar matter would cease to behave as a
perfect gas when the density approached that of ordinary liquids or
solids. Ordinary terrestrial atoms then begin to jam together and
the material becomes almost incompressible. But in the stars the
temperature of 10 million degrees causes most of the satellite elec-
trons to be torn away from the atom, and what is left of the atom is
a tiny structure. The atoms or ions are so reduced in size that they
will not jam until densities 100,000 times greater are reached. For
this reason, the perfect gas state continues up to much higher den-
sities in the stars. The sun and other dense stars insisted on obey-
ing the theory worked out for a perfect gas, as they had every right
to do, since their material was perfect gas.

There was, therefore, nothing to prevent stellar matter from becom-
ing compressed to exceedingly high density; and it suggested itself
that the densities which had been calculated from observation for
certain stars called white dwarfs, which had seemed impossibly high,
might be genuine after all.

In reaching this conclusion I was not without a certain misgiving.
I was uneasy as to what would ultimately happen to these superdense
stars. The star seemed to have got itself into an awkward fix. Ulti-
mately its store of subatomic energy would give out and the star
would then want to cool down. But could it? The enormous density
was made possible by the high temperature which shattered the
atoms. If the material cooled it would presumably revert to terres-
trial density. But that meant that the star must expand to say
5,000 times its present bulk. But the expansion requires energy—
doing work against gravity; and the star appeared to have no store
of energy available. What on earth was the star to do if it was con-
tinually losing heat, but had not enough energy to get cold!

The high density of the companion of Sirius was duly confirmed
by Professor Adams—but this puzzle remained. Shortly afterward
Prof. R. H. Fowler came to the rescue in a famous paper, in which
he applied a new result in wave mechanics which had just been dis-
covered. It is a remarkable coincidence that just at the time when
matter of transcendently great density was discovered in astronomy,
the mathematical physicists were quite independently turning atten-
tion to the same subject. I suppose that up to 1924 no one had
given a serious thought to abnormally dense matter; but just when
it cropped up in astronomy it cropped up in physics as well. Fowler
showed that the newly discovered Fermi-Dirac statistics saved the
star from the unfortunate fate which I had feared.

I will say a word or two about Professor Fowler’s explanation. My
colleague Fowler was in his youth a pure mathematician, and I am
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

afraid he has never really recovered from this upbringing. Conse-
quently, although his paper contained reassuring equations, it did
not clearly reveal the simple physical modification of ideas which
wave mechanics brought about. He proved that the star would
manage all right. But, as you may have inferred from Professor
Hardy’s revelations, J am not an extreme worshipper of proof. I
want to know why; a proof does not always tell you that. As Clerk
Maxwell used to ask, ‘‘What’s the go of it?’’ Well, in this case the
“oo of it’? was that whereas the older theory said that atoms could
only be ionized by high temperature the new wave mechanics said
that high temperature was not essential because they could also be
ionized by crushing them under high pressure. Several writers tum-
bled to it, before I did, that that was what Fowler’s rather mysterious
result really meant; but I think that it is still not at all generally
known. You see this allows the star to cool down and still retain
its enormous density—which the older quantum theory did not.

Not content with letting well alone, physicists began to improve on
Fowler’s formula. They pointed out that in white dwarf conditions
the electrons would have speeds approaching the velocity of light, and
there would be certain relativity effects which Fowler had neglected.
Consequently Fowler’s formula, called the ordinary degeneracy for- |
mula, came to be superseded by a newer formula, called the relativ-
istic degeneracy formula. All seemed well until certain researches by
Chandrasekhar brought out the fact that the relativistic formula put
the stars back in precisely the same difficulty from which Fowler had
rescued them. The small stars could cool down all right, and end
their days as dark stars in a reasonable way. But above a certain
critical mass (two or three times that of the sun) the’star could never
cool down, but must go on radiating and contracting until heaven
knows what becomes of it. That did not worry Chandrasekhar; he
seemed to like the stars to behave that way, and believes that that is
what really happens. But I felt the same objections as 12 years
earlier to this stellar buffoonery; at least it was sufficiently strange to
rouse my suspicion that there must be something wrong with the
physical formula used.

I examined the formula—the so-called relativistic degeneracy
formula—and the conclusion I came to was that it was the result of a
combination of relativity theory with a nonrelativistic quantum
theory. I do not regard the offspring of such a union as born in
lawful wedlock. The relativistic degeneracy formula—the formula
currently used—is in fact baseless; and, perhaps rather surprisingly,
the formula derived by a correct application of relativity theory is the
ordinary formula—Fowler’s original formula which every one had
abandoned. I was not surprised to find that in announcing these
conclusions I had put my foot in a hornet’s nest; and I have had the
CONSTITUTION OF THH STARS—EDDINGTON 139

physicists buzzing about my ears—but I don’t think I have been
stung yet. Anyhow, for the purposes of this lecture, I will assume
that I haven’t dropped a brick.

I venture to refer to a personal aspect of this investigation, since it
shows how closely different branches of science are interlocked. At
the time when my suspicion of the relativistic degeneracy formula
was roused by Chandrasekhar’s results, it was very inconvenient to
me to spare time to follow it up, because I was immersed in a long
investigation in a different field of thought. This work, which had
occupied me for 6 years, was nearing completion and there remained
only one problem, namely, the accurate theoretical calculation of the
cosmical constant, needed to round it off. But there I had completely
stuck. JI had, however, secured a period of 4 months free from dis-
tractions which I intended to devote to it—to make a supreme effort,
so to speak. But having incautiously begun to think about the
degeneracy formula I could not get away from it. It took up my
time. The months slipped away, and I had done nothing with the
problem of the cosmical constant. Then one day in trying to test
my degeneracy results from all points of view, I found that in one
limiting case it merged into a cosmical problem. It gave a new
approach to the very problem which I had had to put aside—and
from this new approach the problem was soluble without much diffi-
culty. I can see now that it would have been very difficult to get at
it in any other way; and it is most unlikely that I should have made
any progress if I had spent the 4 months on the direct line of attack
which I had planned.

The paper which I read to the mathematical section a few days
ago,” giving a calculation of the speed of recession of the spiral nebulae
and the number of particles in the universe, had an astronomical
origin. It was not, however, suggested by consideration of the spiral
nebulae. It arose out of the study of the companion of Sirius and
other white dwarf stars.

I mentioned that we ouly gradually came to realize that ionization
could be produced by high pressure as well as by high temperature.
I think the first man to state this explicitly was D.S. Kothari. Stim-
ulated by some work of H. N. Russell, Kothari has made what I
think is an extremely interesting application. The relation of ioniza-
tion to pressure is a curious one, for at low pressures we decrease the
ionization by increasing the pressure; but the ionization must have a
minimum, for at high pressures the Fermi-Dirac complication steps
in and the ionization ultimately increases with pressure. No one
seems to have bothered much about this revised ionization law; they
have been content to recognize, or I think rather to guess, that in
white dwarfs the ionization would be pretty high. Kothari, how-

4 Amer. Journ. Math., vol. 59, no. 1, 1937.
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

ever, has treated it seriously and worked out the degree of ionization
in various conditions, including comparatively small masses in which
the pressure is relatively low and the ionization is not very high. He
has thus obtained formulae which he is able to apply to the planets.

I turn now to the subject of subatomic energy which we believe to
be the source which maintains a star’s heat. This is a matter on
which, until about 3 years ago, terrestrial experiment gave us no help
at all. Conditions have now changed, and physical laboratories
throughout the world have given themselves up to an orgy of atom-
splitting. It is of immense importance for the future of astronomy
that a new laboratory technique enables us to experiment directly on
the processes of liberation of energy by transmutation of atomic
nuclei, since these are almost certainly the processes which keep the
stars alight. But at present it is too early to expect results this way.
The theory of stellar constitution, which I have been describing, was
built up without any Jaboratory knowledge of subatomic energy.
This was possible because the problem of the source of maintenance
of a star’s heat could be segregated almost completely from the rest
of the problem. By Lane’s method we could determine the tempera-
ture—how much heat there was in the star—without speculating as
to how it came to be there; and we could show that a star so endowed
must radiate at the moment a calculable amount of light and heat—
without inquiring how it managed to go on radiating it for thousands
of millions of years. In short, the structural problem could be segre-
gated from the evolutionary problem.

The only point at which the segregation is not complete is this: The
concentration of density toward the center of a star depends to some
extent on how the source maintaining the heat is distributed. It
seems clear from present-day experiment, as well as from astronomical
evidence, that the liberation of subatomic energy increases rapidly
with temperature; so that we may expect it to occur mainly in the
hottest central part of the star. This has the effect of diminishing the
concentration of density to the center—making it less than in the
standard model which has generally been employed. This effect is,
however, limited; because, if the star overdoes it, convection currents
are set up, which bring about compensation. ‘To describe our present
conclusion I must use technical terms: The density distribution near
the outside has a polytropic index 3 which gradually diminishes to 1.5
at the center, where there is a convective core. I am speaking of
ordinary stars such as the sun; but curiously enough this specification
of the density distribution applies also to white dwarfs—for which it
has long been the recognized model—though in the white dwarfs it
comes about in quite a different way.

Apart from this refinement, the researches which I have hitherto
described are not affected by theories of subatomic energy. But
CONSTITUTION OF THE STARS—EDDINGTON 141

they put us in a favorable position to learn something about the laws
of subatomic energy. Many well-known lines of argument have
convinced us that the sun and stars have a lifetime to be reckoned in
thousands of millions of years—which means that evolutionary
changes are extremely slow, and that the heat radiated by a star into
space is almost exactly balanced by the heat liberated from subatomic
sources in the interior. So when we measure the radiation of a star,
we measure the generation of subatomic energy. You see then that
the measurement of subatomic energy is just a common everyday
astronomical measurement.

To the engineer the release of subatomic energy on a practical
scale is, and seems likely to remain, a Utopian dream. ‘To the phys-
icist it was, until 3 years ago, a field of uncontrolled theoretical
speculation. To the astronomer it has long been an everyday
phenomenon which it would be absurd to close his eyes to.

Having then measured the rate of release of subatomic energy in
all types of stars, we can correlate it to the temperatures and densities
which we have found in the interior. This more or less direct inves-
tigation of the conditions of release can be supplemented by a theo-
retical examination of the conditions of stability of stars containing
such a source—a line of attack initiated by Prof. H. N. Russell.

If the star contracts, the liberation of subatomic energy must be
stimulated; otherwise the star is unstable. We cannot deduce
astronomically whether the stimulus comes from the increased
temperature or the increased density; but for simplicity we shall
suppose it to be mainly the temperature. Then each star contracts
until its internal temperature reaches the value at which the liberation
of subatomic energy is equal to the heat radiated, and there it
sticks—not quite indefinitely, but for a very long period until the
sources of subatomic energy show signs of exhaustion. The stars
on the main series appear to be those which have reached this balance
and stuck. Now it is one of the results of our previous investigations
that the stars of the main series, from the most massive to the lightest,
have practically the same internal temperature. We used to give
the central temperature as 40 million degrees, but the figure has come
down—partly by the recognition of the abundance of hydrogen and
partly by the substitution of a less condensed model, and the present
estimate is about 15 million degrees. But whatever it is, it is nearly
the same for all. It appears, therefore, that on the main series a
small star which requires a small amount of energy per gram to
maintain its radiation and a massive star requiring 1,000 times as
much energy per gram both have to rise to 15 million degrees to
liberate it. Or to put it another way the liberation must increase
1,000 fold in a rise of temperature scarcely large enough for us to
notice in our rather rough calculations.
142 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Another result of the examination of the stability of a star is
important. The rate of liberation of subatomic energy must increase
with temperature but not too fast; if it increases more steeply than a
certain limit the star will be thrown into pulsation. Some stars do
pulsate, namely, the Cepheid variables, but the majority do not.
Perhaps we may infer that the actual law of increase is pretty near
the limit, so that the conditions of most of the stars are on the one
side and those of the Cepheids just beyond it. But there is a way
by which the star can escape this pulsatory instability. We have
been supposing that the response of the subatomic energy to the
stimulus of temperature is immediate; if there is a lag—if the rising
temperature stimulates the formation of active material which emits
the energy later on in its own good time, or if it starts a chain of
processes of which the actual energy liberation is the last, then there
will be no pulsation. A lag of some days at least is required. Pro-
vided there is this lag, the stars will be stable, even though the energy
liberation increases very rapidly with the temperature—as our
observational results for the main series stars indicate and as is also
indicated by the recent laboratory experiments.

This is the main information about subatomic energy that we have
learned from astronomy. I suppose that, taken altogether, it seems
a meager amount. But its importance is considerably enhanced,
when we recall that on almost every point it was completely at
variance with the views then held by physicists. The only form of
liberation of subatomic energy with which physicists were then
acquainted was radioactivity—a process independent of density and
unaffected by temperature unless the temperature were far higher
than 15 million degrees; and they were inclined to be intolerantly
disposed toward considering any other process, no matter how strong
the astronomical evidence might be. I cannot but think that this
is an instance of the harm done by the writers who give the impression
that stellar investigation is a field of loose speculation. Physics and
astrophysics are one subject, following the same rules of progress,
recognizing the same standards of rigorous deduction, and utilizing
the same corpus of accepted knowledge; and liable to the same
failures through our human limitations.

Various attempts were made to find a loophole for admitting much
higher temperatures in the stars so as to satisfy the physicist’s objec-
tion to admitting energy liberation controlled by low temperature;
for example, Jeans’s theory of elements of very high atomic weight,
and Milne’s theory of the existence of a core of white dwarf density
in ordinary stars like the sun. We can scarcely say that such sug-
gestions are impossible without attributing to our existing knowledge
of the laws of physics greater completeness than we care to claim.
But I think it can be said firstly that these theories were found on
CONSTITUTION OF THE STARS—EDDINGTON 143

examination not to fulfill what was initially claimed for them—on
the strength of which they were recommended. And secondly it is
not unfair to describe them as agreeing with the physicist on a matter
as to which he knew nothing, at the expense of disagreeing with him
on matters as to which he claimed to know a great deal.

All that has changed now that these subatomic processes have been
studied in the laboratory. They are found to require comparatively
low speeds of the particles, corresponding to comparatively low
temperatures, such as the stellar investigations had indicated. The
first criticism I heard, after the experiments on disintegration of
elements by protons had begun, was that 40 million degrees was too
high a temperature for the sun; and it could not be much over 15
million degrees without blowing up. Happily we had been before-
hand; and the revised astronomical calculations had already lowered
the temperature to a point which makes the sun safe for posterity.

New experimental discoveries have helped us to come to an
important decision as to the nature of the subatomic energy released
in the stars. For 15 years we have been hesitating between two
alternative suggestions. The energy might be provided by electrons
and protons annihilating one another, thus setting free the whole
energy of their constitution in the form of radiation. Or it might
be provided by transmutation of the elements. Even in this applica-
tion it remains true that we need distinguish only two kinds of stellar
matter, namely hydrogen and not-hydrogen; so the transmutation
can be more precisely defined as the transmutation of hydrogen into
not-hydrogen. The annihilation of a proton by an electron corre-
sponds to the complete disappearance of a hydrogen atom. The
energy released by the transmutation of a hydrogen atom into other
elements is only about 4.9 of the energy which would be released by its
complete disappearance. Thus the annihilation hypothesis provides
more than 100 times as much energy as the transmutation hypothe-
sis; and the possible lifetime of a star is correspondingly increased.

Attempts to decide between the two alternatives by astronomical
evidence were inconclusive. But recent progress in physits seems
to point decidedly to the transmutation hypothesis; and the annihila-
tion hypothesis seems to have been generally abandoned. Perhaps
the most serious blow to it was the discovery of the positron by
Anderson at Pasadena. The positron, not the proton, is the true
opposite of an electron; and positrons and electrons do annihilate
one another. Our lust for slaughter being thus satisfied, it would be
incongruous to bring in the proton as an alternative agent; and we
look on the supposed annihilation of electrons by protons as a rather
misdirected anticipation of the real cancelling.

Simultaneously the very long time-scale, which corresponds to the
annihilation hypothesis, has lost its attractiveness. The phenomenon
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

of the expansion of the system of the galaxies which constitutes our
universe, as well as studies of the stability of individual galaxies, make
it difficult to assign an age to the stars greater than 5,000 million
years. The radiation required for this period is amply provided for
by the transmutation hypothesis, and the hundred fold greater
energy provided by the annihilation hypothesis would only be an
embarrassment.

Both hypotheses were originally theoretical suggestions; but the
transmutation hypothesis can now claim a definite observational
basis. Take the sun, which we have found to be one third hydrogen
and two thirds not-hydrogen. At 15 million degrees the hydrogen
is ionized and its nuclei—i. e., the protons—are traveling at average
speeds of 500 miles a second. We know that in the laboratory pro-
tons of this speed attack and enter the nuclei of other elements—the
not-hydrogen—and bring about transmutations in them. We may
hope that in due time the physicists will be able to trace for us the
whole sequence of changes direct and indirect which result, so that
we shall be able to find quantitatively the rate of disappearance of
free hydrogen under these conditions, and so find the amount of
subatomic energy of this kind liberated in the sun. If it is found
to agree with the sun’s rate of radiation, we shall then have definite
proof that no other source—such as annihilation—is operative. We
are, of course, far from having the necessary knowledge at present.
It is complicated by the fact that, although the protons enter atomic
nuclei and change the nuclei into new elements, in many cases the
new nucleus breaks down after a short time, a proton is shot out and
no permanent transmutation results. Such permanent transmutation
as is observed comes at the end of a chain of processes of which the
attack of the proton on the nucleus is the first. It is interesting to
notice that this was already foretold by the astronomical investiga-
tions which, as I have said, demand a time-lag between a stimulation
of the activity of the protons by rise of temperature and the corre-
sponding increase of output of subatomic energy.

I have given you my impression of the way in which this new knowl-
edge works in with, and so far as we can see, agrees with the existing
theory of stellar constitution, not because I lay stress on the rough
conclusions that can be drawn in the turmoil of new discovery—the
data available at present are far too scrappy—but because I want to
show how intensely important for astronomy is the work of atom-
splitting now in progress—so that we may look forward to great
developments in the future.
DISCOVERIES FROM SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS *

By 8. A. MircHEeu

Director, Leander McCormick Observatory, University of Virginia

[With 9 plates]

Throughout all ages of the world’s history, the coming of a total
eclipse of the sun has always been regarded with fascinating interest.
Even today in some less civilized portions of the globe, a dragon is
believed to be devouring the sun, with the result that the monster
must be scared away by the beating of tom toms or must be appeased
by the making of sacrificial offerings. The present-day appeal to
intelligent people is a twofold one: first and foremost, on account of
the spectacular character of the phenomenon, the coming of darkness
during the daytime, and the matchless beauty of the corona, and
second, on account of the apparently uncanny skill with which the
astronomer is able to predict hundreds of years in advance the exact
hour and minute when the darkening will take place and the location
on the earth’s surface where the phenomenon may be observed.

The modern scientific method of investigation, that of experimenta-
tion, came into vogue about the time of the 1842 total eclipse which
was greeted at Milan with shouts of ‘Long live the astronomers,’’ who
bad provided so beautiful a phenomenon to please and interest the
populace. The unexpected beauty of color and form of the promi-
nences and the corona, coupled with the discovery of Baily beads, and
in the year following the discovery of the periodicity of sunspots, caused
an unprecedented increase in interest in the physical constitution of
the sun. If one of our present-day enthusiastic eclipse astronomers
had been alive at that time and with long life and unimpaired vigor
had been permitted to take part in each eclipse expedition from that
day to this, and if he had had to take his average run of luck with the
weather, he would have been permitted 1 precious hour of 60 golden
minutes to secure all of his observational material. Among all the
wonders of modern science, it is safe to state that the eclipse astron-
omer eclipses the performances of any other scientist in the wealth of
information gleaned per hour spent in securing the observations.

1 The sixth Arthur Lecture, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, February 9, 1937. The
author observed his tenth solar eclipse as the scientific leader of the National Geographic Society—U. S.

Navy expedition to Canton Island. Through the kind permission of the National Geographic Society
we are enabled to publish photographs from this latest eclipse, that of June 8, 1937.— EDITOR.

31508—38——11 145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

Photography was employed with success at the eclipse of 1860, aad
by its means it was proved that the prominences belonged to the sun.
The first triumph of the spectroscope at eclipse time was the discovery
of helium in 1868, though it was not isolated as an inert gas until 1895.
Coronium was discovered in 1869, but even today we do not know its
physical constitution. Before the eclipse of 1870, Young foretold a
sudden change in the appearance of the spectrum of the sun at the
time of the beginning of totality, from dark lines on a bright back-
ground to the sudden flashing out of bright lines on a dark background.
His were the first eyes to see the spectrum of the chromosphere called
by him the ‘flash spectrum” which was first photographed but very
imperfectly at the eclipse of 1893. With better and better photo-
graphic plates, each eclipse, especially since 1900, has been assiduously
observed, distances away from home and difficulty of access being no
insurmountable obstacles to the eclipse observer. One of the most
spectacular discoveries from eclipses came in 1919 with the verification
of the relativity shift as predicted by Einstein. Succeeding eclipses
gave a more complete verification. In the following pages will be
given a more detailed account of the chief discoveries from the most
recent of eclipse observations.

There are many different kinds of eclipses: Eclipses of the sun and
moon, eclipses of a star by the moon, eclipses of Jupiter’s and Saturn’s
satellites, and eclipses of one star by another of a binary system.
Observations of eclipsing binaries have given valuable information
regarding the masses and densities of stars—but for lack of space
the subject cannot be treated here.

The accuracy with which the times of solar and lunar eclipses can
be predicted depends on the reliability of the work of astronomers of
all ages, and the manner in which the torch of learning has been handed
on from one generation to the next. The motion of the earth about
the sun is now known with a very high degree of accuracy. In spite
of the refined researches on the motions of the moon, the place in the
sky of our unruly neighbor is yet not known with a sufficient degree of
precision. Tables of the moon are used for calculating the place of
the moon in the nautical almanacs prepared by different national
governments some 3 years in advance. For these almanac positions
it is desirable to keep the theory of the moon as free as possible from
arbitrary empirical terms so that the lunar theory may not be cluttered
up. When observations are secured, the results can be compared
directly with theory. Between the theoretical position of the moon
given by the almanac and the observed place there may be a difference
of several seconds of arc.

For long-range predictions of lunar or solar eclipses the simplest
method is to refer to Oppolzer’s Canon der Finsternisse where are
given the elements of all the eclipses (8,000 solar and 5,200 lunar)
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS—MITCHELL 147

between the dates 1208 B. C. and A. D. 2162, together with charts of
the earth showing the locations where total and annular solar eclipses
may be observed. Oppolzer’s predictions became possible on account
of the fact that the moon repeatedly takes nearly the same position
in the sky with reference to the sun and earth as is shown by the
following values:

Days
PS eclinae Meares he SIs ae eh = = SEA 6,585.7806
QD ISVMOOLG MMOMtISe fens. OR en i ee 6,585.3211
DADO CICA MIT ON US =e em ee are ee eet ee EE SERRA 6,585.3572
ZOUANOMANSuCeMOMTNS= 2 oe ne ene oe ee 6,585.5374

More than 2,000 years ago it was known to Hipparchus that the
moon’s node was not fixed. Nineteen returns of the sun to the node
or 242 of the moon take place in 6,585 days, an interval of time known
to the Chaldeans as the Saros (meaning “repetition’’), which is
equivalent to 18 years 11 days or 18 years 10 days depending on
whether 4 or 5 leap years intervene. The author observed his first
total solar eclipse in Georgia on May 28, 1900. In 1918 he had to
travel westward to Oregon to observe the eclipse of June 8. The
following eclipse in the Saros occurred on June 19, 1936, and was
observed in Soviet Russia and in Japan. The chart on plate 3
shows 44 total eclipses in the series which includes the eclipse of
August 31, 1932. This series in A. D. 1211 began near the earth’s
South Pole and the eclipse tracks will pass off the earth near the
North Pole in the year 1985, so that for 775 years this eclipse has
been repeating itself again and again after the lapse of the Saros
interval. Three times this interval is 54 years and 1 month, and
it is seen from the chart that the eclipse track is fairly parallel to the
one 54 years earlier but farther north. In such a series of solar eclipses
there are between 68 and 75 repetitions, depending on circumstances,
extending over some 1,200 years. In each series there are approxi-
mately 25 partial and 45 central eclipses. These numbers vary for
different series. Of the central eclipses, total eclipses follow total
eclipses with about the same duration of totality and annular eclipses
follow annular eclipses. If eclipses take place at the moon’s descend-
ing node, the eclipse tracks come on the earth at the South Pole and
move north, whereas if eclipses occur at the ascending node the
eclipse tracks start at the North Pole and move southward.

According to Oppolzer, there are on the average 237.5 solar eclipses
in a century, or more than 2 solar eclipses per year. There are 83.8
partial, 77.3 annular, 10.5 annular and total (the vertex of the moon’s
shadow just reaching the earth), and 65.9 total solar eclipses. On
the average, therefore, two total eclipses are visible in 3 years. The
chart showing the series including the 1932 eclipse shows that the
succeeding eclipses are difficult of access and therefore will probably
pass unobserved, hence a total solar eclipse is actually observed about
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

once every other year. In the years 1900-36, expeditions have
attempted observations on 18 separate eclipses.

In a third of a century there were five total eclipses observed in
the United States, those of the years 1900, 1918, 1923, 1925, and 19382.
but in the coming half-century only the two eclipses of 1963 and 1970
can bring scientific results of value, though two other eclipses in 1945
and 1954 will begin at sunrise about on the Canadian border. Hence,
the present generation of American eclipse observers must make
long trips from home if the scientific reputation of the country is to
be maintained.

The total number of eclipses, solar and lunar, partial and total,
that may occur in 1 calendar year varies from a minimum of two to
& maximum of seven. The number of solar eclipses in a year varies
from two to five. In the years 1922, 1926, 1929, 1933, 1940, 1944,
1951, and 1962 there are two eclipses only, both of the sun. In 1935
there were two lunar and five solar eclipses, a combination that will
not take place again until the year 2485. In 1982, there will be three
total lunar eclipses and four partial solar eclipses.

Taking the earth as a whole, there are more solar eclipses than
lunar in the ratio of 4 to 3. It has been calculated’that on the average
a total eclipse of the sun visits a locality once every 360 years. The
maximum duration of totality at a solar eclipse is 7 minutes 30
seconds. On June 8, 1937, totality will last 7 minutes 4 seconds.
The eclipse may be observed from a few small islands in the Phoenix
group about 8 o’clock in the morning when totality will last a little
more than 4 minutes. Thirty-five minutes before sunset the eclipse
will reach Peru, where duration is 3 minutes 20 seconds, and an altitude
of the sun of only 8° will make scientific observations difficult.

The inhabitant (and we believe there are none) on Jupiter or Saturn
would have frequent opportunities to observe total eclipses, both of
the sun and of the moons. If our own fair Luna were 25,000 miles
farther off from the earth, or if its diameter were 10 percent smaller
there would never be a total solar eclipse. What a dreary old world
this would be, especially for poets and lovers, if the earth resembled
Venus in having no moon!

TIMES OF CONTACTS

The position of the moon is furnished from the times of contact of
the limbs of the sun and moon. The time of first contact, or the
beginning of the eclipse, is difficult to observe visually with accuracy,
since nothing is to be seen at the edge of the sun until the moon is
projected on the sun’s face—and first contact has actually taken place.
Fourth contact, the end of the eclipse, is easier to observe, since the
moon may be followed in a telescope of low power until it leaves the
face of the sun. Second and third contacts, the beginning and ending
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS—MITCHELL 149

of totality, can be determined with greater accuracy. By means of
photographs taken throughout the partial eclipse, both before and
after totality, the relative positions of the sun and moon can be
determined with a much greater accuracy than can be obtained
visually, and in addition many more observations are available than
the four times of contact.

At the eclipse of 1905, totality came ahead of the predicted time
by 20 seconds, in 1918 by 12 seconds, and in 1922 by 16 seconds.
For guiding the work of the eclipse astronomer, it is now deemed
desirable to know the times of beginning and ending of a total solar
eclipse within an error of a few seconds. Accordingly, it has become
customary in recent years to secure from Washington or Greenwich,
a month or more before the eclipse takes place, corrections to the
almanac positions of the moon.

On account of the difficulty of seeing the moon when near the time
of new moon, there is ordinarily a gap in the regular lunar observa-
tions, whether these are made by occultations or by meridian circle.
An intense interest was aroused in the United States by the total
eclipse of January 24, 1925, which was visible to almost one-tenth of
the total population of the country. From large numbers of careful
observations it was hoped that it might be possible to obtain a very
high degree of accuracy and thus permit a comparison of different
methods of observation in order to detect any systematic errors
peculiar to any one method. For predicting the eclipse it was neces-
sary to add a correction of 7.’’0 to the mean longitude of the moon
as given in the American Ephemeris. The times of second contact
by skilled observers with every facility for obtaining accurate posi-
tions of their stations and accurate time signals on eclipse day differed
from locality to locality by over 4 seconds, and the duration of totality
had a range of 6 seconds, variations in fact much larger than were
expected. However, it must not be forgotten that the outline of the
moon departs greatly from a perfect circle and that the time of the
beginning and ending of a total solar eclipse depends very largely on
the character of the lunar surface at the point of contact, the begin-
ning of the total eclipse not taking place until the last Baily bead has
disappeared. The comparison of the different methods shows that
the meridian observations of the moon differed widely among them-
selves. Occultations and eclipse results agreed with each other
within their probable errors, but there were systematic differences
from the meridian observations. To obtain greater accuracy, obser-
vations must be continued at each succeeding eclipse. Times fur-
nished by observations of eclipses give information not only about
the motion of the moon but also about the time of diurnal rotation
of the earth on its axis, with the result that an observation of an
eclipse of the sun made 3,000 years ago has an important bearing on
recent refined researches on the motion of the moon.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
THE CORONA

The total light of the corona is roughly one-millicnth that of the
noonday sun or one-half that of the full moon. The coming of a
total eclipse, particularly the last few seconds before totality, the
engulfing shadow of the moon coming from the west, the sudden
coming of darkness and then the gorgeous corona make a never-to-
be-forgotten spectacle, still further enhanced by the beauty of the
rosy red prominences. Regarding the 1925 eclipse, the New York
newspaper folk state that no phenomenon of modern life had so
many words written per unit of duration of the event as that particu-
lar eclipse.

The corona may be photographed by cameras large or small, fast
or slow. In spite of the excellent qualities of modern photographic
technique, it is still impossible to get an adequate photograph that
will represent all the details of the corona that are readily visible to
the naked eye. The inner corona is very brilliant, while the outlying
portions of the coronal streamers fade off gradually to nothingness.
From the lofty perch of Pike’s Peak in 1878 the corona was detected
to 12 diameters from the sun’s edge, a distance of over 10 million
miles. An exposure long enough to portray the faint outlying streamers
will have the inner corona quite burnt out through overexposure.

With cameras of great length it is necessary to counteract by
mechanical means the diurnal motion. This may be done by mounting
the telescope horizontally and then using a coelostat mirror or by
pointing the object glass directly to the sun by means of erecting a
tower. In 1900 the Smithsonian Institution used a camera of 135
feet focus, and its great length required it to be arranged horizontally.
Unfortunately, the heat of the sun may warp the plane mirror of the
coelostat and spoil the focus. The result has been that in recent years,
when exact definition is desired, it is obtained by a camera pointed
directly at the sun. For moderate focal lengths up to about 15 feet
this may be obtained by mounting on a polar axis, but for greater
lengths the tower telescope is necessary with the diurnal motion
counteracted by a motion of the photographic plate. The Swarthmore
astronomers have obtained exquisite definition with focal lengths of
63 and 65 feet. Equally good definition may be secured with cameras
of 15 feet focus mounted on a polar axis. The question is whether it
is more desirable to photograph on the smaller scale and then enlarge
four times if the greater scale is needed or to obtain scale without
enlargement by the greater focal length. As for the final definition
of the large-scale photographs, there is little to choose between the
two methods. The individual astronomer must decide the problem
for himself, depending on a number of factors, chief among which is
the equipment he owns and the experience he has had. Then he must
decide whether it is more convenient and cheaper to take from home
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPHDITIONS—MITCHELL 151

the complete polar axis and mounting for the shorter focal length or
take the plate holders and the clock mechanism for moving the plate
and then build the tower from materials that may be found locally.

It is interesting to note that at eclipse expeditions success has
always been greater in the direct photography of the corona than
in any other branch of the investigations. The self-evident reason
is that every well-equipped expedition, no matter what their other
programs, attempts to photograph the corona and usually with several
cameras. However, there is another reason not so apparent, which
is that perfection of focus and seeing, although desirable, are not
absolutely essential in obtaining successful photographs of coronal
details. A lack of perfect focus plays havoc with spectroscopic
photographs but detracts little from the corona for the reason that its
structure is nebulous or filmy in detail. However, no astronomer will
be satisfied with anything short of absolute perfection in the deter-
mination of the best focus.

THE SHAPE OF THE CORONA

The general form of the corona can be predicted in advance of the
eclipse. Near sunspot minimum are found the extended streamers
along the sun’s equator and the short plumelike polar brushes, whereas
near times of spot maxima the corona is nearly circular in shape, thus
resembling a gigantic dahlia. Fortunately, photographs of all scales
except the small can be utilized to determine the coronal shape by a
very simple type of measurement devised by Ludendorff, of Potsdam.
In the author’s Eclipses of the Sun, 1935 edition, page 500, a chart
gives all the eclipses since 1893 successfully observed (but not in-
cluding 1936). The surprising fact is that the most elongated type
of corona does not take place exactly at sunspot minimum, or at
phase zero of the curve. As the interval from maximum to maxi-
mum is 11 years, it is seen from the chart that 2 years or more before
spot minimum the corona is quite as elliptical as at zero phase.
The most pronounced ellipticity takes place 14% years before minimum
of spots, and likewise the corona closest in shape to a circle takes
place 1% years before spot maximum. The recent eclipse of 1932 took
place 1.2 years before spot minima and yet its shape placed it at the
highest point of the curve. The succeeding eclipse of 1934 was
only 0.2 years after spot minimum but instead of having a pronounced
ellipticity the corona had lost its minimum type characteristics.
The 1936 corona 2.4 years after minimum spots, in shape resembling
an irregular five-pointed star, had lost all of the minimum features
except the brushes at one pole. Although about 1 year ahead of
the predicted spot maximum, the corona of 1937 will be more nearly
circular than that of 1936 and will be the typical sunspot maximum
eclipse.
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937
MOTIONS IN THE CORONA

Although the shapes of the corona at spot-minimum all resemble
each other in having long equatorial streamers and pronounced polar
brushes, yet each corona has its own distinctive features with the
result that one corona could never be mistaken for another. In the
circular coronas corresponding to maximum of spots the streamers
shoot out at various angles differing in each eclipse. Weare, therefore,
forced to the conclusion that changes are continually going on within
the corona. Beginning in 1889, attempts have been made repeatedly
to measure these changes. It is evident that the greater the interval
of time between the photographs to be compared at two stations the
higher will be the accuracy. A splendid opportunity was presented
in 1905 when the Lick Observatory established three stations, each
with a camera of 40-foot focus, one in Labrador, one in Spain,
one in Egypt. Unfortunately for the success of the scheme, it
was totally cloudy in Labrador, there were thin clouds in Spain,
and, although clear in Egypt, the definition of the photographs was
poor. At the American eclipse of 1918, from a comparison of
Lick and Swarthmore photographs, it seemed likely that motions of
the order of 10 miles per second were found in the coronal arches over-
topping prominences. However, at the eclipse of 1926, a comparison
of photographs made in East Africa and Sumatra revealed that, if the
coronal domes moved at all, the velocities were probably not greater
than 1 mile per second.

Much valuable information regarding coronal disturbance was ob-
tained on Niuafoou Island in 1930. This was the first time in the
history of eclipses that so much detailed structure was visible in the
spectral lines of the corona, this structure being made possible by the
fine definition of the grating spectra taken without slit. A comparison
of all the 1930 spectrograms, but more particularly the H and K lines,
reveals the interesting fact that 2 years after sunspot maximum the
sun was in a condition of great activity on the day of the eclipse.
The coronal rings of the spectra and the direct photographs taken with
the 63-foot tower telescope show prominences completely circling the
sun. Comparisons were also made with spectroheliograms on 4
successive days, taken at Mount Wilson or Kodaikanal. The
superb definition of the eclipse photographs showed both the promi-
nences and inner corona in great beauty.

A comparison of all the photographs, the spectroheliograms with
the eclipse plates both direct and spectrographic, showed that the great
activity of the sun was found not only at eclipse time but persisted
throughout the whole period of 4 days covered by the plates. The
direct photographs and the eclipse spectra show that the whole south-
east quadrant was a tremendously stormy region on the sun. The
center of the longest coronal streamer was situated 30° to the east of
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS—MITCHELL 153

the south point of the sun. Intertwining the coronal streamers was
a beautiful series of coronal domes connected with an extended promi-
nence group. Greater heights were attained by another group of
prominences, at position angle 115°, the location of a conspicuous
feature called the ‘‘strawberry dome,” with its magnificent arches and
delicate structure of filamentous details. On plate 4, drawings near
this particular dome are given for comparison; at A from the K and
Ha lines of the spectra of the chromosphere, at B three drawings of
the same region from the direct photographs and from the lines 5303
and 6374 of coronium, respectively. At C on the western edge of the
sun, the details in the green coronal line at 5303 result in forms
similar to the coconut palms that grow so profusely on ‘““Tin-Can”’
Island.

For many years eclipse observers have called attention to the con-
nection between coronal streamers and prominences. ‘This depend-
ence was abundantly verified in 1930, but this eclipse demonstrates the
fact that the longest coronal streamers, on which the shape of the
corona more or less depends, are always located near prominences but
are not necessarily exactly connected with the prominences which at
the time of the eclipse are of the greatest height.

PHOTOGRAPHING THE CORONA OUTSIDE OF AN ECLIPSE

In 1882, when a bright comet was seen close to the eclipsed sun,
attempts were started to photograph the corona without waiting for
an eclipse. A decade later, the spectroheliograph was developed, and
prominences were readily photographed in full sunshine with the
result that attempts were renewed on the corona. In order that the
glare of the earth’s atmosphere be reduced as much as possible,
mountain tops like Pike’s Peak or Mount Etna were occupied. No
success whatever being obtained, a series of attempts were made by
heat-measuring instruments like bolometers or photoelectric cells.
Each and every one of the plans, at times carried out with great skill
and ingenuity, resulted over and over again always in the same man-
ner—failure to photograph the corona. The measures made by
Abbot in 1908 and by many others since then have shown the cause
of the failures, namely, the intrinsic feebleness of the coronal light.
Even in its brightest parts, the inner corona is no brighter than the
surface of the full moon. The corona is about equal to the intensity
of the illuminated sky at 8° or 10° away from the sun’s edge.

In 1930 and in later years Lyot of the Meudon Observatory has
had brilliant successes where others had repeated failures. His great
triumph resulted from the ingenious arrangement of his telescope to
reduce to a minimum the amount of scattered light inside the instru-
ment. A mountain observatory on the Pic du Midi (9,100 feet) and
at times very transparent skies permitted photographs when the
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

scattered sky light was less than five-millionths that of the sun.
Lyot not only was able to photograph the brighter parts of the inner
corona but by the use of a spectrograph he determined the wave
lengths of many coronal lines including three lines in the infrared not
yet observed in eclipses.

THE LIGHT OF THE CORONA

Our knowledge regarding the distribution of light within the corona
is in a very unsatisfactory state since the law of intensity has been
found by various observers to be inversely as the second. fourth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, and powers such as 2.3 or 2.4, of the distance
measured either from the center or from the edge of the sun. It is
of great importance that a well-devised form of apparatus be con-
structed for use at eclipses, and that photographs be secured both in the
violet and visual regions on a carefully prepared plan at several future
eclipses. The eclipse photographs should have calibrated squares
impressed on them from a standard source, and if in addition photo-
graphs of the full moon were obtained, we should then be in a position
of having information additional to that acquired during the progress
of the eclipse. We need to know whether the distribution of light
within the corona follows the same law at every eclipse, or whether
this law varies according to the sunspot period, and we need to know
the law both in the blue and the yellow regions. Many coronas have
been observed through clouds or haze or with varying conditions of
transparency. The intensity of the silver deposit measured on the
photographs is a summation of two separate effects, one due to the
corona itself, the other to the diffuse light of the sky. Added to these,
there is in reality a third effect found close to the moon’s limb, a halo
caused by reflection from the glass-side of the plate of the strong
illumination of the inner corona. Unfortunately, it has not been
possible to make proper allowances for these varying factors, with the
result that observations are affected by large systematic errors.

In considering the measurements made for determining the total
light of the corona, there are similar evidences of large systematic
errors depending on transparency conditions at the time of the eclipse.
A few examples may be given to show the wide divergent results
obtained at the same eclipse by different methods and at different
eclipses by the same methods and instruments. Harvard Observa-
tory devised a photographic photometer which has been used since
the 1925 eclipse. Various types of illumination meters are also used
visually which can furnish a measure of the total illumination of
corona plus diffused sky light. Measures made with the photo-
graphic photometers at the eclipse of 1925 and 1926 seemed to show
the corona 40 percent brighter in 1926 than in the year previous.
Visual work with the illumination meter in 1925 gave 0.24 foot-
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS—MITCHELL 155

candles as the result; in 1926, 0.14 foot-candles; and in 1929 and 1930,
0.15 and 0.38 foot-candles, respectively, the eclipses from 1926 to
1930 being measured by the same instruments.

These measures seemed to show that although the 1926 corona
was 40 percent brighter than that of 1925, the total illumination of
corona and sky together was 40 percent fainter.

Following the 1932 eclipse, when many measures were made in the
United States, one competent illumination expert voiced his opinion
of attempts to measure the total light of the corona by the use of
illumination meters in the following words: ?

There can be no objection to anyone measuring the normal illumination on a
completely exposed test plate at the time of totality if he is convinced of the
utility of so doing. Trouble, however, may ensue when the results of such
measurement are seriously put forward as indicative of the amount of light which
the corona is giving.

Hence, it is evident that we must not now take too seriously the
attempts to correlate intensity of coronal radiation with sunspot
activity. It seems very highly probable that the inner corona at
sunspot maximum must be brighter than at spot-minimum. More-
over, as the inner corona contributes the greatest part of the energy
of the total coronal radiation, we would logically expect that the total
energy at maximum of spotsisgreater thanatminimum. Unfortunately,
eclipses come but seldom and there are few observations with which
to derive correlations. Many astronomers (and other scientists as
well) have come to hasty conclusions through the discussion of
observations affected by large accidental and systematic errors.
When we consider the paltry amount of time devoted to the measure-
ment of the light of the corona, we must not be too much discouraged
at the meager and conflicting results obtained.

In spite of all the inconsistencies of the results, observers through-
out the past 50 years have been in agreement that the total light of
the corona is roughly one-half that of the full moon. It is with a note
of surprise that we read * the statement by Menzel and Boyce that
the latest corona observed, that of 1936, shone with an illumination
of 50 to 100 times that of the full moon. We shall await the detailed
results with great interest.

POLARIZATION OF THE LIGHT OF THE CORONA

Polarization measures must be the result of a combination of the
partly polarized light from the corona and the unpolarized light in the
earth’s atmosphere. The measures made of eclipses in the early years
of the present century seemed to show that the percentage of polar-
ization in photographic light was about three times greater than in

2 Journ. Optical Soc. Amer., vol. 23, p. 234, 1933.
3’ Technology Rev., November 1936.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

visual light, a result quite in agreement with the assumption that the
coronal radiation is Rayleigh scattering from atoms or ions. At the
eclipse of 1932, however, photographic measures by Dufay and
Grouiller proved that the amount of polarization was entirely inde-
pendent of wave length and was a maximum of 26 percent in the
corona at 10’ from the sun’s edge. At the succeeding eclipse of 1934
Johnson found a maximum of 28 percent polarization at 8’.5 from the
sun’s limb, a result in good agreement with the 1932 eclipse. Evi-
dently the scattering of light in the corona cannot be caused by
atoms or ions.

THE SPECTRUM OF THE CORONA

It may be said that the corona exhibits three separate spectra:
First, the emission spectrum of ‘‘coronium” existing in the inner
corona and extending on the average to 5’, or 200,000 km from the
sun’s edge; second, the continuous spectrum (without lines), of the
middle corona; and third, the Fraunhofer lines showing feebly in the
inner corona.

In the Revised Rowland Tables (1928) are given a list of 40 bright
lines attributed to the corona by Campbell and Moore. Of this list
of lines more than half, or 22, appear to take their origin in the high
chromosphere. Only 23 emission lines in the corona are known with
certainty at the following wave lengths: 3328, 3387.96, 3454.13,
3600.97, 3642.87, 3800.77, 3986.88, 4086.29, 4231.4, 4311, 4359, 4567,
4586, 5116.0, 5802.90, 5536, 6374.30, 6701.8, 7059.6, 7891.9, 8024.2,
10746.8, and 10798.0. Other faint lines are suspected but not yet
verified. The green line of 5303 (discovered in 1869) and the ultra-
violet line at 3388 have the greatest strengths.

In comparing the green and red coronal rings obtained in 1930 on
spectra taken with grating and without slit, it was surprising to find
how little they resembled each other in their structural details of
greatest strength and how little either resembled the high-level lines
K and Ha of the chromosphere. It was further found that the radia-
tion of 6374 always sticks close to the sun’s edge and is more con-
centrated and more uniform in distribution than 5303. It is evident,
therefore, that these two lines cannot take their origin in the same
atom, or at least not in the same atom in the same state of ionization.

In order to determine the atomic origin of “coronium,” several
authorities have grouped coronal lines together depending on the sim-
ilarities in appearances or distribution of light in the spectral lines.
As the radiation of 5303 is very unevenly distributed around the sun,
it is evident that spectra taken with slit will be badly handicapped in
detecting similar structural details, especially when in many of the
coronal spectra the definition is none too good. The only groups to
which most authors agree are 5303 and 3388 put together, the strongest
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS—MITCHELL 157

lines of the spectra, and 4086 with 3601. As stated above, 5303 and
6374 cannot be placed in the same group.

Without an eclipse Lyot found that the green and red lines and
also 6702 have widths of about an angstrom. His wave lengths com-
bined with the best values from eclipses are the values given above.
His wave length for the red line, however, differs by 0.2 angstrom
from the best eclipse value which gives further evidence of the fact
that better wave lengths of the coronal lines are urgently desired.

With the great advance made in recent years in atomic structure,
there have been many attempts to find the origin of the mysterious
coronium. The general consensus of well-informed opinion seems to
be that although neutral oxygen may eventually be found to be one
of the chief constituents of coronium, at present that fact is far from
being proved. In brief, none of the scientific guesses made up to
date have been verified by observational evidence.

SPECTRUM OF THE MIDDLE AND OUTER CORONA

In addition to the bright line spectrum caused by the hypothetical
element ‘‘coronium,” the corona shows the continuous spectrum in
the inner corona and dark lines in the middle and outer corona. In
1929, with three spectrographs, Grotrian obtained spectra of the
corona which were compared with the solar spectrum taken with the
same instruments but weakened by known amounts. Measurements
of intensities give the following interesting results: (1) The position
of energy maximum in the coronal spectrum is independent of the
height in the corona and agrees exactly with the energy maximum in
the solar spectrum; (2) within the errors of measurement, the distribu-
tion of energy in the coronal spectrum is independent of height in the
corona and is identical with the intensity of radiation in the solar
spectrum. After many years of uncertainty and conflicting evidence,
we at last seem to have the positive information that the color of the
corona is identical with that of the sun, or in other words, the corona
derives its radiation from scattered sunlight.

In the remarkably clear sky at the Australian eclipse of 1922, Moore
seemed to prove quite conclusively that the Fraunhofer lines in the
middle and outer corona have their origin in the corona itself and are
not caused by sunlight scattered in the earth’s atmosphere. By
means of a registering photometer, Grotrian measured the widths of
the stronger Fraunhofer lines in the coronal spectrum of 1923. These
widths were compared with those of the solar spectrum taken by the
same spectrograph but weakened by known amounts. In every case
the widths of coronal lines were compared with the widths of both
stronger and weaker solar spectra. Heretofore, nearly all observers
have been in agreement that the coronal lines looked both wider and
less distinct than similar lines in thesun. On the contrary, the photom-
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

eter measures make clear that the dark lines in the coronal spectrum
are certainly much less distinct through lack of contrast than in the
solar spectrum and, moreover, the dark lines are more prominent in
the outer corona than in the inner, but nevertheless the widths of the
coronal lines are the same at all distances out from the sun’s surface,
and within errors of measurement are identical in width with the
corresponding lines in the solar spectrum. From similar measures
carried out on the 1922 and 1932 spectra, Moore confirms Grotrian’s
measures of the 1923 spectra.

WHAT IS THE CORONA?

According to Rosseland, the corona has “stimulated speculation to
the breaking point, it being even suggested that there we witness our
recognized physical laws set at naught by nature itself.” It is evident
that the cause of the coronal radiation cannot be found in the emission
spectrum of coronium which extends no more than 5’ from the sun’s
edge. As the coronal streamers have been detected to distances 300
times greater, the explanation for the mysterious light of the corona
must be found in the radiation causing the continuous spectrum of the
inner corona and the dark-line spectrum at greater distances from the
sun. The spectra taken in 1923 showed Fraunhofer lines on the face
of the dark moon. On the assumption that these were caused by
coronal light scattered either in the earth’s atmosphere or in the
spectrograph, Grotrian was able to apply corrections to the measured
intensities of the dark lines in the coronal spectrum. These corrected
intensities show that near the sun’s edge the continuous spectrum is
much stronger than the Fraunhofer spectrum so that no lines are
visible, owing to lack of contrast, in the inner corona, though no doubt
dark lines may be there. At increasing distances from the sun’s
edge outward, the intensity of the continuous spectrum falls off more
rapidly than the dark-line spectrum. At an angular distance of 19’.5
on the east side and 14’.5 on the west side, or at an average of one
solar radius, the intensities of the continuous and the Fraunhofer
spectra are equal. At increasing distances from the sun’s surface, the
dark lines become gradually more readily visible owing to increased
contrast on account of the diminished intensity of the continuous
spectrum.

Spectra taken at many eclipses during totality have shown the
and K lines and the stronger hydrogen lines in great intensity, even
across the face of the dark moon. These spectral lines take their
origin in light from the high chromosphere scattered by the earth’s
atmosphere, particularly near the beginning and ending of totality.
It, therefore, may be quite unsafe to assume that the lines of the spec-
trum on the face of the moon in 1923 were actually caused by scattered
light emanating from the corona rather than from sunlight reflected
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS—MITCHELL 159

by nearby clouds in the earth’s atmosphere. This, however, is a mere
detail on a fine piece of work by Grotrian, and it is evident that the
measures must be repeated at future eclipses when, it is to be hoped,
the sky will be clear from passing clouds and haze.

As a result of many different theories, it is now generally recognized
that the electron must play an important role in explaining the
radiation of the corona. If the continuous spectrum is caused by
free electrons which scatter the solar radiation, it is found that at a
temperature of 4,000° K., the average thermal velocity of the electron
would cause a Doppler effect of the order of 10 angstroms. As a
result, all of the Fraunhofer lines would be wiped out with the excep-
tion of the broad wings of the H and K lines.

Electron scattering, therefore, furnishes an adequate explanation
of the absence of dark lines in the spectrum of the inner corona and
also is in conformity with the fact that there is no difference in color
between the corona and sunlight, as was found at the 1932 eclipse.

But how are the dark lines in the outer corona to be explained?
If the electron is to be the agent, then it is necessary to find some
process whereby the random velocities of the electrons may be slowed
down to such an extent that the Doppler effects will not obliterate
the Fraunhofer lines. It is scarcely possible to assume a tempera-
ture in the middle corona less than 2,000° K. which would cause a
Doppler effect of about 7 angstroms. We might, if we please,
assume some (as yet) unknown influence from positrons, or that the
sun’s magnetic field, or some other unknown source, might gradually
slow up the electron velocities at distances of 10’ from the sun’s
surface. If, indeed, there were a gradual slowing up of the electrons,
this would cause the Fraunhofer lines to be broader in the inner
corona and sharper in the outer corona, which is not in accord with the
facts.

Under the assumption that the light of the corona is caused by the
superposition of a continuous spectrum over a dark-line spectrum,
it is necessary to conclude that electrons are present everywhere
throughout the corona. As atoms and ions are present in the inner-
most corona causing the bright-line spectrum of coronium, it has
been thought by many that ionized atoms must be the cause of the
dark lines in the spectrum of the outer corona. If atoms were pres-
ent in appreciable numbers, their existence would cause a Rayleigh
scattering and a distribution of intensity in the coronal radiation
different from that of the sun—which again is not in accord with the
facts.

To explain the dark lines of the outer corona and with no change
in color, Grotrian is forced to assume that the mechanism must be
solid particles with diameters greater than three times the wave
ength of light. Close to the sun all solid particles would be imme-
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1937

diately vaporized but at greater distances there would be an increas-
ing number of solid particles; in fact, in the zodiacal light we have
independent evidence of the existence of such material in interplane-
tary space. According to this hypothesis, within one radius of the
sun’s surface the electron is the scattering mechanism but farther
out the interplanetary dust cloud does most of the scattering. If
the dust cloud moves with the sun, then any details of coronal struc-
ture in the outer corona would persist for long periods without
changes. For the long streamers which are prominent features of
nearly every corona and which unquestionably change slowly with
time, the dust cloud explanation is unsatisfactory. When knowledge
progresses still further and we learn more about the physical laws
that govern matter under solar conditions, then we may be able to
find an explanation of the dark lines in the coronal spectrum that is
simpler than the assumption of scattering of the sun’s light by
interplanetary dust.

Manifestly, for future progress we need more and better spectra of
the dark lines in the coronal spectrum taken under clear skies devoid
of water vapor in order to be more certain that the Fraunhofer lines
are actually coronal in origin and do not come from sunlight scattered
in the earth’s atmosphere. We need more and better spectra of large
dispersion in order to derive more accurate wave lengths of the bright-
line spectrum by which to find the origin of coronium and to measure
the rotation of the corona. Up to date we have pitifully few spectra
of the corona with good definition and adequate dispersion. In the
future these spectra must be measured photometrically to as great
distances as possible from the sun’s surface in at least two directions,
at the sun’s equator and poles. Needless to say, the photographs
should cover as great a range in wave length as possible. More
information is urgently needed concerning the degree of polarization
of the coronal light to as great distances from the sun as possible.

In spite of the brilliant work of Lyot in photographing the corona
outside an eclipse, it is not difficult to predict that coronal observations
in the future as in the past will have to depend almost exclusively on
the few precious moments of total eclipses which afford an average of
1 minute per year for accumulating observations.

THE FLASH SPECTRUM

Ever since it was first observed in 1870, the spectrum of the chromo-
sphere continues to be one of the most important problems taken up
for investigation at each succeeding eclipse. In spite of the enormous
advances in instrumental equipment and technique, which in other
branches of astronomy has appeared to accomplish almost the impos-
sible, there are remarkably few good photographs of the flash spectrum.
In fact, to check off on one’s fingers the really first-class photographs
SOLAR ECLIPSE EXPEDITIONS—MITCHELL 161

taken by different observers at all the eclipses in the past 40 years,
both hands would be unnecessary. The arch enemy of the eclipse
astronomer, cloudy weather, has foiled many attempts, yet those that
escaped the clouds have not obtained perfect results through poor
focus or poor seeing or from inaccurate timing of the exposures.

At a total solar eclipse, the flash spectrum may be observed at the
beginning and at the end of totality, either with or without slit, and
by the use of prisms or grating. If without slit, the individual lines in
the spectrum are a series of arcs of various intensities and of different
lengths depending on the heights to which the solar gases extend
above the sun’s surface. The photographic plate may be fixed for
each exposure or it may be moved gradually by an arrangement first
tried out successfully by Campbell in 1905. A variation of the fixed
plate is the ‘jumping film” successfully tried in 19382 by the Lick
expedition. The principle is the same as with the movie camera, the
film being moved between exposures made on a fixed film. The
essential differences are that the camera is a spectrograph, the films
are much larger in size than the standard 35-mm variety and the
exposures and times for changing film may be each about % second in
duration.

The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
The fixed plate requires very exact timing of the exposures in order

---p ---—- - ~—---—p- et OE eee >

duration.
