ee

ys ae we Ex x £ re cee yw Pe
ces bad) es , e, oo at Aes *y ‘p OR Bs

rel CAAA ECE
PERSE kk he cae he aC Onet
ee Seg i oy Ye te y Woy
5 @ out spt ge i May wD are kOe

¥ Para M Oy aoe N ya L
Naar Peas iy. d MMe H |

vate a ee
ay ae we py ae a
FM My mm MMS
ON ek eee Ne

BethouaNzicavee aman nioaih anaeue Chiral Lee
ie a a . f ao
ee bs a
a ae A i
oy iH) aN vs
H : ce i Da i
Hills

ai ae
a uF Hes _.

Ness A
oe .

A

.

cae Bay Wee
a
ee oo
ae as Lees
Raa ee a MENINeRy
ae Aa in i an NGS
H ae vi iy ae
oe i
ue

Slew

Soe

Se on,

SS

ree preva A
eae _
eae rs
ere = ary mae
es eae
se :

un

L

a
- Bs H

Aone

“S
ete

So tee Petts

Ecees

Ve

ee a Witte f ana
; oo on |
ee oo ‘a
i : oo

. SAY ue ae
va a He a ye
as A get

Ne i . cu
a . oo

a
AUF

wettee ant
ate

as

Sees
pees

Sey

Spe a ocr: ert
meaner ete: oer

4 i ‘
Be ‘ ‘ i
Aes <1
SANS Sai nes
? a ; i Bes

eI <
Roms
7

ON ged het

Seaenes
ercen

eas
(et

y ih
SRE:
i - on o i ae
Rae ve

NUE
Sa ‘ a ROSTER)
Sts atin SiaiaeH Habe Es)
; ns a 0 ie it

o are

Mies set FUR crane

A Hae) a ie baad is
esis “, ‘ Hit

‘t Ses ; Ns
¢

Ni
reetibree eh
Hee ites
2 ne a

4 A EOTAI NY a ;
Ui

BENGE SNE se

. - i AE

-

oe sesh a i ae

ia
ude BYB Bash ‘
ASU eA

.
MA BS

Annan

a
‘Res eee a ieee ~ ¥

AA) - |

> acts a \ AYLI) Naf

A
A

hw

Fre

A
A

nnn"
WANA’

ae
i
A
ny

mangpaneat
A

< £
<a ree EEG

< cK G BAECS - (rane &
SS See: oa RE

NAR eAN AAA

AA Ay

ann

NY

i BEE
KML

¢

A

au

ARDARA
AAA

in

A

an
‘
ARe
a }
NA
An

ae <<

Qa

A
Ww
A
A
AN
Raar-
Naat
AW,

A

f\
[sey An i
N\A

ia

A

:
‘

ita /

n\
Nn

CE

A

‘

A
A
A

;

AAA,
~aAR
AN
nan

A
A

N\

A
A
Anns
Anant Xn

A

A

A

fA

‘
AANANANS
: 2

A

A
N
aA’
nN
rp
A
A

A
TN \

he

AR
nah
Aan

,
A
A

KU en So ae C. <
“4 «& : arre” ay RS. = Co CE ES SS

: See Cae SO | Ge
eee ES CRE KBox

o< GK CEOS ai a a :
Ee See EEE SE EC

Ce. ns
cc

See. x 5s
Kae OS Se a

a

SOS SS ge ee ES
ee, <a OOS
FeO <n oe ame a

-  AAAAAAA
anwnnntn

n—NhA

a
n

Ne

EEE
“ MC. LEEK, GS
tet a ASE

NM

$3 Cs Pan @ 2a<ae
SS ee
< ane ea (_ <<a <c cs <<
an aie << <<ae eG
ea. So <a GRA CIES va,
cio ft See =
Say ae <@E CEEE SS ‘eee ec Se
ere a <<a eS Se <

A
mn
A
p

<x...
Gece KEES AOC ite eK CEES, CO
- °
My >)
7 > a a Ad pend ai

SpEcIAL SESSION. [ SENATE. ] MISCELLANEOUS.
March, 1851. No. 1.

FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TO THE
SENATE AND HOUSE REPRESENTATIVES,
SHOWING THE
OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE {NSTITUTION,

DURING THE YEAR 1850.

Marcu 1, 1851.
Read.

Marcu 7, 1851.

Ordered, that the Report of the Smithsonian [ustitution be printed; and that three thousand
additional copies be printed — one thousand copies of which for the
use of the Smithsonian Institutien.

WASHINGTON :

Smirusonian Institution, March 1, 1851.

Str :—I have the honor herewith to transmit to you the Annual Report
of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg leave to
request that you will present the same to the Senate of the United States.

I am very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
; Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. WituraM R. Kine,
President United States Senate.
OFFICERS &c., OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Mittarp Firimore, Ex-officio, Presiding Officer of the Institution.

Rocer B. Taney, Chancellor of the Institution.

Josepu Henry, Secretary of the Institution.

Cuarues C, Jewerr, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Library.

Spencer F. Barrp, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Museum.

Epwarp Foreman, General Assistant,

Avex’r. D. Bacue, James A. Pearce, JosepH G. Totten, Executive
Committee.

Jerrerson Davis, Henry W. Hizirarnp, Warter Lenox, Building
Committee.

W. W. Seaton, Treasurer.

James Renwick, Jr. Architect.

Gitperrt Cameron, Contractor.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

: Vice President of the United States.

Rocrer B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States.

Wa rer Lenox, Mayor of the City of Washington.

James A. Pearce, Member of the Senate of the United States.

Jerrerson Davis, Member of the Senate of the United States.

James M. Mason, Member of the Senate of the United States.

Henry W. Hintiarp, Member of the House of Representatives of the
United States.

Granam N. Fircn, Member of the House of Representatives of the
United States. .

WILLIAM tT. Corcocx, Member of the House of Representatives of the
United States,

[14 4

Rurus Cuoare, Citizen of Massachusetts.

Gipron Hawtey, Citizen of New York.

Wirtiam C. Preston, Citizen of South Carolina.

Ricuarp Rusu, Citizen of Pennsylvania.

Axexanper D. Bacur, Member of National Institute, Washington.
Josern G. Torren, Member of National Institute, Washington.

MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

Minzarp Fintmore, President of the United States

, Vice President of the United States.
DanieL WepsteR, Secretary of State.

Tuomas Corwin, Secretary of the Treasury.

Cuartes M. Conran, Secretary of War.

Wititiam A. Grauam, Secretary of the Navy.
Natuan K. Hatz, Postmaster General.

Joun J. Crirrenpen, Attorney General.

Rocer B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States.
Tuomas Ewpanxk, Commissioner of Patents.

Water Lenox, Mayor of the City of Washington,

HONORARY MEMBERS.

Rosert Hare, Bensamin Situiman, Wasuineton Irvine.
5 [1]

FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT

Of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing the
Operations, Lpenditures and Condition of the Institution, up te
January 1, 1851.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in Bena of the Regenis,
submit to Congress, as a Report of the operations, expenditures and con-
dition of the Institution, the following documents :

1. Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations of
the Institution during the year 1850, including Reports from the
Assistant Secretaries, qelbye to the Library and Museum.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of the
proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian Fund, and also a detailed
account of all the expenditures from the beginning of the Institution

to the end of 1850.

3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made in
18: 50, in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice, including a Report
of the Architect on the same.

4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents during their Fifth Annual Meeting.

Oo. An Appendix.

Respectfully submitted,
ROGER B. TANEY,
Chancellor,
JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GrNnTLEMEN :—During the past year the several parts of the plan of
organization have been “prosecuted as efficiently as the portion of the in-
come which could be devoted to them would permit. The financial affairs
are in a prosperous condition, and though the funds are burthened with
the erection of a costly building, and the expenditures trammeled by re-
strictions growing out of the requisitions of the charter of incorporation,
yet the results. thus far obtained, are such as satisfactorily to prove that
the Institution is domg good service in the way of promoting and diffusing
knowledge.

Though the programme of organization has been given in two of the
annual reports and extensively published in the newspapers, its eae
does not appear to be as widely known and as properly appreciated a
could be desired. Indeed it will be necessary at intervals to republish the
terms of the bequest, and also the general principles of the plan which
ae 6

has been adopted, in order that the public may not only be informed of
what the Institution is accomplishing, but also reminded of what ought
reasonably to be expected from its operations. Moreover, there is a ten-
dency in the management of public institutions to lose sight of the object
for which they were established, and hence it becomes important fre-
quently to advert to the principles by which they ought to be governed.
| beg leave, therefore, as introductory to this report, briefly to recapitulate
some of the propositions of the programme of organization, and to state
some of the facts connected with its adoption.

Siruson left his property, in case of the death of his nephew, to whom
it was first bequeathed, ‘‘to found at Washington under the name of the

fo)
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.’? These are the only words of the testator to

serve as a guide to the adoption of a plan for the execution of his beneyo-
lent design. They are found, however, when attentively considered to
ate of legitimate deductions sufficiently definite and comprehensive.

The bequest is made to the United States, in trust for the good of
ee

The objects of the Institution are two-fold; first, to increase, se-

cond to diffuse knowledge; objects which, though often confounded with
each other, are logically distinet and ought to be separately regarded.
The first is the enlargement of the existing stock of knowledge by the
discovery of new truths, and the second is the dissemination of these and
sas truths among men.

ENO particular kind of knowledge is designated, hence a liberal inter-
pre ae of the bequest will exclude no part of the great domain of science
and literature from the degree of attention its importance may demand.

4. Since mankind are to be benefitted by the bequest, any unnecessary
expenditure on merely local objects, would not be in accordance with the
mene administration of the trust.

Though the funds are generally considered large, and much is ex-
pe oe of them, they are really small in proportion to the demands made
upon them. The annual income of the bequest, is less than half the cost
of ‘dee publication of a single yearly report of the Patent office.

. In order therefore, that the limited income may effect the greatest
ea of good, it should be expended in doing that which cannot be done
as well by other means.

These views which have commanded the assent of all unprejudiced and
reflecting persons, who have studied the subject, have been the guiding
principles i in all cases in which I have had any power of direction, and |
am happy to say they are fully adopted by the present directors and ofh-
cers of the Institution.

To carry out the design of the testator, various plans were proposed,
but most of these were founded on an imperfect apprehension of the terms
of the Will. The great majority of them contemplated merely the diffu-
sion of popular information, and neglected the first and the most promi-
nent requisition of the bequest, namely : the ‘increase of knowledge.”
The only plan in strict conformity with the terms of the Will, and w hich
oe sally commended itself to men of science, a class to which Smithson
himself belonged, was:that of an active living organization, intended prin-
cipally to promote the discovery and diffusion of new truths by instituting
eriginal researches, under the direction of suitable persons, in History,
7 rh]
Antiquities, Ethnology and the various branches of Physical Science, and
by publishing and distributing among libraries and other public institu-
tions, accounts of the results which might thus be obtained, as well as of
those of the labors of men of talent which could not otherwise be given
to the world.

This _plan which was probably in the mind of the donor when he gave
expression to the few but comprehensive words which indicate the objec ts
of the bequest, is found from our experience to be eminently practical. It
requires no costly building or expensive permanent establishment. Its

operations, limited only by ‘the amount of the income, are such as to affect
the condition of man wherever literature and science are cultivated, while
it tends in this country to give an impulse to original thought, which,
amidst the strife of politics, “and the inordinate pursuit of wealth, Is of
all things most desirable.

It was with the hope of being able to assist in the practical deve! ‘lop-
ment of this plan, that [ was induced to accept the appointment of principal
executive officer of the Institution. Many unforeseen obstacles however
presented themselves to its full adoption, and its advocates soon found in
contending with opposing views and adverse interests, a wide difference
between what in their opinion ought to be done and what they could actu-
ally accomplish.

The plan was novel and by many considered entirely chimerical; indeed
it could not be properly appreciated except by those who had been devoted
to original research. Besides this, the law of Congress incorporating the
Institution, while it did not forbid the expenditure of a part of the, income
for other objects, authorized the formation of a Library, a Museum and a
Gallery of Art, and the erection of a building, on a liberal scale, for their
accommodation. It was indeed the opinion of many that the whole income
ought to be expended on these objects. The Regents did not consider
themselves at liberty to disregard the indications of Congress, and the
opinion expressed in favor of Collections, and after much discussion it
was finally concluded to divide the income into two equal parts, and after
deducting the general expenses, to devote one half to the active ae
set forth in the plan just described; and the other, to the formation of :
Library, a Museum and a Gallery of Art.

It was evident however that the small income of the original bequest,
though in itself sufficient to do much good in the way of active op eration
was Inadequate to carry out this more extended plan; to maintain the
staff of. attendants and to defray other contingent expenses incidental to
a large establishment of this kind. Besides the Secret tary and an Assistant
to attend to the general operations, two principal assistants would be re-
quired, one to take charge of the Library and the other of the Museum
of Natural History, and to these sufficient salaries must be given to secure
the services of men of the first reputation and talents in their respective
lines. It therefore became absolutely necessary that the income should
be increased, and in order to do this, it was proposed to save the greater
part of the 242,000 of accrued interest which Congress had authorized
to be expended in a building, by erecting at a cost not to exceed $50,000
the nucleus of an edifice which could be expanded as the wants of the
Institution might require, and to add the remainder to the principal.

Unfortunately however, for this proposition, Congress had presented, to
the Institution, the great Museum of the Exploring Expedition, and a
tt] 8

majority of the Regents, supposing it necessary, to make immediate pro-
vision for the accommodation of this gift, had taken preliminary steps,
previous to my appointment, to construct a large building, and indeed a
majority of the committee, to which the matter was referred, had deter-
mined to adopt the plan of the present edifice. Strenuous opposition was
however made to this; and as a compromise it was finally agreed to draw
from the U.S. Treasury $250,000 of accrued interest, and instead of ex-
pending this immediately in completing the plan of the proposed building,
to invest it in treasury notes, then at par, and to finish the building in the
course of five years, in part out of the interest of these notes, in part out of
the sale of a portion of them, and also in part out of a portion of the
annual interest accruing on the “original bequest. It was estimated that in
this way, at the end of five years, “besides devoting 250,000 to the build-
ing, the annual income of the Institution would he “arora from $30,000
to nearly $40,000, a sum sufficient to carry out all the provisions of the
programme.

After the resolutions relative to the division of the iacom2 between
collections on the one hand and active operations on the other had been
adopted, and the plan of finance as to the building had been settled, I
was requested to confer with persons of literary and scientific reputa-
tion and to digest into the form of a general programme the several re-
solutions of the Board. In the programme which was thus produced and
eae adopted, it is attempted to harmonize the diferent proposi-
tions of the Board and to render them all, library, collections, &c., as far
as possible, subservient to a living, active organization. Though a
valuable hbrary will in time be accumulated, by donation and the ex-
change of the publications of the Institution, the design at first is to
purchase only such books as are immediately necessary in “the other opera-
tions of the Institution, or which cannot be procur ed in this country, and
the Librarian is required to perform other duties than those which pertain
to the office of an ordinary collector and curator of books. He is directed
to report on plans of libraries, and the best method of n aiaging them:
to collect the statistics of the libraries of the United States: to make a
general catalogue as far as possable of all the books in this country, and to
procure all the mformation necessary for rendermg the Institution a centre
of bibliographical knowledge. Instead of attempting to form a miscella-
neous collection of objects of nature and art, it 1s proposed to collect only
those which will yield a harvest of new res salts, and to preserve principally
such as are not found in other collections, or will serve to illustrate and
verify the Smithsonian publications.

The tendency of an Institution in which collections form a prominent
object, 1s constantly towards a stationary condition; with a given ineome,
the “aie must inevitably come when the expenditures necessary to accom-
modate the articles with house room and attendance will just equal the
receipts. There is indeed no plan by which the funds of an Institution
may be more inefficiently expended, than that of filling a costly building
with an indiscriminate coHection of objects of curiosity, and giving these
1a charge to a set of inactive curators. Happily, the programme of or-
ganization and the system of expenditure which the Regents have adopted,
if rioidly adhered to, will ana this state of things, and happily the spirit
of the present directors and officers who are to give the initial form to the
9 [f}

character of the Institution, is in accordange with as active operations as:
the state of the funds and requisitions of Congress will allow.

It is to be regretted that Congress did not ‘leave the entire choice of the:
plan of organization to those who were to be intrusted with the manage-
iment of the bequest, and that mstead of the plan of a costly building, there
had not been adopted the nucleus of a more simple edifice, which could
have been modified to meet the wants which experience might indicate..

The original estimate for the building, furniture and improvement of
the erounds was $250,000, and could the aetaal cost have been confined
to this sum, all the results anticipated from the scheme of finance which
had been adopted, would have been realized at the end of five years.
During the past year, however, it has been found necessary, for the better
protection of the collections, to order the fire proofing of the interior of
the edifice at an inereased expense of $44,000. This additional draft on
the funds can only be met by extending the time for the completion of
the building, and even this will require the appropriation of a portion of
the income which ought to be devoted to ae purposes, The active
operations will suffer most by this draft on the income, since it will be
made for the better accommodation of the Library and the Museum.

It must not be inferred from the foregoing account, that the affairs of
the Institution are in an unfavorable condition; on the contrary, though
they are not in every respect what could be wished, still, under the cir-
cumstances [ have mentioned, they are much better than could have been
anticipated. The funds are in a very prosperous state and all the obsta-
eles in the way of the usefulness of the establishment, may, by judicious
Inanagement in time be removed. ‘The opposition which was made to the
building, led to the adoption of the plan of finance to which U have here-
tofore adverted, and from this has been realized much more than could
have been expected.

After all the expenditures which have been made on the building, grounds,
publications, researches, purchase of books and apparatus, not only is the
original bequest untouched, but there is now on hand upwards of 200,000
of accrued interest. This will be sufficient to finish the exterior of the
building, 1 including all the towers, the interior of the wings, ranges, and a
part of the interior of the main edifi fice; which will afford sufficient accom-
modation for some years to come, and leave $150,000 to be added to the
principal.

This result has been produced by a rigid adherence to the determina-
tion of increasing the annual nee and in accordance with this, and in
obedience to the direction of the Board of Regents, a petition has been
prese nted to Congress, asking oe $150,000 may be taken from the In-
stitution and pla ced in the ‘Treasury of the United States, on the same
terms as those of the acceptance of the original be quest, never to be ex-
pended, and yielding a perpetual interest of six per cent.

If this petition be. granted, all the funds will be permanently and safely
invested, and the original income will be increased from $30,000 to nearly
$40,000. Out of this, beside carrying on the more imp ocean object of
the plan, it is p sroposed to appropriate yearly, a small sum for the gradual
completion of the interior of the building.

The great importance of a small addition to the income will be evident,
when it is recollected that a definite sum is annually required to de fray
the necessary expenses of the establishment, and that after this has been
1g] 10

provied, every addition will tend to produce a greater proportional
amount of useful effect. The proposed increase will be sufficient to pay
all the salaries of the officers, and leave the original income in a great
measure free to be applied to the objects contemplated in the plan.

At the last meeting of the Board, Professor Baird of Dickinson College,
Penn’a., a gentleman distinguished for his attainments in science was ap-
pointed an Assistant Secretary in the department of Natural History. His
appointment was made at this time, more particularly in order that his
services might be secured to take charge of the publications and that we
might avail ourselves of the ample experience which he had gained in this
line. He entered on his duties in July last, and besides being actively
engaged in organizing the department of Natural History, he has rendered
important service in “conducting our foreign exchanges and attending to
the business of the press. This addition to our force was absolutely
necessary to a more efficient discharge of the duties which devolve on us,
No person, except from actual experience, can form an idea of the amount
of labor required for the transaction of the ordinary business. The cor-
respondence alone, is sufficient to occupy two persons continually during
the usual office hours.

During the past year one half of the whole income has been appropri-
ated to the building, and after deducting the general expenses, the remain-
der has been equally divided between the two oreat classes of objects
designated in the plan. The portion of the income after these divisions,
which could be devoted to any one object has been necessarily small; for
example, all that could be ex pended for researches, publications and lee-
tures, and indeed for every thing of w hich the public at a distance could
take immediate cognisance eee not exceeded $4,500, and yet out of
this sum we have been expected to produce results for which the whole
income would be entirely inadequate. I trust however, that a proper con-
sideration of the facts presented in the remainder of this report, wil show
that much has been done in proportion to the means at our command.

PUBLICATION OF ORIGINAL MEMOIRS.

The important aid which can be rendered to the promotion of know-
ledge by the publication, and in some cases by assistance in the prepara-
tion of important memoirs, is now beyond all question. Experience has
thus far abundantly shown that much more matter of the most valuable
character will be HssnieA for publication, free of all charge, than the
portion of the income devoted to this object will allow us to publish In-
deed there is now on hand or in preparation, more material of this kind
than we shall be able with our limited income, to give to the world in
two or three years. In view of this fact, I cannot repress the expression
of regret which I have always felt, that the restrictions arising from the
requisitions of Con IGTESS, ( do not permit a greater expenditure (or this most
important object. It is chiefly by the publications of the Institution that
its fame is to be spread through the world, and the monument most be-
fitting the name of Smithson, erected to his memory.

Most of the distinzuished foreign literary and ‘scientific. societies have
placed the Institution om their list of exchange, and in many instances have
presented not only the current volume of their transactions, but also full
sets of the preceding volumes. We have reason to believe that before
i ri]

the expiratien of another year, we shall receive in exchange the transac-
tions of nearly all the learned societies of the world, and that the Institu-
tion will be recognized by them as an active co-operator in the promotion
of knowledge. Professor Baird has furnished a list of the literary and
scientific societies to which the quarto volumes have been presented. [See
Appendix. ]

The following Memoirs, an account of which was given in my last re-

port have been printed, or are now in the press:

1. Researches relative to the planet Neptune; by S. C. Walker.

2. Contributions to the Physical Geography of the United States; by
Charles Ellet, Jr.

3. Memoir on the Explesiveness of Nitre; by Dr. Robert Hare.

4, On the Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York: > by E.G
Squier.

5. Memoir on the Reciprocal Action of two Galvanic Currents; by A.
Secchi, of Georgetown College.

. On the Classification of Insects, from Embryological Data; by Professor

Louis Agassiz.

7. Monograph of Mosasaurus and the Allied Genera; by Dr. R. W. Gibbes.

oBeies these, several other papers not described in my last report have
been printed, anid are ready for separate distribution. The first of these
I shall mention, is by Professor Lieber, of the College, of South Caro-
lina, on the Sata sounds of Laura Bridoman, the line and deaf mute,
whose mind, apparently for ever consigned to darkness, has been almost
miraculously enlightened, by the sagacity, ingenuity and perseverance of
Dr. Howe.

There is perhaps at this time, no living human being who offers to the
psychologist, so attractive an object of study as this individual - and hence
every ohsenvation relative to her peculiar habits is of oreat interest. Dr.
Lieber has, from year to year during his summer vacations, been in the
habit of visiting Laura Bridgman, and on one occasion, spent three months
in her immediate neighborhood, for the purpose of Gncar the sounds
which she utters as indicative of ideas. These sounds consist principally
of such as she has voluntarily adopted to designate different individuals.
The results of the observations given in this paper, are accompanied by a
series of philosophical deductions and suggestions which cannot fail to
interest the psychologist and physiologist. ‘This memoir is illustrated by
an engraved fac simile of a le ee from Laura Bridgman’s own hand.

The next paper is by Professor Bailey of West Point. This gentleman
has rendered himself favorably known to the world of science by his re-
searches on minute animals and plants, which, though mostly unseen by
the naked eye, are found as widely distributed, aa as permanent and defi-
nite in character as the largest ieee objects in nature. This paper
gives the results of a series “of microscopic observations which the author
made during his sojourn in the southern part of the United States, whither he
was ordered last winter on account of his health. It designates numerous
localities of microscopic animals and plants, and furnishes ‘lists of the spe-
cies found in each. It also contains a series of tables presenting a number
of species with the different localities where each was found. The species
so classed include those of the Desmidiew, Diatomacee, Infusoria and
Alge. Following these is a description of numerous other species, most
of which are represented by lithographic figures.

or
cE] 12

Among the interesting facts arrived at by the author, are the discovery
of an extensive stratum of Fossil Infusorie near Tampa Bay, Florida—
the existence of Infusorie in the rice fields of the south, and the demon-
stration of the cosmopolite character of many microscopic objects hitherto
believed to exist only in Europe.

Another paper by the same author, but presented to the Institution by
Professor Bache, Superintendent of the U. S. Coast Survey, has reference to
a microscopic examination of soundings along the eastern coast of the
United States. Samples of all the materials brought up by the sounding
apparatus of the coast survey having been carefully preserved by Professor
Bache in bottles, and so arranged as to present as it were, the surface ge-
ology of the bottom of the sea within a certain distance from the shore.
Specimens of these were given to Professor Bailey for microscopic exami-
nation and the results are presented in this paper. It exhibits the fact of
a high development of minute organic forms, mainly of Polythalamia, in
all deep soundings, varying from fifty-one to ninety fathoms occurring in
an abundance similar to that in which analogous fossil forms are found in
the mar!s under the city of Charleston. It also shows that each locality
has its predommant species, by means of which alone the region whence
they were taken may be indicated. Many of the conclusions derived are
of much interest to the mariner, the geologist and the naturalist. The
paper closes with.a brief description of the genera and species referred to,
embracing several that are new, the whole accompanied by numerous
figures.

In connection with the foregoing may be mentioned a paper by Mr.
Charles Girard, entitled “A Monograph of the Fresh water Cottcids of
North America,” which has been accepted, and will soon be published.
The species of fish called Cottus gobio, was supposed to be common to
Europe and America, and thus to form an exception to a general rule in
regard to the fresh water species of the two continents. It has been dis-
covered by Mr. Girard and others, that the European species as described
by Linnzus, is really composed of several, and that while none of these
are found in North America, we have actually a number of species pecu-
liar to this country. The memoir contains elaborate descriptions of the
known species as well as of several new ones, together with copious notes
on their scientifie history, their geographical distribution, affinities with
each other and with foreign species, anatomical structure, &c.—the whole
illustrated by appropriate figures. It is worthy of remark, that most of
the hitherto undescribed species presented in this memoir were collected
by Professor Baird, and now form a part of the Smithsonian collection.

Another memoir now in course of preparation, is one which will, of
itself occupy a considerable portion of one of the quarto volumes of the
Smithsonian contributions. It affords an interesting illustration of the
working of the plan of organization in the way of eliciting important
scientific knowledge which would not otherwise be produced, or if pro-
duced, could not be given to the world through any other channel.

This memoir consists of a description of the marine plants or Alge,
which are found along the eastern and southern coasts of the United States,
and which are deserving of attention, not only on account of their beauty,
variety and the illustrations they present of the growth and development
of vegetable forms, but also on account of their economical value with
reference to agriculture and the chemical arts. This volume is in the
13 [1]

course of preparation by Professor Harvey of the University of Dublm,
Ireland, a gentleman who is recognized as the first authority in this branch
of Botany. He was induced to visit this country by an invitation to lec-
ture on the Algw before the Lowell Institute, and by the opportunity
thus offered him of studying his favorite branch of science in a new region.
After completing his lectures, he made a collection of the marine p lants
of our coast and offered to furnish drawings of the genera and species of
them with detailed descriptions free of all cost, provided the Institution
would bear the expense of publication.

Upon the warm recommendation of some of the principal botanists of
this country, the liberal offer of Professor Harvey was accepted, and he is
now engaged in inaking with his own hand the drawings on stone.—
The preparation of the whole work besides the time expended i in collecting
the specimens, will occupy more than a year. This voluntary contribu
tion to knowledge from a man of science may surprise those whose minds
are not liberalized by philosophical pursuits, and who cannot conceive any
object 1 in labor unconnected with pecuniary gain.

It is proposed to color the pla tes of a part of the edition of this work
and to offer the copies containing them for sale, to assist in defraying the
heavy expense of the publication, and to issue the work in parts so as to
distribute the cost through at least three years.

In addition to the foregoing an appendix—added to Mr. Squier’s paper
on the ancient monuments of New York—has been printed. Also, there
has been such an urgent demand for copies of Mr. Ellet’s paper on the
physical eeosraphy of the Mississippi Valley, that it has been thought
advisable to reprint it and distribute the whole of the first edition, among
all persons to whom a knowledge of its contents would be of peculiar
importance.

The several papers which have been described in this and the preceding
report will, when collected together, form the contents of the second and
part of the third volume.

The plan adopted of printing each memoir with a separate title and
paging has been found to answer a good purpose. ‘There is no delay in
printing one paper on account of the engraving of the plates of another,
and lone before a volume can be completed, a separate memoir may be
widely circulated among those most interested in its perusal. As an ex-
ample of this, [ may mention that one of the papers which forms part
of the second volume of the contributions, has already been reprinted in
the London and Edinburg Journal, with due credit given to this In-

-stitution.

REPORTS ON THE PROGRESS OF KNOWLEDGE.

The income of the Institution as yet, has not been sufficient for fully
reducing to practice this part of the plan of organization. The prepara-
tion of these re ports can only be entrusted to those who are familiar with
the subjects, and well skilled in the art of composition, and the sirvices
of such persons cannot be obtained without an adequate remuneration. Of
the several reports mentioned at the last meeting of the Board, but one
has been published, viz: that on the discovery of the planet Neptune, by
Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cambridge, editor of the Astronomical Journal. It has
been stereotyped, and copies distributed amongst all our Meteorological
Be. 14

obsetvers and other persons in the country, known to us as being actively
engaged in promoting the science of Astronomy.

The preparation of the report on the Forest Trees of North America,
though delayed in consequence of the absence of the author, Dr. Gray, Me
Harvard University, on a visit to Europe, 1 is still in progress. ‘The illus-
trations are in the hands of the artists, and the first part will probably be
published during the present year. The cost of this report on account of
the elaborate illustrations, will be greater than was at first anticipated,
consequently the publication of the entire work must necessarily be spread
over a number of years. It is believed, however, that a considerable part
of the expense wi il be repaid to the Institution, by the sale of copies at a
smal] advance on the original cost.

The other reports on the Progress of Knowledge mentioned in my last
communication to the Regents are ready for the press and will be published
in whole or in part during the present year.

The Report on the statistics of Libraries of the United States, prepared
by Professor Jewett, has been ordered to be printed by Congress, as an
appendix to the Regents’ Report. A sufficient number of extra copies will
be presented to the Institution, for distribution to all the libraries from
which statistical information was received. It forms a volume of about
two hundred and twenty-five pages, and will, [am sure, be considered an
unportant contribution to Bibliographical Statistics.

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS.

We have found considerable difficulty in deciding upon the rules to be
observed in the distribution of the Smithsonian ‘publications. It must
be evident that from the small portion of the income which can be
devoted to this object the distribution must be circumscribed. Fifteen
hundred copies of each memoir have been printed, but this number though
all that the income could furnish, has not been found sufficient to meet a
tenth part of the demand. It should be recollected that though these
memoirs consist of the results of new investigations of the highest import-
ance to the well being of man, in extending the bounds of his know-
ledge of the universe of mind and matter of which he forms a part; yet
they are not in all cases of such a character as to be immediately ap-
preciated by the popular mind, and indeed they are better adapted to
instruct the teacher than to iene: the eal reader. They should,
therefore, be distributed in such a way as most readily to meet the eye of
those who will make the best use of them in diffusmg a knowledge of
their contents.

The following rules have been adopted for the distribution of the quarto
volumes of collections of memoirs.

1. They are to be presented to all Learned Societies which publish trans-
actions and give copies of these in exchange to the Institution.

2. Aso, To all Foreign Libraries of the first class, provided they give in
exchange, their catalogues, or other publications, or an equivalent
from their duplicate volumes.

3. To all Colleges in actual operation in this country ; provided they
furnish in return, meteorological observations, catalogues of their
Libraries and of their students, and all other publications issued by
them, relative to their organization and history.
15 [1]

4. To all States and Territories; provided they give in return, copies of af]
documents published under ‘their authority.

5. To all incorporated Public Libraries in this country, not included in
either of the foregoing classes, now containing more than seven thou-
sand volumes; and to smaller ‘Libraries, where a whole State, or large
district w ould be otherwise left unsupplied.

The author of each memoir receives, as his only compensation, a certain
number of copies of it, to distribute among his friends, or to present to
individuals who may be occupied in the same line of research, In this

way single memoirs are distributed to individuals, and especially to those
who are most actively engaged in promoting discoveries. Copies of the
reports, and also in some. cases, of particular memoirs, are sent to all
meteorological observers. Besides these, we have placed on the list the
more prominent Academies and Lyceums, as recipients of the minor
publications. It is also intended, in order to benefit the public more gene-
rally, to place on sale copies of memoirs and reports, though on account
of the number required for the supply of Institutions, we have not as yer,
been able to carry this plan into effect.

No copyright has been taken for the Smithsonian publications ; they are
therefore free to be used by the compilers of books, and in this way they
are beginning to reach the general reader and to produce a beneficial effect
on the public mind.

METEOROLOGY.

The system of meteorology under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, has, during the last year made good progress. And though the
whole number of stations has not been much increased, yet the character
of the instruments adopted, and consequently, the value of the observa-
tions, has been improved both in precision and variety.

This system is intended to embrace, as far as possible, the whole surface
of North America, and to consist of three classes of observers. One
class, without instruments, to record the changes in the aspect of the sky,
the diveation of the wind, the beginning and “ending of rain, the appear-
ance of the Aurora, &c. Anéther, in addition to fick foregoing, to give an
account of the changes of temperature, as indicated by the thermometer.
A third class, furnished with full sets of instruments, to record all changes
deemed important in the study of meteorology.

To carry on this system, the Institution has received or expects to
receive assistance from the following sources:

1. From the sinall appropriation made by Congress, to be expended under
the direction of the Navy Department.

2. From the appropriations made by different States of the Union.

3. From the observations made under the direction of the Medical Depart-
ment of the United States Army.

4. From the Officers of Her Majesty’s service in different parts of the
British possessions in North America.

5. From observations made by institutions and individuals, in different
parts of the continent, who report immediately to the Smithsonian
Institution.

A small appropriation ks been made by Congress for two years past, to
be expended under the direction of the Navy Department for meteorolo-
rg 16

gical purposes; and Professor Espy, engaged under the act making this
appropriation, has been directed to co- operate with the Institution, in
promotion of the common object. Besides the aid which we have re-
ceived from Professor Espy’s knowledge of this subject, the general system
has been benefitted in the use of instruments purchased by the surplus
of the appropriation, after paying the salary of the director and other
expenses.

During the last year, Professor Espy has been engaged ina series of
interesting and valuable experiments, on the variations of temperature,
produced by a sudden change in the density of air. The results obtained
are interesting in addition to science, and directly applicable to meteoro-
logy. ‘The experiments were made in one of the rooms of the Smithso-
nian Institution, and with articles of apparatus belonging to the collection
which constituted the liberal donation of Dr. Hare of Philadelphia. An
account of these investigations will be given to the Secretary of the
Navy in a report.

It was mentioned in the last report that the Regents of the University
of the State of New York, in 1849, made a liberal appropriation of funds
for the re-organization of the meteorological system of observations, estab-
lished im 1825, and that Dr. T. Romeyn Beck, and the Hon. Guan Haw-
ley, to whom the enterprise was entrusted, had adopted the forms and the
instruments, prepared under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.
Another appropriation has been made for 1850, and the system has been
carried, during the past year, into successful operation by Professor Guyot,
late of Neuchatel, in Switzerland. This gentleman, who has established
a wide reputation as a meteorological observer, by his labors in his own
country, was recommended to Dr. “Beck and Mr. Hawley, by this Institu-
tion, and employed by them to superintend the fitting up of the instru-
ments in their places, to instruct the observers in the minute details of
their duty, and to determine the topographical character and elevation
above the sea, of each station.

The whole number of stations which have been established in the State
of New York is thirty-eight, including those which have been furnished
with instruments by the Smithsonian Institution, and the Adirondack station
by the liberality of Archibald McIntyre, Esq., of Albany. This number
gives one station to twelve hundred and Be enty square miles, or about
one in each square of thirty-five and a half miles on aside. These sta-
tions are at very different heights above the level of the sea. They were
selected in conference with Dr. Beck, Professor Guyot and myself. ‘The
state is naturally divided into the following topographical regions, namely :
a The Southern or Maritime region.

. The Eastern, or region of the Highlands and Catskill mountains, with

the valleys of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers.

3. The Northern or region of the Adirondack mountains, isolated by the
deep valleys of the Mohawk, Lake Champlain, the St. Lawrenee
and Lake Ontario.

4. The Western, or region of the western plateau, with the small lakes and
sources of the rivers.

5. The region of the great lakes, Erie and Ontario.

I regret to state that no efficient steps have as yet been taken to
organize the system of Massachusetts, for which an appropriation was
made by the legislature, at its last session. I haye lately written to Go-
17 fy, el

vernor Briggs, urging immediate action, and offering, on the part of the
Institution, to render any assistance in our power, towards furthering so
laudable an enterprise. No answer has yet been received.*

The observations made at the different military stations, under the
direction of the Medical Department of the United States Army, have
been partially re-organized, and a number of new stations, and several of
the old ones furnished with improved Smithsonian instruments. ‘The head
of the Medical Department of the Army, Dr. Lawson, has assigned the
general direction of the system of observations to Dr. Mower of New York,
to whom we are indebted for the valuable aid which this extended set of
observations will furnish the general system. ‘The immediate superin-
tendence of the reduction of these observations is in charge of Dr.
Wotherspoon, to whose zeal and scientific abilities, the cause of mete-
orology bids fair to be much indebted.

The most important service the Smithsonian Institution has rendered to
meteorology during the past year, has been the general introduction into
the country, of a more accurate set of instruments at a reasonable price.
The set consists of a barometer, thermometer, hydrometer, wind-vane,
and snow and rain guage.

The barometer is made by James Green, No. 422 Broadway, New York,
under the direction of the Institution. It has a glass cistern with an ad-
justable bottom enclosed in a brass cylinder. The barometer tube is also
enclosed in a brass cylinder, which carries the vermier. ‘The whole is sus-
pended freely, from a ring at the top, so as to adjust itself to the vertical
position. The bulb of the attached thermometer is enclosed in a brass
envelope communicating with the interior of the brass tube, so as to be in
the same condition with the mercury, and to indicate truly its tempera-
ture. Each instrument made according to this pattern, is numbered and
accurately compared with a standard. In the comparisons made by Pro-
fessor Guyot, a standard Fortin barometer, by Ernst, of Paris, was em-
ployed; also a standard English barometer, by Newman, of London,
belonging to this Institution. These instruments, for greater certainty,
have been compared with the standard of the Cambridge Observatory,
and of Columbia College, both by Newman; also with the standard of
the Observatory of Toronto, Upper Canada.

The results of these examinations prove the barometers made by Mr.
Green, according to the plan adopted by the Smithsonian Institution, to
be trustworthy instruments.

The thermometers are by the same maker, and those intended for the
State of New York, were compared with a standard by Bunten of Paris,
and with another by Troughton & Simms of London. Those found to
differ more than a given quantity, from the standards were rejected.

The instruments for detecting the variation of the hygrometrical condi-
tion of the atmosphere, consist of two thermometers, of the same dimen-
sions, accurately graduated. ‘The bulb of one of these is enveloped ina
covering of muslin and moistened with water, and that of the other is
naked.

The rain and snow gauges, and also the wind vanes, are made under the
direction of the Institution, by Messrs. Pike & Son, 166 Broadway, New
York. The rain gauge is an inverted cone of sheet zinc, of which the area

*A letter has since been received and the system placed under the direction of this Institution,

Mis—2
ay 18

of the base is exactly one hundred square inches. This cone or funnel!
terminates in a tube which carries the water into a receiving vessel. ‘The
water which has fallen is measured by pouring it from the gauge into a
cylinder, so graduated as to indicate hundreths of inches. A smaller
cylinder is also provided, which gives thousanths of inches, and may
serve, in cases of accident, as a substitute for the larger cylinder. The-
rain gauge is placed in a cask sunk in the earth, with its mouth near
the level of the ground.

The snow gauge is a cylinder of zinc of the same diameter as the mouth
of the rain gauge. ‘The measurement is made by pressing its mouth
downwards to the bottom of the snow, where it has fallen on a level
surface, then carefully inverting it, retaining the snow, by passing under
it a thin plate of metal. The snow is afterwards melted, and the water
produced is measured in one of the graduated glass cylinders of the rain
wauge.

The wind vane is a thin sheet of metal, (it might be of wood,) about
three feet long, carefully balanced by a ball of lead, and attached on the
top of a long wooden rod, which descends along the wall of the building
to the sill of the window of the observer. It terminates in the centre of
a fixed dial plate, and indicates in its movements the direction of the wind
by a pointer attached to the rod.

The observer is by this arrangement enabled to determine the course
of the wind, by looking down on the dial plate, through the glass of the-
window, without exposing himself to the storm.

Besides the full sets of instruments furnished by the State of New York,
from the apprepriation of the Regents of the University, the Smithsonian
Institution has furnished a number of sets, to important stations, and in
order that they might be more widely disseminated, we have directed Mr.
Green to dispose of sets, to individuals, at a reduced price, on condition
that they will give us copies of the Fesults of their Observations; the re-
mainder of the cost being paid by this Institution,. A number of persons
have availed themselves of this privilege.

To accompany the instruments, and for the use of those who take part
in the Smithsonian system of meteorological observations, a series of mi-
nute directions, prepared by Professor “Guy ot, has been printed by the
Institution. It occupies forty octavo pages, with wood-cut representa-
tions of the instruments, and is accompanied by two lithographic engra-
vings, to illustrate the different forms of clouds, and to facilitate their
notations in the journals, in accordance with the nomenclature adopted by
meteorologists. A set of tables has also been furnished for correcting the
barometrical observations, on account of variation of t mper ature. A
set of hygrometrical ta Bice. to be used with the wet and dry bulb ther-
mometers, and a set, for the calculation of heights by the barometer, will
be prepared.

We may also mention, in connection with this subject, that a series of
preliminary experiments has been made, in the laboratory of this Institu-
tion, for the purpose of constructing from direct observation, a scale of
boiling temperatures, corresponding to different degrees of rarefaction of
the air. With a thermometer, each degree of which occupies one inch in
length of the scale, the variations of the boiling point corresponding to a
slight change in altitude, are found to be more perceptible than those in
the length of the barometrical column.

— SS
19 an

A series of experiments has also been made, for testing the perform-
ance of the Aneroid barometer under extremes of atmospheric pressure.
The instrument as usually constructed, has not been found, from these
experiments, very reliable, though it may be improved, and thus serve as an
indicator of minute atmospheric changes. I think, however, it will not
answer for the determination of changes of atmospheric pressure, of con-
siderable magnitude.

For the better comprehension of the relative position of the several
places of observation, now embraced in our system of meteorology, an
outline map of North America has been constructed, by Prof. Foreman.
This map is intended also to be used for presenting the successive phases
of the sky over the whole country, at different pomts of time, as far as
ane to us, and we have been waiting for its completion, to commence

a series of investigations, with the materials now on hand, relative to the
progress of storms.

A valuable collection of returns relative to the Aurora, has been re-
ceived in accordance with the special instructions which we have issued
for the observation of this interesting phenomenon. These are to be
placed in the hands of Captain Lefroy, of the ‘Toronto observatory, and
incorporated with a emi pe of a similar kind, which he has collected
in the British possessions of North America. An account in full of the
whole series will be presented by Captain Lefroy, to be published in the
Smithsonian Centributions.

The meteorological correspondence is under the charge of Professor
Foreman. ‘This is found not enly to involve considerable labor ‘in the
way of receiving the regular returns and sending the required blanks and
directions, but also in relation to the discussion of questions on almost
every branch of science propounded to us by the meteorological obser-
vers, which we think it our duty in all cases, to treat with respect, and to
answer to the best of our knowledge.

RESEARCHES, &c.

Explorations —T he programme of organization contemplates the insti-
tution of researches in Natural History, Geology, &c., and, though the
state of the funds would permit of litt le being done in this ‘nae yet we
have made a beginning. Besides the assistance rendered to the e: xplora-
tion of the botany of New Mexico, by the purchase of sets of plants from
Mr. Wright and Mr. Fendler, as mentioned in my last report, a small sum
was appropriated, to defray the cost of transportation of the articles which
might be collected by Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, in the region of the
Upper Missouri. This centleman, a graduate of the institutions at Prince-
ton, had purposed to visit the remote regions above mentioned, for the
benefit of his health, and was provided by Professor Baird, with minute
directions as to the preservation of specimens and the objects which should
particularly engage his attention. His journey was undertaken, and
_executed, under. particularly favorable circumstances for exploration. He
was accompanied by his brother, Mr. Alexander Culbertson, for many
years connected with the American Fur Company, who was familiar with
the whole country, and had himself sent valuable specimens of fossil

mammalians to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences.
Mr. Culbertson first visited an interesting locality called the Mauvaises
[a 20

Terres or Bad Lands, where his brother had previously found the remains
of the fossils sent to the Academy. He afterwards ascended the Missouri,
to a point several hundred miles above Fort Union. He returned in
August last in renewed health to gladden the hearts of his parents
and friends, with the prospect of long life and usefulness, but though
he had withstood the privations and exposures of the wilderness, he
sank under an attack of a prevalent disease and died after a few
weeks illness.

He left a journal of all the important events of his tour, which is
thought of sufficient importance to be appended to this report.

For a particular account of the interesting specimens which he procured,
many of which are new and undescribed, “I must refer to the appended
report of Professor Baird. A part of the specimens, those of the fossil
remains, have been referred to Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, who will pre-
sent the result of his investigations relative to them, for publication in the
third volume of the Smithsonian Contributions.

A small appropriation has also been made to defray in part the expense
of exploration, relative to the erosions of the surface of the earth, espe-
cially by rivers, and also for investigations relative to terraces and ancient
sea beaches, under the direction of President Hitchcock. An abstract of
these investigations, as far as they have been made, has been received by
the Institution, and a full account of the whole, it is expected, will soon
be ready for publication.

Also, an exploration for the increase of the Smithsonian collection,
particularly in fishes and reptiles, of whieh our knowledge is most imper-
fect, was undertaken by Professor Baird, accompanied by a number of
young gentlemen, his former pupils. The result of this expedition which
vost the Institution little more than the price of materials and transpor-
tation, was a large number of specimens, including numerous species before
unknown to science.

Experiments. — A series of experiments has been made, during the
past year, under the direction of Professor Jewett, to test the value of
a new plan of stereotyping. If the result of these experiments be favo-
rable, it is proposed to purchase the right to use the invention, for the
purposes of the Institution. Should the invention be found to possess the
character to which it appears entitled, it will not only be of much impor-
tance to the Institution, but to the world ; and we shall have done good
service to the cause of knowledge, by giving it our countenance and
assistance. Professor Jewett has found it especially applicable to the
accomplishment of his system of stereotyping catalogues of libraries, by
separate titles, and, in this application, it will certainly be of great value,
even should it fail in other respects to realize the sanguine expectations
of its inventor.

The result of the experiments will be submitted to a commission of
persons properly qualified to judge of its merits, and if their report be
favorable, a small sum will be allowed for the use of it.

Besides. the experiments mentioned under the head of meteorology,
made by Mr. Espy, on the cold produced by the rarefaction of air, Dr.
Hare, of Philadelphia, is employing articles of apparatus belonging to the
Institution, in a series of researches on the phenomena exhibited in the
air, and in a vacuum by rubbing silicious minerals against each other. ‘Tho
~esults of these experiments, with the drawings of the apparatus employed,
21 [1]

will be presented to the Institution in the form of a memoir for the Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge.

COMPUTATIONS.

Occultations for 1851.—For the purpose of facilitating the accurate
determination of geographical points in the United States, a list of occul-
tations and the ue-ordinates of reductions for the years 1848, 1849, and
1850, was prepared and published at the expense of the Smithsonian In-
stitution. Congress has since ordered the publication of an American
Nautical Almanac, and as lists of occultations will form a part of this
ephemeris, Mr. Preston, late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the
expense of computing these tables for 1850, should be defrayed from the
appropriation for the almanac, provided the printing and distribution were
at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. The same course has been
authorised by Mr. Graham, the present Secretary of the Navy.

Copies of these tables computed by John Downes, of Philadelphia, have
been sent to all persons known to the Institution, who would probably
make use of them in the way of improving our knowledge of the geog-
raphy of this country. They have been furnished partic ularly to officers
ef the United States Army, and other persons engaged in exploring our
new possessions and determining their boundaries. All persons, to whom
thesetables were presented, have been requested to send the result of their
observations, made in connection with the use of them, to this Institution,
or to publish them in some accessible journal.

Ephemeris of Neptune.—It was stated, in the last report, that the orbit
of the planet Neptune, established by the researches of Mr. Walker, and
comprised in his memoir published by the Institution, gives the data for
calculating an ephemeris or tables of the daily position of this planet,
rivaling in precision the tables for any of ihe older planets. Sets of
these tables were computed and published for 1848 and 1849, at the expense
of the Smithsonian Institution, but those for 1850 and 1851, have been
computed under the direction of Lieutenant Davis, superintendent of the
Nautical Almanac, and at the expense of the appropriation under his
charge, while the expense of printing the tables has been borne by this
Institution.

These tables are corrected for the perturbing influence of the planets
Jupiter , Saturn and Uranus, by deductions from mathematical investiga-
tions of Professor Peirce, of Harvard University. They have been used
in following the motion ‘of Neptune, by all the principal astronomers of
the world, and have every where received the highest commendation, re-
flecting honor on the Institution and on the science of the country.

MUSEUM.

The act of Congress authorizing the establishment of the Smithsonian
Institution, contemplates the formation of a Museum of Natural History.
It would not, however, be in accordance with the spirit of the organization,
to expend the income in the reproduction of collections of objects which
are to be found in every museum of the country. Natural History can be
much more effectually promoted, by special collections ot new objects, by
appropriations for original explorations and researches, and above all, by

9 ‘
ies. 29

. to) . .
to the world, in a proper form, the labors of naturalists. In conformity

with these views, it has been resolved to confine the collections, principally,
to objects of a special character, or to such as may lead to the discovery of
new truths, or which may serve to verify or disprove existing or proposed
scientific generalizations. A number of special collections, important in
this point of view, are mentioned by Professor Agassiz, in the appendix
to my last report, and, for a more enlarged statement relating to the same
subject, I would refer attention to the accompanying report by Professor
Baird, to whom the charge of the collections of Natural History has
been confided.

A considerable number of specimens in mineralogy, geology and botany,
had been received, previous to Professor Baird’s connection with the
Institution, and, since he has entered upon his duty, a large addition has
been made to the stock, by the deposit of his own cabinet, and by dona~
tions from various sources.

The collection is principally rich in undescribed species of fishes and
reptiles, and especial care will be taken, by Professor Baird, to enhance
its value, by procuring, in all cases, as far as practicable, such speci-
mens as help to solve questions of scientific interest. The collection
has been arranged in one of the rooms of the basement story, so as to be
accessible to the student in this branch of science, and has already done
service in this way, by furnishing the facts given in one of the memoirs of
the Smithsonian Contributions. Though letters are constantly received
requesting the Institution to purchase collections of plants, minerals and
other objects of natural history, yet we have declined, in all cases, to avail
ourselves of opportunities of this kind to increase the cabinet. Experi-
ence has, thus far, shown that specimens of all kinds will accumulate, from
donations and exchange, as rapidly as they can be accommodated with room,
and properly arranged.

I have given, in my last report, the reasons why it is not thought advi-
sable on the part of the Institution, to accept the gift proffered by Con-
gress, of the great Museum of the Exploring Expedition, and I have no
reason to change my opinion on that point.

For a detailed account of the specimens forming the Smithsonian collec-
tion, I refer to Professor Baird’s report, herewith submitted.

assistance in the preparation of the necessary drawings, and by presenting

AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES.

During the past year, we have received information of the loeality of
a number of mounds, and other remains of ancient art, in different parts of
the United States. A gentleman is now engaged in the examination of
the mounds of Western Virginia, with the intention of presenting the
results of his labors, for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge.

The survey of the mineral land in the vicinity of Lake Superior, has
disclosed the site of an ancient copper mine, whence, in all probability, the
copper of the metal ornaments, instruments, &c., found in the mounds was
derived. The remains of the implements and of the ore, as left by the
ancient miners, are exhibited in place, and afford an interesting illus-
tration of the state of arts among the mound builders. The geological
surveyors have promised to make accurate measurements, and drawings of
23 mr

everything of interest connected with these works, and to present them,
with suitable descriptions, to the Institution, for publication.

Mr. E. G. Squier, during his sojourn in Central America, as Charge d’
Affaires of the United States, made some interesting explorations relative
to the antiquities of that country, and has sent to this Institution five
large stone idols and several Lnallee objects, as the beginning of an Eth-
nological } Museum. For the cost of shipment and transportation of the
three larger of those idols by way of Cape Horn, the Institution is indebted
to the liberality of B. Blanco, Esq., of New Y ork.

. For some remarks relative to the importance of forming an Ethnologi-
eal museum, I beg to refer to a paper by Mr. Squier, given in the appendix
to this report.

APPARATUS AND INSTRUMENTS OF RESEARCH.

It is a part of the plan of the Institution, to appropriate a small portion
of the funds, to the purchase of sets of instruments of physical research,
to be used by the officers of the Institution, and under certain restrictions,
by other persons. In accordance with this purpose, I was requested, by
the Board of Regents, to procure an astronomical cit ‘k, with the electro
magnetic registering apparatus, to be lent to Lieutenant Gillis during the
continuance of his astronomical labors in Chili. The clock has been im-
ported from Germany, and is now in the hands of the instrument maker, to
receive the registering attachments. The whole will be sent to Chih, as
soon as the apparatus is completed. I regret that the difficulty of pro-
curing the services of suitable workmen has delayed, so long, the comple-
tion of these instruments.

A communication from Lieutenant Gillis, informs us that the Chilian
Government has resolved to establish a permanent ‘national observatory
at Santiago, and that it will purchase t the instruments above mentioned.
The Institution will therefore again, as in the case mentioned in a former
report, of the purchase of a telescope, for the same expedition, be the
means of promoting science, without an expenditure of its income.

The apparatus for determining the elements of terrestrial magnetism,
mentioned in my last report, as having been lent to Colonel Emory, has
been delivered to Colonel Graham, to be used on the Mexican boundary
survey. ‘To replace these, the Institution has received permission to
order another set, from London, at the expense of the government, and
thus, by an addition to the number of instruments of this kind, the means
of promoting the seience of terrestrial magnetism, in this country , will be
increased.

The purchase of standard meteorological apparatus, and also the instru-
ments which have been distributed to different important stations, through-
out the country, is a part of the same plan.

During the past year a considerable portion of the apparatus constitu-
ting the ‘liberal donation of Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia, has been repaired
and fitted up; and it is hoped, during ‘the present season, to complete the
repairs of the remainder, and to place the whole ina proper position for
exhibition and use.

LIBRARY.

It has been stated, that the programme of organization is intended te
(‘ay 24

harmonize the several requisitions of Congress, and the resolutions of the
Board of Regents, with a system of active operations, the influence of
which shall be as widely extended as practicable. ‘Though almost every
one will admit the value of libraries, and the importance of collecting in
this country as great a variety of books as possible, yet it may well be
doubted whether the accumulation of a large number of books, which are
to be found in almost every library of the country, is, in the present state
of the funds, to be expected or aimed at. It is believed that a portion
of the income devoted to the library, may be more efficiently expended in
the promotion of the same ends by other means, and hence, it was resolved
to make special collections of books; particularly to procure such as are
not in the country, and also, in order to render more available those which
are now in our libraries, to prepare, as far as practicable, a general cata-
logue of all the books they contain.

‘In accordance with these view s, Professor Jewett has devised a plan of

facilitating the publication of catalogues of libraries, which bids fair to be
of much importance to the literature of the country. This plan has been
submitted for examination to a commission of gentlemen well acquainted
with the subject, and has received from them a very favorable report
recommending its adoption. [See Appendiz.]

The propositions submitted to the commission for examination, were
as follows:

i. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate movable
titles; and

. A set of general rules, to be recommended for adoption, by the different

libraries of the United States, in the preparation of their catalogues.

For a full account of Professor Jewett’s plan, and of the advantages
anticipated from it, I yaust refer to his report herewith submitted. I may
however, briefly ‘allude to the leading principle of the plan, which is to
stereotype the titles of books on separate movable blocks. These blocks
once prepared, and kept in a central depository, may be used for the oe
ing of new editions of the catalogues for which they were originally made,
allowing the interposition of additional titles in the proper order; as well
a for the printing of all other catalogues containing the same titles.

Che collection of the stereotype blocks ‘of the titles of the several ibra-
ries, will thus form the stereotyped titles of a general catalogue of all
the libraries. They will lend themselves to the construction of biblio-
eraphies of particular branches of knowledge, and will admit of being
arranged alphabetically, chronologically, or in classes, m accordance with
any required system.

These blocks are not to be made in advance of a demand for their use.
They are to be gradually accumulated, by an arrangement, which, impo-
sing only a temporary and light burden upon the funds of this Institution,
will effect the great public object desired, at the same time that it aii
ishes to but a fraction of the present cost, the expenses of publishing
catalogues, and secures the construction of them upon a uniform and ap-
proved system.

The details of a plan so comprehensive, may well be supposed difficult
of adjustment, and not capable of being clearly described within the limits
of a few paragraphs. ‘These have, however, been fully considered by a
competent tribunal, and the plan has received commendation and promises
of co-operation, from some of the principal institutions of the country.
25 Ries

During the last year, the library has continued to increase by donation,
by receipts under the copy-right law, by exchanges for the publications
of the Institution, and by purchase. It now numbers, in all, nearly ten
thousand separate articles, and bids fair, from the same sources, to become
a very valuable collection.

Though one half of the annual interest is to be expended on the library
and the museum, the portion of the income, which can be devoted to the
former will, in my opinion, never be sufficient without extraneous aid, to
collect and support a miscellaneous library of the first class. Indeed, all
the income would scarcely suffice for this purpose. Still, by means of
exchanges, donations and purchases, a library of great value may be col-
lected and sustained, and this, with the constantly increasing library of
Congress, the libraries of the Departments, and that of Georgetown Col-
lege, will furnish a collection of books, not unworthy of the capital of
this nation.

From the report of Professor Jewett, it will be seen that a Gallery of
Art has been commenced, and that it is already in posession of a valuable
collection of engravings.

In this connection, T may mention that at the last annual meeting of
the board, a letter was pres sented from the Hon. Abbott Lawrence, inform-
ing the Regents that a portrait of Smithson had been offered through him

for sale to the Institution. ‘This portrait, which was in the possession of
the widow of John Fitall, a servant of Smithson, mentioned in his will,
was purchased for thirty guineas, and is now in the Gallery of Art. It
represents the founder of this Institution, in the costume of a student of
Oxford, and was probably painted when he was not more than twenty
years of age. ‘There is, also in possession of the Institution, a medal-
lion of Smithson, i in copper, taken in after hfe. It is from this, that the
head on the title page of the Smithsonian publications has been copied.

LECTURES.

During the past session of Congress, a series of popular lectures has
been given to the citizens of this place and strangers, in the lecture room
of the Smithsonian bi ulding. ‘These lectures were delivered by gentle-
men distinguished for their standing, and for their attainments in “litera-
ture and science, who were invited for this purpose. The interest in these
lectures has been sustained to a wonderful degree. They have been
_ attended from the first by large audiences, and the results thus far, indi-
cate that considerable good may be derived from the diffusion of knowle dee
in this way, in a central position like Washington, where persons from
every part of the Union are found. Although the lec ‘tures appear to
the public one of the most prominent objects of the Institution, and
although they are attended with much trouble and considerable expense,
they really form the least important feature of the plan adopted. So
long however, as there is a prospect of doing good by means of them,
it is due to the city in which the Institution is located, that they should
be continued.

Much complaint has been made on account of the size of the lecture
room. It is certainly too small to accommodate all who have wished to
attend. We have, however, endeavored, in several instances, to obviate
this difficulty, by procuring a repetition of the lectures; but this plan is
ri] 26

attended with additional expense, and cannot, in all cases, be adopted.
Should jarge audiences continue, it may be well to provide a larger
lecture room in the main building, and by removing the seats from the

resent lecture room, convert it into a museum of apparatus. This change,
if thought ical can be made at very little, if any, additional ex-
pense, since the present wood work of the interior of the main building,
is to give place to a fire proof structure, which will admit of being
arranged as a lecture room. Indeed, the original plan contemplated a
room of this kind in the main building, but the arrangement of it was
such as to seat scarcely more than the room at present used.

Many enquiries are made as to the publication of these lectures. In
some cases, reports of them have been given in the newspapers, and it will
be advisable to extend this practice to all: but the publication, in a sepa-
rate form, of lectures, which in many cases, are not written out, and not
intended by their authors, as additions to knowledge, would be attended
with much expense, and little useful effect. The institution, in several
instances, is doing better service, by publishing, in full, the original re-
searches, on which the lectures are based. The papers of Professor
Agassiz, of Professor Harvey, and one of Lieutenant Davis, are of this
character, and will be given to the world, through the Smithsonian Con-
tributions.

The following is a list of the Titles of Lectures given before the Institution
during the last session of Congress, with the Names of the
distinguished Gentlemen by whom they were delivered:

A single lecture on Holland; by the Rev. Dr. George W. Bethune, of
Brooklyn, New York.

A course of lectures’ on the ae of Time and Space—the vastness
of the Visible Creatio rimordial Arrangement of Ex-
isting Systems ; by Bee ete Alexander, of Princeton,
New Jersey.

A course of lectures on Science applied to Agriculture; by Professor J. F.
W. Johnston, of the University of Durham, England.

Two lectures, one on the tendencies of Modern Science, and the other on
the Spirit of the Age; by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Alonzo Potter, of
Pennsylvania.

One lecture on the Ability of the Individual to Promote Knowledge; by
the Rev. John Hall, of Trenton, New Jersey.

A course of lectures on the Unity of the plan of the Animal Creation;
by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, Massachusetts.

A course of lectures on the Tides of the Ocean and their Geological Re-
lations; by Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, of the United States
Navy.

A course of lectures on Marine Alge or Sea Weeds, and also on the

Morphology of the Vegetable Kingdom; by Professor William H.
Harvey, of the Univ ersity of Dublin, Treland.

Two lectures, one on the Origin and Growth of the Union during the
oT [1]

Colonial Period, and the other on some points of the History and
Peculiarities of the English Language; by Professor Henry Reed,
of the University of Pennsylvania.

A course of lectures on the Chemical Operations of Nature; by Profes-
sor Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College, New Jersey.

The first part of a general course, giving an exposition of the Dynamical
Phenomena of Geology; by Professor Henry D. Rogers, of Boston.

Whatever may have been the effect of these lectures in the way
of Diffusing Knowledge, it is evident from the character of the men
by whom they were delivered, that they presented truths intended
to elevate and improve the morals and intellectual condition of the
hearers.

All of which is respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary
Of the Smithsonian Institution.
la] 28

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY

IN CHARGE OF THE LIBRARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR
THE YEAR 1850.

To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :

Sir:—With the close of the year, it again becomes my duty to
present to you my annual report upon the affairs of the Library.

The rate of increase is still slow. We cannot expect it to be rapid,
until after the appropriation of the full income of the Institution to its
permanent objects.

The following table exhibits the number of books and other articles
added to the Library since my last report, with the sources from which
they have been received.

wu ipa.

n an zz al ~

| a Pinel ig Po kao ne
ere a a lal ae eh
3 E Ep 83) Sis yee =
° os =) aaa ro s i)
fea) o <3 | ie) isa
Inurchasest t=") e) serine ey en 502 9 2 | bills
Donations and Exchanges, -  - 470 624 1 3 1,098
452 35 8 12 455 24 936

9 17 455 24 | 2,597

Copyrights, +) = = == =. |

1,424 668

Adding these to the numbers previously reported, we obtain the fol-
lowing statement of the present size of the collections.

nm 7 ~

5 | = to Grays
: ra ie eS che 6 uv
“ = bb ce “a z ge s
cS) a S S S pe =| ra)
feo) | a ia = = QA 2) a
Purchases, - - - - - | 2,818 34 | 1,335 2 | 4.189
Donations, - - - - 627 1 1,319. 48 27 30 2.051
Copyrights, - - - - - | 1,339 70 9 32 561 46 | 2,057
Deposits, - - - - - - 873 873
ae 1,423 11,3992 | 61 | 561 | 30| 46 |9,170

These numbers are, it is true, small in comparison with the demands of
the community, and with our own hopes and prospects. But it must be
borne in mind that the Institution is as yet in but partial operation; that
the funds are still, in a great degree, devoted to the buildmg; and that
the systematic collection of a Library has hardly been commenced.

The books which have been bought, are for the most part such as were
of immediate necessity. The lists which accompany this report, in con-
nection with those previously transmitted, will show the composition of
the Library. Though not complete in any department, this collection
yossesses from the outset, a decided and peculiar character. The list of
foe received by donation and exchange contains the titles of the latest
publications of many of the learned societies of Europe, with complete
29 fit]

sets of some of them. It will be an object of the first care, to complete
this department. The use which has already been made of those which
we possess, and the frequent calls for others, fully demonstrate that the
plan of collecting here entire series of the transactions of all foreign
academies, and of the ablest scientific journals of every nation, was
wisely formed to meet a real and wide-felt want.

The collection of engravings and works upon the history of art, has
attracted much interest; not from undiscriminating: idlers, but from: men
of taste, and particularly from artists. ‘This collection, though not the
largest in the country, is believed to be the choicest. It was made by an
American gentleman, distinguished as a scholar no less than as a states-
man, with the special design of illustrating the progress and resources 2
the art of engraving in all its branches, from its early masters to th
present time. It was the work of many years to gather specimens, so
rare and beautiful. It required an educated eyeya “cultivated taste, an
earnest study of the history of art, much diligent search, and the aia of
many friends and correspondents, to bring together so many of the most
valuable prints which have ever been executed. ‘The acquisition of this
collection has saved to the Institution all ex xpenditure, either of time or
money, for skill and labor thus bestowed. ‘The saving of money cannot
but seem important to any one who weighs our means against our wants,
and the gain in time gives a longer period of public benefits.

This collection contains some of the best works of nearly every en-
graver of much celebrity. There is one portfolio of the works of Albert
Durer, containing twenty engravings on copper and two on iron; by his
own hand s—and among them, most of his best and rarest works; about
sixty fine copies on copper, including the famous seventeen by Mare
Antonio; thirteen different portraits of Durer, and a large number of
wood cuts engraved by him or under his inspection. Another porttolio
contains a large collection of the rem of Rembrandt, including some
of his most beautiful pieces, particularly the “Christ Healing the Sick, ii
an early and fine ie Se There is a portfolio of two “hundred en-
gravings and etchings, by Claude Lorraine, Hollar, and Bega; a portfoh 0)
of superb portraits by Nantewul, Wille, Edelink, and others, among them,
a first impression of the ‘Louis XIV in armor,’’? by Nanteuil; a port-
folio of prints from the old Italian masters, comprising many that are
extremely rare; and another from the old German masters, containing
about one hundred prints, many of them scarce and of great beauty.
There are besides, five portfolios of sheet engravings, including very
choice prints. Among them are thirty-one w hich are ‘valued by Longhi,
at fifteen hundred dollars.

Among the galleries and published collections, are the ‘‘ Musée Royal, ’
in two volumes folio, proofs before the letter, a superb copy ; Denon’s
 Monumens des Arts du Dessin,”’ in four volumes folio, of which only
two hundred and fifty copies were published; Baillie’s Works, one hundred
plates, folio; Thorwaldsen’s Works, four volumes, folio ; Hogarth’s
Works, folio, and the German edition in quarto ; ‘The Boydell Gallery,
two volumes, folio; Boydell’s ‘ Shakspeare Gallery,” a remarkably good
copy, containing many proofs before the letter, numerous etchings: and
several progressive plates; Claude’s “Liber Veritatis, ” an original copy,
three volumes, folio; The Houghton Gallery, two volumes, folio; Cham-
berlain’s Drawings in the Royal Collection, one volume, folio; Rem-
[1] 30

-brandt’s Drawings, one volume, quarto; Da Vinci’s Drawings, one vol-
ume, quarto; ‘* Galerie de Florence; ?? Angerstein Gallery ; Ancient
Sculpture, by the Dilettanti Society; Perrault’s « Hommes Ilustres ; ””
Sadeler’s Hermits; ‘* Theuerdank,” a fine copy of the very rare
edition of 1519; Meyrick’s Armour: Hope’s Ancient Costumes, and
more than one hundred volumes besides, mostly in folio or quarto, either
composed entirely of valuable engravings, or in which the text is pub-
lished for the sake of the illustrations of fine or decorative art.

The collection of critical and historical works, in the various depart-
ments of the fine arts, comprises about three hundred volumes of the best
works in the English, French, German and Italian languages, cluding
whatever is most needed by the student of art m all its branches.

Engraving seems to be the only branch of the fine arts, which we can,
for the present, cultivate. One mee picture or statue would cost more
than a large collection of prints. ‘The formation of a gallery of the best
paintings, 1s, in this country, almost hopeless. | Engravings furnish us
with translations, authentic and masterly, of the best Tne tiue of genius
in painting and sculpture, the originals of which are utterly beyond our
reach. Engraving, too, is more “than a mere imitative art. ‘The mas-
ter’s genius ‘shines forth from some of the free and graceful etchings of
Rembrandt almost as vividly as from his canvas.

It can hardly be doubted, that, in no way, could this Institution, for
the present, a so much for every department of the fine arts, without
injury to other objects of its-care, as by procuring a collection of engra-
vings, so full and so well chosen as that which now adorns its Library.

Another department of the Library which has received special atten-
tion, is that of bibliographical works. I need not here repeat what I
have already said upon the importance of these books. A librarian can
no more do without them, than a mechanic can work without tools, or a
chemist perform experiments without apparatus. Our collection of them
is already very respectable ; nor have the books been without great use
since they were placed upon our shelves. The announcement, early made,
that we proposed to form such a collection, not solely for our own use,
but also for the benefit of other Librariesyhas been read and noted. Ap-
plications from all partsgf the country are now made for information and
assistance, which these books enable us to give.

The books which we have received under the copyright section of our
eharter, form a popular portion of the Library. Among them are works
of great value and importance. The Law books, alone, are worth more
than five hundred dollars. The Medical books are of considerable value.
Many interesting works of local history, thus find their way to our shelves,
which we should otherwise not be likely to be acquainted with, The
works of fiction, poems, critical essays, and even the school books, have,
in this Library, a worth beyond their intrinsic or exchangeable value, as
specimens to be handed down to posterity of the literary characteristics of
this generation. ‘The list of periodical publications is intended to include
the best journals of literature, science and art, in all languages.

It is perhaps, too soon to becin to speak of the use made of the Library,
It is not ten months, since the ‘books, few as they are, were first arranged
in the western wing of the Smithsonian building ; and the adjoining “ con-
necting range,”’ fitted up for a reading room. Yet this time has been
long enough to show the great interest which attaches to such an estab-
31 [1]

lishment, and to give an earnest of its future usefulness. A record of
visitors, kept in the reading room, shows an average of sixteen thousand
a year. A large proportion of these are, it 4s true, attracted merely by
curiosity. Yet many are led by a love of study. However much we
must reeret that we have not yet the means of meeting the wants of
students, it 1s encouraging to see the evidence, that all whieh we can do
will be appreciated and rendered useful.

The experience of the last year would seem to decide the question of
the appropriateness of this location for such an Institution. An establish-
ment like this must have a fixed position somewhere. Yet its benefits
are for all; not for one city nor one section of country, nor one nation
even, but for “‘mankinp ’’. It is not to be denied, that a large city, hke
New York, or Philadelphia, or Boston, offers many adv antages for the
operations of such an Institution, not possessed by this city. It is, never-
theless, almost beyond question, that the comparison of advantages is in
favor of this very place. There is no spot which presents so many
attractions for the class of men most imme: liately interested in its con-
cerns; no city, which they more gladly visit. T he high officers of state,
and the foreign diplomatic corps reside here. Here are held the sessions
of Congress. Here are the executive departments of the government,
the Patent Office, the Office of the Coast Survey and the Observatory.
kuvery man, throughout the whole extent of the land, feels that here
he has a friend —a representative, — through whom he may commu-
nicate with such an establishment, when he cannot visit it in person.
The facilities for the kind of intercourse, which we need with other
countries, are, by the help of the State Department and of Foreign
Ministers , greater than at any other point. More than all, the estab-
lishment here possesses a character of nationality, which would not
elsewhere attach to its movements,in the eyes of our own people and
of foreigners. This it was, undoubtedly, which led its founder to direct
that the Institution should be established in Washington. Besides all
this, it is enabled to multiply its influence and usefulness, by acting
in concert with the depar tments of the National Government.

The inhabitants of a city where such an institution is established must,
of necessity, share more largely in its benefits than others more remote. It
is gratifying to know that this advantage could fall nowhere mere appro-
priately, more be ao , or less inv idiously, than upon this city. Selected
and planned as for the seat of government of a mighty empire—a_ spot
where nature laid her hand most gracefully —W ashington has not hitherto
been able, like her sister cities, to gather from commerce, wealth for
endowments of learning. From the nature of our political institutions,
she has been deprived, too, of that fostering munificencc, which in
Europe has reared splendid capitals from the sandy plain, or sunken
morass, and supphed them not only with all that can meet the con-
venience and gratify the taste of their inhabitants, but also with Uni-
versities, Scientific Societies, and Libraries, for the advancement of civ-
ilization, refinement, and human happiness.

The central position and national character of the institution, have sug-
gested many ways of rendering the Smithsonian Library useful to the lite
rary public other than in the collection of books. These are not of course
supposed to dispense with the importance of collections, nor do those
which we have thus far adopted materially diminish our means of accu-
[1] 32

mulation. They are additional objects of attention and they neither ex-
clude nor interfere with the principal object. During the first years of the
Library, while the money is wanting for extensive purchases, these plans
receive a larger redative share of attention than may permanently be given
to them; though it is hoped that they will actually continue to increase in
extent as in importance,’

One of these means of usefulness, was the gathering of statistical and his-
torical notices of public lbraries in the Wanted States. This occupied a
portion of my time during the year 1849. The results of my labors were
presented in the appendix to my last report, which has not yet been print-
ed. Inestablishing a central bibhographical bureau, it was of primary im-
portance to survey the field in order to learn the number, condition, and
prospects of existing libraries, and to establish with them, relations indis-
pensable to success in any general system of operations.

GENERAL CATALOGUE,

The formation of the General Catalogue of American Libraries has been
another prominent object of my attention, As most of our public libraries
possess printed catalogues, it is possible to form one central catalogue, by
combining the titles of these, in one alphabetical arrangement. The value
of such a work would be, in a measure, limited to. this spot. The
only way in which it could be extended further, would be by correspon-
dence. Even thus limited, the scheme is very promising. It is manifest,
however, that its benefits would be vastly increased, if copies of the cata-
logue could be multiplied. The catalogues of the different libraries were,
however, foie on plans so various, and in most cases, so faulty, that
it was unadvisable to print any catalogue formed from them.

In order to realize from a_ general catalog ue all of the vast advantages
which it seems to promise, it is necessary t that the catalogues of all the
libraries of which it is composed, should be prepared with ‘uniformity and
accuracy ; and in order to secure the co-operation necessary to the con-
struction of catalogues in this manner, some plan must be devised, which
would not increase, but if possible, diminish the present cost to each library
of making and printing its catalogue.

I had the honor, sometime since, to present, through yourself to
the Board of Regents, the outline of a plan which promises ‘to secure these
ends and others of not less importance. This plan was referred to a com-
mission of librarians and literary men of the highest standing, for their
examination.

The favorable report of this commission, after the laborious and consci-
entious attention which they gave the matter, leads me to hope, that the
project will be carried immediately and vigorously jnto execution.

It would not be possible for me, within the customary limits of a report
like this to present all the det (ile of a scheme so extensive; yet it Is
proper that [ should dwell somewhat at length upon the exigencies in
which it originated; its principal features:; its practicability:; and the
benefits which it promises tg our public libraries and to the cause of
knowledge.

We can but glance at the nature and extent of the difficulties, which
have hitherto been encountered, in attempting to furnish suitable printed
catalogues of growing libraries, and which have led, or are leading, to
33 [+ i)

a common abandonment of the hope of affording guides so important to
the literary accumulations of the larger libraries of “Europe.

It is, of course, entirely practicable ‘0 publish a complete and

satisfactory catalogue of a library which 1s stationary. But most public
libraries are constant! ly and rap idly increasing. This circumstance, so
gratifying on every other account, is the cause of the difficulties to w hich
T have alluded.

While the catalogue of such a collection is passing through the press,
new books are received, the titles of which, it is impossible, in the ordinary
manner of printing, to incorporate with the body of the work. Recourse
must then be had to a supplement. In no other way, can the acquisitions
of the library be made ja to the public. If, as in oe library of Con-
gress, the number of supplements be 1 sige sed to nine, the student m: Ly he
obliged to grope his weary way through ten catalogues, instead of one, in
order to ascertain whether any book which he seeks is in the library. He
cannot be certain, even then, that the book is not in the collection, for it
may have been received since the last appendix was printed. Supple-
ments soon become intolerable. The whole catalogue must then be re-
arranged and re-printe ed. The expense of this process may be borne, so
long as the library is small; but it soon becomes burdensome, and ere long
insu ipportabl Seven va national establishments.

There is but one course left—not to print at all. To this no scholar con-
sents, except from necessity.

But to this alternative, grievous as it is, nearly all the large libraries of
Europe have been reluct antly driven. More than a century has passed
since the printing of the catalogue of the Royal Library at Paris was com-
menced. It is not yet finished. ~ No one feels in it the interest which he
would, if he could hope to have it kept up complete, if once it were
brought up to a given date.

Dr. Pertz, Chief Librarian of the Royal Lil rary of Berlin, declares that
to print the catalogue of a lar: ge library, which is constantly increasing, is
to throw away money. Tis opi nion is founded upon the supposed impos-
sibility of keeping up the catalogue, so as continually to represent the actual
possessions of ‘the library.

The first volume of the new catalogue of printed books in the British
Museum was published in ist ). Itisa folio of four hundred and fifty-
seven pages, and contains all the titles, under the letter A, of books in the
library at the end of the year 1838. Mr. Panizzi, from the first, strongly
opposed the atlerk of any part of the lepton before the whole, up to
the prescribed limit (1838 ») should be comp! eted in mi inuscript. ‘Time has
shown the justness of his views. The co: nmissioners lately laa by
the Queen to inguire into the constitution and management ‘of the } Museum,
have, in their report, expressed an opinion decidedly against the printing
of the catalogue at all, and principally on the round ‘that it mist ever
remain impertect.

One of the witnesses, (the Right Honorable J. W. Croker,) examined
before the commissioners, thus strongly states the case with respect to
printing :

“You receive, I suppose, into your library every year some twenty
thousand volumes, or something like that. Why, if you had a printed
catalogue dropped down from Heaven to you at this moment perfect, this

day twelve-month your twenty thousand interlineations would spoil the
Mis—3
[a 34

simplicity of that catalogue ; again the next year twenty thousand more ;
and the next year twenty thousand more; so that at the end of four or five
years, you would have your catalogue just in the condition that your new
catalogue is now (the manuscript “part greater than the printed part.)
With that new catalogue before your eyes, [ am astonished there should be
any discussion about it, for there is the experiment; the experiment has
been made and failed.”

Not one European library of the first class, has a complete printed cata-
logue 1 in a single work. The Bodleian library issued, in 1845, a catalogue
in three large “volumes folio, which is generally but erroneously supposed
to contain the titles of all books in the collection; but all books of which
special catalogues had previously been published, are omitted in it. For a
complete catalogue of the Bodleian library, it is necessary to procure, not
only the three volumes folio printed in 1845, but also four-other volumes,
containing the catalogues of collections belonging to the library. ‘There-
fore, one may be obliged to search five catalocues, before he can ascertain
whe ther any particular book were in that library up to the end of the
year 1834.

The catalogue of 1845 is only brought down to 1835. None, therefore,
of the literature of the last fifteen years, and none of the acquisitions ot
the library during that period, are contained in it. A supplement. is in
ee or perhaps already published, which contains the additions to the
library from 1835 to 1847. When this is published, it will be possible to
ascertain whether any given book was or was notin the library at the
close of the year 1847 ; but it may be necessary to search six catalogues
for the purpose.

In view of these facts, it is not surprising that the commissioners upon
the British Museum s hould come to: the opinion, that it is unwise to print
the catalogue of that library, and should advise that nothing more be at-
tempted than to prepare and keep up a manuscript catalogue. :

But, in this opinion the English public, who look to the end without
considering the difficulties of ARs way, do not seem cordially to acquiesce ;
and it will perhaps be found necessary to print, even at the estimated cost
of £40,000 sterling, and with the certainty that, almost as soon as the

catalogue comes from the press, the re- publication of it will be as loudly
demanded.

This is surely, a disheartening state of things. It applies with equal
force to catalog ues of all forms: alphabetical, chronologic al, and classed.
tt has been felt and lamented by every one who has had the care of an
increasing library.

In seeking a remedy for this evil, the idea occurred to me several years
ago, to stereotype the titles separately, and to preserve the plates or blocks
in alphabetical order of the titles; so as to be able readily to insert addi-
tional titles in their proper places, and then to reprint the whole catalogue.
By these means, the chief cost of re- publication — that of eomposition,
together with the trouble of revision and correction of the press, would,
except for the new titles, be avoided. The great difficulty which had so
long oppressed and discouraged li librarians, and inyolved libraries in expenses
so enormous, would thus be overcome.

This idea which had occurred to me before my appointment as librarian
of the Smithsonian Institution, assumed, in my mind, new importance ip
35 pee |

connection with the plan of forming a general catalogue of American li-
braries.

My action in the matter was checked by the discouraging opinions of
several stereotypers, whom I consulted. I did not indeed believe the
difficulties, which they suggested, to be insuperable ; but I was so situated
that it was impossible for me at once, to institute the experiments necessary
to show the practicability of stereotyping titles separately.

In the meantime the librarian and directors of the American Antiquarian
society, having heard ef the plan, opened a correspondence with me on the
subject, with a view of employing it in the republication of their own
catalogue. The energetic aid and ingenious suggestions of one of the
directors, the Rev. Edward E. Hale, of Worcester, gave a new impulse to
the scheme, and induced me to propose its adoption by the Smithsonian
Institution sooner than I had anticipated.

The suggestions of Mr. Hale were seconded by the practical skill of Mr.
Wilcox, an ingenious electrotypist of Boston, who made the electrotyped
page of separate movable titles, which I have already submitted to your
inspection. It isa beautiful piece of work. It demonstrated to the con-
viction of the most incredulous, the practicability of this method of printing
catalogues.

After the plan had been made public by a paper, which I presented in
August last, to the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
Mr. John K. Rogers, agent of the Boston type and stereotype foundry,
devised a method of accomplishing the purpose by means of the cammon
process of stereotyping. He caused a page to be made for exhibition at

the Mechanics’ fair in Boston. He has since been at the expense of another
page, very handsomely executed and with several improvements, which I
have now the pleasure of submitting to your examination. This page

establishes the applicability of the common stereotype process to our

purpose. The company which Mr. Rogers represents, is ready to enter

into a contract to do the work, at a very small advance upon the usual

price of stereotyping. Whatever the result may be, our thanks are due to

Mr. Rogers for his intelligent and liberal ef forts.

Meanwhile my attention was directed to a new process of ster reotyping,
which promises to form an era in the art. A gentleman from Indiana,
Mr. Josiah Warren is the inventor. The material which he uses for ste-
reotyping costs not more than three cents an octavo page. ‘The process is
so simple, that any man of average inget 1uity could learn to practice it
successfully by two or three days instruction. The cost of apparatus for.

carrying on the work is very small. The rapidity of execution is such,
that one man can produce at least twenty- -five octavo pages a day, all
finished and ready for use. The plates give a beautiful impression. They
seem as durable as common stereotype plates, and so far as now known,
they are not in any great degree more liable to injury.

If this invention bears successfully the severe tests of practical men, it
will have been brought forward at a most favorable period for this project.
It will be seen, by the specimens which I herewith present, that it offers
extraordinary facilities for the kind of work which we require, and it will
reduce the expense very greatly.

This preliminary point of the practicability of stereotyping by titles,
may therefore be considered as established. That it can be done by the
electrotype process, as well as by the ordinary mode of stereotyping, is

.
oe 36

placed beyond dispute. It seems equally certain that it can be done by
Mr. Warren’s method. The choice among these three ways must be deter-
mined by their comparative economy, convenience, and elegance. We
have not yet had the opportunity to bring this point to a final decision. It
is certain, however, that the work can be done. I proceed, therefore, to
state the proposed manner of applying this plan to the printing of cata-
logues of particular libraries, and to the formation of a general catalogue of

to)
all the libraries im this eountr y- Itis as follows:

1. The Smithsonian Institation to publish Rules for the preparation of Catalogues.

2. To request other Tnstitations sntending to pablish catalogues of their books to prepare them
according to these rules, with a view to their being stereotyped under the direction of the
Smithsonian Mustitution.

3. The Smithsonian Institution to pay the whole evirya expense of stereotyping. or such part
thereof as may be agreed on,

4. The stereotyped titles to remain the property of the Smithsonian Tustitution.

5, Every Library uniting in this plan, to have the right of using all the titles in the possession of
the Enstitution, as often us desired for the printing of its own catalogue; by the Simithso-

nian Tnstitntion paying only the expense of making up the pages, of the press work, and
of distributing, the titles to their proper places.

6. The Smithsonian Institution to publish, as soon as possible, and at stated intervals, General
Catalogues of all Libraries coming into this system.

It is believed there is nothing impracticable in any part of this plan,
provided that the benefits to be “derived from it, be such as to secure the
co-operation of the various libraries in the country. To these benefits,
therefore, it is nece essary tO direct particular attention.

And first, let us consider its advantages in an economical point of view
to the first institution adopting it.

We will suppose, for example, that the American Antiquarian Society
proposes to publish a new catalogue of its library. This institution
printed, in 1857, a handsome and valuable catalogue, in five hundred
and sixty two ee Svo. pages, mn fine type. The composition cost,
we will suppose, one dollar a page. This must all now be reprinted, in
order to add the titles of books recerved since 1857, the number of which
is almost equal to that of the former catalogue. if a new catalogue be
now printed, in ten or twelve years it will be necessary to reprint the
whole, and this process will go on, till the expense of reprinting will be
quite appalling. Now had the titles of the orignial catalogue been stereo-
typed, the catalogue, instead of costing for the composition 500 dollars.
might have cost, for ‘composition and ste sreotyping, 750 dollars, counting
the extra cost of stereotyping in titles 50 per cent. above that of the
composition.”

But the necessity of re-composing the first part would no longer exist.
Five hundred dollars would therefore be saved in the first reprint, whilst
the extra expense of stereotyping was only two hundred and fifty dollars,
Thus the net gain would be two hundred and fifty dollars, minus the cost
of newly making up and imposing the old matter, wi hich would “be very
inconsiderable. But there would be still further gains. It would not be
thought necessary to print so large editions, if the work could be repro-
duced at a trifling expense. The re-arrangement, too, passes from the

*f{am unable to state what would be the exact cost of stereotyping or electrotyping by
tities. Tassume 50 percent. extra, as a convenient rate for caleulation, though if Mr. War-
reu’s plan succeed, it can be done for much less.

® B) .
on [e )

hands of the librarian to those of the printer; and the proof-reading has
been done, once for all.

The time for applying this system to the first edition is indeed past,
but the same reasoning, at the present moment, applies to the second. If
the whole be now stereotyped, and two hundred copies struck off, the
accessions for the first year may be stereotyped and printed separately,
and in the second or third year, a new catalogue may be issued, with the
additions incorporated. In the mean time, it is probable, that Inany of
the supplementary titles would have been stereotyped for other libraries,

and, thus, the cost of writing them out and of ste es them, be spared
to the Antiquarian Society. If the cost of composition for the catalogue
about to be published (containing thirty thousand titles or more,) be stated
at one thousand dollars, for an additional sum of five hundred dollars the
necessity of recomposing would be forever obviated, and the great
advantage secured of being able to print every two or three years, at
small expense, new editions, each complete to the time of its public ation.

It is thus, I think, demonstrable, that even for the use cf a single
library, this plan would be economical.

Let us next consider the advantages which the second Library, adopting
the plan, may hope from it, in an economical point of view.

We will suppose, for ite sake of example, that after the catalogue of
the Antiquarian Society’s Library has haan stereotyped, and the titles
placed under the care of the Smithsonian Institution, it is proposed to
issue a new edition of the catalogue of the Library of Congress. What
inducements would there be for adopting this plan?

It has been the practice in this Library {o print a new sat he cf the
catalogue every ten years, and to issue annual supplements. About one-
fifth of the cat talogue has been printed five times; two-fifths four times, &c.
Now, from what ‘has already been said, it will he manifest how great the
saving would bave been had this plan been known and followed from the
first, even if the first cost of stereotyping by titles had been twice or three
times that of ordinary pene and consequently how great the prospec-
tive advantage of adopting the plan, even independently of any general
system.

But [now suy | pore that, when the plan is adopted for the Library of
Congress, the catalo rue of fhe Antiquarian Library has already been stereo-
typ ed, and that the titles are in possession of the Smithsonian Institution,
for the use of other libraries entering into the general arrangement. Here
is a new and very important element in the calculation.

’ We suppose the number of titles of the Antiquarian Library, already
stereotyped, to be thirty thousand. Some of these would doubtless be the
same in both collections. For all that are common to the two, the expense
of the preparation of titles, of composition and of reviséon would be saved
to the Library of Congress: It is impossible to say, with exactness, how
much the saving would be from these sources, because these two catalogu 1eS
are not aiuto © nor complete. If the Library of Congress were properly
catalogued, it would give perhaps seventy thousand titles. Of these ] pre-
sume not less than fifteen thousand would be identical with the same
number of the Antiquarian Library. At this rate, more than one-fifth of
the labor and cost of preparation would be saved by the use of titles pre-
pared and stereotyped by others, over and above the savings already
enumerated.
ay 38

After the stereotyping of the Antiquarian Library, and the Library of
Congress, we should have perhaps eighty-five thousand stereotyped titles.
Of course the third institution adopting the plan would be likely to find a
very large number of its titles identical with those already stereotyped:
The amount saved by the use of titles already stereotyped would soon,
(perhaps in the third Library) be sufficient to counterbalance the extra
expenditure for stereotyping for that Library. At any rate, the extra
expense would be a quantity constantly and rapidly diminishing, and it
would soon (certainly after the fourth or fifth large Library) vanish entirely.
‘The Smithsonian Institution would not therefore be required to assume the
charge of an enterprise which might involve it m great and increasing
expense, but rather, and solely, to help put m operation, and to guide a
system which will almost immediately pay its own way, and “will soon
Save enormous sums of money to our public libraries.

That the aggregate economy of this plan would be very great, may be
seen from the ‘followi ing statement:

We have in our library fifteen thousand pages, mostly in octavo, of cata-
logues of public libraries in the United States. These contain at least four
hundred and fifty thousand titles. But according to the best estimate which
I can make from a comparison of these catalogues, there are among them,
not more than one hundred and fifty thousand | differ ent titles. Two-thirds
then of the whole cost of printing the catalogues the first time, might have
been saved by assuming the extra expers2 of stereoty ping the remaining third.

I have put thus prominently forward the economy to be expected from
the proposed enterprise, not because this, in my estimation, is the most
powerful argument in favor of it; nor because I should entirely despair
of its adoption were it not advantageous m a pecuniary point of view;
but because, even if there were no other reasons for it, (provided there
were none against it,) the fact of its great economy would be decisive ;
and because in the present poverty of our institutions of learning, and in
the vast number of plans for the extension of their usefulness, which present
themselves for consideration, and claim approval, this might stand a
much smaller chance of success if it rested entirely wpon other grounds
than the saving of money.

Having now, however, shown its economy when employed by a single
Library, ‘and fe great economy in connection with a general sy stem, qT
proceed to suggest a few, among the many benefits “to the cause of
Knowledge, w hich this plan promises, if generally adoped.

It can hardly be necsssary for me to dwell at length upon the benefits to
be expected from a general printed catalogue of all books in the public
Libraries of America. By means of it, every student in America would
have the means of knowing the full extent of his resources for investi-
gation. The places where the book could be found, would be indicated
in the catalogue. A correspondence would be kept up between this Insti-
tution and every other library in the country. A system of exchange and
of general loans might, with certain stringent conditions, be established,
so that all the literary treasures of the country would: be measurably ac-
cessible to every scholar. When the loan of a book would be impos-
sible, extracts could be copied, quotations verified, and researches made,
through the intervention of this Institution, which would in many eases
be nearly as valuable to the student as the personal examination of the

book.
39 et

In connection with this topic IT would add: By law, a copy of every
hook for which a copyright shall be secured in this country is required to
be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution, and to be preserved therein.
It is hoped that additional legislation on ins subject, will, while it lightens
the burdens of publishers, secure the observance of this law, with respect
to the Smithsonian Institution, in all cases. If then, the books thus ob-
tained be all preserved, they will constitute the complete monumental
history of American literature, during the existence of the law. It is
useless to enlarge upon the value of such a collection. P

If, now, a list of these publications, as they come into the library, should
month by month be published in the St aan Bulletin, and the titles
immediately stereotyped, the expense would be trifling of publishing every
year a catalogue of the books copyrighted in America during the year,
and to print every five years, a general catalogue of American publications
up to that limit. Thus, the monthly bulletins, the annual lists, and the
quinguennial catalogues would farnosh full ne satisfactory records of
American publications.

Again, this general catalogue would enable purchasers of books for
public iecanies: ‘to consult, judiciously, for the wants of the country. So
poor are we in the books which scholars need ; sO long, at best, must we
remain in a condition of provincial dependence in literary matters; that <
responsibility to the whole country rests upon the man who selects the
books for any public library.

Another important benefit of this system is that it allows us to vary
the form of the catalogue, at will, from the alphabetical, to the classed,
and to modify the classification as we please. The titles, separately
stereotyped, may change their order at command. If, for example, it
were required to print a separate list of all books in the country on the
subject of meteorology, it would be necessary merely to check off in the
general catalogue the titles to be used, and to hand it to the printer to do
the rest of the work.

Another great benefit of this project would be to secure uniformity in
catalogues. <A good degree of uniformity would be absolutely indispen-
sable to the success of the plan. Entire uniformity is not indeed to be
expected. Perfection is not an attribute of the works of man. But a
much higher degree of uniformity would result from this plan, than could
otherwise be ho ped for. The rules for cataloguing inust be stringent,
and should meet as far as possible all difficulties of detail. Noth hing, so
far as can be avoided, should be left to the individual taste or judgment
of the cataloguer. He should be a man of sufficient learning, accuracy
and fidelity, to apply the rules. In cases of doubt, reference should be
made to the central establishment to which the whole work should be
submitted, page by page, for examination and revision. Thus we should
have all our catalogues formed substantially on one plan. Now, even if
the plan adopted were that of the worst of our catalogues, if all were on
the same plan, this uniformity would render catalogues, thus made, far
more useful than the present chaos of irregularities. But we hope that
the best possible system may be adopted.

Another general consideration is that this project looks towards the
accomplishment of that cherished dream of scholars, a universal catalogue.
if the system should be successful in this country, it may eventually be
$0 in every country of Europe. When all shall have adopted and carried
PP 1 40

out the plan, each for itself, the aggregate of the general eatalogues
thus formed — few in number— will embrace the whole body of literature
extant, and from them, it will be no impossible task to digest and publish
a universal bibliography. How much this would promote the progress
of knowledge by showing, more distinctly, what has been attempted and
accomp lished, and what ‘vet remains to be achieved, and by thus directing
the outlay of intellect aright; how much, by rebuking the rashness which
rushes into authorship, ignorant of what ‘other 's have written, and adding
to the mass of books without adding to the sum of knowledge; how
much by giving confidence to the true and heroic student, who “fears no
labor so that it ‘bring him to the commanding height at w hich he aims —
the summit of learning i in the branch to which he devotes himself; how
much such a work w ould, in these and other ways, promote the great
object we have in view, is well deserving the attention of every thought-
ful mind. Upon it I may not at present longer dwell.

In America alone can this system be put into immediate se ation. In
every large country in Europe the arrears in cataloguing, or the mass of
ities accumulated in the libraries, would render the. first ear of the
enterprise quite startling. But here all things conspire in our favor — our
hibraries ‘are all sinall, and mostly repetitions one of another. But they
are prosperous and will rapidly increase. ‘Their supporters are all de sirous
of having printed catalogues. A central administration is necessary. This
can be accepted by the Sinithsonian Institution, whose position is peculiarly
fav orable, and whose funds are consecrated to such purposes. ‘The enter-
prise requires no, great outlay of money, no gigantic effort. It may go
noiselessly, but rapic dly into operation. Ghia is nothing to prevent its
immediate usefulness.

The coramissioners appointed to examine and report upon the project,
considered not only its general features, but also its minute details. To
them were submitted the rules proposed for cataloguing, which were sepa-
rately discussed, and after having been variously. amended and modified,
were recommended for adoption. ‘it is not supposed that this code prov ides
forevery case that will occur. ‘The pecuharities of books are, like the
idiosyncracies of authors, innumerable. ‘They bafi'e the best efforts at
classification, except under general heads. The most elaborately formed
laws for recording their titles would be inadequate to provide for entire
uniformity or consistency. Doubts and difficulties would inevitably arise as
to the application of the laws. These must, to prevent varying decisions,
be submitted to one person. Hence it is important that the first part of
the work, which will furnish examples for the rest, should be done under
the immediate eye of the superintendent.

Easy as the operation may seem, to those who have never attempted it,
there is no species of literary labor so difficult, or that requires knowledge
so extensive and various, as the cataloguing of a large library. It demands
peculiar qualifications of patience and accuracy 3 and 3 as special education —a
professional training. ven those most expert must work slowly, if
they would avoid mistakes. It is therefore a great consideration that, on
this plan, each title, once prepared, is pr epared for all the libraries in which
the book occurs; whereas, on any other, time and thought and labor are
repeated for every copy of the book.

From the favor with which the plan has been met, it can hardly be doubted
that it will receive the hearty and vigorous co-operation of all the libraries
41 ey

in the country. Several are ready to begin upon their catalogues at once.
For the reasons already stated, however, it is desirable to begin here. At
first the work ‘cannot proceed rapidly. ‘After the accumulation of a con-
siderable number of titles, progress wall be much accelerated.

Great as this enterprise is, 1t will not require the outlay of much money
on the part of the Smithsonian Institution to put it in operation, which
being once done, it will take care of itself. It will not be a constant
drain upon our funds; but on the contrary, it will ere long far more
than repay in the facilities for making our own catalogues, all that may at
first be expended upon it.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES C. JEWETT.

December 31, 1850.

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY

IN(CHARGE OF THE NATURAL HISTORY DEPARTMENT, FOR THE YEAR 1850.

To Josrru Henry, LL. D.,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Sir:—TI beg Jeave to present to you a report of/cperations up to
January 1, 1851, in the Departinent of Natural History assigned to my
charge.

I commence with a list of the most important specimens of Natural
History received at the Smithsonian Institution, p rior to January 1, 1851.
The dates of reception have not been given, owing to the fact, that most
had arrived before July 1, 1850, the period when iny official conneciion
with the Institution Sorieiie ed. More detailed accounts of these objects
will hereafter be furnished, as well as of those which may in future be
received.

List of the Principal Accessions to the Museum of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, made prior to January 1, 1851.
Lient. Lyyen, U.S. N.; Sealed bottles containing Water from the Dead Sea—Cones of the

Cedar of Lebanon.

Miss D. L. Dix; Box of Minerals from North Carolina.
Dr. F. B. Woven; Box of Minerals and Fossils from St. Lawrence county, New Yorke
Mr. Guest; Box of Minerals from same locality.

Mr. Poixinnorn; Box of Tertiary fossils from North Carolina.

Dr. James Eicurs, Albany, New York; Box of Sands, Clays and Coneretions from the vicinity
of the city of Albany, New York.

Dr. Witciam B. Sueru, Indiana; Silurian foss'ls from Indiana.
Witriam Paiviirs, Esq., Augusta, Georgia; Box of Minerals from Georgia.

Oscar Freeman and Gitsert Taytor, Civil Engineers; Very large specimens of Crystallized
Par] 42

Calcareons Spar, coated with Quartz, found in tunnelling “St. Anthony’ s Nose,”’ Peeks-
kill, New York.

Faxon D. Arnerron, Esq. ; Specimens of Native Silver from Chili.

Major B. Atvorn, Fort Gratiot, Michigan ; Keg containing Fishes from Lake Huron, caught in
the vicinity of Fort Gratiot.

Col. J. f. Apert; Box of Minerals from Arkansas.

R. J. Pottarp, Washington City; Skeleton of Gazelle, (Antelope saiga Pall.) from Turkey.
Tuomas Wuececey, Brest, Michigan; Cask of Unionidae and other Shells, from Lake Erie.
Joun G. Penpereasr, Sacketts Harbor; Box of Minerals.

Dr. Janep P. Kirrrtanp, Cleveland, Ohio: jar of rare Salamanders.

Major J. HW. Carteron, Fort Leavenworth; Skull of Bighorn, (Ovis montana,)—Horns of Big-
horn—Antlers of Black tailed De ver, (Cervus macrotis,)— Skull of NBIelOpe, (Antilope
americana,) from Black Hills, Fort Laramie.

W. Pinceos, lowa; Craniaand other relics from various aboriginal mounds-——Paintings in oil
on cloth, of various Mounds in the North West, by a wative Sioux Lndian.

Rozerr Howerr, Nichols, Tioga county, New York; Box of Minerals and Fossils from
‘Tioga county, New York.

The following Specimens have been received from Collectors who were
assisted in their Explorations by the Smithsonian Institution.

Aveustus Frexpter; Collections of Plants made in the vicinity of Santa Fe, New Mexico, in
1846-47.

Cuarres Wricur; Plants collected in an expedition from Texas to E] Paso, in 1849.

Tuaporus CULBERTSON ; Skins, Skulls and Skeletons of Mammalia, from the Upper Missouri.
Fossil vertebrate animals from White River. .

Many specimens brought back by Mr. Culbertson were presented,
to the Institution thi ‘ough him, by members of the American Fur Com-
pany; among whom may be mentioned Messrs. Alexander Culbertson,
Ferdinand Culbertson, Edward T. Denig, Schlagel and Gilbert. Messrs.
Denig and F. Culbertson, at the request of Mr. Alexander Culbertson,
prepared skins of the Grizzly Bear, and other large Mammalia.

The following Specimens have been deposited in conformity with the
} i
provisions of the Act establishing the Sinithsonian Institution.

Generar Land Orrice; Minerals illustrating the Geological Survey of the Mineral region of
Lake Superior, by Dr. Charles ‘I. Jacksou, contained im uineteen boxes.

Possessing myself large collections in different branches of Zoology, I
have deposited them with the Institution. The following list contains a
brief enumeration of the most important of these. It will thus be evident
to the Naturalist, that the objects already secured by the Smithsonian In-
stitution, if not as numerous as in other collections, are yet valuable as
being more than usually complete in certain neglected branches of Na-
tural History.

Summary of Speciinens belonging to S. F. Baird, and deposited by him
in the Cabinet of the Smithsonian Institution.

MAMMALIA.

Skins of the principal Mammalia of the Northern aud Middle States, and of Eastern Europe,
ke

with namerons specimeus of the smaller species, preserved in alcohol. :
S55
43 [1]

BIRDS.

A collection of about five hundred species of North American Birds, in skins, consisting of
about twenty-five hundred specimens in the various stages of age, sex, and season.

About two hundred and fifty species of European Birds, in one thousand specimens.

Eggs of about one hundred and fifty species of North American Birds. Duplicates of many of
them, in some cases amounting to over a hundred of a single species. ‘The nests accom-
pany the eggs of many of these species.

Nests and Eggs of about seventy-five species of European Birds, likewise in duplicate.

REPTILES AND FISHES.

A collection of the Reptiles and Fishes of the United States, at present contained in more than
five hundred glass jars, and in numerous barrels, kegs and tin vessels. Most of the
species are represented by numerous specimens, amounting in certain cases to hundreds
and even thousands of a single species. No approximation can, at present, be formed as
to the number, either of the specimens or of the species. Very many, especially of the
Fishes, are still undescribed. Most of them have been personally collected in special expe-
ditions to various parts of the country, such as Eastern and Western Peunsylvania, the
Great Lakes, Northern and Eastern Ohio, Southern and Western Virginia, &c. Others
have been furnished by contributors in Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, Arkansas and other
states. his collection is especially rich in batrachian reptiles, which are preserved in
Jarge numbers in all their peculiar conditions of transformation. ‘There is, in addition to
these, a good collection of the fresh water Fishes aud Reptiles of Central and Eastern
Europe.

EMBRYOLOGY.

Embryos of many Birds, Mammals, and Batrachian Reptiles.

OSTEOLOGY.

Skulls and Skeletons of many North American vertebrata, amounting to some six hundred
specimens. A considerable wamber, also, belonging to Muropean species.

Also, Microscopical sections of Teeth and Bone of various species of North America ver
tebrata.

FOSSIL REMAINS.

A large collection of fossil bones from various caves in Pennsylvania and Virginia. This in-
cludes nearly all the species of Mammalia now living in the United States, with quite a
number of those which are now entirely extinct. Cheloniam remains likewise in large
nuwber,

Having thus presented the general statistics of the Museum up to
the present time, I next proceed to a statement of the more active
operations of the Natural History poe of the Institution. For an
account of what had been done up to 1850, by Messrs Lindheimer, Fend-
ler fnd Wright, I would refer to the A ppendix to your last report (for
1849."-'The ex cpeditions undertaken since that time, have been those of Mr.
Gualbertzers and myself.

The expedition of Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson took place during the past
summer. For several years I have been receiving valuable specimens
from different friends, in the Upper Missouri, whose other duties, however,
prevented them from collecting as much as could have been wished.
Mr. Culbertson being about to visit this region for the benefit of his health,
offered to make for the Smithsonian Institution such collections in Natural
History, as might be indicated to him as desirable; I accordingly prepared
a list of desiderata, and among others, directed his attention to the eocene
deposits of White River, known as the Mauvaises Terres or bad lands. He
accordingly set out from St. Louis, in April, in company with his brother
ae Culbertson, Esq., for many years connected with the American Fur
company, and then on his way to look after its affairs in the remote regions
rab 44

of the Yellowstone. From St. Louis they proceeded to St. Josephs in a
steamboat, and thence by land, in a carriage to Fort Pierre. A day or
two after arriving at this font. Mr. Culbertson started out to the “ Bad
Lands”’ with a party, and after several days march reached the spot where
Mr. A. Culbertson had previously found the fossil Mammalia, (Poebrothe-
rium Wilsonu, Merycoidodon Culbertsonii, &c.,) presented by him to the
Academy of Natural Sciences, and described by Dr. Leidy. Here addi-
tional specimens were soon found, and a cart was laden to its utmost
capacity. With these, the party retuned to Fort Pierre, whence, after a
short rest, Mr. C. eared on board the EE] Paso, and in her, ascended
the Missouri to a pomt above Milk river, some hundreds of miles beyond
Fort Unien, and higher than any steamboat had ever gone previously.
Descending the river again, after but short stops at the various trading
posts, Mr. C. arrived in St. Louis in July, and reached his home in Cham-
bersburg, Pennsylvania, in August. The main object of his trip, viz:

relief from a distres sing cough, threatening consumption, had been gained,

and his renewed strenoth ola fdened the hearts of his friends. But Shortly

after his return he mas attacked by an unusually fatal form of bilious
dysentery, then prevalent in the neighborhood, and died after an illness of
a few weeks. Mr. C. left a full journal of all the events connected with
his trip, though without any view to its publication. This, which was un-
revised by him at his death, I found to contain much interesting matter,
relative to the Natural History and topography of the country, the manners
and statistics of the Indians, &c. The mz muscript was put into my hands
by the parents of Mr. Culbertson, with permission to select for publication
such portions as might be dee Wed desirable. I therefore present this
journal to you, as containing the only account of the country above Fort
Pierre, since 1833, when it was visited by the Prince de Wied. It may be
well to Shserver that T have not felt at liberty to alter the original to
any material extent, which, combined with the fact of its entire lack of
revision by the author, will be a sufficient excuse for any imperfections
of style.

The fossil remains procured by Mr. Culbertson, constitute an exceed-
ingly interesting series of Mainmalian and Reptilian species, including
many that had never been described. These have been referred to
Dr. Leidy, for examination, who has already characterized four species
of Mammalia:

Rhinoceros occidentalis. °
i Nebraskensis.

Palaeothericm Baird.

Agcriocherus antiguus.

The other specimens brought by Mr. C. consisted of skulls, skins and
skeletons of the larger Mammalia, as buffalo, grizzly bear, prairie wolf,
(Canis latra ans ) white wolf, (C occidentalis) wolverine, (Gulo luscus,) beaver,
&c., &e. Some of these he collected himself, others had -beéh procured
during the previous winter, by Messrs. E. T. Denig, and Ferdinand Cul-
bertson, at the request of Alexander Culbertson. Various specimens were
also obtained from other gentlemen connected with the American Fur Com-
pany. Itis due to this company to state, that with their usual liberality,
they rendered Mr. C. every assistance in pes power, as they had prev iously
done to the Prince de Wied, Nicollet, Audubon, Evans and other travel-
ers. The thanks of the Tnstitation are due to Messrs. Denig and F. Cul-
45 ‘ Fig
bertson, and especially to Mr. Alexander Culbertson for their valuable
services. The latter gentleman bore the entire expense of the trip from
Fort Pierre to the Mauvaises Terres, besiles paying a considerable sum
to hunters and others for many of the specimens sent.

The second expedition referred to as undertaken by myself, had mainly
for its object the investigation of the ichthyo logy of Northern New York ani
Vermont. With three companions, in the m« mths of July and August last,
I visited the northern shores of Take t Char mplain, the valley of the Upper
Hudson, Lake George, the St. Lawrence river, lake Ontario and Seneca
lake.

In this trip many species of animals, and especially of- fishes, both de-
scribed and undescribed§ were obtained, and many interesting facts ascer-
tained with regard to their geographici il distribution. A remarkable new

enlus of C ‘ottoid fishes (Triglopsis,) discovered in lake Ontario, will s shone
ie published by the ratty ina monograph prepared by Mr. C. Girard.

I beg leave in conclusion to p resent some general suggestions in regard to fu-
ture oper ations of the Smithsonian Institution, in the depi irtment of lee
Mistory. It is a fundamental principle in its organization, as presented 1
the programme and in your annual reports, not to attempt complete cc A
lections of all natural objec ts, but ra tet to gather up such materials for
investigation as have been co: nparatively neglec ted by others. It may, in-
deed, be desirable, for purposes of general examination, to have extensive
series of specimens from the three kingdoms of nature—animal, vegetable,
and mineral, so far as they can be procured and exhibited without undue
expense of time, money and space. For the present, however, attention
should be diracted mainly to such branches as hitherto may not have had
their due share of attention.

A prominent object in making collections should be to furnish to
travellers the means of determining the character of objects collected
various parts of North America.

Hitherto, oficers of the army eiienine to Washington have generally been
obliged to send or carry these objects out of the > city, for the purpose of
identification or verlica ition, thus involving a consider loss of time
and credit. These specimens becoming widel y scattered, rarely return
hither, and when another occasion arise 8, i whole labor has to be
repeatel. By retaining them here and combining with them such series
of specimens from North America, and other parts of the world, as may
be specially procured for the purpose, yeh little delay in making up
reports, need hereafter arise. It will, course, be necessary to call
in the aid of the library 1 in procuring aL ce general and special works

which may be required in these investiations. Tow me such help the
rich collection of transactions of learned societies, alreac ly in the library of
the Institution, and angmenting daily, will greatly tend.

Collections illustratins the gene yal Natural History of North America,
become then, an object of primary importance. Much valuable material of
this kind is now on hand, and much, it is hoped, will be procured in the
various ways hereafter specified. An excee linoly i important aid to this is
furnished by the act of Consress establishing the S: nithsonian Institution
which specifies that all objects of Natural History belonging, or hereafter
to belons to the United States, in whosoever custody the same may be,
shall be delivered to such persons as are authorized by the Board of Regents
to receive them. ‘This entrusts to the Institution the custody of all collec-
[1] 4G

tions publicly and officially made; but there are many valuable specimens
procured in a private way whose acquisition must depend on the co-opera-
tion and assistance of officers of the various expeditions, and of heads of de-
partments. Officers stationed at the various military posts, have it in their
power to do much, by procuring the objects of Natural History in their
vicinity, and forwarding them to Washington. It is earnestly hoped
that this co-operation may be obtained generally.

Next in importance to North American objects of nature, are those of
Europe. The ties uniting the two continents are not merely those of moral,
civil and_ political relationship, for the connection existing between the
Natural History of the two is almost as intimate. A large proportion of
the genera found in the one, eccur in the other, often the same species, or
those that are very closely allied. This is true of all orders of animals and

“of most families of plants.

Next to Europe comes iano a region which, in some respects, is more
closely allied to our country, than even Europe. This is especilly the
ase with respect to the reptiles, some of which, as species of Plestiodon,
and others have been considered by eminent herpetologists absolutely
identical with North American. Unfortunately there are at the present
time almost insuperable difficulties in the way of procuring Japanese
specimens; the Dutch Noe being the only ones who have succeeded
in exploring even the shores of this country. Little can be done, there-
fore, except by exchange with the museums of Holland.

With reoard to collections from other countries than those specified,
the best rule will be to seek for those series which the other museums of
the country do not possess. What these are, I do not, at present, feel
prepared to state; but hope to have it in my power in a future re-
port, to illustrate more fully this subject, in a general account of the dif-
ferent collections in North America.

It may, per rhaps, be well to indicate briefly the branches of North
American Natural History which have recieved most attention. Mam-
malia have been ably investigated by Godman, Harlan, Audubon, Bach-
man and others; the present state of our knowledge of the subject being
exhibited in the works of the two last named gentlemen. ‘There is,
however, no good collection of these animals; that of the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, bemg much the best in the country. The
private collection of Mr. Audubon is more complete than any other. It is
a mortifying fact that this gentleman was obliged to have recourse to
foreion museums for the purpose of figuring and “describing certain North
American species, which should have been accessible in one collection, at
least, in this country.

The ornithological collections of the country, both public and private are
very numerous. Among the former, that of the Academy of Natural
Sciences, is by far the best. The Ne ‘w York Lyceum, and the Boston
Natural History Society have pretty good collections. Of private collec-
tions, among the best are those of Messrs. Bell, Giraud and Lawrence, of
New York. The ornithology of North America, east of the Mississippi,
has been pretty well worked up, but much remains to be done west of
this boundary.

General collections of North American reptiles are very rare in this
country, that of the Philadelphia academy as usual, being the best among
public museums. Pp
47 [en

Fishes have been preserved in several museums throughout the country.
The Boston Natural History Society has the best series of North American
marine species. The New York Lyceum comes next. Neither possesses
many fresh water species, being vastly exceeded in this respect by the col-
lections of Professor Agassiz and my own. ‘There is more difficulty in pre-
serving alcoholic Jannat (as collections of reptiles and fishes must, for
the most part necessarily - be) than those that are dried; it is to this fact
that the scanty eaten atc of these classes of ver tebrat ta, is owing.

Among insects, Coleoptera have been almost exclusively studied. The
private collections of Messrs. Leconte, Haldeman, Morris, Harris, Mel-
sheimer and many others, are rich in species. ‘The Messrs. Leconte, father
and son, have the largest of these, embracing many hundreds and indeed
thousands of undescribed species. The public collection of the Academy
of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia, and others, are of less value. Le-
pidoptera, or butterflies and moths, come next. The best collection per-
haps of these, is that of Mr. Titian Peale, of Washington; Messrs. Harris,
Morris, and Haldeman, and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia, have also good ‘collections.

Comparatively little is known of the other orders of insects. The Neu-
roptera and Orthoptera of New England have been collected by Dr. Harris ;
Diptera, Hemiptera, and Hymenoptera, have been almost entirely neglected.
Say is eos the only American Naturalist who has occ upied the whole
field of Entomology.

Spiders have been ably investigated and abundantly collected by Hentz,
who is still continuing his labors in this department. Much, however, re-
mains to be done.

The Podophthaimian Crustacea are preserved in various cabinets, although
many species yet await discovery. Messrs. Say, Dana, and Gibbes, are
the principal workers in this field. The remaining orders, as Amphipoda,
Entomostraca, Isopoda, &c., &c., have been almost wholly neglected.

The North Pin crican worms have never been collected to any extent.

Of all invertebrata, the hard parts of Mollusca, or shells, have received
most.attention in this country. ‘There are numerous valua ble cabinets,
public and private, including both domestic and foreign species. The best
public collection of American species , 1s probably tl iat of the Acaden ny of
Natural Sciences. Among private ones, may be named those of Dr. John
C. Jay, John S. Phillips, Asanc Lea, Major John Leconte, J. G. Anthony,
Professor Haldeman, and others. Most of these centlemen have had es-
pecial reference to ered. in their collections. Nothing, however,
has been done towards preserving a series of the animals of shells.

Very little is known of the Radiata of North America. A few s species
are preserved in public museums, but by far the most extensive collection is
that belonging to Professor Mpassiz.

Phanerogamic plants have received much attention, and the private col-
lections of Drs. Torrey, Gray and others, with numerous public ones of
greater or less extent, leave comparatively little to be desired in this respect.
Great additions are continually being received from the count ry west of
the Mississippi, in collections made by officers of the army and private indi-
viduals. Among these should be mentioned Col. Fremont, Col. Emory,
Capt. Stansbury, Major Rich, Messrs. Lindheimer, Wright, F eadlen , Gregg,
Wislizenus, Drummond, and others.

Cryptogamic botany has been considerably neglected until within a few

. » oa
[akg me 48

years past. The best collections are in the hands of private individuals, as
Messrs. Sullivant, Tuckerman, Curtis, Bailey, Lesquereux, and others. <A
great deal remains still to be done i in this branch of botany. The work of
Dr. Harvey on North American Algw, in preparation for the Smithsonian
aeration, will tend greatly to stimulate collectors to pay attention to
this order. a

Collections in Palaeontology are quite numerous, though principally local.
The best general collection is that of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Their museum is incomparably richer than any other in this country,
in collections of fossil vertebrata. ‘The only collection of any extent, of the
fossil bones found in the caves of the United States, is in the cabinet of this
Institution. Of the interesting Eocene species of the Upper Missouri, Dr.
Evans of Washington has made an ex ceedingly valuable collection, under
direction of the Land Office. Next to this comes a similar one ade by
Mr. Culbertson’for the Smithsonian Institution. ea excellent collection of
tertiary fossils is in possession of Professor F. S. Holmes, of Charleston,
South Carolina. The tertiary and cretaceous Ae shells in the Pineda
phia Academy are very numerous in species

Many of the Mineralogical collections of this country are very complete,
both as. respects’ Domestic and Foreign species. Such are the ‘cabinets of
Yale College, of the Academy of N latural Sciences of Dartmouth College,
of Bowdoin Colle 8 of Messrs. Markoe, Vaux, Clay, Ashmead, Aloer,
Bouve, and others. The general interest in the subject of Mineralogy
is erent as scarcely to require any additional stimulus, except so far as
relates to Geology.

There are various ways in which collections may be made by the Smith-
sonian Institution, the principal of which are as follow:

Deposits by Government,

pain Individuals,
Exchange,

Purchase,

Employment of Collectors,
Donations.

To the first of these, I have already briefly referred. Up to the present
time nothing has been received, save the series of specimens illustrating Dr.
Jackson’s report on the mineral lands of Lake Superior.

In some collections, specimens deposited by individuals form a conspic-
uous feature. These; when of considerable extent and completeness, or
when illustrating some special researches or publications, are often very
important, particularly as they are, in most cases, ultimately presented.
Single specimens, unless of much value are not generally desirable, as
deposits. Free choice must, of course, be left the Institution, to say
what shall be received, and what rejected.

To the individual collector, exchange with other individuals or with so-
cieties, forms the principal mode of forming his cabinet, beyond what may
be personally procurable. This of course, implies that the specimens be
gathered in larger quantities than would be necessary for a single collec-
tion. Bya judicious system of exchange, based upon a large stock of
duplicates, it becomes possible to procure almost any species, “domestic or
foreign, at little expense beyond that of transportation. To this end it is
desirable to secure large numbers of such objects as may be specified here-
after. &

ih ’
19 [

Purchase is an excellent method of increasing a collection in a short
ume. It not unfrequently happens, however, that acquisitions thus made
are of comparatively little value, as is found to be the case in regard to
most of the Buse taneous museums, public and private, which are offered
for sale. It is of course different with respect to collections made for a
specific purpose by practised Naturalists, particularly when they contain
undescribed species, or serve as the types of standard works. Considerable
operations of this kind require large sums of money as will be seen by re-
ference to the annual statement of “expenditures made by the British govern-
ment in behalf of the National Museum;* and with the numerous drafts on
its income, it is not deemed expedient for the Smithsonian Institution ever
to do much for its cabinet by direct purchase. It is confidently believed
too, that the Museum will increase almost as rapidly as accommodations
can be furnished, by donations of individuals, who may have it in their
power to make collections, as well as by the special efforts of its officers.
This hope is strengthened by the actual experience of other institutions.

The employ ment or assistance of collectors in visiting particular por-
tions of country is productive of very important results at very little
expense. In illustration of this, I would refer to the acquisitions made by
the Institution through Messrs. Lendler, Lindheimer, Wright, Culbertson,

bs * Expenditures by the British Government for the specimens of Natural
History in the British Museum,

FROM 1753 to 1846 INCLUSIVE.

Natural History in general, -° - - £10,405 3 8
Minerals and Fossils, - - - eee aed:
Zoological specimens, - - - 1275) 4 II
Botanical, - . - - - 1,204 11 7
— — £41,599 12 3
1847.
Minerals and Fossils, - . - - Lp lS)
Zoological specimens, —- - - - J;295. 47° 8
Botanical specimens, ~ - - - 3L 15 0
Preparation of specimens, - - - L3i7 F 5
—_ -—- —- 3,297 2 10
1848.
Minerals and Fossils, - - - - J,11) 36 9
Zoological specimens, - - - - 1,085 5 10
Botanical specimens, . . ; 40  1QaES
Preparation of specimens, : = slecoo a Lite, O
— 3,496 15 4
1849.
Minerals and Fossils, - - - = «70! 1270
Zoological specimens, - - - 1080 6 J
Botanical specimens, - - - . 40h) Stai3
Preparation of specimens, - - - 945 14 7
— 2768 00 II
Total, SSL 16 vee
Total Expenditures of all kinds, Natural History, Specimens, Books, Fine Arts, &c.
From 1753 to 1846 inclusive, - - - £ 816,063 11 0
1847, - ° - L 49,854 7 10
1648; = - - 49,345 211
1849, - - - A779 63 «4
: 963,555 5 1

Mis—4.
[i] 50

and others. In this I am also borne out by my own experience. For se-
veral years past, I have been in the habit of visiting different portions of
the United States, mainly in search of vertebrate animals. Accompanied on
such occasions by zealous volunteers, | have succeeded in accumulating very
extensive collections, including very many rare, and even undescribed spe-
cies, besides obtaining much valuable information in regard to the general
history of animals and plants.

It is mainly to the employment of collectors, that the great European
museums owe their richness. In most of these a regular corps is employed
continually, in travelling through various portions of the world and gath-
ering large numbers of duplicates which are ultimately distributed, in ex-

thew to other institutions.

In cases where memoirs, containing descriptions of animals or plants are
presented to the Institution for publication, it should, as far as possible, be
made a condition of their acceptance, that a series of the objects described
be deposited for the purpose of being placed on record, and as authenticating
the species. These should be labelled by the author, and the names thus
attached, be ever afterward retamed, even though they may have been in-
correct, or may have been modified by subsequent discoveries. Individuals
too, should be requested to present similar specimens to be kept in the

same manner, illustrating descriptions published elsewhere than by the
Smithsonian Institution.

At some future period, when the number of duplicates is sufficiently large,
it may be possible to furnish lyceums, schools, colleges and other institutions
with series of specimens properly labelled and arranged, of various branches
of Natural History. Individuals too, engaged in special investigations,
may hereafter find it practicable to procure objects j im such quantities or of
such character, as to render material, if not indispensable aid. ‘This feature
will, however, require the cordial co-operation of naturalists and collectors,
to render it practicable.

I may remark that for the assistance of those who may be unskilled in
the collecting, preservation and packing of specimens, a pamphlet containing
the dineenons | is now in preparation, and will shortly be issued by the Instic
tution. This will be of considerable size, and in addition to ‘the merely

taxidermical portions, will contain notices of special desiderata, in par ticular
portions of the world; a brief indication of the principal divisions of Natu-
ral History ; and monies of the most accessible sources to which the be-
gimner must apply for information respecting the different branches of the
subject ; the whole illustrated by figures.
Respectfully submitted,
SPENCER F. BAIRD
December 31, 1850.
51 pte

No.l:
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive committee submitted to the Board the following report of
the expenditures, state of finances, &c., of the Smithsonian Institution
up to the end of the year, 1850:

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into

the Treasury of the United States, was- --------------- $515,169 00
The annual interest on the same at six per
cent., iS------------------------------- $30,910 04

The interest which had accrued up to July, 1846,
when the trust was placed under the care of

the Regents, was- ----------------------------------- 242,129 00
Total,----------------------------------- $757,298 00
The Regents were authorized to expend on the building, the $242,129,

which had accrued in interest, together with such portions of interest on the
original bequest as might remain ‘unexpended i in any year. It was, however
thought that the income of the original bequest w ould be small in propor-
tion to the demand made upon it, in carrying out the several parts of the
extended plan of organization, and in defraying the necessary expenses of a
large building. The Regents, therefore determined to increase the perma-
nent fund by saving from the accrued and accruing interest, the sum of
$150,000, and for this purpose they resolved to limit the expenditure on
the building and grounds to the sum of $250,000. In order to save a part
of the accrued interest, it was further resolved that the building should not
be completed at once, arta in the course of a number of years, and that the
sum intended for its erection, should be put at interest, so that the income
from this source, might in parte defray the expense of the edifice.

To carry out this lan, the $242 000 of accrued interest with an addition
of interest sufficient to make up $2 50, 000, were drawn from the Treasury
and invested in United States sec anes and in order that the Institution
might not suffer loss by any depreciation of these securities, the contracts
of the building were made payable in Treasury notes at par value, or jn
specie, at the option of the Regents.

This temporary investment has proved entirely successful. It has
yielded a constant interest, and also a premium in alrnost every case of sale,
on account of the rise in the value of government securities.

Of the original sum thus put at interest, there remains at present,
$180,000, whic h, at sixteen per cent., the present premium of government
securities is worth $208,800. From this it’ appears, that after “all the ex-
penditure on the building and grounds, on researches, publications and lec-
tures, on the Library, Museum, and Gallery of “Art, not only is the original
bequest untouched, but there is now on hand, $208,300, of unexpended
income. '

At the last meeting of the Board of Regents, it was resolved to fire-proof
ey 52

the interior of the centre building, at an additional expense of $44,000.
The whole cost of the building and grounds in round numbers will then be
$300,000. The only way in which this additional expenditure can be met
without interferig with the plan of finance above described, is that of ex-
tending the time of completing the building. The scheme of adding to the
original bequest, will be placed beyond the possibility of failure from any
further demands on account of the building, if the petition presented to
Congress, to take from the Institution, to be ‘placed with the original be-
quest, the sum of $150,000 be granted, there will then remain on hand
unexpended, a sum sufficient to complete the whole of the exterior, all the
interior of the two wings and of the two ranges, and all the rooms of the
towers of the building. This space will be sufficient for the wants of the
Institution, until the accumulating interest will enable the Regents to finish
the remainder in accordance with the fire-proof plan.

At the last meeting of the Board, a new system of keeping the accounts,
and making the disbursements was adopted. From the beginning of the
Institution | up to this time, the accounts had been kept and the disburse-
ments made by the Chairman of the Executive committee. This method
was temporarily adopted, but had been continued until the expiration of the
term of service of the Hon. W. W. Seaton, Chairman of the Executive com-
mittee, rendered a change necessary. ‘This gentleman had kept the accounts
from the beginning, and made the “disbursements without charge to the In-
stitution, and since it was not proper to burthen his successor with such
onerous duties, it was resolved that the following system be adopted :

1. That an assistant be appointed to take charge of the funds for the
current expenses of the Institution, who shall give security for the safe
keeping of all moneys belonging to the Institution, which shall come into
his possession.

2. That the funds before mentioned, be deposited until otherwise ordered,
with Messrs. Corcoran and Riggs, to the credit of the Treasurer of the In-
stitution.

3. That all bills presented for payment, shall be audited and certified by
the Secretary, on whose order, the assistant acting as ‘Treasurer shall pay
them.

4. That the Treasurer report to the Secretary monthly, all payments
made by him during the preceding month.

5. That all accounts be examined and certified by the Executive com-
mittee.

6. That the account books be kept in the Smithsonian building, so that
the Secretary and Executive committee may have ready access to them.

The Hon. W. W. Seaton was chosen Treasurer, and signified his accept-
ance of the office, but that he would receive no compensation for his services.

The new system of accounts went into operation at the beginning of July
last, and has been continued up to this time with satisfaction to the com-
mittee.

At the beginning of the institution it was not possible before knowing the
developement of the plans of organization, in practical operation to adopt a
classification of accounts showing the expenditure for different objects.
The plan of operations is now however so far established, that a system of
classification may be adopted.

The Secretary has accordingly, with the assistance of the other officers
of the Institution, prepared a programme of accounts, which may serve until
- [1a

the building is completed, and afterwards form the basis of a classification for
all future operations. This programme which receives the approbation of
the committee is as follows:

PROGRAMME OF ACCOUNTS.
I. BUILDING, FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, GROUNDS.

ie Pay on contracts for building.
. Pay of architects and superintendents, including office and inci-
dentals.
. Expenses of building committee, including clerk hire.
1 Incidental expenses to building, V1z
( 1.) Experiments on, and tests of, Building Materials.
( 2.) Examination of Quarries.
(5. ) Miscellaneous.
( 4. ) Premiums paid Architects.
Turniture and Fixtures for uses in common.

Do. do. Publications.

Do. do. Researches.

Do. do. Lectures and Apparatus.
Do. do. Library.

Do. do. Museum.

Do. do. Gallery of Art.

6. Grounds.

II. GENERAL EXPENSES.

1. Expenses of the Board of Regents and Committees.

2. Lighting and Heating.

3. Postage.

A. Transportation.

5. Stationery.

6. General Printing.

7. Incidentals eeneral, including Messenger, Clerk hire, &c.
8. Salaries.

IU]. pusricaTions, RESEARCHES AND LECTURES.

1. Publications.
( 1. ) Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
é ) Reports on Progress of Knowledge.
5. ) Other Publications.
2. Researches.
( 1.) Meteorology.
2. ) Computations.
3. ) Investigations.
os eon.
1. ) Pay of Lecturers.
( 2.) Illustrations for Lectures.
iy, ) Attendance, Lighting, Advertising, &c.
. Apparatus.
. Salaries.

Or
r1] 54

IV. LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART.
1. Library.
( 1.) Cost of Books.
( 2.) General Catalogue.
. ) Copyrights.
. ) Incidentals to Library, Binding, Messengers, Clerk hire, &c.
) Salaries.
seum.
. ) Explorations.
. ) Expenses of Collections.
. ) Cost of Transportation.
. ) Incidentals to Museum.
5. Salaries.
lery of Art.
. ) Purchases.
( 2.) Incidentals.

The Secretary has also with the assistance of Professor Jewett, and Col.
W. B. Randolph, of the United States Treasury Department, gone over all
the accounts from the beginning of the Institution, and re-arranged them
in accordance with this programme. In making this re-arrangement, and
critical examination of all the accounts, they have found no errors of any
magnitude, and the amount of receipts and expenditure i in this new arrange-
ment perfectly agree with those presented in the general account of Mr.
Seaton.

In a few cases payments have been made in accordance with the spirit of
the resolutions of the Board, but which fall under no special appropriation,
the committee would therefore suggest that a special action of the Board be
taken with reference to these.

rw)
ee
S Ore ok

eo
PEO wWUR

Fa OD ee
GENERAL EXHIBIT
OF ALL THE RECEIPTS ON ACCOUNT OF THE SMITHSONIAN FUND, AND

THE DISPOSITION OF THE SAME, FROM THE BEGINNING OF

THE INSTITUTION, UNTIL THE PRESENT TIME.

(a1 56
Dr. FUND ACCOUNT OF

RECEIPTS.
1846 July 1, To James Smithson, net proceeds of his bequest, $ 515,169 00
oe Interest thereon to date, paid by the United States, 242,129 00
Sept. 10, HW. W. Hilliard, Regent, over payment returned, 90
NSAve Wan. -- jis Interest on assumed debt, Ist July to 3lst Decem-
ber 1846, first half year, 15,455 6?
July 5, Interest on assumed debt, to Ist July 1847,second
haJf year, 15,455 07
Oct. I, Interest on $250,000 Treasury notes,to 17th Au-
gust, six months, 7,500 00:
Nov. 26, Proceeds of ‘Treasury notes sold, viz > amount of
notes, $10,000 00:
Interest to day of sale, 121 67
<TD) A aye
$ 805,830 71
1845 Jan. 1, To proceeds of Prof. Henry’s Leetures at Princeton, 8 1,000 00
GG IBY {uterest on assumed debt, to Ist January, 1043,
third half year, 15,455 00
April 1, ee on $240,000 Treasury notes to 17th Feb-
ruary, 1348, six months, 7,200 90
eé 4, George M. Dallas, Chancellor. premium paid for
, $7,000 ‘Treasury notes. 105 09
a ce deposit to credit
of Wm. W: Seaton, Chairman, 95 02
May 10, Proceeds of Treasury notes viz, amount cf notes 37,000 00:
Premium thereon, 140 OV
Interest to day of sale, 45 50

July 7, Interest on assumed debt, to Ist July, 1848,

fourth half year, 15,455 00
Aug. 17, BS $240,000 Treasury notes, to VZth Au-
gust, six months, 7,200 00
CN Proceeds of ‘Treasury notes viz,amount of notes, 5,000 00
Premium, S200 00
Less commission,, 12.50
187 50
Interest to day of sale, 5 00

Oct. 16 Proceeds of Treasury notes, viz: amount of notes 9,000 0d

Premium, 270 00
Less commission, 1125 958 75
Interest to day of sale, ——-— 85 5 9,344 25
$ 68,232 25
1849 Jan: 5, To Interest on assumed debt, fifth half year, $15,455 14
Feb. 17, Treasury notes, this amount redeemed and
funded in United States six per cent stock, 226,000 00
Oe eh, Interest on ‘Treasury notes, $ 226,000, to 17th
February, six months, 6,780. 0d
April 17, United States six per cent stock sold, viz,amount :
of stock $16,000. 00
Preminns, $1,609 00
Less eommission, 4) 00

—- 1,560 00 17,560 00
July 2, Interest on $210,000 stock, from 17th February,

to 30th June, 1849 4,614 24
sé Ds Gs assumed debt, sixth half year, 45,455 U7
Oct. 20, United States six per cent stock sold, viz, amount
of stock, $10,080 00
Premiuin, $ 1,312 50
Less commission 25 00—1,287 50: 11,287 50

$ 297,151 95

57 fi]
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Cr.

EXPENDITCRES.

1846 July 1, By the United States—assumed debt, $ 515,169 00
Sept. 6, Wim. W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Committee —

From treasury United States, 2,000 09

«© 40. Repaid by Mr. Hilliard, 18)

Dec. 2), From treasury United States, 2,000 60

1347 Feb. 17, Treasury notes, proceeds of warrant on treasnry United States, 250,000 00

ere); Win. W. Seaton, Chairman Exeentive Committee —

From treasury United States, 3.584 07

July 8, Second half year, interest on assumed debt, 15.465 07

Oct. 21, Six months interest on $250,060 treasury notes, 7,500 00

Nov. 26, Proceeds of $10,000 notes sold, 10,121 67

$805,830 71

1848 Jan. 1, By Prof. Joseph Henry, Secretary, on account of his salary, $1,060 00

cole 1, Wim. W. Seaton, Chairman Execative Committee, third
half years interest, 15,455 08

April 1, Treasury notes, investment of so much interest on notes
received this day, 7,000 00
George M. Dallas, Chancellor, balance of said interest, 200 04

se 4, William W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Comuiittee,
deposited by Mr. Dallas, 95 00
May 10, Proceeds of notes sold, Velitssmet
July 5, Fourth balf year’s interest 15,455 00
Aug. 2, Interest on Treasury notes due 17th August, 7200 0
“« QA, Proceeds of notes sold, 5,192 5@
Oct. 16, Proceeds of notes sold, 9,344 25
Profit and Loss, premiuin paid for $7,000 treasury notes, * 105 00

Ea

ree
ie

——-

$ 68,232 25

1849 Jan. 9, By Wm. W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Committee, fifth

half’ year’s interest, $15.45 14
Fehe 17, United States six per cent stock, loan of 1847, 226,005 60
28, Win. W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Comuinittee, 0

interest un ‘Treasury notes, 17th February, 6,750 00

Apri\ 17, Proceeds of stock sold, 17,560 00
July 2, Interest on stock to 30th June, 4,614 24
ih Sixth half year’s interest, 15,455 07

Oct- 2), Proceeds of stock sold, : 11,287 50

tenes

$ 207,151 95

[1]

Dr.

08
FUND ACCOUNT OF

RECEIPTS.

1850 Jan. 2, To interest on $200,000 six per cent stock, to Ist of

4,

July 2,
9,

Pale
Sept. 19,
Dec. 28,
31,

January, six months,
Ge ou assumed debt, seventh half year,
Interest on $ 200,000 six per cent stock, to 30th
June, six months,

es : eighth half year,
United States six per cent stock sold, viz, amount
of stock, $ 10,000 00
Premiam, $ 1,400
Less commmission, 95-— 1,375 00

United States six percent stock sold, viz, amount
of stock, 8 10,009 00
Premium, 1,600 00
Washington Monument, office furniture sold to
that society,
Interest on $ 180,000 six per cent stock, to 31st
December, six months,

6,000 00
15,455 07

11,375 00

11,600 00
50 71
5,400. 00

$ 71,335 85

59 as]

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

EXPENDITURES.
185) Jan. 2, By William W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Committee, in-

Cr.

terest on stock to Ist Jannary, $ 6,000 00
4, Seventh half year’s interest, 15.445 07
July 2, William W. Seaton, Treasurer, interest on stock to 30th June, 6,000 00
9, Righth half year’s interest, 15,455 07
Dis Proceeds of stock sold, 11,375 00
Sept. 19, do. do 11,600 00
Dec. 22, Furnitnre sold on account of pay of architects, &ce., 50 71
31, Interest on stock to 3lst December, 1550, 5,400 V0
irae
a
es
aa

$75,335 85
60

[a

99 020°% 99 9ST 00 TI eS ees ae : : : : : ; ‘ (Foposon ay

GS 862 86 G84 bG cS : : he =e : : : : ‘ : : ‘snonroyand 4eyiQ
16 626'T 16 S86 00 PEP 2 Se ges ; 3 ; . ‘oSpajmouy jo ssa.izoad uo syaodoy
Ol ssV6 9§ 99'S L8 G8u's £8 9966 00 94 . , : : ‘as pal Mouy OF SHONNAi UO. UnuOSUg
‘SaYALIAT GNV ‘SAHOUVASAN SNOILVOITE Ad HI
CL 6£9'FL ler CSP Rg TIS‘ Coe 'F 6F FIOT : s : : : : ‘op ‘SaLim[Rg
€8 299 I@L LPP T 6& ZFS t LEGule GZ 26 T ; 4 “ ‘ : x ‘(Riaued sprivapioUs
00 659'P &6 668 06 662T GLP LP SPST 5 : , . ‘ ‘smrinddy
&§ 969 Ge El 00 661 89 69 VSG : : : : : 0 ‘Sunuiig pRiauary
tr £88 G8 1&% QP S8 ret cO £ : : : : qd : *  fAanonRg
69 306 GG LIS GL 996 G3 96 9& : £ ° ‘ § ‘uoneyiodsurs py,
€6 919 CO Eel O§ LOE IL G9 80 09 2 $ . a o ‘aorysod
CP LEP UE 8G [6 8Z& : : : : : ; : Sunray puw Funyavy
20 @SZ'S GL O16 56 F8 Gcé FIT GP &es's ‘ : g fsaayIMUOg pur sjuaSoy jo parog jo sasnadxey
| ‘SUSNUdXd TVUUINAD IIL
|
TS 9pZ's 96 SI9'T LI LGd 88 60T 0S €6@'T 4 : : : : ‘spunoin
: S : S1y jo Asayey ‘op ‘op
* : ‘wnasu[y ‘op ‘op
08 G68 8 SPS 00 LE [!s03 : : : : : ‘ : : ‘AIVAQUT ‘op ‘op
og LoL G QOT 00 SG ; ; ; - ‘ : , : tsaunjoo'T ‘op “op
: . ; fsayoanasayy ‘op ‘op
| i : d ‘suoRoyqud ‘op op
cr O19 66 G68 eG LIL | ; eet : : : Suomumos WL Sas OJ SAANAXI pUe ainqiuin Ty
§ 29 9902's eee t 46 898'L G9 R89'T 190 60% | ‘2 ‘ :
a eee : ¢ =f ne " [hte : £ . UIp[lud 0} [RJUApOUl “snoOsBUy]] ads! AT
26K Gee's = (90 SOS =| -TIT 00. 0S x9 008 ag ats el ge aati
00 0G6'I : : ; : hee : 100 OGS'L : : : : : ‘gyoayiyory pied stunioarg
OL OSG ‘ aa | : : 192 OGG : - 0 : : ‘sanuenb JO WonVUnUEX |
¢9 C9 5 - joe cr 0 29 lel Qap ° A : ‘sirliayeu Suipying Jo sjsai pur uo syrautsedxy
60 G9E'T 0 9 : Al 15 o¢e'T Wess : : F ‘sauMUMlog, Supping jo sasuad xo
Of 910°CT lah 690% el Fels 98 6FGS OL Gre < . ; : “ow ‘syuapuaiuiiodng ‘siaanyory Jo Aud
00 O0O0'OFL $00 COUPES |00 OUS'OS$ [00 Ols'sh $ (00 0686S | ° : ‘ : 6 ‘Furppng sof siozyuos uo Avg
| | "SGNOO0UD ‘SANALXIA GNV AUNLINGNd “ONIGTOG TI
‘ayesois5 | ‘QGgT dwax | “G7BT IeaR | ‘QPST waz | “LYS
eae : .| -oaq STS OL!

>

uaars aLofag sjunoaan fo aurupsSoud ay) YpUN aaUnp.LoIID UL pasuUDLLD “QGRT wah
ay, fo pua oy) 0p worngrpsuy ayz fo Susuursog ayz wowf sounppuaday ay} 2]v fo quawan)y jnLouay v sr surmozjof ay,
[Ie]

61

>.

GI EST'PFES OF LOS'eSS 2 9eE'GLB Fe Fg Ltr'coS [oh TL0'1$
G LIE 00 O0T G@ Il i . i : c 3 : 0 ‘op ‘sjpyuapiony
0& ZL 06 SLE : 2 : . ¢ . . : Sy jo Adaypey ‘ses
00 OSL 00 OGL ak Pas & ras : . . + ‘op ‘sa
00 0G (00 06 7 : . . . : i * ‘op ‘s]ejuaplouy
00 €0L (00 OL ° ; 5 ! . | : g : ‘op ‘uonryiodsur.y Jo ysog
0G 2éL (00 6hS OG FSI . : : ‘ . : : ‘anasn fy ‘suonoal}og Jo sesuadxof
00 OST 00 OST. . : oe : : : ‘ : ‘ : : winasn py ‘Suonuiojd yof
06 GES ie 666° 86 66S 00 OSL . ° : ° . . . ‘Keaquy ‘souepeg
96 SCGG eL 0624 (00 OU9 . : . (S07 ‘aasuassapy ‘any ylalgQ ‘2 Bupuig) = Iqv] 0} sjeinopiouy
99 G&G 99 IP : 00 ¢¢ ‘ ‘s1ysuddod
GG 948 8S 16S {ise y ‘ C * : ° e S ‘onsopmed OQ [vteuayy
FG SL0'8 PL 8238'S 98 G9E 66 SPS ye a8 : : : ; ; ‘syoog JO 80D

‘LUV JO AUDTIVS GNV ‘NWOUSOW “AUVUAIT “AT
00 OST'T 60 000'L 00 OSL ‘ . : : 2 c e G . “929 ‘suoneorqng ‘salueg
Gl LEG Of RE @9 SIL v0 08 p G . ° . g ‘souuioa'T 10) SuNysy pue sourpusly
Ge C6 : 6G CH : i - : Q : : S gy . ‘saunjoa'J a sujeaedde pur saone Qsnif
GO 962 c0 169° 00 2% Y : : : : . . . ; ‘s10.1}9a"]_ JO keg
00 OFG 00 06 00 0S {00 O0OT iB 7 . ° : ‘ ° : ‘suonRsiseauy
OO OGL . : 00 SZg (ee Sea . C . . : $ . , ‘suonRiudwoy
fel 2] | 62

From the foregoing exhibit it will be seen that the funds of the Institu-
tion have been carefully husbanded, are now in a good condition, and that,
though the cost of the building will exceed the first estimate, yet the origi-
nal plan of saving a portion of the accrued interest to increase the capitai,
will, in due time be carried out.

The Committee are of opinion, that an expenditure of twenty-five thou-
sand dollars may be allowed from the annual income for defraying the ex-
penses of the Institution, and for carrying on the several parts of the pro-
eramme, during the present year, and they will hereafter introduce a
resolution to that effect.

Signed, A. D. BACHE,
J. A. PEARCE,

JOS“"Gie FT OTLEN:

Committee.

REPORT OF THE TREASURER OF THE INSTITUTION.

Up to the 3d of July, 1850, the accounts of the Institution, were kept
by the Chairman of the Executive Comunittee, who also acted as Treasurer.
At that time a new system of accounts was adopted, according to which
they were placed under the charge of the Secretary and the Executive
committee, and I was appointed Treasurer. Agreeably to this arrangement,
there was deposited to my credit with Corcoran & Riggs, for the current
expenditure of the Institution, sums amounting to $49,880 78, of unex-
pended income of the preceding half year, as detailed and accounted for in
the accompanying statements.

Signed W. W. SEATON, Assistant,

JAlcting as Treasurer.

[The Treasurer’s statement is included in the preceding detailed account. }

Now EEE
REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE.

The Building committee, in compliance with their appropriate duty, pre-
sent the following report of the operations, expenditures, and progress on
the building, during the year 1850.

At the last session of the Board, resolutions were adopted, directing a
survey of the whole building, and a report on the manner and faithfulness
in which the building®contract had been executed, and the best plan for
finishing the remainder of the building.

It was found by this examination, that the exterior of the building had
been well constructed, but that in order to reduce the cost, a plan had been
adopted and materials employed for the interior, not proper for a building
destined to contain property too valuable to be exposed to even a re-
63. | es!

mote danger of fire, and which, especially so far as it shall consist of
donations, will involve the implied condition that it shall be safely
preserved.

In accordance with this result, a resolution was adopted, directing the
interior of the centre building to be constructed in fire- -proof, and that the
time of finishing it be extended until the accumulating interest would be
sufficient to meet the additional ex ‘pense.

According to the decision of the Architect, who, by the terms of the
original contract, is the umpire betw een the Re gents antl the contractor, the
latter is entitled to the sum of $185,154 for completing the whole exterior
of the building and the enue of fie wings, ranges, and towers. When
this much is finished, the present contract wall terminate ; though the same
contractor has agreed, should the Regents choose to acc ept his proposition,
to finish the remainder of the interior in fire-proof, on the terms mentioned
in the annexed report of the Architect.

Agreeably to the estimates of Mr. Renwick, and the proposition of Mr.
Cameron for fire-proofiing, the whole cost of the building when finished,
will be $284,000; but as the preliminary expenditure for premiums to
architects, and other incidental charges connected with the work are not
included in this estimate, the committee think it will be safer to state the
whole cost at, say in round numbers, 500,000.

Since the commencement of the building, there has been expended on the
grounds $3,747 51. The committee, Herat are pleased to be able to
inform the Boat that but little more expenditure on this account will pro-
bably be necessary beyond that which is requisite for the preservation of
the trees and shrubs already planted.

An appropriation has been made by Congress for the general improve-
ment of the public grounds, or, as they are commonly called the Mall. Mr.
Downing, the well ‘known writer on Ral Architecture, at the request of
the President, is now preparing a plan for converting the whole mall,
including the Smithsonian grounds, into an extended landscape garden, to
be traversed in different directions by gravelled walks and carriage drives,
and planted with specimens, properly labelled, of all the varieties of trees
and shrubs which will flourish in this c sHimate.

In the opinion of the committee, the adoption of a general plan for the
improvement of the public grounds is an object of much importance. A
small appropriation, annually expended with reference to a well digested
plan, would do more in a few years to produce lasting effects, than many
times the same sum, expended in accordance with the peculiar fancy of each
succeeding super intendent.

If the plan before mentioned be adopted, (and the committee ae that it
will be,) the Smithsonian lot will form a part of an extended park, of which
the Smithsonian building, by its site and picturesque style of architecture,
will form a prominent and most attractive feature.

For the accommodation of those who attend the lectures, plank walks
have been put down from the doors of the building to the east and west
extremities of the Smithsonian grounds. Much difficulty is still found,
however, 1 in getting access to the building during muddy walking 3 but in
the opinion of the committee, it belongs to the corporation of the city of
Washington or other authority to construct and keep in good condition the
approaches to the building which are beyond the Smithsonian possessions.

Do
A foot bridge across the canal at Tenth street, would greatly in-
‘a3: 64

crease the facility of access to those whe reside in the central portion of

the city. The construction of such a bridge has been proposed to the city

council, and your committee hope that the objects and operations of this

Institution will commend the proposition to their favorable consideration.

For a minute statement of the progress made in the building, and other
details connected with the subjects noticed in the foregoing remarks, the
committee refer to the report of the architect hereto appended.
Respectfully submitted,
Signed JEEFERSON DAVIS,

HENRY W. HILLIARD.
WALTER LENOX.

Wasnuineton, January 7, 1851.
To the Honorable the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: By a resolution of the Honorable the Board of Regents,
passed July 3, 1850, it was determined to change the plan originally
adopted for the finish of the interior of the central building, which con-
sisted of wooden columns and girders, and to substitute in its place a plan
of fire-proofing.

In accordance with the above resolution, the undersigned prepared and
submitted to the honorable the committee charged with the examination of
the building, four different plans for fire-proofing, and the one preferred by
him was adopted.

This plan may be described as follows: The foundation will consist of a
series of stone piers, connected by a system of inverted arches of brick,
resting on base courses of long stone and laid in cement mortar; the in-
verted arches are arranged in such manner as to insure an equal pressure in
-all parts of the foundation, and thus to counteract, as far as possible, any
unequal settlement of the earth upon which the building rests. The first
story of the building containing the library, &c., will be constructed with
piers and groined arches of brick, laid in cement mortar; and the second
story containing the museum, will be finished with cast iron columns and
girders and a groined ceiling furred with wrought iron. The whole interior
will be plastered on the above described brick and iron work, in the same
manner as was specified in the original contract, so as to complete the
building in harmony with the original design.

Though this change in construction will add to the expense of the build-
ing, it is believed that the additional cost will be repaid by the permanence
of the fire-proofing and the perfeet security it will afford to the valuable
collections which may hereafter be placed in this portion of the building.

The above determination of the honorable the Board of Regents, also
rendered it necessary that only such portions of the work embraced in the
original contract for the building as would harmonize and become an inte-
gral part of the fire-proofing, should be constructed by the present contractor
and that the expense of the portions not necessary to effect this change
should be deducted from the original contract price.

It therefore became necessary to determine accurately the exact amount
¢o be paid to the contractor under the above alteration in plan, and the un-
‘lersigned, by the direction of the honorable the Building committee, made
65 fp my

a pro rata estimate of all the work embraced in the original contract, which
estimate was based upon the original contract price.

From this estimate an exact decision was then made of the amount to be
paid to the present contractor for the work, which he would be required to
finish in conformity with the plan of fire-proofing, which was found to be
$185,154. The following 1s an estimate of the cost of completing the whole
building and its accessories, on the amended plan :

Amount to be paid G. Cameron, for completing portions of
building embraced in original contract, and necessary in

amended plan.------------------------------------- $185,154 00
Expense of fire-proofing central building, estimated at -------- 44,000 00
Plastering central building,- -------------------------+----- 8,000 00
Galleries to Library and Museum, -------------------------- 2,000 00
Stairways to Onn eee 2-2 ee -------- 425 00
Furniture to as 66 ween ne ee eee -- +--+ ------------ 4,700 00
Extra cartage, ------------------+------------------------- 200 00
Materials,---- ------------------------------------------ 1,000 00
Heating Central Building, --------------------------------- 3,000 00
Furnaces already put up, --------------------------------- 1,135 63
Architect, Superintendent and incidental expenses of office,-- - - - 16,500 00
Grounds, - --- ---------------------------------- ee ---- 4,000 00
Additional Furniture,- ------------------------------------ 4,000 00

274,614 63
Add for contingencies,- ----------+---------+-+--------------- 9,385 37
Making the total amount of---------------------------- $ 284,000 00

It is the belief of the undersigned, that the above amount of $284,000
will, with proper economy, be sufficient to defray the expense of completing
the building, and that when thus finished, it will, for cheapness and dura-
bility be unsurpassed by any building with which I am acquainted.

By a resolution, passed at the same time as the one directing the above
alteration in plan, the honorable the Board of Regents also decided at the
suggestion of the Hon. Jefferson Davis, ‘that the exterior of the building,
‘‘ and the interior of the towers be completed in accordance with the plan,
‘and within the time specified in the contract.”’

To carry out this decision, the operations on the building, during the
last year, have principally been directed to the completion of the exterior of
the building and towers.
|); It was the hope of the undersigned, that the towers would have been
finished and roofed in before the winter.

This expectation, has, however, not been realized, owing to the delay
occasioned by the repairs in the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, which was not
navigable for a period of nearly four months.

The contractor was therefore wuable to convey his stone from the quarry,
and very little work was done on the building during the months most
favorable for working.

The present condition of the building is as follows: The eastern and
western wings are completed with the exception of some small items which
will be left unfinished until a few weeks before the completion of the pre--
sent contract.

Mis.—d.
[1] 66

The central is roofed in and slated, and enclosed in such manner as to be
perfectly protected from the weather.

The principal front tower is carried up to a height of one hundred and
twenty-two feet, and covered in temporarily for the winter.

The stone and mason work of the lower central front tower is completed,
and the roof is on and slated.

The campanile and north east corner towers are roofed in.

The central south tower is carried up to a height of forty feet.

The south east and south west corner towers are carried up to the height
of the cornice of the cell of the main building.

The contractor states, that all the stones necessary for the completion of
the building are quarried. The greater portion of them are delivered at
the building, and will be cut during the present winter.

During the last year portions of ‘the roads around the building have been
graded and many trees and shrubs have been set out on the grounds.

It is a source of satisfaction to the undersigned that the walls of the
building have not as yet, shown any signs of settlement. When the various
heights of the wall and towers, ranging from twenty-six to one hundred
and twenty-two feet are considered, this cireumstance affords a satisfactory
proof that the principles adopted in the construction of the building are
correct, and that the care taken in calculating the weights and pressure of
the different walls has not been uselessly expended, and that the construc-
tion of these most important parts of the building has been well performed.

The following is a statement of the amount expended in the buildmg up
to the 3lst of December, 1850:

Amount expended on building up to December 1, 1847, was as

then stated,---------------------------------------- $ 25,002 67
Amount expended from December 1, 1847, to December 31,

1848, -------- wee eee nen ee eee eee eee eee eee eee 53,934 74
Amount expended from December 31, 1848, to December 51,

1849, ---------------------------------------------- 56,383 76

The amount expended on the building during the
the year 1850, has been as follows:

Paid G. Cameron, contractor, ------------------ $ 24,000 00
Paid Architect, Superintendent, and incidental

expenses of office, ------ --------------------- 2,459 42
Miscellaneous, - - ------------------------------ 1,868 05
Grounds, improvement of,--------+-------------- 1,616 46

29,943 93

Making total amount expended on building up to December

BINCA9, «woes shunt cee she eeeerel oe <Hde $ 165,265 10

I remain, very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES RENWICK, Jr.,
Architect Smithsonian Institution.
67 [ry

NO. IV.

FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Wepnespay, January 1, 1851.

The Board of Regents met this day at 12 o’clock, noon, in accordance
with notice previously ¢ given.

On motion, Mr. Hawley was called to the Chair.

The Secretary stated that a few days would be required to make up the
accounts for the year just expired, and that a quorum of the Regents was
not present

Whereupon, on motion,

The meeting adjourned to Tuesday, 7th instant, at 10 o’clock A. M.

Tuerspay, January 7, 1851.

The Board of Regents met this day, at 10 o’clock A. M., according to
adjournment.

Present: Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fitch, Hawley, Hilliard, Lenox, Mason,
Pearce, Rusk, and Totten.

Mr. Hawley took the Chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting
were read.

The Secretary made a statement relative to the election of a Chancellor,
the office being vacant by the elevation of Mr. Fillmore to the Presidency
of the United States.

On motion of Mr. Davis, it was

Resolved, That the Board proceed to elect, by ballot, a Chancellor of
the Smithsonian Institution, whose term of office shall contimue until the
4th day of March, 1855.

Tellers having been appointed, the votes were counted, and the Honorable
Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States, was declared unani-
mously elected.

The report of the Executive Committee for the year 1850, was then
presented, and read by Mr. Bache.

On motion, it was laid on the table, until the Treasurer’s statement
could be prepared.

The reading of the Secretary’s Annual Report, relative to the operations
of the Institution, for the past year, was then commenced.

An account was given of the several Memoirs presented during the past
year, and copies of all that had been printed during the same time, were
placed upon the table.

The hour of adjournment having arrived, on motion, the Board adjourned
to meet on Friday the 10th instant, at 10 o’clock A. M.

Frmay, January 10, 1851.

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock.

The Honorable Roger B. Taney appeared and took the Chair, as Chan-
cellor of the Smithsonian Institution.

The following members were present: Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fitch,
ee 68

Hawley, Hilliard, Lenox, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten, and Mr. Seaton,
Treasurer of the Institution.

The Chancellor, on taking the Chair, expressed his thanks for ths honor
conferred on him by his election ; his regret that on account of the meetings
of the Supreme Court, he had not previously been able to attend the ses-
sions of the Board, though he hoped in future to be able to do so; also the
interest he felt in the Institution, and his gratification with reference to its
present condition.

The proceedings of the last meeting were then read.

The Building Committee presented their Annual Report, including a
report from the Architect. It was on motion accepted, and ordered to
form a part of the Regents’ report to Congress.

In connection with the report of the Building committee, Mr. Lenox
made a statement relative to a proposition for the erection of a foot bridge
over the canal at Ninth or Tenth street, at the expense of the corpora-
tion of the City of Washington, for facilitating the approach to the Insti-
tution. He also stated that Mr. Ellet, the Engineer, had offered to
superintend, free of charge, the erection af a wire bridge at the place men-
tioned, and expressed his belief that a bridge could be constructed during
the present year.

Mr. Seaton the Treasurer, presented a report of the monies placed to his
credit on account of the Institution, and the manner in which they had
been expended. At the request of Mr. Seaton, and on motion of Mr. Davis,
the report was referred to the Executive Committee for examination.

The reading of the Secretary’s report was then proceeded with, including
a statement relative to the Foreign distribution of the first volume of Smith-
sonian Contributions, and the method of keeping the account of the ex-
changes with foreign societies, also an account of the progress made in the
operations relative ‘to Meteorology.

Specimens of the Barometers, Thermometers, Rain guages and Wind
vanes prepared for the Smithsonian observers, were exhibited to the Board.

The Board, on motion, then adjourned to meet on Saturday next, 18th
instant, at 10 o’clock A. M.

SaTurpDay, January 18, 1851.

The Board of Regent met this day at 10 o’clock, A. M.

Present: Messrs. “Bache, Colcock, Davis, Hilliard, Pearce, and Rush.
The Chancellor being absent, Mr. Pearce was called to the Chair.

The proceedings of the last meeting were read.

Mr. Bache, on behalf of the Executive Committee, preseuted a detailed
statement of all the expenditures from the beginning of the Institution to
the end of the year 1850, classified according to the programme of accounts
before given.

The Secretary stated, that in obedience to the instructions contained in
the resolutions of the Board adopted June 1, 1850, the following petition
relative to funding $150,000 of accrued interest had been drawn up for
presentation to Congress ; but owing to the press of business of last session,
and by the advice of the members of the Board belonging to the Senate and
House of Representatives, it had not been presented up to the present time.

Mr. Davis suggested that the petition be amended by inserting the words
69 [Pq

‘making in all a principal fund of $715,000,” at the close of the fourth
paragr aph which was agreed to.
Amended, the petition reads as follows :

To the Honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives, in Congress
assembled :

GrentLEMEN: The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have
directed me to transmit to your honorable body, the resolutions appended
to this letter, and to solicit the passing of a law, in accordance therewith.

It is known to your honorable body, that the original sum received into
the United States Treasury from the Smithsonian bequest, was a little more
than $515,000, and that at the time of the passage of the act incorporating
the Institution, $242,000 had accrued in interest, which sum or so much
of it as might be deemed necessary, the Regents were authorized to appro-
priate to a building. It is also known to your honorable body, that the act
of incorporation directed that provision should be made for the establish-
ment of a Library and Museum, together with the erection of a building on
a liberal scale to contain them.

While the Regents 1 in their plan of organization obeyed these instructions,
they also by virtue of the power inv ested j in them, and in conformity aan
the terms of the bequest, adopted additional plans for the more immeciate
promotion of the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, by means
of Researches, Publications, Lectures, &c.

In order however, to carry out the several parts of this more extended plan,
it was found absolutely necessary that the annual income of the Institution
should be increased. To accomplish this, it was resolved, instead of ex-
pending at once the $242,000 on a building , carefully to husband the same
and to erect the building in the course of several years, in part out of the
proceeds of the sum before mentioned, and in part out of such portions of
the income of the original fund as could be spared from the ordinary opera-
tions of the Institution. This scheme has been effectually carried out, and
the Regents now ask to be allowed to place in the Treasury of the United
States along side of the original bequest, and upon the same terms, never to
be expended, the sum of S150, 000 of accrued interest, and to be allowed to
add to this from time to time, such other sums as may come into their
possession by donation or otherwise, until it, with the sums thus added shail
amount to $200,000, making in all a principal fund of a little more than
$715,000.

After this deposit of $150,000, the Regents will still have sufficient money
on hand to finish the whole exterior of the building, and such portions of
the interior in addition to those now completed, as may be wanted for
several years to come, they then propose gradually to finish the remainder
in such portions as may be wanted out of the annual accruing interest.

The sole object of the request is the permanent inv estment and perpetual
security of the accumulated fund, and when your honorable body is assured
that the organization and operation of the Institution have rec ‘eived the ap-
probation of the wise and good, not only in this country, but in every part
of the world where literature and science are cultivated, the undersigned
trusts that the request will be granted.

And your petitioner will ever pray, &c.

Signed JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary
Of the Smithsonian Institution.
[1] 70

RESOLUTIONS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

Of the Smithsonian Institution, adopted at their meeting of June 1, 1850,
and appended to the foregoing petition.

Resolved, That it is expedient to enlarge the permanent fund of the Insti-
tution, by the investment of such sums not exceeding $200,000 as may
have been, or shall be received for accrued interest or otherwise, in addition
to the principal sum of the Smithsonian bequest, augmenting the principal
sum to that amount, and that application be made to Congress to receive
such sums not exceeding $200,000 as may have been or shall be received
for accrued interest or otherwise into the United States Treasury upon the
same terms on which the original bequest has been received.

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to communicate a copy of
this resolution to Congress, and to request that provision be made by law
in accordance therewith.

The Secretary also brought before the Board, the subject of the remain-
der of the Smithsonian bequest, left as the principal of an annuity payable
to Madame de la Batut, mother of the nephew of James Smithson.

Mr. Rush gave an account of this annuity and stated that he had left the
business in the hands of attornies, to whom he had written in 1846. A copy
of this correspondence was read, and Mr. Rush was requested to commu-
nicate with the above mentioned persons relative to this business.

The reading of the Secretary’s report was then continued, including
Professor Jewett’s report on the Library, illustrated by specimens of a new
plan of stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate titles.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on Saturday 25th instant at 10
o’clock A. M.

SaturpDay, January 20, 1851.

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock A. M.

Present: Messrs. Davis, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce, and Taney.

The Chancellor occupied the Chair.

The proceedings of the last meeting were read.

The reading of the Secretary’s report was then continued, including the
report of Professor Baird on the Museum.

On motion of Mr. Davis, it was

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board be presented to Mr. Alexander
Culbertson for the liberal aid rendered by him in procuring specimens of
Natural History for the Institution; also, to Messrs. Edward T. Denig,
Ferdinand Culbertson, and the other gentlemen of the American Fur com-
pany mentioned in Professor Baird’s report for similar services.

The concluding portion of the Secretary’s report was then read, giving
an account of the Lectures which had been delivered, and other miscellane-
ous operations. The Secretary then gave an account of some experiments
made with the Smithsonian apparatus by Mr. Espy during the past year,
and the connection which has existed between this gentleman and the In-
stitution. An appropriation has been made for several years past by Con-
gress for Meteorology, out of which Mr. Espy has been paid. The
appropriation was under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy who,
in 1848, directed Mr. Espy to co-operate in his labors with the Smithso-
nian Institution.

Mr. Lenox presented a communication from Mr. Seaton recommending
7 rag

the placing of a bell in one of the towers of the Smithsonian building and
stating that a very valuable town clock could probably be obtained from
the Treasury Department.
On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was
Resolved, That Mr. Lenox be appointed a committee to inquire into and
report upon this proposition.
The Board then adjourned to meet again at the call of the Secretary.

Tuurspay, Fesruary 27, 1851.

The Board of Regents met this evening at 6 o’clock in the ante-room of
the Senate Chamber.

Present: Messrs. Bache, Coleock, Davis, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce
and Totten.

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the Chair.

The proceedings of the last meeting were read.

Mr. Bache, from the Executive Committee, offered the following reso-
lution which was adopted :

Resolved, That during the year 1851, the sum of twenty-five thousand
dollars be and is hereby appropriated to be expended under the direction of
the Secretary, and with the advice of the Executive Committee for the
expenses of the Institution, and to carry out the several parts of the pro-
gramme of organization.

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary and of the Executive: Com-

mittee be adopted and form parts of the report of the Regents to Congress.
On motion of Mr. Coleock, it was

Resolved, 'That the Chancellor and Secretary be authorized to make the
annual report of the Regents to Congress.

A bill was presented to the Board from W. Fischer for stationery pur-
chased in 1847 and 1848, on account of the Executive and Building com-
mittee, prior to the present system of keeping accounts.

On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was referred to the Executive Committee for
examination and if found correct, for payment.

The Secretary called attention to the statement in the report of the
Executive Committee, that in the examination and re-arrangement of the
accounts of the Institution, there had been found a few cases in which pay-
ment had been made in accordance with the spirit of the resolutions of the
Board, but which could be referred to no special appropriation.

On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was

Resolved, That these accounts be referred to the Executive Committee
for examination, and if deemed correct, for approval.

The Secretary informed the Board that it was necessary to publish a
new edition of the programme of organization and suggested the propriety
of making a few verbal alterations in the text, and in the sentence begin-
ning as follows:

“‘ Rewards [consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original me-
moirs.”” |

Of striking out the words included in brackets, which was agreed to.

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was

Resolved, 'That the Secretary be authorized to employ an accountant at

an annual salary of two hundred dollars, and to assign his duties, and that
Ee 72

there be paid to Wm. B. Randolph, two hundred dollars for the arrange-
ment of the accounts to date as reported.
On motion of Mr. Bache, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint an agent abroad
to conduct the exchanges of the Institution, with a salary not to exceed
one hundred and fifty dollars per annum.

Mr. Davis submitted the following resolution, which was adopted :

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be requested to inquire into
the expediency of providing buildings for the residences of the officers of
the Institution on the Smithsonian grounds, or other convenient location, if
they deem expedient to report plans and estimates for such buildings to the
Board at their next meeting.

Mr Lenox, to whom was referred the subject of procuring a clock and
bell for the Institution, reported that the use of a clock could be obtained
free of expense to the Institution, provided a bell of a large size could be
arranged in connection with it, in one of the towers of the Smithsonian
building ; also, that he thought it probable that the corporation of the
city of Washington would defray one half of the cost of such a bell, pro-
vided that the Institution would pay the other.

Mi. Mason then offered the following resolution, which was agreed to.

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to purchase a bell, to be
placed in one of the towers of the building to be attached to a clock, pro-
vided that the purchase be made in association with the authorities of the
city of Washington, and that the size and tone of the bell be approved of
by the Executive Committee and the said authorities, the sum to be paid
on the part of this Institution, not to exceed five hundred dollars.

The plan of Mr. Downing for the improvement of the public mall, in-
cluding the oo of the Smithsonian Institution was exhibited to the
Board.

On motion, ‘die Board then adjourned sine die.

APPENDIX No. I.

—wd

FOREIGN DISTRIBUTION, OF VOL. I., OF SMITHSONIAN
CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.

SWEDEN.

Lunp — The University Library.
StrockHotm — *Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien. (Royal Swedish
Academy of Science.)
*Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien.
Upsata — *Svenska Akademien. (Swedish Academy.)

*The University Library.
NORWAY.

Brercen — Bergen’s Museum.
CuRISTIANIA — “Library of the University.
73 [1]

DENMARK.

Copennacen — Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab. (Royal Society of
Northern Antiquarians.)
Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. (Royal Danish
Society of Science.)
Royal Library.
RUSSIA.

Dorpat — The Imperial Observatory.

Moscow — Société Impériale des Naturalistes.

Sr. Perrerssure — *Académie Impériale des Sciences.
*Imperial Public Library.
Imperial Mining: department.

Putxowa — *The Imperial Observatory.

HOLLAND.

AmstTERDAM — *Hollandsche Instituut der Wetenschappen, Letterkunde en
schoone Kunsten. (Holland Institute of Sciences, Litera-
ture and the Fine Arts. )

Haartem — Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. ( Holland
Society of Sciences. )

Lrypen — Académie des Sciences.

RotrerpAmM — *Bataafsch Genootschap der praefondervindelyke Wysbe-
geerte. ( Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy. )

Urrecur — * Academia Rheno-Trajectina.

Vuissincen — *(Flushing,) Zeeuwsche Genootschap der Wetenschappen.
(Zealand Society of Sciences.)

AUSTRIA, GERMANY AND PRUSSIA.

Beruin — *Konigliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. (Royal Academy
of Sciences.)
*Royal Library.
Bonn — University Library.
Bremen — *City Library.
Brestav — *Academia Leopoldina Carolina natural coriosorum.
DrespeEn — *Royal Public Library.
Eriancen — University Library.
Frankrurt aM Main — Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
(Senckenberg Society.)
FREIBERG — Royal Mining Academy.
FremurG — *University Library.
Giessen — University Library.
Harte — University Library.
Hampure — Public City Library.
HerietserG — University Library.
Jena — *University Library. "
Karusrune — *Grand Ducal Library.
Kanicsperc — *University Library.
Leipzig — City Library.
University Library.
Kénigliche Sichsische Gesellschaft.
Fiirstliche Jablonowski ’sche Gesellschaft.
ral 74

Marsure — Marburgische Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
University Library.
Municu — *Kénigl. Baierische Akademie der Wissenschaften. (Royal Ba-
varian Academy of Sciences.)
Royal Court and City Library.
Prague — *University Library.
Konig]. Béhmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. (Royal
Bohemian Society of Sciences.)
*Boéhmisches Museum.
Pestu — *University Library.
*Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft.
Stuttgart — Royal Public Library.
Tiismincen — *University Library.
Vienna — *K. K. Akademie der Orientalischen Sprachen.
*Imperial Library.
*University Library.
*Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften.
Wiirzsure — *University Library.
BELGIUM.

BruxeLtites — Académie Royale des Sciences, des Belles Lettres et des
Beaux Arts.
Royal Observatory.
Guent — University Library.
Bruces — *Société des Sciences Naturelles.
Lirce — Société Royale des Sciences.
Louvain — * Academia Lovaniensis.

FRANCE.

Ancers — *Société d’ Agriculture, Sciences et Arts
BorpEeaux — *Académie des Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts.
Carn — * Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles Lettres.

*Société Linnéenne de Normandie.
Dison — * Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles Lettres.
Litte — *Société des Sciences, de l’Agriculture et des Arts.
Lyon — *Société d’ Agriculture, Histoire Naturale, et Arts Utiles.
MarsrEItteE — *Académie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts.
MonrreLiier — *Société Archéologique.
Paris — *L’Institut de France.

*Societé des Antiquaires.
“«  Asiatique.

de Géographie.
Géologique.
Frang¢aise de Statistique Universelle.
Philomatique.
*¢ de l’Ecole des Chartes.

*National Library.

*Library of the Jardin des Plants.

*L’ Institut Historique.

*L’ Ecole des Mines.

*Société Ethnologique.

*Library of the City of Paris.
Srraspoure — *Société des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts.

*Académie des Sciences Naturelles.

* K* * K K
15 [1]

SWITZERLAND.

Baste — Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
Antiquarische Gesellschaft.
Berne — Schweizerische Gesellschaft fiir die Gesammten Naturwissen-
schaften.
Geneva — Société de Physique et d’ Histoire Naturelle.
NeucHaTeL — Société des sciences Naturelles.
Zuricu — *Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
Antiquarische Gesellschaft.

ITALY.

Botocna — *Instituto delle Scienze ed Arti Liberati.
Caranta — *Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali.
FLorence — * Accademia del Cimento.
*Magliabecchian Library.
Lucca — *Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti.
Miran — *Imperiale Regio Instituto del Regno Lombardo-Veeto.
Mopena — *Societa Italiana delle Scienze.
Napites — *Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere.
Papua — *Accademia di Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti.
Pisa — *University Library.
Patermo — *Royal Academy of Sciences.
Rome — *Accademia Romana di Archeologia.
*Library of the Vatican.
* Accademia dei Lincel.
Turin — *Accademia Reale delle Scienze.
Venice — *Library of San Marco.

PORTUGAL.
Lisson — *Academia Real dos Sciencias.
SPAIN.
Maprip — *Real Academia Espanola.
6 ‘¢ de la Historia.

*Academia de los Sciencias Naturales.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.

Breirasr — *Natural History and Philosophical Society.
Campriper — Cambridge Philosophical Society.
*University Library.
Cornwatt — *Royal Geological Society.
Dustin — Dublin University Philosophical Society.
Royal Irish Academy.
*Library of Trinity College.
Epinpurc — *Royal Society.
Royal Scottish Society of Arts.
Royal Observatory.
*Library of Faculty of Advocates.
Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.
Giascow — *University Library.
Greenwicu — Royal Observatory.
[a4 76

Lonpon — Royal Society.
Royal Astronomical Society.
Royal Asiatic Society.
Royal Geographical Society.
*Royal Institution.
*Scciety of Antiquaries.
*Society for Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Com-
merce.
Linnean Society.
Geological Society.
*Institution of Civil Engineers.
*Zoological Society.
Etomological Society.
Statistical Society.
Micrescopical Society.
*Ethnological Society.
British Archeological Society.
*British Museum.
*Library of House of Commons.
“Horticultural Society.
Chemical Society.
Archeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland.
*Board of Admiralty.
Lrerps — *Philosophical and Literary Society.
MancuesterR — *Literary and Philosophical Society.
Oxrorp — *Bodleian Library.
Radcliffe Observatory.
St Anprews — *Library of the University.

GREECE.
ATHENS — *University Library.
TURKEY.
Constantinople — *Library of the Sultan.
AFRICA.
Granp Catro — *The Egyptian Society.
ASTA.

ALLAHABAD — *Mission College.
Batavia — *Bataviaasche Genootschap van Konsten en Wetenschappen.
Bompay — *Literary Society.
*Geographical Society.
Cryton — * Asiatic Society.
Hone Kone — * Asiatic Society of China.
Mapras — Literary Society.
Manitita — *Royal Economical Society of the Philippine Islands.

WEST INDIES AND SOUTH AMERICA.

Bocora — *Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais.
Caracas — *Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais.
Hapana — *Real Sociedad Economica.

Rio Janerio — *Imperial Brazilian Historical Society.
77 rt]

These Institutions may be summed up, as follows:

Sweden,----------------+crr rr rrr re wen e eee eee eee ---- ---------- 5
Norway,-----9-- or tenn errr rrr tren reece ence ene ere e n= a
Denmark,------------------------------------- 2-2-2 eee eee 5
Russia,- --- ----------- we ee +--+ ---------- +--+ ---------------- 6
Holland,----------------------+-------------------------------- 6
Austria Germany, and Prussia,-- - -- ---------------------+-------- 37
Belgium,----------- wane eee ee eee ee + - He ----------- 6
France, ---------------------------------- woe cee - eee --- ee eee -25
Switzerland, -------------------------------------------------- 7
Italy,------------------------- +--+ 2-2-2 2 eee eee -----e - 16
Por tugal, we nn ee en nnn re ne en ee ee eee een eee if
Spain,. eee eee ee en ee 3
Great Britain and Ireland,-------------------------------------- 41
Greece,--------------------------- +--+ - 02 + - eee oe ee 1
Turkey,---------------- ---- 0 oe ener rere ne rr rrr eee c eee di
Africa, -------- oe ee en nn nee nn eee ee ee re eee eee eee 1
Asia, -------- --- 9-2-2 - en en ne enn ne ere ee ee eee eee eee 8
West Indies and South America,---------------------------------- 4

Total------------------------------------------ 173

The returns received in exchange from these Institutions, up to the Ist
of January 1851, are as follows.

Folio and quarto Volumes,----------------------------+--------- 152
Octavo Volumes, ----------- one rere ne nr en ee een eee ee --- ~-138
Parts of volumes and tracts in quarto and octavo,------------------ 608

Total --------------------------------+--------- 878

From some of the above mentioned Institutions, no returns have yet bi
received. These will be found marked with an asterisk. From many s
marked, however, an exchange is shortly expected, while from shee
such as Libraries, which publish no transactions, nothing can be looked
for. Even here, however, duplicate volumes, as has already happened in
several instances, will occasionally be transmitted. Many of the Universi-
ties on the continent have forwarded the theses of their graduates, and
other miscellanea. It must also be observed, that the period at which it
was found possible conveniently to transmit volume I. of Smithsonian
Contributions to France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, has been so recent as
to render the reception of any returns up to the present date impossible.

It may be proper to add, that suitable occasions of forwarding to some
of the above mentioned societies, have not yet occurred, although shortly
expected. This is the case in regard to some of the Asiatic societies, the
Egyptian society of Grand Cairo, and those of the West Indies and South
America.
fy 78

APPENDIX No II.

New York, December 2, 1850.

My Dear Sm: The ship “ Brewster’’ has just arrived from the Pacific,
bringing six monuments in addition to those which I shipped via. San Juan
de Nicaragua, for the Institution, and which I have directed to be imme-
diately forwarded to Washington. I shall avail myself of the opportunity
afforded by my proposed visit to the Capital in January next, to number
and catalogue both these and the other Central American relics which I
have already sent. In the meantime, I am unable to refer to the indi-
vidual figures and objects in an intelligible manner. I may nevertheless
observe that the finer specimens of Aboriginal Art, which I discovered in
Nicaragua, were of too large size to be removed under. present circurn-
stances. Should the steamers which have been sent out succeed in ascend-
ing the San Juan, and entering lake Nicaragua, some of the monuments
which exist on the islands in that lake, might be obtained without much
difheulty, and would constitute very interesting and important features in
the proposed Smithsonian collection of American antiquities. Two of the
statues which I have sent to the Institution, one from the island of Zapa-
tero, in lake Nicaragua, where once existed one of the most imposing
aboriginal temples of the country. Here, amongst the ruins of the teocalda
or high places of the former inhabitants, I found fifteen entire statues, be-
sides the fragments of many others; several broken sacrificial stones, &c.
I was unable to remove but two of the smallest and rudest, but I have ac-
curate drawings ofall. The largest statue amongst those which I have
sent you, and which is carved in black basalt, was obtained from the
island of Momotombita, in lake Managua, where there seems also to have
been a temple or sacred place. The figure with the sphynx like head dress
is also from the same locality, whence a great number of sculptures have
been taken at various times, and planted at the corners of the streets in the
towns, or sent abroad. Within the recollection of persons now living,
there were some twenty or thirty of these figures existing at one place on
the island, arranged in the form of a square, the faces looking inward.
One or two of the other statues were dug up for me by the Indians of the
Pueblo of Subtiaba near Leon, having been buried for a great number of
years, and the locality carefully concealed. They are somewhat mutilated,
showing in their broken features, the zeal of the priests who followed in the
armies of Gil Gonzalez de Avila and Cordova. A small group of these
monuments exists in the depths of the forest midway between Leon and
the Pacific, which is still secretly visited by the Indians, for the perform-
ance of dances and other rites pertaining to their primitive religion.

These monuments, but particularly those which exist in and around lake
Nicaragua, and which, as works of art, are superior to those found else-
where, are of high value in an archeological point of view, because they
furnish conclusive collateral evidence of the truth of the statement of
Oviedo, (who visited Nicaragua in 1529,) that a large part of the inhabi-
tants of the country were Mexicans, i.e. of the same stock with the
Aztecs and the other nations inhabiting the valley of Anahuac. I was
79 [i me]

able at the first glance, to recognize in some of these statues, the re-
presentations of several of the gods of the Mexican Pantheon. Amon
these was Tlalocthe, God of Rain, and the second of the Aztec Triad,
corresponding in his essential attributes with Vishun of the Hindu
Mythology.

The small figure resembling some animal cowchant was, until very
recently, preserved on a remarkable rock on the side of the volcano of
Omatepec, and regarded with high veneration by the Indians. It was only
after many years of search that the priests were able to find and remove it.
The granitic vase, distinguished by the ornaments, called grecques by
Humboldt, (and which characterize the ruins at Mitla in Mexico,) was dug
up near the city of Nicaragua. The spot had been a cemetery of the
ancient inhabitants. Another relic of the same material, and with a
like style of ornament, accompanies the vase, and was found in the same
neighborhood. It seems to have been designed as a pedestal for a small
Statue.

I have several of the funereal vases of the ancient inhabitants, in which
the bones and ashes of the dead were packed after the decomposition of
the flesh or after burning. It is a singular fact that all these vases were
modelled after the human skull. I will send these as soon as the drawings
of them are finished.

I may mention that the largest and most elaborate monuments which
fell under my notice in Nicaragua, exist in the little island of Pensacola,
near the base of the extinct voleano of Momobacho. ‘They weigh a num-
ber of tons each, and are distinguished as being wrought from blocks of
sand stone, a material which is not found on the island, nor, so far as I
could learn, within many miles of it, on the main land.

I shall be happy to contribute whatever monuments of the past, or relics
of aboriginal art which I possess, or may hereafter collect, towards forming
a National Archeological Museum, under the single stipulation that they
shall have a specific place assigned them in the Institution, and that my
classification when finally made, shall not be disturbed. You know that
I have long cherished the plan of forming a grand collection, which should
illustrate the arts of the aboriginies of every part of the continent, but
more particularly of our own country. Small and detached collections,
such as individuals may be able to form, can serve no good purpose in the
way of comparison and mutual illustration, and are always hable to be
destroyed by accident, or dispersed, and, piece by piece, irretrievably lost,
and | am sure, when it comes to be known that a place has been set apart
for these things in the Smithsonian Institution, most persons possessing
collections would not hesitate to surrender them to augment the central
stock. And if our public agents in foreign countries, our army and naval
officers in frontier or foreign service, and our traders generally residing
abroad, were properly informed that a collection of this kind was going on,
and that the necessary cost of procuring and transmitting monuments or
relics of interest would be reimbursed them ; if this were done, I feel sure
that an American Archeological Museum, worthy of our age and country,
would soon grow up. It is a fact not at all creditable to us, that we have
no public collection of this kind worthy to be mentioned, in the United
States, while some of the museums of Europe are really rich in relics of
aboriginal American art. M. de Longperier, conservateur des Antiquites
of the Louvre, has recently published a catalogue of American-antiquities,
dy) 80

contained in that museum, extending over one hundred and thirty octavo
pages, and relating to nearly a thousand specimens, some of them of great
interest and value. The fact carries its own application with it. Craving
your indulgence for this rambling letter,
I am sir, your obedient servant,
E. GEO. SQUIER.
Professor JosEpH Henry, Secretary
Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

APPENDIX—No. III.

——

REPORT OF COMMISSIONERS TO EXAMINE THE PLAN
FOR FORMING A GENERAL STEREOTYPE CATALOGUE
OF PUBLIC LIBRARIES IN THE UNITED SPALTES:

COPY OF A LETTER ADDRESSED SEVERALLY TO

Hon. Epwarp Everett, of Cambridge,

Cuarves Forsom, Esq., Librarian of the Boston Atheneum,

Grorce Livermore, Hsq., of Boston,

Josrpu G. Cocswetx, Esq., Superintendent of the Astor Library, N. York,
S. F. Haven, Esq., Librarian of the American Antiquarian Society, and

Rev. Epwarp E. Hate, of Worcester.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

August 16, 1850.

Dear Sir: The Smithsonian Institution desirous of facilitating research
in literature and science and of thus aiding in the increase and diffusion of
knowledge, has resolved to form a general catalogue of the various libra-
ries in the United States, and I submit to you for examination the plans
proposed by Professor Jewett, Librarian of the Institution, for accom-
plishing this object.

First, A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate titles
in a uniform style.

Second, A set of general rules to be recommended for adoption by the
different libraries of the United States in the preparation of their cata-
logues.

Professor Jewett will present to you his plans in person, and I beg leave
in behalf of the Executive Committee of the Institution to request that
you will give this subject that attention which its importance demands and
report :

First—The practicability of the plan presented.

Second—On the propriety of adopting the rules proposed.

You will also confer a favor on the Institution by giving any sugges-
tions with regard to the general proposition of forming a catalogue of all
the libraries in this country.

I remain respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary,
Smithsonian Institution.
81 [1]

REPORT OF THE COMMISSIONERS UPON THE GENERAL
CATALOGUE.

The undersigned were requested in the month of August last, by a letter
from Professor Henry, written on behalf of the Executive Committee of
the Smithsonian Institution, to take into consideration the subject of a Ge-
neral Catalogue of the public libraries of the United States, proposed to be
formed under the auspices of the said Institution, and more especially the
plan proposed by Professor Jewett, Librarian of the Institution, for accom-
plishing that object.

Having consented to act as Commissioners for the above named purpose,
the subscribers had several interviews with Professor Jewett, in the months
of September and October, at which he submitted to them
1. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate movable

titles of the books contained in them, and
2. A set of general rules to be recommended for adoption by the different

public libraries in the United States, in the preparation of their cata-
logues.

Professor Jewett’s plan for stereotyping titles on separate plates is un-
folded at considerable length, in a paper read by him, in the month of
August last, at the annual meeting of the American Agsociation for: the
Advancement of Science, held at ‘New Haven. This paper was published
in the Boston Traveller for the 26th of September. It is herewith sub-
joined, and the undersigned request that it may be considered as a part
of their report.*

For a full view of the advantages, both economical and literary, anti-
cipated from the adoption of Professor Jewett’s plan, the undersigned
would refer to the valuable and interesting paper just named. They will
allude briefly to a portion of these advantages.

The most important of them, perhaps, will be the economy of time,
labor, and expense, ata for the preparation of a new edition of a cata-
logue, to include the books added since a former edition was published.
On Professor Jewett’s s plan, when the catalogue of a library is published,
it will be necessary to strike off only so many copies, as are needed for
present use. When the additions to the library have become so conside-
rable as to make another edition of the catalogue desirable, or in lieu
thereof, a supplementary catalogue, (always an unsatisfactory and embar-
rassing appendage,) the new titles only will be stereotyped and inserted in
their proper places among the former titles, all the titles being on mo-

vable plates. The pages of the new edition will thus be made up with
convenience, and every book in the library will stand in its proper place
in the catalogue. This process will be repeated as often as the growth of
the library may make it necessary.

In this way, not only will the plates used in a former edition, be availa-
ble for each subsequent edition, but when the plan is fairly and extensively
in operation, most of the titles of books added to any given library of

* This paper is substantially re-printed in the report of the Librarian for the present year.

Mis.—6.
[1] 82 ;

whose catalogue a new edition is required, will, in the meantime, have been

cast for some other catalogue, and thus occasion no new charge for any

subsequent use, as far as ‘the expense of casting the plates is concerned.

The infant state and the prospective rapid increase of the public libraries

in the United States, as well as the frequent founding of new hbraries, give
reat interest to this feature of the plan.

Another advantage of the proposed plan would be of the following na-
ture: The libraries in any country, (to some extent, indeed in all coun-
tries,) consist partly of the same books, Professor Jewett states, that in
the catalogues of the public libraries of the United States, possessed by
the Smithsonian Institution, there are embraced at least ite hundred and
fifty thousand titles. He estimates, however, after a laborious comparison,
that among these there will not be found more than one hundred and fifty
thousand different titles. It follows, that, if the plan proposed had been
applied to the publication of these catalogues, two thirds of the expense
of printing them, as far as the cost of plates is concerned, would have
been saved by incurring the extra expense of stereotyping the remaining
third according to this plan. ‘The economy to each particular library, in
the expense of plates for its catalogue, wi Il be in proportion to the number

of books which it may contain in common with any other library, whose
catalogue has been already stereotyped on this plan. The title of the
same book, in the same edition, will of course be cast but once, and will
thenceforward serve for the catalogue of every library possessing that
book, which may enter into the arrangement.

A third advantage resulting from “this plan will be the facility with
which a classed ¢ catalogue, either of a whole library or any department of
it, might be furnished at short notice, without the expense of writing out
the titles or of casting new plates, but by the simple indication of the se-
lected titles, in'the margin of a printed alphabetical catalogue.

Finally, the plan of necessity, requires, that the titles of ‘the books i in the
libraries, included in the arrangement, should be given on uniform princi-
ples and ‘according to fixed rules } an object of no small importance to
those who consult them.

These and other incidental advantages, which would result from the
adoption of his plan of separate stereotype plates for the titles of books in
public libraries, are pointed out by Professor Jewett in the memoir above
referred to, and the undersigned are of opimion that he has not overrated
their importance. In propor tion as the plan is concurred in by the publie
institutions and individuals possessing valuable collections of books, the
preparation of a general catalogue of all the hbraries in the country be-
comes practicable, accompanied by references from which it would appear
in what library or libraries any particular book is contained.

The undersioned became satisfied, in the course of their conferences
with Professor Jewett, that the plan in all its parts is practicable. In con-
nection with the explanation of its mechanical execution, specimens of
stereotype plates of separate titles, made up into pages, were submitted to
them in common type metal, in electroty pe, and in a newly invented com-
position, the use of which, it is thought by its inventor, wauld be at-
tended with great economy in the cost of plates. The undersigned ex-
amined these specimens with much gratification and interest, but they did
not feel themselves competent from their limited opportunities of enquiry,
nor did they regard it as falling within their province, to form an opinon
83 [1]

on the comparative merits of these processes. They feel satisfied that no
important mechanical difficulty is to be apprehended in carrying the plan
into full effect.

A majority of the undersigned devoted themselves for several successive
meetings to the careful consideration of the set of rules submitted to them
by Professor Jewett, for the uniform preparation of the titles of books.
This is a subject which has of late received much attention from biblio-
graphers, and is of great importance in the formation of the catalogues of
public libraries. Professor Jewett’s rules combine the results of the ex-
perience of those who have given their attention to the subject in the prin-
cipal libraries of Europe, especially of the British Museum, together with
the fruits of his own experience and study. These rules appeared to the
undersigned to be drawn up with judgment and care. A few amendments
were recommended by the undersigned, and a few additions proposed, but
they are prepared to signify their approval of the system substantially as
submitted to them. It is contained, as amended by the undersigned, in
conference with Professor Jewett, in the paper marked B,* which they beg
leave also to make a part of their report.

In order that a beginning may be made in the execution of the plan,
under circumstances highly favorable to its success, the undersigned take
the liberty of suggesting, that it would be advisable for the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution to obtain the requisite authority to prepare a
catalogue of the library of Congress on the above described plan. A cata-
logue of this library is now very much wanted. Originally constructed on
a defective plan, and continued by the publication of a large number of
supplements, it is now almost useless; and as the library increases, it be-
comes daily more so. The preparation of an alphabetieal catalogue has
in this way become a matter of absolute necessity for the library itself;
while it affords the best opportunity for commencing an arrangement by
which the various libraries of the country will be brought into a mutually
beneficial connexion with each other, on the plan proposed by Professor
Jewett.

The undersigned consider the permanent superintendence of this plan to
be an object entirely within the province of the Smithsonian Institution.
They are satisfied that it will tend both to the increase and the diffusion
of knowledge, and they therefore hope that the sanction of the Regents
and of Congress will be given to the undertaking.

(Signed,) EDWARD EVERETT,
JOSEPH G. COGSWELL.
CHARLES FOLSOM,
SAMUEL F. HAVEN,
EDWARD E. HALE,
GEORGE LIVERMORE.
Boston, 26th October, 1850.

* These rules, with copious explanations and examples, will soon be published in a pam-
phiet form. It was found impossible to prepare them to be printed with the present report.
fay 84

APPENDIX — No. IV.

JOURN. “AL OF AN EXPEDITION TO THE MAUVAISES
TERRES AND THE UPPER MISSOUBI IN 1850:

BY THADDEUS A. CULEERTSON.

As already mentioned, Mr. Culbertson went from St. Louis to St. Josephs in a steamboat.
He there, with his brother, Alexander Culbertson, Esq., took a carriage, and aceompanied
by some attendants proceeded to Fort Pierre, along the eastern bank of the Missouri.
His narrative, as herewith presented, commences at a point some miles below Fort Pierre.
With reference to the style of the narrative it should be recollected that the facts were
noted down on the spot, without any intention of publication. ]

Saturday, April 27, 11 2. M.—Yesterday was an exceedingly unplea-
sant day; we founda violent north wind blowing in the morning, nevertheless,
as soon as breakfast was over, we were off on the cheerless prairie. We
saw but little wood; the road was hilly and ponds frequent. About ten
o’clock, we crossed a small stream that gave us some trouble on account
of the deep mud; but cold as the day was, the Indians waded through
without hesitation. About twelve o’clock we came to a place where the
land was cut up into steep hills and deep ravines, the latter containing a
little scrubby timber. At one o’clock we reached the spot where the In-
dians had confidently expected to meet their chief, Old Eagle, who had
been there hunting buffalo, but he was not to be found. The Indians ap-
peared much disappointed and looked very sad. They had left a good
place for hunting buffalo, and had come here where there were apparently
none.

There was every appearance of a violent snow-storm, but bad as our
situation was, we were thankful that it was no worse ; had these indica-
tions overtaken us the night before, when there was not a stick of wood
within miles, we might well have been filled with apprehension, but here
we had wood, w ater and grass, and w ere encamped in a ravine, well shel-
tered from the storm. About eight o’clock we retired to our beds i in the
waggon, anticipating a cheerless day of inactivity on the morrow. We
were, however, agreeably disappointed, and at about four o’clock, I was
awakened by the bustle of preparation for departure.

We started at half-past five o’clock, and soon crossed Choutain creek,
the small stream on which we had encamped. Our course during the day,
after we left the creek, was over level prairie, with no timber in sight or
water to be found, though buffalo were abundant. I forgot to mention
that just as we were leaving athe river A’Jacques, a very large wolf, of
pure white color, a beautiful animal, came walking leisurely towards us.
A. shot at it, but missed, when it scampsred off.
85 [m4

Sundiy, April 28.—Yesterday, after dinner, we traveled about five
hours, and then encamped on the shore of Lake Andy, a long and wide
sheet of water about ten miles from the Missouri, and about sixty from the
A’ Jacques. Our road was over a fine prairie land, exhibiting more grass than
we had previously seen. During the day [ procured two specimens of a small
plant which I had not observed before ; also three specimens of animals,
viz., a prarie squirrel, a prairie dog, iat a dried salamander, which was
found on the shore of the lake. The prairie dog was shot by Alexander
at the first dog village that we met with. Two “others were also fired at,
but they escaped. Their motions are so quick, that even when wounded,
they can scarcely be caught.

In the morning we started before five o clock, and had a beautiful and
pleasant day, with the exception of a strong head wind. The road at first
was very hilly, but became less so as we advane ed. No timber was seen
except where we encamped there were some thorn bushes and a few small
trees. Even this scanty vegitation supplied us with better fuel than the
buffalo dung which we were obliged to use for our fire yesterday. In the
morning we found the ravines filled and the distant ‘hills covered with
snow. |

Tuesday, April 30.—This morning we were at our camp on the Ameri-
can Fork. On Sunday about sunset, we reached a good encamping ground
on a small stream called Cow creek. The approach to this is over steep,
irregular hills, covered with stones. Its margins are better timbered than
those of any stream we have seen for several days. During the mght we
were awakened by the noise of the wind and the beating of the snow
against the carriage. We expected to see the ground coy ered with snow
in the morning, but were agreeably surprised to find this was not the case,
and that the sun was shining in an almost cloudless sky. We started at
halt-past four, and traveled over a gentle rolling prairie without wood, but
abounding in depressions filled with water, bint which were probably dry
in summer, At about half-past nine o’clock we reached the Bute Bijoux,
which we had previously seen from far off covered with snow. Itisa
clump of hills rising very irregularly out of the prairie, and consisting of
rocks, which have the appearance at a distance, of light-colored lime-
stone.

At this place where we found wood, water and grass, we rested two
hours, and then started for the American Fork. It was not without consi-
derable hesitation that we determined to go on. The distance was eighteen
miles ; our horses had no provender except dry prairie grass, and were
much weakened by cold and the long journey; we were, however, so
anxious to get through, that we resolved to press on. Our route lay
across a wide prairie, covered with burnt grass, without wood for many
miles. Though the weather was warm w then we started, it soon come-.
menced blowing violently from the north, and in a few hours beeame
intensely cold.

About four o’clock, we discovered at a distance a company of Indians,
and we were soon observed by them, though they at first mistook us for a
herd of buffalo. Two scouts soon reached us in full gallop, and we ac-
companied them to their encampment, which consisted of several lodges.
At our arrival, men, women, children, dogs and horses, all came out to
Jook at us.
es 86

We still continued our march; but at length night came on, and we
found it would be too fatiguing to attempt to reach the Forks, and we
therefore encamped under the shelter of a small hill, near a pond. No
wood was to be procured, and the men were obliged to scour the country
for buffalo dung, which, when it was found, w ould not burn, and we were
obliged to break up two boxes for cooking our supper. Our camp was
uncomfortable ; and much fatigued, I retired early to the waggon, where
I slept warmly and soundly until about half- -past four, when we were up
and off. We were still about twelve miles from the trading-post belongiag
to Fort Pierre.

Wednesday, May 1.—When I made my entry yesterday, it was with the
pleasing anticipation of spending the mght at the Yanktown Trading House ;
but travellers must not calculate too certainly on everything turning out as
they desire. The previous part of our journey might have taught us this,
and if it did not, the present lesson has impressed it on my mind. We had
a fine day, a beautiful road over rolling prairie, and everything seemed to
favor us. ‘Though we were fatigued by our previous journey, we rejoiced
in the prospect ‘of comfortable “quarters. We soon reached the stream,
called I believe, Crow creek, but to our great disappointment, instead of a
small rivulet easily crossed, we found a large volume of water far over its
banks, rolling along with great velocity. We were here obliged to encamp
and wait for the construction of a skin-boat with which to cross over.

As we approached Crow creek, the position of the stream was indicated
by steep hills, some of which indicated volcanic action, I picked up a stone
which appeared as if it had been melted, and the hills were covered with
such. After passing these hills, our eyes were delighted with a most pic-
turesque scene. At the foot of the hill, on the opposite side of the river,
were pitched about two hundred Indian lodges, exhibiting all the irregu-
larity and rude appurtenances which belong to a scene in the wilderness.
All that was wanting to render the picture complete, was the green dress
of summer for the ground and the trees.

While we were waiting for the completion of the boat, a number of
Indians swam across the river, cold as it was, and something had to be
cooked for them. Fortunately they were content with plain fare, which
was eaten in as plain a style.

It was very amusing to see the strange mixture of civilized and savage
costume exhibited in the dress of some of them; one fellow particularly
struck my attention—he had met us on the hill with a friendly shake
of the hand and “ how do,’’ “how do.’ All his garments consisted of a
short shirt and a waistcoat with the usual Indian clout ; his nether limbs
wore the clothes that nature had made for them—he was full of talk,
and very officious, and when the mush was given out, he always assisted
the helper by eating out of the pot between times. During the afternoon
many more young “Indians swam across the cold rapid stream, and re-
mained all day with scarcely any clothing on them. They were all
anxious for horses, and two of them had the traders’ receipt for thirty robes.
They of course must be supplied, and soon one of them was capering
around us ona fine bay horse, which he had selected. The horse dealing was
carried much after the same fashion as in the States ; all by-standers had a
great deal to say and there appeared to be much good humor on all sides.

During the afternoon the men from the post had been at work on ‘the
87 [1]

boat — and we expected to get to the houses that night, but when the boat
was completed it was a proof of the old adage — the more haste, the less
speed — the boat would not answer the purpose. We therefore contented
ourselves to again spend another night in our sleeping room, the wagon.
Many of the Indians stayed all night ; and as I watched their counte-
nances around the fire, I was struck with the fact, that the circle of faces
presented the same variety as to she die intelligence, &c., as would be
exhibited by an equal number of civilized men—in none did I notice the
expression of ferocity. One young man in particular , attracted my notice }
he had a very intellectual expression and stood by himself with the marks
of deep thought on his countenance—his appearance interested me greatly
and at once suggested to me my friend C. W. H. of Princeton, but at the
same moment my eye rested on a common feather, picked up probably on
the prairie, stuc k in his hair for ornament, and I could not refrain from
smiling at the ridiculous contrast between my intelligent young friend and
the thoughtful Indian. Poor fellow! perhaps if he had an opportunity for
study he would ornament his head with something more honorable than
that which then pleased his fancy.

Monday, May 6.—Every thing was crossed safely over the river, and by
evening we were all snugly fixed | at Randell’s. The Indians had bought all
our horses that were for s ale; and as they came to the houses with us, a
feast was prepared for them, with which they all appeared well satisfied.
A feast tor the Indians is a very simple affair—a little coffee and gammon,
or mush served in the simplest style is sufficient. There were “sixty or
seventy gathered on this occasion; before the food was ready they came in
and went out, and sat talking , joking and passing around the pipe, just as
a company of whites would spend their time while waiting for the announce-
ment of dinner.

When ail was prepared, two kettles were placed in the middle of the
floor, and each individual was furnished with a pan of some kind to eat
from, but they had no spoons or anything to answer the same purpose. A.
then made quite a long speech, not however, standing up, but sitting on a
bench with his hat on his head and a pipe in his mouth. One of the old men
then arose, shook hands with him, resumed his seat on the floor and made
quite a long and animated speech. I could not understand a word of it, but
was much interested by his earnest manner. Both of the speeches were
frequently interrupted by cries of ‘how, how,” corresponding, I suppose
to our “‘ hear, hear,”’ indicating approbation. One of their number then
volunteered to serve the dinner. He first gave out the coffee to each his
portion which was received with a ‘‘ how,” thank you. Then the gammon
was served in the same way, and eaten forth the dishes to the great risk,
as I thought, of the waste and throat. When this was going on Randell
spoke, and with great animation. [ was surprised—he is a Canadian
Frenchman, and a common man but he “talked like a lawyer,’’ with
great earnestness and animation. Afterwards the Indians gradually dis-
persed, and we sat down to a supper of coffee, bangs (corn cakes,) and
honey ; for the whites do not generally eat when they give a feast to the
Budians. T could not but think how amusing it would be to my friends at
home to see us enjoying this feast. We had no forks and had to use the
knives we carried in out belts.

In the morning we were off about half-past six o’clock, and hoped te
(ui 88

reach Fort Pierre on Friday evening, but it was beyond our power. Our
men had been furnished with Indian horses and we had put some other
mules into the cart, giving our mules their old place in the buggy. The
road was good and well marked as it is much traveled passing over rolling
prairie. Timber and water were scarce. The wind blew quite violently
which increased the fatigue of traveling. About two o’clock we stopped
for dinner on a high hill where we found plenty of wood left by some Indi-
ans. After dinner the wind made the traveling so unpleasant that we
encamped early in a ravine, through which ran a small stream called
the Chain of Rocks, from the fact of a ridge of rocks extending across
the Missouri at its mouth. The sides of this ravine were covered with
banks of snow six and ten feet deep. In the morning we made an early
start with a clear sky and bright sun; the wind did not seem to be unusu-
ally violent, but 1 in less than an hour it became so.

About ten o’clock we reached La Chapelle creek, almost worn out with
fatigue. We all agreed that of all our bad days, this had been the worst.
But we found good restoratives in plenty of hot coffee and meat, and a
rest of a few hours made us all again in a condition for traveling. The
afternoon proved pleasant and we soon reached Medicine creek which was
fordable; we passed on and about seven o’clock found a good camping
ground at the foot of an island some miles below the fort. We were off
before sunrise, and at seven o’clock on the, morning of Saturday, May 4,
we I had the pleasure of halting opposite F ort Pierre.

The boat could not come over for us at once, and so we had something
to eat by way of variety, and waited, not very patiently, for it. About
twelve o'clock it reached us, and as the wind was blowing, we were
cordelled up about a mile, ina then crossed and landed at the fort gate.
The cannon and guns were fired in honor of the ‘‘ Boss,”’ and we were re-
ceived with great kindness. I was glad to stop; we had been forty-five
days coming from St. Louis, and our trip had been a tedious one.  A’s.
quarters are very comfortable and we were put in better condition here
than we had been for some days. The Indians soon invited A. to a dog
feast, but he was too tired to go; however, they at nght brought over
to him some of the meat and had a talk with him. I was too fatigued to
attend, but some of the meat was given me, which I thought tasted strongly
of dog. Yesterday was Sunday, and was truly a day of rest. This
morning I feel very well, and am preparing for a start to-morrow for the
Mauvaise Terre.

Tuesday, May 7.—This morning at seven o’clock I started from Fort
Pierre, for the Mauvaise Terre or Bad Lands of White river. Our com-
pany consists of three—young M‘Kenzie, myself and one of the men from
the Fort. The whole equipment is at the cost of A. We are well fur-
nished with provisions for about two weeks, and have three mules all of
which are the worse for wear, but they are the best we could get, as the
Indians have bought up all the best horses and mules and are clamorous for
more. We had a pleasant morning for our start, although it was a little
hazy. By ten o’clock we had reached Willow creek, eight miles from the
Fort, and there we dined. After this we moved off, expecting to go thir-
teen miles further, but we found our mules scarcely strong enough for
the trip, and stopped after traveling eight miles; I hope to reach Bear
creek, our destination, on Saturday, but fear that we shall not be able ;
8y fae

however, I find that to take all things patiently is the best way to get along,
and so | shall do so.

The face of the country along the route of to-day has been hilly; it is
nearly all barren rolling prairie, scarce of water and timber, and having the
soil strongly impregnated with cies I understand this to be. the
cause of the white appearance I here so often noticed; it looks lke lime
scattered over the ground, and has been very abundant to day. Not so
much gravel, nor so many stones as on the other side of the Missouri. Mr.
M‘Kenzie has had great opportunity for learning the customs and habits of
the Indians. He told me to- day, that while they have no priests nor regular
religious system, they all worship something—they offer sacrifices of cloth
and other articles to the Great Spirit, and this is done by simply casting
them into the prairies with some form of prayer I suppose. Scarlet cloth is
generally preferred for this, also calico with red in it, and sheet iron kettles
that have not been used. The Gros Ventres and Assiniboines are mere re-
gular in this than the other tribes; they offer great sacrifices every spring,
at the time of the first rain which is accompanied with thunder and lhight-
ning. Besides the worship of the Great Spirit, they all have something
else to worship—a pipe stem, cap, feather or whatever suits their fancy.

The tribes along the Missouri have no chiefs; those who have authority
amongst them gain it by their valor in war, their skill in stealing horses,
and the number of their kindred. They hav: e authority only because they
are feared, and if accidents removes this prop, they fall. This is often
the case, as I have been told by several familiar with all the Missouri
tribes. ‘They make frequent war parties, but in my opinion their bravery
is overrated; they do not fight openly and boldly as the whites, but their
great object is to surprise. M‘Kenzie told me of ‘one party of Sioux, nine
hundred strong, who went to war against the Gros Ventres and returned,
having pikdered only one little boy, whom they caught straying from thie
village. Another party had several of their number taken prisoners and burnt
before their eyes, and, instead of revenging the death of their friend, they
zeturned crying, and were laughed at, when they got home. There are about
600 lodges of the Y anktonians, and about four hundred of the Tetons.

Wednesday, May 8.—We are encamped this evening on the Sheepoi
river about forty-four miles from the Fort; our old mules have done better
to-day than I expected, as they have brought us thus far, although they
gave out again this afternoon. The road to- day has been very hilly me
the land barren. Animals are scarce—we have not seen any but a single
wolf since we left, and a few small birds; one of the latter is_ bee utiful in
shape and plumage. It is a small snow bird, white in winter, but now of a
dove color with some white.

I picked up to- -day quite a number of small pieces of petrified wood
which were lying in the road. The hills thus far have not been covered
with stones and rocks as they were across the river; I passed but one hill
to-day on which were stones scattered over the surface, and they seemed
to have been made by the breaking of large rocks; the pieces were about
the size of those for turnpike roads. Wood has Been found more abundant
than I expected from the account given me of its scarcity ; it is searce but
still enough is found for a fire every ten miles, water isalso abundant now,
but probably not so in the summer. We dined. to- day at Big Hole creek,

at present containing plenty of good water, but in summer it only a large
hole filled with water.
faq 90

Last night we had a good deal of talk around our fire about the Black
Hills. Joe, an experienced hunter tells me that they are covered with the
finest pine timber, so thick that a person on horseback cannot pass through
it in some places. There is an abundance of fine water but no fish; plenty
of all kinds of game. Grizly bears are found there sometimes in bands, like
buffalo; they live on fruit, flesh and ants ; to get these they turn over the
largest logs and eat them off the under side. He never knew a man to kill
one with young, and less is known to the hunter about the time of their
breeding, than about that of any other animal in this section. They are
not found north of the Missouri.

[ ote.—Grizzly bears are often found in the Bad Lands; we saw the
fresh tracks of one at Sage creek, but saw nothing more of him. ]

Thursday, May 9.—We are encamped this evening on Cotton Wood
creek, and a pleasant evening it is; sitting by a fire wifh my ears delighted
with the evening song of the birds, and my eyes gratified with the lovely
shades of the sky as the evening draws on.

We have travelled about twenty-six miles to-day, which was doing
wonders for our old mules; from the fine roads I should judge that with a
good team and a light load, we could easily go from the Fort to the Mau-
vaises ‘Terres in three days; it will take us however, five and a half. This
morning we left the first fork of the Sheepoi creek, dined on the Ree creek,
about fifteen miles from the former, and came on here for the night, eleven
miles. These streams are all small; water and timber scarcer than here-
tofore; rolling prairie but more level land than yesterday. I have noticed
that the streams along this road are different from those across the Missouri,
in that their banks are neither so steep nor so soft. The hills are not so
stony, though the land is apparently poor.

Friday, May 10.—Our camp this evening is at the head of the Little
Missouri or Bad river. There is another river higher up call the Little
Missouri, but how this one got the same name I cannot ascertain. We
have come to-day about twenty-six miles; the route until noon was over a
section of country very similar to what we passed before ; the small streams
had better timber on them than any we have seen since we left. About
nine o’clock we came to what is called Grindstone hills; they are three
elevations ranging north and south, covered with a sandstone; there are
more stones on them than on any hill I have seen this side of the Missoun,
and these evidently belong to strata beneath the surface; the soil on these
little hills is different from what it 1s below and the eastern side is much
steeper than the western ; this is true of nearly all the large hills I passed
this afternoon. I could not examine the top of the Grindstone hills, as I
had no horse.

About five or six miles from them we reached a basin-shaped valley
which at once suggested the idea of a lake with an outlet and an inlet;
there is a ridge about the middle that divides it into two portions. The
face of the country has been more varied than heretofore, and timber much
more abundant; we crossed the beds of several streams which were dry ;
nearly all the streams within a few miles of this, unite to form Bad river,
the point of union is called its head. To-morrow morning we shall mount a
high bluff and have a prairie for a long way. Game as scarce as ever—
Joe killed a prairie dog, a little grey wolf and missed two antelopes. —
M’Kenzie is cleaning the wolf’s head. We were all very much amused at
the old mules about four miles from here; we had just reached a good
91 [ial

camping ground and were passing on, when the mules thought it time to
stop, and did so; we kicked and whipped, but the mules would only move
in a circle or back ; we all whipped and then laughed at the preposterous
notion of encamping at four o’clock on a fine afternoon. Finally, after a
while the whipping prevailed and on we went.

To-morrow we shall get a distant view of the Black hills. Got to-day,
several specimens of insects; yesterday, one botanical specimen. A lovely
evening, a pleasant camp, and a prospect of a good day to-morrow.

Saturday, May 11.—Our camp this evening is on Sage creck, a few
miles in the Mauvaise Terre or Bad Lands of White river. We started this
morning just as the sun was peeping over the hills; about two mules from

camp we ascended a steep and high bluff, and entered on a wide prairie.
This extended plain is unbroken by a hill until we reach a stream called
Pinau’s spring, about nine iniles from Bad river. i: e passed down a few
hills to reach this, and on the left of the road was an elevated piece of
ground that appeared to me as though it might be: a mound, but doubtless
it was only a natural elevation. At this spring we found a hole containing
good w ater, and had an excellent place for camp,

For breakfast we fared well, and among other things had prairie dog. |
tasted the latter and found it pretty good, although it had somewhat of the
dog taste. These little animals are very much like a grey squirrel and are
much eaten by the hunters. Their bark is more like a chirp, and reminds
me of a bird rather than of a dog. ‘They he at their holes and keep a con-
stant barking, and their tails go as fast as their jaws, for every bark,a
shake of the tail. We passed a large village of them covering sev era] acres,
just after we started, but I judge them to be lazy fellows, as but two ap-
peared to be stirring, although the sun was then up. I found several good
skulls of these animals, and a number of jaw bones which I preserved. Poor
fellows! they had been shot and thie to rot at their own doors. After
breakfast I got several specimens of a plant growing abundantly on the
green bank at the edge of the water. I also prepared some wood for the
pins of my specimens ‘of insects of which I have a few. We then started,
and again arose to a level prairie which we had with only a few hills as far
as Bull creek, about nine miles. Long before reaching this stream, I had
my first view of the Bad Lands; a bute arose perpendicular out of the plain
very irregular 1 in its Shape; I viewed it with a great deal of interest, as
being the first of that remarkable ground which I had come so farsto see.

We e reached Bull creek about two o *clock, and there gave the mules some
rest. Just before reaching it, Joe killed an antelope, of which we had seen
several. We packed the hams and shoulders to camp. While there, M’-
Kenzie prepared the skull of a curlew, which Joe had killed in the morning;
he also partially prepared the skull of the antelope. The stream was dry,
having water only in a few holes; it was approached by a long descent,
and the banks wé re very much washed. ‘There was a sandy soil of about
five feet, then strata of stones and gravel of about three feet, then another
deposit of a light yellow clay. I ‘took out a small piece of Wood from a
spot about five feet under the surface.

We left Bull creek about three o’clock, and moved along very slowly, as
it was very Warm and we all felt lazy. The road now lay over hills which
became more steep and frequent as we approached the Bad Lands. These
occasionally appeared in the distance, and never before did 1 see anything
that so resembled a large city ; so complete was this deception that I could
mae 92

point out the public buildings; one appeared to have a large dome which
might be the town hall; another, a large angular, cone-shape top, which I
would suggest the Gani house or some magnificent building for public
purposes ; * then would : appear a row of palaces, great in number and superb
in all their arrangements. Indeed the thought frequently occurred as we
rode along, that at a distance, this portion of the ground looked like a city
of palaces; every thing arranged upon the grandest scale and adapted for
the habitation, not of pigmies, such as now inhabit the earth, but of giants,
such as Sarl be fit to rule over the ponderous animals whose remains are
still found there. Again and again, as from different positions these hills
came in sight, would such thoughts arise in my mind, and I could almost
fancy, that upon the wind would occasionally be borne, the din and bustle
of the immense city.

The mind could not remain with the present; it must range back to the
earliest period, and ask whence were these things ? ? but soon a nearer view
would destroy all illusion and fancy would have! to give place to fact, and
allow these self-created cities to be mere sand hills. But sand hills as they
are, they are wonderful and must excite the greatest interest in the scientific
coer I wish that we had with us a company of men of this kind pre-
pared for a thorough exploration, as my only hope is to be an humble
ploneer, and to be the means of prompting others more able to engage in
the work. Our route lay to the west of the Lands, and away in the dis-
tance, still further west, appeared a dim blue outline which marked the
Black hills; these are distant about two days march.

The Saat from Fort Pierre is in a direction nearly due west, until about
Pinot’s spring, where it takes a general direction of south by west As it
approaches Sage creek, however, it becomes very serpentine, for so great is
the descent from the plains to the water level here, that the road must
follow all the windings of the ridge to get down to it.

The tops of the highest butes in the Bad Land appeared to be about on a
level with the plain, ‘but I took no exact observation. About five o ’clock,
we came near to Sage creek and entered on the Bad Lands; here it is
merely a great number of small hills of all shapes thrown together in great
confusion and very barren. In thinking of how these lands w ere formed,
it occurred to me very forcibly, that it was by some convulsion of meee
by which the ground sunk—the hills were not elevated, but were left so by
the depression of the surrounding land. ‘This opinion appears to be con-
firmed by the fact, that the highest butes have on their tops, prairie land
covered with vegetation, such as the plain beyond the Bad Lands; then
again, the formation of one of the first hills over which the road passes,
confirms it; the hill is very steep on both sides and ranges nearly north and
south, I think ; it is just about long enough for a good road) and is covered
as nile as aS bottom of any stream arith gravel and small stones, such as
are found in the beds of streams here; at each end of this little hill stand
two butes, one very slightly elevated, between which the road passes, and
just opposite and east of the right hand one, is another like them, the tops
of all of which are nearly level, and as well as I could observe, covered
with the same kind of small stones as cover the road and just as thick; the
sides of these small butes are perpendicular, and the strata of clay they ex~
hibit are horizontal, showing that they have not been distributed by any
up-heaving force.

This same thing is true of a great many of the hills; the strata are per
93 [oe

fectly horizontal. I noticed one in which the hill appears to have sunk,
leaving the middle of it rising up as a peak, twenty or thirty feet high, and
in this peak the strata are horizontal. It is true, that there are a oreat
many peaked hills with inclined sides, but throughout there are many With
horizontal strata of clay ; giving evidence that they had been left there and
not formed by upheaval. On Monday morning I hope to reach the petri-
factions.

Tuesday, May 14.—Yesterday I visited the Bad Lands, but did not get
to camp until it was too late to record the events of the day. We had en-
camped during Sunday, on Sage creek, nine miles from Bear river; in the
morning we were off early, and took breakfast at Bear river. The road
from Sage creek winds considerably at first, over some very steep hills.
This creek is one of the most crooked streams I ever saw; its banks are
almost perpendicular, and from twenty to thirty feet high. 1 observed in
seyeral places in the bank, a thick stratum of slate about - twenty feet below
the surface of the ground; the water is briny and leaves a deposit of salt
on the stones; it, as all the other streams along the route contains at pre-
sent, no running water ; the clay im the bottom i is nearly pure white, and so
eiean 3 is the water, that at first 1t seemed muddy from the clay at the bot-
tom; when the water in these pools was moved by a gentle breeze, the
shadows on the bottom were most beautiful.

A few miles from the creek we passed over some hills that gave evidence
of having experienced the most violent convulsions ; these, unlike those
seen on Satunday , appeared to have been upheaved and to have experienced
the action of fire; one place suggested the idea of a volcanic crater ; it-was
a shght hollow and contained a number of small rocks different from any
around it; a little above, the hills were of white sand, and ome was covered
with small rounded red stones.

From these hills we ascended to a prairie, the most level that [ have seen;
for miles the eye could detect scarcely the least rise, and it gave not the
smallest evidence of the convulsions that probably raged so near it. This
level prarie continued with but a single interruption till we reached the
hills of Bear creek. The descent to this is by a very steep hill and beyond
it another level—a steep takes us to another level beyond. All along this
route the Black hills are distinctly seen in the distance, and this side of “them
the woods of Shazer river. We encamped on Bear river near a spring,
which is always anxiously looked for by travelers through this country. Ei
shared in this anxiety and expected to see a fine flowing fountain. I was
disappointed to find only three small holes in the side of the hill, but was
again agreeably surprised to find cool, delightful sand water. It is
the only water I have really relished for a long while, except perhaps
that of the Missouri.

Immediately after breakfast, we left our baggage and started for the point
which I had long hoped to reach ; my anxiety was great to see the won-
ders of which I had heard so much. “A rapid ride over a good road, soon
brought us to the edge of the descent ; this was steep but even, and ina
few minutes we were on the level below; nothing remarkable appeared
here; in about half an hour we reached the Bad Lands themselves and my
interest was intense.

The road now was over the deposite of yellowish white clay, so hardened
by the sun as scarcely to be impressed by the hoofs of the mules or by
the wheel of the buggy—it was very smooth; we now passed by a number
fae ; 94

of small spots of ground from one to five feet above the level of this clay,
having grass on their tops like those on the prairies above ; their sides were
perpendicular, and having fallen down by the action of the weather, the
horizontal strata of sand and clay were exposed. We soon reached the
place where petrifactions most abound. I got out and looked around for
them ; I was shown a number of ugly dark red, unshapen masses—these,
my g guide told me were petrified turtles, their shells being destroyed by the
action of the sun, and they are crumbling to pieces. The ground i in many
places is thickly covered aye: small lumps, the broken remains of turtles,
which a few years ago were perfect. I felt disappointed, for I had ex-
pected to see many fine specimens of petrifactions of different animals. I
started however, on a voyage of discovery around this pond- ‘Shaped basin,
and was shown a large turtle almost perfect, though broken in two pieces,
its shell partly remained. This we secured as part of our treasure.

There were three of us and we took different directions. I found every-
where the remains of turtles in different stages of preservation, none per-
fect however. I picked up a number of pieces of bone, but found no teeth
nor any heads. ‘This was discouraging, but on my retnrn to. the buggy, I
saw that one of the men had brought an excellently preserved hee ad * of
about the size of that of a large bear ; he had found also several other gcod
specimens. When I ascertained the locality of these petrifactions to be so
circumscribed, I hastened to finish collecting in one day, and although the
sun was broiling hot, and we had no water except a very little brought
with us to cook, we went, and by evening we had made quite a good ex-
amination of his) immediate locality ; - we had about half a bushel of small
articles, a number of excellent teeth and jaw bones, several good heads and
a couple of pretty good small turtles, besides the large one before mentioned.
These I thought as many as my means of transportation would allow. I
have since found them to be more, for they are very heavy. I then filled a
small bag with the clay, and the fragments of petrified ‘anal and started
with M’ Kenzie for the top of one of the highest hills. ‘To gain this was
no small matter, as the path was very steep and mostly very narrow ; at
length we reached it, and a most magnificent landscape rewarded our labor.
The bute we ascended had on its top a level prairie of about twenty acres ;
it was covered with grass and as near as I could judge of the same level as
those beyond the Lands.

These prairies on the butes, and they are on nearly every one, are the
ranges of the Big Horn (Ovis Americana); they love to roam around the
very brink and alone the steep sides, and seem to think themselves secure
in their heights. We judged this bute to be about two hundred feet high,
and nearly all the aha are the same. In every direction except towards
the prairie we could see these great hills towering above the plain below,
having their sides washed into picturesque shapes; the lower elevations
looked beautiful with their carpet of grass and scattered about through the
hard white clay surtace, and this itself appeared almost like water at the
height where we stood. Away to the south appeared the hill on which is
the Ash spring, and near it several high hills which looked lke the old
towers that are perched on the hills of the Rhine; in every direction this
same palace-like appearance was exhibited by the hills in the distance.

But how shall I convey a correct idea of these lands? this question has

* A new species of fossil Rhinoceros,—S. F. B.

95 ho« (EA

octurred to me often to-day ; my own conception of them were very dif-
ferent from the general descriptions I had heard, and I fear that I must
likewise fail in describing them to others. If you imagine an extensive
tract of perfectly level land, and suppose that the whole sinks about two
hundred feet except some large lots, every few hundred feet apart, you will
have some idea of what was probably the original appearance of these
lands; you must suppose also a number, some very small and some very
large, to sink not so much as two hundred feet, but near it; on all these the
highest and the lowest, the level prairie soil remains, but below these lowest
a few feet, a yellowish clay soil takes its place. In the course of time the
rains wash the original perpendicular sides into various shapes still steep,
and partaking of the spirit of the Gothic style of architecture. From some
the original soil is washed entirely away, and they stand at intervals with
whitened sides and rounding top amongst their higher and more fortunate
neighbors. Fancy yourself on the hottest day in summer, in the hottest
spot of such a place without water, without an animal, and scarcely an
insect astir, without a single flower to speak pleasant things to the eye,
and you will have some idea of the utter loneliness of the Bad Lands. It
appears to me quite certain that sheht excavations in some of these hills
would develope many very perfect specimens; many of those now disco-
vered on and near the surface, most probably have been washed out by
the rains and when exposed for some time they crumble to pieces, at least
the petrified turtles do so.

1 was much surprised to see, running through different parts of the clay
surface, vertical strata of a singular looking substance, something like melted
glass and almost transparent; the strata is about one fourth of an inch in
thickness and do not lie in a series of strata, but between each stratum
there are several inches of the clay and they protrude several inches above
the clay, while in many places the surface is covered with small pieces, as
though injected strata had been broken up. Specimens of these strata were
secured. [ What is the substance ?

Another singular fact is the dayers of a peculiarly formed sand stone found
in nearly every hill: they are generally of a rounded shape, weighing pro-
bably ten or fifteen pounds, and they are placed as stone ina wall around
the whole hill, and between each layer there are from eight to ten feet of
clay. ‘They are not confined to this small size, but are also found very
large and of the most singular shapes. At a hasty glance they seem as if
put there by the hand of man; in some places they appear as if they had
run into these irregular shapes in a melted state.

There was no water to be found there, nor grass, except on the prairie
spots; the water when found is scarcely drinkable.

Wednesday, May 15.—Darkness interrupted my narrative last evening,
and I resume it at our noon encampment at the head of the Little Missouri
or Bad river.

On our return to camp on Monday evening, we found all the baggage
safe. On thinking over the matter, I determined to start for home in the
morning ; I had seen enough of the Lands to give a general description of
that portion of them and had secured a few good specimens. To do more
than than this would haye required good saddle horses, and I had only a
pair of indifferent mules; the weather was intensely hot, and no water to
be had in the Lands, so that it would have been a great labor to have ex-
amined them more thoroughly, and besides this, I felt that a more general
ie 96

examination such as my limited means and time would allow, would be of
little service. I had already done enough to excite inquiry, and further
exploration must be made by scientific men with a corps of assistants. One
day more might have secured a Big Horn, but this would hardly justify my
stay. Therefore, while I greatly feared that Professor Baird would be
disappointed, I determined to start in the morning.

We arose early, but were detained by our mules having wandered off.
About seven o’clock we started, very heavily loaded. I felt sure that we
must walk the whole distance, and although such a prospect did not daunt
me, yet a walk of one hundred and thirty miles in very hot weather, and
after a three months trip, was no trifling matter; we started, but as we
were ascending the hill of the opposite bank of the river, something about
the tongue broke by which we were detained nearly an hour. Then one
mule could scarcely pull the load up the hill, and the buggy was evidently
on the point of breaking down. However, we got up the hill and on the
level prairie—had a fine road. I got in to ride a short distance and rather
sad thoughts occurred to me ; there I wé as, laboring and fatiguing myself so
much, in perfect contrast to my situation a year ago, or to my situation in
Pri inceton, Lut I felt that I would prefer being there to lounging about the
fort ; ‘the only thing that troubled me, was how to get the load home ; ; we
at last crossed Sage creek, and there stopped for dinner; the buggy looked
still worse, and one of the springs showed evident signs of breaking.

After much uneasiness, I determined to leave there all we could, and
hasten home and then send a cart for what we would leave. ‘The principal
reasons for doing so were, that the buggy could not carry the load, nor
could I take any portion of my collection at all; for on the road out, so
heavy was the load, and so weak the mules that we walked at least one
half the distance. I felt sure also that I would give out; my limbs could
not carry me much further. We therefore made what they call a baggage,
that is a deposit of articles, and started for Bull creek; we had a very
warm, fatiguing ride, and although we reached there early, we were so
tired that all hands were willing to rest. We stopped for the night and
had a fine encampment.

This morning we were up, had breakfast, and were on our way before
sunrise, and about six o’clock we reached this place. A few miles from
this we met a party with several carts going to trade with the Shagen Indi-
ans beyond the Bad Lands: they by promising to bring our hageage, hght-
ened my heart very much. I find the few warm days since we passed here,
have brought out the buds on the trees.

Thursday, May 16. — Last night we camped on Grindstone creek ;
the clouds were heavy and threatened 1 rain, but happily it passed over
without any. To-day at noon we camped on Bee creek, and this evening
are at our old encampment on the Shee epol river. To- day has been windy
and rather cold : quite pleasant this evening. To-morrow we hope to reach
the fort, and it is about time, as our prov isions are nearly out.

Saturday, May 18.— Last evening about sunset, I reached the Fort
very much fatigued, and very glad to cet back again to comfortable quarters.
We had traveled that day for ty- -three miles with our team nearly given out.

I had been absent about eleven days, one of which was a day of rest. I
had traveled nearly three-hundred miles—had made considerable collections
in the Mauvaises Terre, and had seen a goodly portion of the country be-
tween the Missouri and the Platte. The journey was a fatiguing one to the
97 [1]

flesh but a profitable one to the spirit, and I do not in the least regret having
made it; my only regret is that my limited means did not permit me to go
prepared for a more thorough exploration.

Tuesday, May 21.— Fatigued as I was from my late trip, the rest at the
fort has been very acceptable. Sunday was a quiet, pleasant day, but I did
not do much reading as I did not feel very well, and in the evening had a
severe attack of illness. On Monday morning I felt disinclined to move
about; so I busied myself for a part of the morning in marking what speci-
mens [ have here. This so fatigued me, that I took a long sleep. In the
evening the clouds threatened a storm, but although there was considerable
thunder and lightning, there was, to our regret, scarcely any rain, which is
very much needed for the farms which are beginning to be cultivated.
But everything appears to indicate a very dry and hot season. The river
has fallen about five feet while I have been away, and at the present
stage of water the expected steamboat of the Fur Company could scarcely
get up: however the June rise from the mountains will probably make it
high enough.

The weather has been warm for some days, and should a rain come I
shall be able to make a good botanical collection, but as it now is, all the
flowers are very backward. [I have found several different plants along the
route and the same near the fort. One delicate purple flower reminded me »
of the beautiful Virginian cowslip which was plenty about Clifton ; another
I think, is a species of wild pea; another is a modest little yellow violet, and
another appears to be a white variety of the purple one first mentioned ; it
resembles it in everything but the color of the petals, and these are pure
white ; the specimen I received is the only one I have seen.

Yesterday a party started out on a buffalo hunt across the Missouri, but
I preferred staying in the fort. This morning A. and I took a ride on horse-
back four miles up the river, over a pleasant, level road, and passed through
a prairie-dog village, but found the canine inhabitants very tiwid.

Thursday May 23.—This morning I arose about 5 o’clock and found the
earth much refreshed by a slight rain of last mght. The air was so sultry
that we expected another shower but we have been disappointed. The river
still continues very low and everything unfavorable for a very high stage of
water. Felt better than for several days past ; the fatigues of my long trip
are passing away gradually, and some little energy is again creeping into
my system. I spoke to M’ Kenzie about getting for me a bow with a quiver
of arrows, which he promised to do, and also to start out some young Indians
after the little rabbits peculiar to the prairie ; he inquired about a young
grey wolf which some Indians had in their possession a few days ago, but to
my regret it had been killed ; it would have made a good skeleton.

Having spent an hour in writing, I felt like taking a short botanical ex-
cursion and spent about two hours up the river gathering several good spe-
cimens of a number of different plants, and also collecting some insects.—
Flowers are still rare. On my return I saw a number of beautiful birds
which were singing cheerfully ; one of these was a little mocking bird such
as we had first heard on Sage Creek ; he perches himself on the topmost
twig of a tree and sings away his varied song with great glee. 1 saw also
a large and very beautiful species of the thrush. After dinner I rode with
my brother to the Little Missouri; the hills in that direction are covered
with gravel as across the Missouri. Brought in two botanical specimens.
Afterwards went out to the lodges with Gilpin to witness a great game at

' ~ Mis—7.
Cu 98

bandy (ball) by the Indians ; about sixty were engaged in it, old and young,
men and boys, and they had a number of bets staked on the result. The
whole company appeared to be greatly interested, as the women stood at the
lodge doors occasionally cheermg on the game with songs and shouts. —
The players, had laid aside all their garments except their clouts, and
played with as much zest as a set of school boys, but not with equal fair-
ness ; for some of them carried blankets or robes with which to stop the
ball. This, I am told, is a favorite game with the Indians, and sometimes
hundreds are engaged in it.

They have another popular game called billiards on which they bet a
great deal ; it is entirely different from our game of that name. In the eve-
ning walked up to the prairie village with A. to kill a prairie dog, but did
not succeed,

Friday, May 24.—Last night I was aroused by the roaring of the wind,
blowing violently through my open window, which I immediately closed;
soon after my ears were delighted to hear the rain beating heavily on
the roof, and I was prepared for the evidence shown this morning of a heavy
fall of water.

In the afternoon I took a walk up the river for exercise and to gather
flowers ; saw very few, as the day had been cold and cloudy. I found,
however, two new specimens and several of the old ones were quite nume-
rous, especially the delicate purple violet. I paid a hasty visit to the prairie-
dog village and got three sculls, and then hastened home refreshed by the
invigorating breeze, and prepared to relish my supper. M’Kenzie was out
at the same time and secured three birds for stuffimg—one of them a thrush
and two others quite small specimens. °

I noticed on my way home a black bird with his wings marked with white
where one species has the beautiful, brilliant red ; also noticed a little bird
with its breast of the singular color of a pale pea-green.

After tea Walked out to see another game of bandy ; all were again at it
with hearty good will—it appeared strange to see the old chief, Little Bear,
with nothing but his breech cloth on, and his bandy in hand as hard at play
as the youngest child in the party, and there were some quite young among
them. They afforded a pretty sight as they hurried in different directions
after the ball in their flesh colored uniform, their scarlet cloth streaming
out behind, with an occasional head highly ornamented

One squaw only joined in the play and as she had on an English dress
she appeared somewhat out of place. The whole encampment however took
great interest in the scene, and every lodge had its collection of squaws and
babies looking on with varied interest. It was altogether a wild and cheer-
ful scene, and a good illlustration of one of the national amusements of the
Indians. JI would suggest it as a grave question for those who can see
farther than their neighbors into a mill stone—whether our school-boys de-
rived this game from the savage, or handed it over to them, or whether both —
being ranked under the head of savages may be regarded as having inherited —
it from the same original source ?

Two of the voyageurs were engaged in the game, and at the end of |
the sport an Indian gave one of them a horse, worth probably twenty |
robes; the same person a few days ago received a present of forty robes;
‘fortunate fellow”? would the unitiated exclaim; but an Indian present is
like an eastern gift, which is to be returned with compound interest ; in this
country one finds it more to his advantage to buy anything he may want

99 p14

from an Indian. A trader just pointed out to me an Indian who had given
him a porcupine skin in the winter, and said he, “I have not done paying
for it yet though I have given oe the value of seventeen-hundred dollars
already.” This system of presents prevails to a great extent here; you
would think them the most generous people in the world, and they are really
so, but they get paid a great deal in the same way. This refers to the
whites as well as to the Indians. Obtained from Mr. Gilpin some valuable
statistics about the Sioux nation.

Read Lynch’s work, and was exceedingly struck with the similarity that
must exist between the conformation of some parts of that country around
the Dead Sea and this ; so striking is the resemblance that a paragraph de-
scriptive of it is almost the same as my language in describing the distant
view of the Mauvaise Terre ; it is found at page 330 chapter 15, in the ac-
count of an excursion to Masa la, where “‘they beheld in the distance
most singular formations resembling a plain covered with towns and villages,
marble cities with columns, temples, domes and palaces, which as they (the
beholders) advanced faded away and finally resolved themselves into curi-
ously configurated hills, so marked and channelled by the weather, that
although aware of the formation, it was difficult to destroy the first illusion.”
See pages 91 and 92 of this journal.

I thmk the picture of Masada, facing page 332 might easily pass for a
view of one of the sand butes of the Bad Lands. It will certainly be an
interesting question for my more learned followers to investsgate, and I hope
it may serve to throw some heht on the formations in both districts.

A. mentioned to-day some Mauvaise Terre high up on the Missouri more
wonderful than those on White River—he did not know whether petrifac-
tions were found there or not.

Saturday, May 25.— This morning early the clouds were very heavy and
indicated a heavy rain but it did not come, although it has been cloudy
throughout the day ; just now, however, it appears as if about to begin, and
it probably will be a long one. Fire has been very pleasant all day. Before
coming here I had been Ted to suppose that changes in temperature were not
sudden : my experience however has been very different. But my constitu-
tion does not suffer from them as it did in the East, either because of my
more vigorous health or of the great purity of the air, and perhaps it may
be from a combination of both.

During the forenoon I took a long walk down the river on the look-out
for plants, but found very few ; however got three new specimens for the
herbarium, and several fine yellow violets, which I hope will press better
than those heretofore tried. I walked for nearly a mile on a sand bar, and
found imbedded in the sand a well preserved buffalo skull, wanting only the
lower jaw. I sent Jim for it and shall give it the privilege of a visit to the
East. M’Kenzie did not succeed in skinning the small birds shot this
morning, on account of such large holes in them. In the afternoon one of
the men brought me a small owl which lives with the prairie-dog. I killed
it, and with M’K’s. assistance took off its skin; but as we hive: no arsenic,
I fear it will not keep; I have, therefore, made a skeleton of it and if the
skin decays will have at least its bones.

While engaged in this operation, a band of Indians entered the yard for
a dance; they. were about twenty in number and had two leaders, one on
horseback. ‘All were dressed in war costume and had their bodies painted
with vermillion, or with yellow ochre ; they exhibit the same taste for dis-
[1] 100

play that the whites do in their military costume ; the buckskin leggins of
those who had them, were ornamented with very long fringes of differ-
ent colors, and so also were the coats of several; some had long tails orna-
mented with metallic plates about as large as a dollar, reaching to the ground;
their lances, which were about ten feet long, had a long fringe ot brilliantly
colored feathers reaching almost the whole length; some had handsome
bows and quivers, and indeed time would fail me in describing all their orna-
ments and implements. Having formed themselves into a circle the musicians
began to beat their tambouriné like drums, and to how! most melodiously
according to their taste. All joined in the song, which sounded very much
like the negro melodies, all notes and no words’ this I was told was the
case, but the negro is far more musical. While singing they also danced,

that is, jumped up and down in the same place; after having thus danced
and sung and drummed and beaten on an instrument of two sticks, they all
gave a great flourish of instruments and loud halloos as a grand finale.

These shouts reminded me very much of the screech and shudder usually
evolved on jumping into an ice cold bath.

The first performance was followed by several others of the like character
intermingled with occasional speeches — declarations of what wonders the
orator had done in war, or perhaps intended doing. These were received
with a true military salute by the beating of drums and loud hallooing.
Another ceremony was the presentation “of a calico shirt to one of the
leaders, and of a little tobacco and vermilion to the party ; something of
this kind is always expected. Why is it that all uncivilized nations are so
fond of the cry ‘‘ give—give.”’? This was the first Indian dance I had seen
and I confess I looked upon it as on some of those horrible rites of heathen
lands, merely as a curiosity, not with delight. But all these customs are
calculated to suggest many philosophical reflections as they indicate more
than appear at ‘hirst sight. The philosophy of costume is well worthy of
study. The river is rising rapidly this evening and a fine rain falling.

Sunday, May 26.—After tea I took a short walk with Mr. Hodgekiss, and
as we passed through the lodge I remarked to him that we ought to go armed
with clubs to keep. off the dogs which were then exhibiting a threatening
attitude. He replied that in a Crow village it would be. impossible for
us to pass with safety as we were then doing, but would have to go wrapped
in a robe as an Indian, and under the guidance of one, and even then, clubs
would hardly protect us from the hordes of savage dogs that would assail us.
The river still continues to rise, and is already in good navigable order,
so that we look for the boat in about two weeks. It cleared off last night
aud we have hada bright sun for the most of the day ; but about sunset dark
clouds overspread the sky and there was every appearace of a rainy night.

Monday, May 27.— This has been a day of rain and mud, but in the
evening it has cleared off beautifully. Spent the day in reading and writing.
Made out this afternoon a tabular view of the Sioux nation on the Missouri,
so as to exhibit their numbers, divisions and localities. This has been exe-
cuted under the inspection of Mr. Gilpin, who has been in this country for
ten years, and is good authority on this subject; his account of the numbers
of the different tribes was confirmed by six or eight Indians of authority
who were in his room at the time.

Hodgekiss mentioned a singular fact this evening, namely, that the spring
which is the head of the Yellowstone, gushes out in a strong stream of ex-
cellent and very cold water, and that about thirty yards from the source it

+
101 . [1]

is divided by a large rock into two parts, one of which forms the Yellow-
stone River, and the other the Lewis Fork of the Columbia. He says the
elk are far more numerous on the Yellowstone than we suppose—that in
one place the Indians have made quite a substantial fort from their horns
piled together, and that in another place quite a large hill has been formed
by the number of these horns collected together.

I have for some time intended giving a ‘description of Fort Pierre Chou-
teau and its environs, but have postponed it from day to day for no good
reason. A person coming up the country on the other side of the river
has his first view of it about half a mile below, and it then presents a most
beautiful sight.

The main object in the picture is the fort itself, having a white appearance,
lying four-square, surrounded by a square palisade wall fifteen feet high and
three-hundred feet on each side, with bastions at the North, West and South
East corners; then the Indian lodges are seen around the fort; by their
irregularity of position, their conical shape and varied colors, giving life and
a picturesque air to the scene; and fora couple of miles below the fort and
between it and the bluffs, the whole plain is dotted with horses grazing
and moving leisurely about, while the bold bluffs a mile west of the fort
affords a fine back-ground for the picture. The shores immediately oppo-
site the fort are high bluffs almost from the water’s edge, and with their
steep barren sandy ‘sides, look as if determined to wrap themselves up for-
ever in the dignity of their own sterility. ‘The main channel runs along this
shore, althought at present there is a probability that the boat will be able
to land at the fort.

The fort is situated on a beautiful piece of bottom land which extends for
some miles along the bank of the river, and is skirted by a range of bluff
hills on the West, by which you rise to the rolling prairie beyond. The
bottom land affords fine pasture and has a beautiful appearance when the
grass and flowers are out on it; butthe company pasture their horses on the
Bad River about eight miles from the fort, as the Indians always have so
many horses here.

On entering the fort two large gates are seen, over each of which there
is a large picture intending to represent scenes of interest to the Indian ; we
shall enter by the one to the left, as the other leads to the stable-yard, and
we shall choose a dry day for our visit, as on any other our shoes will suffer
very much from the mud. A number of Indians, men and women, with
their blankets wrapped around them, with their bare legs, painted faces and
curiously ornamented heads, will probably be lounging in perfect listless-
ness .about the gate. The main building stands opposite the gate and oc-
cupying nearly the whole length of that side, with a porch along its entire
front, windows in the roof and a bell on the top, and above it the old weather
cock, looking for all the world, like a Dutch tavern. The main building
contains the mess hall, kitchen ‘and rooms for the traders; to the right of
it you see a neat log house with a pleasant little portico in front, and oil
painted window blinds—that is the boujier or boss’ house, and the long one
storied building painted red, and occupying almost the w hole of the North
side of the fort, is the store and warehouse where the goods and robes are
kept. To your immediate right as you enter the gate are the blacksmith’s
shop and several rooms for the men, and to your left is a small building con-
taining the carpenter shop and further accommodations for the men : nearly
the whole south side is occupied by a low building divided into seven rooms,
c1] 102

occupied by the laborers and traders. These low houses are covered with
dirt roofs ; none of the houses are built against the fort walls, but behind
them is a space of about twenty-five feet, and this is occupied m various
ways. ‘The north side has a house for the deposit of harness and implements
of labor — the powder-house, milk-house for quite a good dairy —the stable
and stable-yard ; the south side has two large buildings for corn, meat, skins,
&c., while the south west comer is oceupied by the office, a one- story build-
ing ranging with the main building, and having behind it a house occupied
by one ‘of the clerks, and a yard in which the feathered tribe live and lay
egos. This arr angement of the buildings leaves quite a large square in the
centre, from the middle of which generally rises a tall flag staff, but at pres-
ent there is none — the last was blown down by the w ind.

The Fort Pierre grave yard lies about a quarter of a mile south of the
fort ; it is a square piece of ground which has been well.fenced in but not
ornamented in any way ; it contains the bodies of a number of dead, both
Indians and Whites: the latter are in the ground and their oraves are marked
with wooden crosses, or with tombstones ‘recording their names and dates of
their death. The Indians however have followed their own customs in dis-
posing of their dead, which is to place them on a scaffold about eight or ten
feet from the ground. As you approach the yard coming from the fort, you
see elevated on a scaffold supported by rough willow poles and now half
broken down, a confused pile of old boxes of various lengths — old trunks
ss pleces of blankets hanging out. These may seem strange things for

a grave yard, but these old ‘boxes contain the bodies of dead Indians : they
were originally placed on a good scaffold and had piles of blankets wrapped
around them, but the scaffold has broken down from exposure to weather
and weight of the bodies, which appear to have been heaped on without
order of 3 any kind. If you look over the fence to the left of this scaffold,
you will see on the ground one of these boxes which has probably fallen
down and broken open: and there the bones lay exposed, except the skull
which perhaps has been buried by some friend of the deceased; if you look
a little more closely you will see lymg with the bones, a dark looking
object about three inches broad and perhaps fifteen long, tied around with

a string: this is some tobacco given to the dead to ‘smoke in the other
esliat they always place with their dead almost every article of common
use, for their benefit in the other world: blankets, sometimes as many as
twenty, the best the parties can afford — tobacco, sugar, coffee, molasses,
kettles of mush and other things of use. These remain undisturbed until
they decay, or are destroyed by the weather or wolves. On the east side
is a scaffold put up a few months since; the box is a rough one, daubed
with black paint, and is surrounded by several old trunks, that were the
property of the old squaw who rests within. On the opposite side is
another scaffold, on which is placed the body of a man who died not many .
months since; you can see the scarlet blanket through the large cracks in
this rude coffin. It appears to me, that this method of burial origmated
in a desire to protect the bodies from the wolves, more than in any of their
religious opinions: they frequently bury the bones, after the flesh has
decayed entirely. On a large tree, a little above the fort, isa body which
must have a great pile of blankets on it, from the size.

Tuesday, May 28.— This morning arose early and found the day to be
clear, with a delightful, bracing air: after breakfast went up the river about
a mile, intending to cross in the flat, with some Indians going after buffalo,
103 | cE]

but they went in such numbers, and with so many horses, that I declined,
and came back. Spent an hour in writing, and then partook of some real
Baltimore oysters; they were a year old, however, but tasted better than
I expected.

After dinner started with M’Kenzie up the river; he shot at a prairie
squirrel andmissed ; we then went on to a cooley, in which there was a
large rock of red sand stone, seen frequently in the prairies below this,
about five feet each way, and appears to be on the surface only. I had
no hammer and could not bring away a specimen; the side of the hill had
many stones in it as large as a half bushel measure, but they were nearer a
limestone in appearance. I got in this little valley, specimens of five or six
plants seen for the first time. After returning, I spent an hour in putting
dried specimens in the herbarium.

I received some information about the Indians, of which the following
is the substance. The Sioux nation has no general council, but each tribe
and band determines its own affairs. These bands have some bond of
common interest analogous to the ties of our secret societies; the Crow-
Feather-in-Cap band are pledged to protect each others wives — to
refrain from violating them, and if the wife of one of their number is stolen
by another of their number, she is returned, the band either paying the thief
for returning the stolen property, or forcing him to do it whether he will
or not. Should a wife be violated, they are bound to aid the mjured
brother, in rev enging his wrong. These bands have societies analogous to
the Orders, Divisions, &c., of our secret societies, in all parts of. the Sioux
nation, and a stranger always finds friends amongst those of his own band.
One reason why this band are thus pledged, is that so many quarrels arise
because of the women; that say that in any camp, if a difficulty occurs, in
almost every case a woman is the cause.

The Strong Heart band is pledged to protect each other in their horses ;
should a Strong Heart from a distance, steal some horses, and they be
claimed by a brother Strong Heart, his fellows would tell him that he must
give them up, or they would give the robbed man some of their own horses,
regarding it as the greatest disgrace to themselves, to allow him to go
away on foot. And thus, I suppose, that all these bands have some com-
mon object that unites them together; and here we have the origin of this
system of banding; in the absence of law it takes the place of our system
of justice. The only law among the savage tribes is that of force; if a
man is injured, he must himself punish the offender, but in most cases, to
do this, he must be supported by others, and who so proper for this as his
brother or brother-in-law? And thus, for mutual protection, kindred are
forced to unite in bands.

To give me some idea of their religion, I may state that they pray to the
Great Spirit on any occasion when they feel the need of his aid, and then
promise a sacrifide of cloth, or a feast of dogs to him. Thus, a man is
struck by a ball that ‘only sticks in his flesh, producing a slight wound ;
from this circumstance he fancies that he is not to be killed by a ball; he
holds it up and offers a prayer to the Great Spirit, thus: ‘Oh, thou Great
Spirit, I believe that [am not to be killed by a ball, and, as a proof of
that belief, I will wear this ball constantly, and will give to you, exposed
to the sun and air till they rot, some blankets and tobacco; should I lose
this ball from around my neck, then I believe that the next one will kill
me.” This ball is thenceforth worn as his “medicine,’’ and it is prayed
eo 104

to and guarded with the most scrupulous care; it is therefore more than a
charm, having the addition of the element of reverence and worship.
The sacrifices of blankets, &c., are exposed on a tree or in the prairie,
till destroyed. In battle, when they feel themselves in great danger, like
the warriors of old, they stop, and with outstretched arm, they pray to the
Great Spirit, and promise a sacrifice if they have success, and are careful to
fulfil their promise. But they have no idea of future reward and punish-
ment; all are to be happy in the other world. They know of no moral
relation to God; his will, as a standard of right and wrong, is never heeded,
but like the Greeks and Romans, they pray for his favor in their worst
deeds.

One of the most singular things amongst their customs is the reiation
held by a man to the parents of his wife; he never names them, speaks to
them, nor looks his mother-in-law in the face, no matter how long they
may live together; he is ‘‘ ashamed’ and thinks he shows them the highest
respect by acting so; he gets the best lodge, and is bound to supply the old
people with meat until he has a family. The young couple occupy the large
lodge, while the old folks live in the small one behind them, and should
they accidentally meet, they hide their faces in some way. All his deal-
ings with the old people are through his wife. This treatment of his new
parents is the highest test of good breeding among them, and the man is
exceedingly ill-bred who violates this custom. ‘he husband never men-
tions his wife’s name, but in speaking to her uses the word ‘¢tche,’’? which
good interpreters say they cannot translate ; it is not confined to this use,
but is addressed also to a man when speaking to him, in speaking of his
wife. If she have children, he speaks of her as this boy’s, or this girl’s
mother, naming the child. The philosophy of this custom does not occur
to me, but itis a very important fact, in the attempt to ascertain the ruling
principles that make the savage to differ from the white man. What a
contrast to the happy circle of friends to which a marriage often intro-
duces a man amongst us. Indians despise the female sex; say that
woman was made only for doing man’s drudgery, and for the gratification
of his grossest passion; they say that whites ought not to have women,
because they don’t know how to use them— thank God we do not, in
their sense. How grateful we should feel to the Bible for the great social
happiness it has diffused over the world. I think that Bancroft says the
Indian language contains no word for the abstract father — that he always
says my father or your father, &c. My brother says that it is not so in
any Indian language that he is acquainted with.

Wednesday, May 29.— I forgot to mention yesterday, how the ceremony
of sending and smoking the pipe was conducted. The different bands of
Sioux are not bound to take up arms in defence of one another ; when there-
fore, any band finds itself under the necessity of calling in the aid of others,
at pays them, and the negotiation is carried on somewhat in this way: The
band wishing aid, collects in solemn council, and the pipe and tobacco are
placed in the centre; having no written language, of course the message
must be conveyed verbally, and the messenger who has been chosen is in
the council. ‘They all make their speeches in his presence, so that he may
know what to repeat; they then, with solemn ceremony, bind up the
tobacco in a piece of, skin, tie it in a particular manner, and paint it with
blue earth and vermilion. The pipe and tobacco are then put into the
hands of the messenger to be borne to the tribe to which he is sent. Having
105 oe

arrived at their village, a council of the braves is held to hear his message,
and to determine whether they will open and smoke his tobacco. He makes
his speech, states the wrongs suffered by his tribe, tells the number of
blankets, horses, and robes that will be paid them for their services, and
awaits their answer. If they determine to accept his offer, the tobacco is
opened and smoked; they are then bound by the strongest ties to meet
at the rendezvous, and to fulfil their engagements ; if they fail so to do, they
are scorned and derided by the other tribes. On their arrival at the ap-
pointed place, the articles promised, are handed over to the partisnas or
leaders of the different bands in solemn council, and as there will not be
enough for every one, the leader, if he is generous, will give these things to
those of his band who are poor and have none. On the contrary, should
they decline the offer of this ambassador, his tobacco and pipe are returned
to him unopened, and he is dismissed with some present.

The Sioux language is said to be as flexible as our own, having many
different forms for expressing the same idea. They have inflexions of
nouns and verbs, but no genders; it is said to be a more difficult language
to acquire, than either the Blackfoot or Crow tongue. Every day seems to
develope something interesting relative to the Indians, and a careful ob-
server could, in a year or two, collect a volume of valuable facts relative to
their habits and languages.

Thursday, May 30. — This morning at breakfast, I was glad to learn
that the carts from the Cheyenne Indians were in sight, and soon afterward
was relieved of a good deal of anxiety by seeing them unload my specimens
from the Bad Lands. They all came safely, except some of the bags, which
had been torn by wolves which had opened the cache, eaten up all the par-
fleche, and opened the bags in search of something more palatable, but the
unkind bags gave them stones when they asked for meat. I thik a number
of the small pieces of petrified wood were lost. A part of the morning was
passed in packing the specimens in boxes, and soon I had the pleasure of
seeing one large box well filled, marked T. A. Culbertson ; another box is
also nearly full. Afterwards I prepared a long report to Professor Baird.
While engaged in writing it, I heard a gun fired in the yard, and a noise as
if a large number of persons had arrived.

On going to the window, I saw a large band of Indians on horseback, pre-
ceded by several on foot, bearing two flags — the stars and stripes ;_ it was
a band of the Blackfeet tribe of Sioux. They had just arrived with about
fifty lodges, and, while squaws were putting up these, the ‘Braves’? come
to announce themselves. They dismounted and entered the reception room
with a friendly shake of the hand to most of the whites present. A feast
was ordered for them. In the middle of the room were placed four (five gal-
lon) kettles, filled with most tempting mush, and beside these, to keep them
in countenance, were two others, equally large, filled with equally tempting
coffee, already sweetened, while on the floor were fifty large hard crackers,
(pilot bread) and about one-hundred plugs of very common tobacco. The
Indians were all around the room on chairs, if they could get them, while
those in the middle sat on the floor, enjoying the most happy anticipations.
They had no meat in their camps and had been almost starving for some time.
I entered and placed myself full length on a bed beside Gilpin, who was
master of the feast. While the company were detained, waiting for the ar-
rival of one of the young men, I took observations ; and first, I noticed that
they had all the gravity of countenance usually exhibited by hungry men of
(a 106

all countries, while waiting for their dinners; there was no laughing or jest-
ing unbecoming the serious business before them, but the various pipes were
passed round in profound silence. They were all in full dress, presenting an
amusing mixture of savage and civilized costumes; many of them had fur
caps, decorated with handsome plumes of the ostrich feathers, dyed red ;
others had on the much coveted soldier coat, and all wore highly orna-
mented Indian dress. ‘There was a most agreeable variety of. faces, exhi-
biting all degrees, from that of the stern old brave to the light-hearted
daring young scalp taker. There were several who had an amiable and
intellectual expression of countenance ; they were tall, lightly framed, and
with the features of the face delicate and long. Among these were four
brothers, noble-hearted fellows, the sons of an old man, whose bones I hope
to carry away with me.

These were the Indians that Gilpin traded with, and he said they were
all strongly attached to him — that they are most excellent men, although
they certainly bear a bad name with the other traders. He said that the
young braves of noble families despise a mean action, such as not paying for
anything a trader might advance them on credit — that they would cast it up
as a reproach to any one who should fail in so domg. One of them who
sat near recognized me as a brother of Alexander; he asked Gilpin if
I was not, and then gave me a friendly shake of the hand. After all were
in, and each had his pan, (they provide their own utensils for eating here,)
this one arose, shook hands with Gilpin, myself and the Little Bear, a chief
of another tribe, and made a short speech, returning thanks for the feast,
&c. When he closed, an old pale-faced warrior came forward, shook hands
with us, and remaining on his feet began a speech. ‘ Ah,”’ said Gilpin,
“that old fellow can speak, he is a second John Q. Adams.” I regarded
him attentively ; he was of the common height, broad shouldered, with an
expansive forehead, and that style of prominent and large features which
indicates intellect'and sternness. He stood erect, with his left hand holding
his blanket, and with his right making gestures continually. Never did I
listen toa more ready flow of language, or to a more self composed, dig-
nified speaker, whether he addressed us or turned to the Indians on either
side of him. His speech was also a complimentary one, and was short, as
the dinner was getting cold. He concluded, and two young men took the
office of waiters; they had no light task, and before they got through had
burnt their fingers, and made the sweat roll from their faces. It was
pleasing to observe the quiet and decorum throughout the whole scene ;
each one waited patiently until his turn came, and then modestly received
his cracker, meat or coffee. The Little Bear, the old man and an invited
guest, had no dish, and when the coffee was being served out, a large tin
mug was got for him; the young man who was serving, instead of passing
on, Waited until the mug was brought, and then gave the old man a treble
portion, being a very pleasing instance of politeness and respect. As they
drank their coffee nearly every one, especially the old man, made their
compliments to us, as we do in drinking wine. The feast went on cheer-
fully, and towards the conclusion, our old man started a song, or rather a
how! of thanks, which was caught up and echod by several. Gilpin tells
me that these songs have only an occasional word and that it is the same
with nearly all theirsongs. The tobacco was then distributed, two plugs
being given to each; but the young men, being able to kill buffalo and buy
tobacco, gave their portion to some of their friends too old for the hunt. I
107 ra]

noticed quite a number passing their pans, well filled with mush, to their
squaws who were standing about the door, which indicated generous and
kind feeling. This was not an act of impoliteness, but just the reverse
according to Indian etiquette, for with them it is very impolite not to
eat all that is given at a feast — you must eat or carry away. Soon
after, the parties dispersed and went to their lodges, to feast again most
probably.

On asking at what age young men were allowed to attend these feasts, I
was told that they went to those given by whites at all ages, but that they
must gain admittance to the feasts among themselves in one of three ways—
by stealing a great many horses, by giving a great deal to the poor, or by
bringing in the scalps of a great many warriors. The men who appeared
so peaceable this afternoon were all ready to kill their fellows, on any
provocation, and, doubtless, every man of them had killed more then one.
They are regarded at the fort as the worst of all the tribes, and are blamed
for killing cattle every time they come. They have traded a large number
of robes “this afternoon, and nearly all for eatables, as they were “starving 3
they want to trade for meat, but Alexander will not do this, on any consid-
eration, for fear of starving himself.

Oh! for the jaw bone of an ass to murder these miserable Indian dogs ;
just now, as at every few minutes during the day and night they are howl-
ing like a set of fiends; they have nee a decent bark like our well-bred
American dogs, but it is howl! howl!! howl!!! everlastingly — but after
all it is their nature, for they are more ‘wolf than dog.

Recipe for making dried Plums.— It is late, but I must note a new
way, or rather the Indian way of drying plums, for the benefit of our
economical housewives. When a lady wishes to preserve her plums,
which grow here abundantly, she gathers them, invites her neighbors, and
they spend the afternoon sociably in sucking out the plum stones, saving the
skins, which are carefully put away and dried, and when epblcen with the
scrapings of a buffalo skin, are esteemed a most rare dish. This is worthy
a place amongst “ Miss Leslie’s Thousand and one Receipts.”’

Friday, May 31.— This morning was spent in hunting antelope with
M’Kenzie; we rode about ten miles over the hills bordering the Missouri,
but did not get any game. The few antelopes that we saw were very wild,
and although M’Kenzie shot twice, the animals were too far off. A wolf
was seen scampering along, but at such a distance that we could get no
chance for ashot. It appears as if I were to get no game at all here; the
best marksmen about the fort have tried to get wolves, antelope and prairie
dogs, but thus far without success. I have tried to get rabbits, and have
engaged several young Indians to bring me some, but none have yet come.
About two o’clock this afternoon, Gilpin, Alexander and myself went to a
feast in the village, given by one of the tribe which arrived yesterday. On
entering the lodge, we found but few assembled. Opposite the door or place
of entrance, through which we passed by stooping and dragging ourselves
in, was placed a good robe for our seat, and in honor of the occasion, a
small square box containing a flag. Ina short time the whole company
had assembled, consisting of perhaps twenty persons. An old man, who
came in last, returned thanks to the host for his hospitality, and then each
of the company followed in turn, all using the same form except the title by
which they addressed him: thus — “brother-in-law, I thank you for the
feast,’? — “‘ cousin, I thank you, &c.”? — “ uncle, I thank you, &e.’ Then

cri] 108

the host gave the hand of friendship to the whites present, and made a
short speech, thanking us for our company, and making some inquiries
concerning them; to these M’Kenzie replied, and then the master of
ceremonies began to help the food, each one having provided his own dish.
The mess, consisting of two dogs, of reverend age and valuable services,
judging from appearances, had been boiled in a large copper kettle and was
served out in very generous shares, beginning with us, and going around to
complete the circle. I noticed that the man who sat at Gilpin’s right was -
not served, nor had he a pan— this seemed very strange, as he was the one
who had made the speech to us, and appeared to be a prominent personage.
On inquiring the reason, I was told that he was the host. ‘The host,”
said I, ‘and don’t he eat?’’ ‘No, etiquette requires that he shall not
partake at all of the feast.’” Nor did he serve it out, but simply sat as a
mere looker on. A rib was given each of us, and having tasted it, the cus-
tom of carrying away what we could not eat, was a relief to us, and we left,
carrying with us our ribs. There was a good deal of conversation, during
which one of the old men spoke of their custom of eating dogs, and said
that they regarded dogs as we do cattle. And it is partly true; they are of
great service to them, being much used as pack animals, so that a dog feast
is really an expensive one and a great compliment. But I was surprised to
learn that this custom does not’ extend to the mountain Indians, who eat
them only when starving. Hodgekiss tells me that a fat pup, well boiled,
and the water changed several times, and then allowed to cool, is a delicious
dish, and has no dog taste about it.

Before one of the lodges near where the feast was held, was the body of
a little girl who had died yesterday ; it was wrapped in a blue blanket, and
was to be placed on the scaffold as soon as the coffin should be finished. I
did not see the ceremony of conveying it to the tomb, or rather, to its rest-
ing place, but it was probaaly done in a very simple manner, as [ was told
that the burying of the dead, except braves, is left principally to the
squaws. Blankets and food are placed on the scaffold for their use in the
other world ; the family of the deceased mourn very much, and if others aid
them in this sad work, they expect pay and are sure to get it.

Wednesday, June 5. — This afternoon I am on the Missouri, above Fort
Pierre, and again at leisure to write as usual. On Monday evening it rained
very heavily, and in the midst of this pouring down, an Indian arrived and
stated that the steamboat was but a few miles down the river; this an-
nouncement electrified the whole establishment, and there were various
opinions as to the hour’she might be expected. At length we all settled
down in the belief that she certainly could not come that night, but that
morning would bring her. About this time Gilpin brought me a prairie dog
an Indian had killed with a stick ; the skin was not mjured in the least,
and the hair was‘in excellent order, the old coat having been shed so recently.
I determimed to take both skeleton and skin, as the specimens are so rare.
An Indian who happened to be in the room soon took off the skin, and I
began to cut the meat form the bones, but it turned out to be a long job.
At length the bones were cleaned in tolerably good order, and after various
efforts the skin has at length been stuffed so as to make a fine specimen.
I may think myself fortunate in having thus secured a prairie dog; I
am told that Audubon failed in getting one, and Dr. Evans told me that
he had not secured a specimen last summer, as the skins of three he had
taken spoiled.
109 faq

Tuesday morning opened rather gloomy, but in spite of mud on the earth
and clouds in the sky, all preparation was made for the arrival of the boat,
and every one was on the look-out to get the first peep. At length, about
half-past one o’clock, the smoke was discovered as the boat began to round
the point below the fort ; in about half an hour after, she hove in sight, and

‘before very long, we had the pleasure of boarding the E] Passo, as she lay
just below the fort. Salutes were fired on the boat and at the fort alternately,
from the time she appeared in sight until her landing, and there wasa great
gathering of Indians and Whites to welcome her. A. recognized on the hur-
ricane deck, his friend Dr. Evans, of last summer, and soon I had the pleasure
of making his acquaintance. He had visited the Mauvaise Terre last summer,
and had made quite a collection there; this, of course, was a bond of sym-
pathy between us; it was a real gratification for me to converse with an in-
telligent man on the subject of the Bad Lands. He was very free, and we
soon understood each other.

The substance of our several conversations was that we were both disap-
pointed in the appearance of the Bad Lands, in the number of petrifactions
found, and in the number of localities when found. He says he believes they
are scarcely to be obtained in any other place than the locality of the turtles
near Bear river, visited by me. Our estimate of their extent was the same,
namely — thirty by sixty miles; he says that white earth now runs through
the whole length of them. Before seeing him I had felt very much disap-
pointed about my collection, fearing that it would be of little value ; but was
greatly relieved to hear him say that such had been his feelings before
reaching the States, but that he was agreeably disappoimted to find that his
small collections had excited a great deal of interest in all who saw them,
and he predicted a like favorable reception for mine. The letter I had
written to Professor Baird was submitted to his inspection, as I wished to
have his opinion of what I said; he had attentively read through the six
pages, and complimented me on the accuracy of what I had there stated.
“There was no alteration that he would suggest,’’ though he gave me a
caution I readily acted on, which was not to state any thing except on my
own personal observation, not depending even on the best authority, “ for,”
said he “this may appear under the sanction of a well known name, and
may afterwards be discovered to be a most ridiculous error. I mentioned
to him that I thought, from Lieutenant Lynch’s description, that similar
formations abounded along the Jordan; he examined the account in his
book, to which I have before particularly referred, and coincided in my
opinion, stating that he supposed that such was probably the case. That
point will be more particularly examined by those to whom we make
our reports. The formation in the Bad Lands is what is called the
tertiary.

Thursday, June 6. — Last night the boat laid up about dark, as it would
be impossible to travel on this river at night. We must have been off very
early, as when J got up about four o’clock, we were under way, and some
distance from our starting place. We stopped before breakfast for fuel,
the procuring of which here is not like that in the States; there are here no
wood-yards, with the wood all cut and in proper order, but whenever a lot of
dry timber appears, if the boat needs it, she puts ashore, and all hands fall to
work cutting and carrying on board; with the number of hands on board, it
takes very little time. I landed and tramped about in the wet weeds, to look
for botanical specimens, and got quite a number, although not in flower. Soon
Fa 7 110

afterwards we entered the Great Bend, into which the Shayen (Chenenne,)
river empties; it is about five miles across, and twenty around by the river.
Just below this bend, while we were wooding, six Mackinaw boats belong-
ing to the opposition company, and from the upper country came in sight,
and passed down; they appeared to be lightly laden, and were estimated to
have about thirteen hundred packs of robes aboard. The slate formation
appeared on the banks just above this. About twelve o’clock we passed
the mouth of the Shayen, and stopped to wood just above it; it appeared to
be a small stream. No specimens gathered there. Afterwards we were
detained ona sand bar for an hour or two, but found it to be no annoy-
ance, since I was engaged for a part of the morning in putting some speci-
mens in the herbarium.

We are accustomed to speak of the Indian as the Red Men of the
forest ; this was true once, when the Eastern states were peopled by them,
but now they are the Red Men of the Prairie. This, of such vast extent,
is almost entirely destitute of timber, at least there is nothing that would be
called forest, except at some places along the Missouri. To-day we have
seen very little timber; most of the banks are destitute ofit entirely, except
the willow ; occasionally a point is seen well timbered with young cotton
wood. » I have been told that they go from Fort Pierre, one hundred miles
above, to get timber for their boats and other purposes.

The banks to-day have been bluffs, sometimes abruptly descending to the
water’s edge, and at other times having a beautiful intervening bottom. It
appears to me that although the hills look so barren, the river is more beau-
tiful than the Ohio, probably because of the green foliage of the willows
skirting the banks, and covering many of the islands. I have several times
admired the fine grass on the islands at a distance, but the grass has turned
to willows on a near approach. These are islands newly formed from sand
bars, and they are soon covered with a growth of young willows; this 1s
very good for cattle and horses, and often is their only food.

T found my watch to be just one hour behind the watches from St. Louis.
This led to some conversation with Mr. Picotte about the difference of time
at the two places. Fort Pierre is only about ten degrees west of St. Louis,
which would make forty minutes difference in time. The latitude of St.
Louis is nearly thirty-eight degrees, forty-five minutes; that of Fort Pierre,
forty-four degrees, twenty minutes, making it five degrees thirty-five
minutes further north than the former, and four degrees twenty minutes
north of Chambersburg.

I am told in reply to my questions on the subject, that the water of the
river might safely be said to move with a velocity of from four to seven
miles per hour, depending upon the stage of water. ‘This corresponds very
well with Col. Tilton’s account.

Friday, June 7 — Siz o’clock A. M.— Last night we were visited by
an unusually severe thunder storm, but were not injured by it. The sun
rose beautiful and clear this morning, and promises a warm day. We are
within ten or fifteen miles of the Little Shayen now, which comes in from
the west side of the Missouri. The banks this morning, and for several
hours at the close of last evening exhibited steep, irregular bluffs, and slate
formation on the western bank, and beautiful prairie bottoms, with gently
ascending bluffs on the east side. The strata of slate are generally hori-
zontal. Went ashore last night expecting to get some botanical speci-
mens, but found none; a plant which I had got at the last wooding place,
i rey

very much like the fox corn of my Virginia collection, was abundant.
We have cut green ash timber, which the captain says is better than the
dry wood we have been getting before. No locality of fossil specimens
has been seen, or rather we have landed at no such place, although I have
seen some that appeared worthy of an examination.

Half-past nine A. M. — The boat is now wooding on the western shore,
not far above the mouth of the Little Shayen; the fuel is cotton wood,
that has been killed by the fire, I would judge. Vegetation is flourishing,
but flowers scarce; got one new specimen and saw several old ones; the
purple violet must have abounded here, as the beds were numerous, and 1
took one merely as a remembrance of this upper country. Saw several frogs,
but was able to secure but one of the smaller kind; have as yet seen no
snakes; saw some mushrooms. Slate still continues to appear on the
western bank.

This is certainly the most agreeable traveling I ever experienced ; the air
is delightful — the shores and trees quite green — only three of us on board,
besides the Captain, who are really companions; myself, the only “¢ dis-
tinguished” stranger, living on the best, and treated with the most generous
kindness and respect — all these things combine to render the trip as de-
lightful as possible. I can never forget the kindness that has afforded me
this pleasure. The musquitoes, however, are showing the cloven foot 5
they have made sundry violent attacks on my person, with malice afore-
thought, and intent of blood-drawing, and I have murdered numbers in
pure self defence.

We have just passed the mouth of the river marked Sawarcana on the
map; its most common name here is the Moreau, so called from an old
Frenchman who probably lived on it once. It is a small stream, although
larger than most others here. The banks of the Missouri for some miles
below are gently ascending hills with round tops, and they are covered with
short grass, enough, however, to give them a very pleasing appearance.
The opposite bank is less hilly, but equally beautiful, and timber rare on
both of them. Ido not feel as persons generally expect to feel when tra-
veling in a wild country, inhabited only by savages, nor have I so felt, at
any period of my traveling on the prairies, with very few exceptions. ‘The
reason of this has frequently appeared to be the almost entire absence of
forests ; on the prairies, early im the season, one sees large tracts of land
covered with yellow grass that readily suggests the grain fields of his home ;
the lonely appearance of the prairie as the grass comes up reminds one of
the green pastures of home, and one almost feels as if the farm house was
just over the hill. It was hard to realize that the beautiful fields we
saw to-day were not the fields of a cultivated farm. Just where we
are the eastern side exhibits an abrupt bank, thirty feet high, composed
of slate. ;

Saturday, June 8—Seven o'clock A. M.—Last evening I exhibited my
tabular view of the Sioux nation to Mr. Picotte for examination, and he pro-
nounced it to be correct, except that the estimate of souls to each lodge is
too small; he feels sure that eight or ten is the correct average for each
lodge, and his opinion is worthy of regard.

When we landed I examined a bluff bank to confirm an opinion I had
formed that certain flowers seen along the bank were the same as some about
Fort Pierre, and I found myself correct. Alexander found a buffalo skeleton
wanting very few of the bones, and, as it was probably, the most perfect one
[iT 112

that we would find, I determined to bring it on board. This morning, very
early, we met six Mackinaw boats, belonging to the company, from the
Yellowstone, the Blackfeet and Crow forts. They had about sixteen-hun-
dred packs, and were under the charge of Maj. Hamilton. We had encamped
only about two miles from them last night. Some of the men went out to
hunt yesterday, aud succeeded in frightening quite a number of elk, but got
none. ‘They are plenty in the young willows on the sand bars, and along
the banks. We passed the mouth of the Grand River before breakfast. I
have just been calied out to see the skin of a buffalo calf that is indeed a
singular thing ; It has two separate heads, the bodies being joined near the
tail; it has six feet and two tails, and has plenty of hair on it. It was taken
from a cow in the Blackfeet country. It has been used by the Indians for a
‘‘medicine,” and is not well enough preserved to be taken down. Banks not
so steep as yesterday. ,

Eleven o’clock.— We have just been landing for wood; the first place
was at a watering house of one of the traders of this company — he fur-
nished us some wood but not enough. We then went about a quarter of a
mile up the river, to a watering house of the opposition, and from that still
higher to a patch of timber where we hoped to procure ash, though elm
abounded most; we found ash box-elder, and sugar maple. The trading
houses are built of rough logs and are intended but for one winter; they
are built wherever a party of Indians happens to locate for the hunting
season, and traders are sent out with an equipment according to the prospect
for robes; they say ‘‘an outfit to trade ten, twenty, forty, one-hundred, &c.,
packs.’? Kach pack contains ten robes. Mr. Picotte told me that about
one-hundred thousand robes would go to St. Louis this season from all the
traders in the country ; that the Indians and others would use or destroy
three times that number, probably, as each Indian must have two robes for
his wearing apparel every ycar, besides those for a new lodge and other pur-
poses, so that, by the calculation of an old trader, probably four hundred
thousand buffalo are destroyed annually.

Six o’ clock. — We have just taken our tea, and are wooding on the east
side of the river; the trees appear to have been torn down, or had their
tops torn off by a hurricane; they are very dry and give us good wood.
Timber has been more abundant and better to-day than before; we got a
large lot of ash early in the afternoon. At the landing I gathered some
violets of a species different from any before seen. This has been a plea-
sant day again, and there is the promise of another one to-morrow.

How different does Saturday evening appear here from what it does in
the east ; there one is reminded that the next day will be the Sabbath—the
day for rest and spiritual enjoyments, and he feels the satisfaction of having
reached another period in his labor. He can stop and look back, or he can
look forward and feel satisfied: but here, to-morrow will bring the same
routine of travel and work.

Sunday, June 9.— This is another clear and bright morning; we are
now ploughing our way not many miles below the Cannon Ball river,
between beautiful banks, covered with fine grass. For the last twenty-
four hours I have seen but little of that abrupt and very high bluff bank of
slate and tertiary formation noticed before; the hills have been a little dis-
tance from the water and of gentle ascent, and the timber has been more
abundant. One of the pilots killed a deer last evening. This morning I
noticed on the west bank, large square blocks of sandstone, projecting in
113 [1]

strata eight or ten feet above the water’s edge; they appeared for a short
distance only.

Twelve o'clock. — We have just passed the mouth of Cannon Ball river;
the bank above it is steep bluffs, composed of thick strata of sand stone ;
the opposite bank is gently rolling prairie, until it meets the hills about half
a mile or a mile back.

Sex o'clock, P. M.— The banks this afternoon have been, g generally level,
or rolling prairie, sometimes ascending gradually from the water’s edge, and
in other ~ places, ‘havi ing a perpendicular rise of eighteen or twenty feet ;
these last appear to be alluvial deposite, sometimes recent, and covered w ith
a thick growth of small timber, and again having a growth of large timber,
indicating that years had elapsed since the soil had been formed. In several]
places high bluff banks rose from the water’s edge, composed principally of
sand stone, the strata sometimes very much inclined, and at others horizon-
tal. We are now just below Apple Creek, and, on each side of the river,
nearly opposite, are two small hills, entirely bare of vegetation, called the
Peeled Hills; they seem to be the same formation as those in the Bad
Lands.

Monday, June 10 — Siz o'clock, A. M.—We are now, and have been for
several hours on a sand bar, just at the head of Heart River Island; we
have been working hard to get off, but we may be here all day. This
island is covered ar a fine orowth of cotton wood. Last night, after
landing, a buffalo bull was killed by some of the men, and several others
were seen, the first that have been since we left. Four men started out im-
mediately after landing to walk nearly all night and make a hunt to- -day.

I forgot to notice what I had learned a few days ago of the custom of the
Indians in the treatment of the aged and infirm. Hodgekiss was speaking
of a certain young Indian who had been killed in battle with the Crows,
and said that he had but one fault to find with him; that he would beat his
old father, and that he had seen him strike the old man with a club and leave
him almost lifeless. On inquiring if such was the custom, I was told that it
was, and instances were cited by several to show that it was common for the
Indians to leave the old to perish on the prairies. An instance was mentioned
of a blind Crow Indian having been taken to a battle in the hope that he
might be killed—of one very old man having been shut up in some trading
house and left to perish—of an old squaw having been left in camp to die,
and, being found by the traders, was kept through the winter ; in the spring,
being sent back to her people, she was put ina small boat and cast adrift on
the river. A sinall boy is now at Fort Pierre, who was found by a trader
and brought i in; he had been left to die, because he had received a very
Severe injury in one of his legs, and would have been a burden to his friends.
I, myself, noticed one day, on the arrival of a large band of Blackfeet, that
an old man, who was said to be one-hundred and four years old, if I am not
mistaken, was very badiy clad, and had a wretched appearance. It seemed
as if the young men had left him to provide for his own wants. This custom
of neglect and cruelty to the aged does not necessarily arise from a cruel
unfeeling disposition ; it probably come from two causes—their views of a
future state and their mode of life. The former leads them to suppose that
if these aged persons die, they will go to a state of happiness and abundance,
whereas now they are a burden to themselves and friends; the latter makes
ita Bret ae to their friends to transport them in their fr equent changes

1S.—
114

of abode, and it must be impossible for some, in their feeblesness, to endure
the privations and exposure inseparable from such a mode of life.

Twelve o'clock M.— For the last three hours we have been wind-
bound just below the mouth of Heart river. I have taken a walk up the
high bank, and found on its side three new flowers, of which I took speci-
mens. I also secured a number of small stones, which I picked up on the
tops and the sides of the bluffs; the land back of the river is rolling prairie,
on the opposite shore it is low and covered with timber. A little above
where the boat is, I noticed that quite a large part of the bank had sunk,
some of it probaly eighty feet, and some of it only forty. I approached it
in descending from the high bluff beyond, of which the sunken portion must
have once formed a part; the descent was steep but not dangerous, and con-
ducted me to a plot of ground which appeared to have been broken off
short from the upper part of the hill, and sunk about forty feet. The sur-
face was mostly covered with grass, and of the same general level, although
much divided by large cracks running in various directions through it, and
at its edge towards the river, rising irregularly into peaks above the other
part. ‘This part I examined with some care to find fossils, but saw nothing
that indicated their presence ; a small yellow flower was gathered—the only
place where it had been seen as yet. ‘The formation in the side of the hill
so well exposed by this great depression of a part of it was, yellow slate.
I next descended to the lower part of the sunken land, towards the river.
Here it was much broken up and descended by irregular steps to the water
level. The same slate formation prevailed here as above, and amongst it
there was quite an abundance of a crystal, specimens of which I brought
with me. I walked down to the boat along the same shore, and noticed
that at several places in the very high slate bluff, beneath the yellow strata
formation, there were strata of what appeared to be black slate, but it
crumbled to pieces when pressed slightly, and had the appearance of charred
bark—a piece was brought along. The whole extent of this sunken ground
was probably seventy-five yards long and forty broad. An evidence of
its being recent is that an Indian trai] on the hill side may be distinctly
traced on the surface of tbe ground below. I noticed here, as at all other
points along the river, the absence of animals of the snake kind; not a
single snake has been seen since leaving Fort Pierre, so far as I know, and
we have been in the thickest bushes, among dead trees, and have torn down
old houses, but not even a rat has been seen. The young rats that I got
came from an old tree in the woods.

Six o'clock P. M. — We have a delightful evening, and have just enjoyed
one of the most beautiful views yet presented to us; for several miles along
the west bank there extended a prairie covered with fine grass, and rising
gradually to low hills at a little distance from the water. ‘Timber is more
plenty to-day. Game is abundant also; our supper table afforded most
delicious buffalo steak, antelope steak, and elk meat, besides our usual
dishes.

Tuesday, June 11 -— Seven o’clock, A. M.—I was aroused this morning
by the firmg of guns in rapid succession, and the hurried tramp of men on
the deck, which indicated that something was going on. On rising, I found
that seven buffalo had been seen crossing the river, and the men had been
firing at them. Two were killed by shots, and Mr. Picotte killed a third
with the axe, cutting his back bone through in several placcs. They had
already hauled one on board when I got forward, but I saw the drawing
115 [ay

up of the others, and some idea of their size may be formed, from the fact that
ten men, with the assistance of ropes and pulleys, were scarcely able to get
them on deck. They were immediately cut up, and, together with our
former supplies, have made us rich in meat—how it would excite an epicure
to be seated at our table laden as it is with such a variety of game.

I was interrupted in writing the above, and did not resume until I had
finished the job I had undertaken ; this was no less than to skin and preserve
the head of one of the buffalo bulls. ‘The head with the skin and flesh on
it, was very heavy, as they all are, and it 1s not much lighter after being
scraped for preservation. Jt required several hours constant work to skin
this one and prepare it properly, and even then I had to leave it unstuffed,
as nothing was to be had for this operation. I hope, however, that it will
reach the east in safety, and give my friends some idea of what a buffalo
looks like. While I was working on this, the boat was aground for a con-
siderable time, and had great difhculty in getting through a very bad place.
We had expected to have reached and passed Fort Clark to-day, but will
not be able to doso now. The banks have not presented that abrupt steep-
ness noticed before, but beautiful slopes, covered with the finest pasture, and
occasionally a large band of buffalo grazing.

Six o'clock, P. M.— Another lovely evening, beautiful banks, and a
pleasant breeze, while the boat is in motion. Expect to reach Fort Clark
to-morrow morning.

Wednesday, June 12.— Last night we lay at an old Ree village, about
fifteem miles below Fort Clark. During the night we had a storm, which
we had been led to expect from the intense heat of the day. We had quite
a storm of another kind also, although not a dangerous one. Three Indians
who had been out hunting had seen us during the day, and came on board
about twelve o’clock. The only injury resulting from this visit was that
my brother and Mr. Picotte lost their sleep, as they had to remain up with
them till dayhght. I was awakened by a very eloquent part of a speech
made by one of them, but soon fell again into a sound sleep.

About six o’clock this morning we came in sight of Fort Clark; it is a
small fort, about one-hundred feet in length on each side, and stands on the
left bank of the Missouri just below the Ree village. As we came round the
bend a number of patches of ground under cultivation appeared along the
river, and a very pleasing view was presented by the prairie curving inward
for several miles, and the inner bank having the fort and village on it. Our
arrival was marked by salutes from ship and shore, and as soon as we
landed, numbers of Indians came aboard. I thought their features were
more decidedly like those of the English than the features of the Sioux,
and my ear immediately caught the difference in the language. If I could
speak either tongue I might explain this difference, but as it is, I feel as if
an opinion should scarcely be regarded. On first listening to the Sioux
language, it appeared to me that to characterize it as an affectionate lan-
guage would best describe the impression made upon me by its tones ;in the
Ree langauge this is not the case ; I thought that it was pitched on a higher
key and had a harsher sound, and yet this may not express the true differ-
ence. Their features express the same variety of expression as I before
noticed in the Sioux. The Ariccarees, or Rees as they are commonly called,
are said to be great thieves, pilfering anything they can lay their hands on —
they are also great beggars like all other tribes. If a feast and some pres-
ents arc not given to them, they injure the boat, and perhaps would take the
[1] 116

hives of some of the traders in the winter sezson. Therefore a feast of
coffee and biscuits was given to all who came on board, and sugar, coffee,
flour, biscuit, tobacco and ammunition were distributed amongst them, with
all of which they appeared to be well satisfied. We were invited into the
village, and Mr. Picotte and Alexander determined to go ; although last year
they had served the latter in a very treacherous manner.

One of their chiefs had gone down to Council Bluffs on the company’s
boat a year before, although much against the will of Mr. Picotte, who had
paid him not to do so for two years before. But on this occasion he would
go in spite of all opposition, and was killed by the Pawnees. The Rees blamed
the company for his death, and determined to make them pay for it. On
the arrival of the boat last year, Alexander was invited to a feast in the
village, and went, accompanied only by the young man in charge of the
fort. He found them all in a large hut armed to the teeth, and then first
learned that dissatisfaction existed among them. They charged him with
the murder of their chief, and in the most threatening manner, demanded
pay for his blood. My brother was unarmed, and the people in the boat
knew nothing of what was doing in the village. They had a stormy ses-
sion at the feast, but at length all was settled by his promising to pay
them two good horses; they then allowed him to depart in safety, and
at the proper time he sent the horses. Amongst all the Indians blood may
be paid for, which is a fact, I believe, common to all heathen nations.

To-day four of us went to the village and made a ‘ complimentary call,”
as we had not time for a feast. We were received in a large mud lodge or
hut, built in a circular form, having a diameter of about thirty feet. The
entrance is through a small projection, corresponding in design, and some-
what in shape to our small covered porches. The lodge was airy, clean and
had no unpleasant smell in the inside. The gentleman of the house received
us politely, placed a mat on the ground, then four or five robes, and taking
us each by the hand seated us on them. Then he ran out, and standing on
the top of his house invited the people to call and see us. While they were
assembling I made observations.

The Rees do not use the skin lodge. The one we had entered was of
their usual fashion, and was built somewhat in this way; a circular foun-
dation often thirty feet in diameter, is dug about twelve inches deep; in
the middle of this a platform about ten feet square and twenty feet high, is
made by erecting four upright posts, and on these are placed four others
horizontally; then around the circular foundation are placed a proper
number of upright posts, on which are again laid horizontal timbers, and
against these rest small poles set very close together and one end stuck
in the ground. These are probably five feet in length; then from the
horizontal poles to those of the square platform in the middle, and beyond _
them, extend other poles laid as close together as possible, and of such a
length as to form an entire roof, except a hole in the centre for the passage
of smoke. On the sides and top dirt is thrown, and the house is finished.
At the entrance a small projection is built of poles, extending probably six
feet beyond tha main wall, and covered; this protects them the better
from the snow and rain. The external appearance is that of a rude cone,
set on a base about five feet high, and thirty feet in diameter. On enter-
ing, you must stoop, but as soon as you pass the skin door, your head
may again become erect.

We were conducted to the place of honor, opposite to and facing the
117 riy

door. To our right, along the wall, were arranged several bedsteads,
rudely made, while to the left, a part was cut off by a couple of poles, for
the accommodation of the horses ; ; the chickens had a coop in one corner,
but roam at large on most occasions, and the centre is used for a fireplace.

The lodge was clean, airy, light and comfortable, and there was plenty of
room for more than those, who I suppose, inhabited it. Behind us were
hung bows with spears on the ends, and two rude instruments of music,
made of a number of pumpkins. I believe something is put in the inside of
them and shaken, but I have not learned the modus operandi. ‘There were
two squaws present, the elder of whom was very polite, the younger one
stood back, either because she was the younger wite, or perhaps the wife of
another man. I was quite pleased with both of ‘them. Near the fire-
place a small wooden mortar was sunk in the ground, for pounding corn,
The large and high room appeared rather scarce of furniture. I have thus
attempted to describe the appearance and structure of the lodge in which we
were, and this is the general appearance of all others. Many persons in the
States live in much more filth and much less comfort. About twenty of the
men having assembled, the owner of the lodge gave us the right hand again
in token of friendship, and made a short speech, which we replied to, through
an interpreter, and then we left.

The village is composed of two-hundred lodges, as near as I could Jearn
from the interpreter, and is built upon the top of a bluff bank rising about
seventy-five feet perpendicular from the water. The huts are placed very
irregularly, sometimes with very narrow, and sometimes with quite broad
spaces between them. A number of platforms of poles, as high as the
lodges themselves, are interspersed among them for the convenience of dry-
ing meat and dressing robes. I noticed a number of squaws busily employed
in “dressing robes. I left the village much pleased with my visit, and with
the politeness with which we had been treated.

On passing to the fort, I observed a great number of hillocks scattered
over the prairie, and theses I was told, are graves, this people having
abandoned the old method of scaffolding their dead. Other more agreeable
sights on the prairie also attracted my attention, and these were little
patches of corn and pumpkins, generally enclosed by a slight bush fence. I
forgot to mention that over the fire in the lodge were two bundles of what
appeared to be hay tied up in skins; these, I was told, contained grains of
corn put up in hay, and hung so as to be hee ated: if the grains germinate they
are planted, and those that do not are left ont. This corn is small and on
small ears, but Mr. Picotte says it contains a larger amount of flour than
our corn. We spent a short time in the fort, and found it to be small and
the buildings old, but everything very neat and clean. I saw there a young
antelope, which a squaw allowed to suck from her breasts ; it is said to be
quite common for squaws to suckle young animals, often raising in this man-
ner cubs of the grizzly bear. I have noticed that they often allow their
children to suckle till much older than with us. I have seen children four
or five years old taking a good tug at the maternal fount.

About nine o’clock the boat was off again, having landed all her freight,
and taken in some Ree corn. The hills aaah the fort and a little above
it, are steep, irregular and of the whitish clay (tertiary, I think,) formation.
The tops of several have a light red appearance as though they might be
of pumice stone, such as [ picked up last night’at the landing. The ‘hill at
the village was covered with men, women and children, but as the top of
(iy 118

it is level, no general view of the village could be obtained. This
village is one of sad celebrity; in the year 18, it was inhabited by the
Mandans, then quite a large tribe, but in that year the small pox passed
over the country, and swept off nearly the whole nation. Many of them,
in despair, seeing all their kindred dead or dying from the loathsome disease,
cast themselves into the river from this high bluff. The small reninant of
the Mandans now occupy a few lodges about five miles above the village,
or have been incorporated with the Rees and Gros Ventres.

Above the Ree village stretches a fine bottom, on which I was pleased to
see quite a number of squaws at work putting in their summer crop; it
reminded me of some of the James river bottoms in Virginia. We are just
now passing quite a long stretch of high steep bluffs on the west shore ;
formations like that of Alls in the Bad Lands—strata of a red slate, like
half burnt brick, and occasional spots of a slate-like substance that looks
as if it had just been exposed to the fire. Probably these are the appear-
ances that indicate former volcanic action. I wished that I could land and
search for fossils.

The Rees offer many advantages for missionary labor. They have one
fixed place of residence, except for a few months in winter, when they go to
some other place for wood and meat, but they return again to the village at
Fort Clark. They cultivate corn not only for their own use, but also
enough to make it a very prominent part of trade, and they are said to be
peaceable and generally well disposed. ‘The same things are said to be true
of the Mandans and Gros Ventres, and the old traders say they are more
like the whites in their ways than any other Indians.

Thursday, June 13.— Last evening for miles we had on both banks,
principally on the east, the very irrecular steep and white colored hills men-
tioned before as being somewhat similar in their material to those in the
Bad Lands. TI noticed, however, that sand was the principal component
while the white clay occurred in occasional strata only. About five o’clock
one of the pilots brought me a very young Sand Hill crane which I put in
alcohol, and I intend preserving the skeleton of a larger one, which was
not in a condition to skin.

About six o’clock, A. M., we reached Fort Buthold, one of the company’s
forts, situated on the east bank of the Missouri, about sixty miles above
Fort Clark. It is built on a high bluff just on the north side of the Gros
Ventre village. It is a small fort and without particular interest. Mr.
Kipp, who has it now in charge, has kept it in good order if we may judge
from its neat and cleanly appearance. The prairie extends beautifully east-
ward from the village, and affords fine pasture for the horses of the inhabi-
tants.

On the plane near the fort is the burying place, studded with many
scaffolds on which the dead are placed, and also many graves in which they
have been buried. Many of the scaffolds were partly broken down and
had deposited their burdens on the ground where they lay exposed unsightly
and forbidding. A number of Bealls were kicking about the ground, and
had it not been for fear of arousing the Indians, I could easily have secured
six or seven good ones; as it was, I picked up but one, and wrapping it in
my coat marched boldly to the boat, and got it safely inmy trunk without
any suspicions being excited. The village, with its mud lodges, differs
nothing in looks from the Ree village described yesterday, except in one
particular, that is, the inhabitants are now engaged in surrounding it with
119 [

pickets. The logs are well prepared and are all up except on the west
side ; a bastion with loop holes is placed in the middle of each side. This
picket is of course to protect the inmates against enemies by whom they
are frequently attacked.

Between the fort and the village stands a log house which belonged to a
man the Indians killed there last winter. He killed an Assiniboine and the
Gros Ventres destroyed him in revenge. Many of them came on board and
had their usual feast and presents, and then marched off in great glee. One
of their chiefs, a tall sharp loooking man, is on board going up with us, and
also several others, one of whom is a Crow Indian with his family. He has
been visiting at the village, and is the only one that escaped from a small
hunting party that was cut off by a small war party of Sioux, a few days
ago. I noticed nothing peculiar about the Gros Ventres, except that their
skin was generally much lighter than that previously seen. Some of the
squaws were very light, closely approaching white. Their hands and feet
appear unusually small and neat, and their teeth, which are much shown,
are generally good. They have bright eyes, very cheerful countenances,
and generally slender bodies well fitted for activity. Their extensive corn
fields show signs of industry, covering as they do, the bottom grounds.’ I
have no doubt that a prudent, patient missionary, offering to instruct them
in the arts of civilized life would be well received.

Three and a half o’clock, P. M.— We have just passed the mouth of
the Little Missouri River, coming from the South ; about one-hundred and
twenty miles above Fort Clark. Mr. Picotte has just confirmed what I
had previously heard about the abandonment of the aged and infirm by the
Indians. He says that the Indians further east on Lake Superior and
Winnepeg, are worse in this respect than the Missouri Indians.

He also informed me that since he first knew them in 1820, the Mandans,
Rees and Gros Ventres, had probably lost five-sixth’s of their number. At
the time mentioned, they were a large and flourishing people, but now the
Rees and the Gros Ventres have each but one ordinary sized village, and
the Mandans a very small one. The same thing is true of every tribe with
a fixed place of residence. He assigned for the fact the following rea-
sons : — When they remain long in one place the wood becomes scarce and
they are obliged to encamp in winter at a distance from their residence in
order to obtain fuel, but on account of danger from enemies and rise of
water in the spring, they are obliged to return before winter breaks up, and
to enter damp and cold houses which have been exposed all winter to the
frost and snow ; consequently many, especially the young and the aged, die
of colds or other disease originating in the same cause. Also when they
live in villages and inhabit mud houses they are more exposed to epidemics ;
and again, in a fixed position their enemies always know where to find and
surprise them while working in their fields.

These are the reasons why he thinks that for years past those tribes
having fixed habitations, have decreased in numbers, and besides the above
mentioned nations, he cites as instances, the Otoes, Omahaws, Pawnees and
several others. While these have decreased, the Sioux, a wandering peo-
ple, have greatly increased, their mode of life giving them the advantage
in all the particulars mentioned.

The river has been on the rise for several days, and I have frequently
thought of the theory, that when a stream rises it is higher in the middle
than at the shores, and consequently the drift wood floats near the shores,
ee 120

while in falling water the stream is lowest in the middle, and will therefore
carry the drift there. My observation on two rises in the Missouri do not
confirm that theory. I noticed that the drift has always been found im the
current whether that be near the shore or in the middle, and Capt. Durack
confirms this opinion, saying that such is the case generally in rising and
falling waters; the drift always floats in the current. The shores to- -day are
generally gently ascending — occasionally abrupt and of sand and white
cla

aaa June 14. — We are still in the Big Bend, which we entered
last night, and shall not be out of it until we teach Anite river coming in
from the “tage This I take to be the stream marked on the map, Onion
creek. There is also a Knife river below, on the south side, a few miles
above Fort Clark. The Little Missouri eh placed wrong on the map; it
comes in a few miles below the Big Bend, not above. This bend is about
ten miles across and_ thirty around. The weather is windy and cloudy —
buffalo are plenty ; early this morning some of our hunters went a-head of
our boat and killed three bulls, which we stopped to take in. Soon after
this was accomplished, a small herd was discovered trying to get up the
bank on the west side, having just crossed the river. Many guns were
fired, and three bulls killed, which we took on board. Further on, we
over took a large herd of cows in the middle of the river, and had the engine
not been stopped, we would have run them down; but as it was, all, even
the calves escaped, with no other harm than a very great fright.

The banks thus far on this bend have been Mauvaise Terre. We had
to-day for lunch, one of the dainties of this country — the milk gut of a
buffalo roasted on coals. It tastes somewhat like white pudding, having
in it a substance that when cooked has also the appearance of stuffing.
Mr. Picotte in speaking of the dislike persons in the States have to such
things, says, that-in the north, the dung of the reindeer is eaten and very
much relished, and that he himself has eaten it; it is esteemed because of a
peculiar weed eaten very much by the animals and is taken out of them
before being completely digested.

Evening. — Have traveled finely to-day ; ; river continues rising ; banks,
prairie and bad lands; passed Knife river about noon, and this evening
White river, which is about fifty miles from the British domimions, and said
by some to be the most northern point of the river. We shall reach Fort
Union probably on Sunday.

Saturday, June 15. — Last night we landed early, because of heavy
clouds in the west, threatening a sev ere storm of wind and rain; it rained
all night, but the storm was by no means as severe as it threatened to be.
I went out on the prairie as soon as we landed, and got several new flowers
for the herbarium. During the morning, the bariks have exhibited fre-
quently the burned appearance, and some ‘or the hills have been very high,
irregular and steep. About eleven o’clock we stopped to take in wood, and
I had the first opportunity of examining the hills that have appeared so
often, exhibiting signs of containing faseil remains. As I pushed my way
along a buffalo path, through the bushes, IT canght a glimpse of the first
snake I haue seen since leaving Fort Pierre; it was hurrymg off and got
away before I could overtake it. 1 next cot specimens of several beau-
tiful flowers growing at the edge of the w oods on the small hills. I then
pressed on to the large hills; they are about sixty feet high, composed
121 (ty

principally of thick strata of sand stone with a perpendicular ledge towards
the river.

I examined along the side of one of the largest hills for fossils, but found
none, except a very small piece of bone. At the base of this hill I found
the large petrified roots of which No. 37 is a part; it was taken from
a stump about three feet in diameter, hollow in the middle, and about six
inches thick; nearly the whole stump rising about one foot above ground,
still remains. Within a few inches of it are the remains of another, appa-
rently still larger. The formation is different from that of the Bad Lands
of White river. Some of the stones No. 36 came from this spot; there
was quite a heap of red colored stone in this place, which exhibited every
appearance of having been under the action of fire. One piece in particular,
about the size of half a bushel measure appeared to have been melted to
nearly a liquid state, and then stuck together. If these red places were
once volcanoes, the country must have been full of them. Coal cropped
out just at the base of the burnt hills towards the river. Large veins of it
were seen at least once this morning, in one of the steep banks immediately
above the water.

I asked Mr. Picotte about the smoking hills mentioned by Nicollet and
was informed that he himself had seen smoke coming from them for years
at a time, but that years ago they fell in and since then have ceased to
emit smoke. They are about fifteen miles below Fort Lookout on the east
side of the river.

A tew hours ago we met a skiff from Fort Union, in which were Mr.
Clark, of the Blackfoot Post, the Crow interpreter ‘and two men; they
were coming to meet the boat and had left the fort this morning, not ex-
pecting to meet us in several days. Alexander and Joe Howard have just
left us to ride to the Fort, where they will arrive in four or five hours. We
have for some time been passing along a beautiful prairie, and although the
day has been very windy, the evening is calm and lovely. The sun set
beautifully a few minutes ago, and it appeared as though T had got beyond
sunset, for it seemed to £0 ‘down almost behind us, probably because our
course is moe southwest.

I feel rather sad at the prospect of parting so soon with my brother who
has been so kind to me. May God bless him and his for his goodness to one
of the humblest followers of Christ.

Monday, June 17. — Yesterday afternoon at four o’clock the boat landed
at Fort Union, having made the trip of twenty-five hundred miles in thirty-
Six days and four hours, the quickest one on record. We were received
very kindly by the gentlemen of the post, Mr. E. T. Denig and Ferdinand
Culbertson. ‘They Showe d me quite a good collection of stuffed skins made
by them for Professor Baird, at the request of my brother. This must
have cost them a great deal of labor and considerable expense, and they
deserve many thanks from the students of natural history for whose benefit
this collection was made.

Fort Union is very much like Fort Pierre in its structure and about the
same size, the principal difference being that here they have stone bastions,
and a cannon mounted aboye the gate. A room also is constructed against
the wall by the gate, in which they used to trade through a small hole
about one foot square in the wall. Now however they trade at the retail
store inside of the fort. The Assiniboines and the Crees are the people
principally trading here. The Crees are from the British possessions, and
[1] ‘128

are there called Re-nis-te-nos; they visit the Missouri but once a year.
About six lodges of the Assiniboines are encamped at the opposition fort a
few miles below, and they were all here when we arrived. This occasioned
some trouble and has been near making a serious difficulty as we had two
Crow Indians on board, and the Crows and Assiniboines began hostilities a
few days ago. Some of the Assiniboines wanted to kill the Crows on
board, and our gentlemen had to protect them, by putting one in the
fort and concealing the other in one of the state rooms. One of these
Crows is a great warrior, although still a young man; his name is the
Horse-guard, and although not thirty years old, he has been engaged in
about thirty expeditions, always returning with hair (scalps) or horses, and
getting his party back in safety. He is a half breed and has the features of
a white man. I should not judge him to be naturally a blood-thirsty man
from his looks, but he is very brave and says if they would Jet him out in
the prairie he would whip all the Assiniboines here. His son, a fine look-
ing boy, is with him. The Assiniboines are here the worst dressed and
meanest looking Indians I have seen, but this is partly owing to their being
in mourning for the young man whom the Crows killed the other day. The
cause of quarrel was this: a war party of the Assiniboines attacked some
Crows, mistaking them for Blackfeet and killed two ; an attempt was made
to settle the difficulty but the Crows killed a young Assinibome who had
strayed from the camp while the negotiations were going on, and now war
is fully declared.

Fort Union is situated on the east bank of the Missouri, about four miles
above the mouth of the Yellowstone, and has a very beautiful prairie run-
ning back of it to the hills. On the same side, just below the mouth of the
Yellowstone, is situated the fort of the opposition company of which
Harvey and Joe Picotte are the principal men. The Missouri and Yellow-
stone come together—one from the north and the other from the south,
and neither makes a bend beiore their junction, so that it would appear
like the same river did not the currents run in opposite directions ; after
their junction of course the stream is very large; just now the Yellow-
stone is the larger, although both of them are very full.

The bell is ringing preparatory to a start for a point still farther up the
river. We shall probably go much higher than any other boat has ever gone.
Mr. Denig was so.kind as to present to me a very fine bone bow with a
valuable quiver and arrows, which I shall keep as a memento of this trip.

Twelve o’ clock — Eight or ten miles above Fort Union on the Missouri ;
country more level than below, and banks well timbered all along ; hills
lower, and the impression that of a more open country ; bad lands appear
occasionally off the river and in perpendicular banks from the water.

One o’clock. — We are now passing a small level prairie, on the west
bank of the river; it is covered with fine grass and has the appearance of
a beautiful meadow. Hills to the north, a mile off — light clay intermixed
with white earth — rolling prairie probably beyond. At the point in the
first great bend, about ten miles above the Fort, channel seven to nine
feet deep, point well timbered, vegetation backward —the yellow dried
grass still gives its colors to the plain, although the new grass is coming on;
this has been observed for several days past. Little Muddy creek (Bu-bue)
a small stream about ten yards wide, comes in from the north, opposite the
extremity of this point. °

We are now passing out of this large bend, which is about half a mile
123 [Bp]

across, and six or eight around. Ten or twelve antelopes were seen grazing
quietly on the beautiful prairie, but they scampered up the hill as soon as
they caught a sight and a smell of the boat. Wild geese have been seen at
three different times on this bend, and each time in pairs accompanied with
their young. Saw a beaver this afternoon. We are now half a mile above
the bend on the south side; veins of coal in a bank fifty feet perpendicular
above the river. ‘The formation is sand stone.

Appearance of the action of fire on the tops of several hills; stones
being of a red brick color. Just passing a place where there are high hills
on both sides ; those on the south are off from the river ; those on the north
are close to the water; they are high and steep with much of the red burnt
clay. Wood plenty.

We are now approaching a spot on the north shore where the burnt
appearances of the earth assumes a form more resembling a crater than at
any other place I have ever before seen. They appear in section on the
perpendicular face of the hill, the wall like appearance and the circular
form may be easily traced. They are red like the remains of an old brick
kiln broken in two, and the one half washed away. I do not pronounce the
formations to be really the craters of extinct volcanoes, but simply wish to
convey an idea of their appearance. These appearances have been seen
continually to day where the hills approach the river. Coal also here ap-
pears in strata about two feet thick. The hills are formed of a soft sand
stone and exhibit no soil except the burnt earth. Opposite this is a fine
bottom, but the hills beyond exhibit an appearance similar to these.

Five o’clock. — We are now taking in fue] at a point on the south side,
where we have the greatest abundance of dry wood. I found here the first
roses I have seen — indeed the very first buds, for below this there was no
signs of a rose coming out. The appearance of the action of fire still con-
tinue in great abundance on both sides. I was informed that the white
earth of these hills becomes of a red color when subjected to heat. These
red places do not extend far into the earth and are rarely more than five or
six feet deep ; below them appears the light cclored earth.

Six and a.half o'clock. — A little below the Big Muddy River a change
takes place in the appearance on either side ; on the north the hills leave
the river, ascend gradually, and are covered with grass, and a broad bot-
tom intervenes ; on the south the change is similar but not so great.

We are encamped just above the mouth of Big Muddy River, about fifty
or sixty miles from Fort Union. This river is probably the one marked
Tbex on the map, as I can learn nothing of a river of this name from those
knowing the country. There is a long and wide prairie here.

Tuesday, June 18.— This morning the appearance of the country is
about the same, prairie to the north and hilly to the south; hills with short
grass showing occasionally the white earth. The Mackinaw boat in tow
was sunk this morning by the steamboat taking a sheer and running against
the shore. Some hunters sent out last night, have just come in, and I
have been so fortunate as to get an elk calf, taken from the mother, and an
elk horn some weeks in the velvet, both of which I have in alcohol. I
again experienced the kind liberality of Mr. Picotte, who furnished me
alcohol, without which it would have been impossible to keep these speci-
mens, as my Own supply was almost entirely gone before I reached Fort
Pierre. It is not the pecuniary value of the article that makes this so great
a favor, but the impossibility of getting any more for a year to come.
i
[1] 124

Ten o’clock. — The country continues more even than yesterday — some
fine prairie — good timber — just now passing some hills on the south side,
where big horns are abundant. The hills are not as high as those seen
yesterday. They are very irregular — covered with sand stone and rise
perpendicularly from the water — swallows of a smaller kind than those
in the states, have built their nests in the sides. A little up the river, slate
appears. ‘There is no sign of coal or of the red lands so frequently seen
yesterday.

Two o’clock. —J have just returned from a short excursion to Elk Horn
prairie, about eighty miles from the fort; the object of attraction was a
remaakable pile of elk horns. The boat stopped and let us out about half
a mile from the pile, when Messrs. Picotte, Clark, Culbertson and myself,
with twenty-five or thirty men,stated for the horns; some ran ahead and
by the time I got there one of the men had already mounted the pile and
was handing down the horns. The report was that all the horns were at-
tached to the head and that the pile was of a wonderful size. The distant
view, for it was seen like a white monument several miles off, tended to
confirm these reports, and I thought that here at least there had been no
exaggeration. On close examination, however, I found it only about fifteen
feet high and twenty or twenty-five in circumference. But even this was a
wonderful pile to be made entirely of elk horns. ‘There was not a single
head to’be found; the horns were piled close together, and as there were
no heads the whole probably were horns that had been shed from the living
animal.

What a number of elk must have been here to have furnished such a
number of horns. As to the origin of the pile no certain information can
be gained. Old traders say it has been here to their knowledge for twenty
years, and how much longer they cannot tell. Old Indians say they are
ignorant of the time or occasion of its being made. There were originally
two piles, but for several years past they have been mingled into one.
The prairie is from two to six or ten miles wide, and many miles long.
It is further remarkable for being the place where the steamer Assiniboine,
belonging to the company ‘wintered several years ago. She had come up
this far and could not get down again because of low water. In the spring
she returned and was burnt, intentionally it is said, below the Mandans.
We are therefore higher up the Missouri than any other boat has ever been.
The country continues to be less hilly than yesterday. I procured several
flowers as mementos of Elk Horn prairie.

Four o’clock. — We are aground opposite the Riviére au Tremble which
comes in from the north, ninety miles from the Fort. This river is larger
than any we have seen before. About an hour ago we struck the first sand
bar encountered since leaving the Fort, but were off again in a moment;
no snags have been seen except very close to shore. None of the high
irregular hills have appeared this afternoon, but very wide rolling prairies
are seen on the north side. The English name of the stream is Quaking
Ash creek. A little above, nearly opposite, is the mouth of apparently
quite a large stream which runs very near the Elk Horn prairie, and 1s
known by the name of the Dry Fork. It is quite large at the mouyh owing
probably to the back water of the Missouri.. Saline deposite in south bank.
The Quaking Ash river is probably the Martha’s river of the map; the
traders knew no stream by this name.

Seven o’clock — We have just had some rare sport; half an hour ago a
125 [Pl

herd of elk, fifteen in number, appeared on a bar above us; as soon as they
saw the boat they took to the river and swam across, but became alarmed,
and instead of landing, gathered in a circle and reniaiied swimming about
in the water. As the boat approached them, nearly every man prepared to
give them a warm salute, which they femained quietly to receive.

First, pop went one gun and then another, and another, and crack, crack,
was heand for fifteen or twenty minutes, snide? shouts of the greatest ex-
citement, while the elk started for the other shore, the blood spouting from
most of them — one would lag behind, and then sn Othier and down stream
they would float wrong side up. Captain Bryuly, the second pilot, took
long aim at one, and I thought he had missed, but in a moment up went the
poor fellow’s heels in the alr, and he made a grand flourish in the water,
but at last was obliged to give up the ghost. Meanwhile, old Mr. Picotte
was off in the yawl, sword in hand, atier the wounded and to bring in the
dead. The sight yas most exciting and amusing; the old man sat strad-
dling the bow of the boat, coat off, flourishing ie sword, ready to plunge
it into the first elk he could reach. One poor animal wounded in the back,
was struggling to get away, and after him they put; stick went the sword,
but in it would not go; the old gentleman had not examined the point, and
on trial, it was found dull as a beetle. But he was too old a hunter to be
foiled in this way, and the bow of the boat was again turned to the elk ;
now they are on it and Mr. Picotte seizes it by the tail, pushing his
small knife up to the handle in its side. The elk kicked and scuffled, but
it was of no avail, and soon was on the deck and its hide unshipped, as one
of the men called the operation of skinning. Meanwhile, a fine doe had
been skinned and cut up on the forward deck, and the same operation was
being performed on the stern, so that now three fine elk were on the boat.
The yawl again went after another one, and returned with the only buck I
Mice in the band, so that we got four; three others were killed, but were
carried off by the icuprent, and my own impression is that all the others
were wounded. The horns of the buck were in the velvet state, but were
very much injured. I shal] get two or three skulls.

Encamped at the side of a very extensive and level prairie to the north
side eleven points from Milk River — cloudy and signs of rain.

Wednesday, June 19 — Sir o’clock. — The sun arose clear this morning

but now it is a little hazy. We are all still pushing up stream ; face of the
country is rather more even ; low hills on both sides generally off from the
river.
_ Ten o’clock. — Hada long talk this morning with Mr. Clark on the sub-
ject of Indian customs. I was surprised to hear what he told me of the
language of signs used by nearly all the tribes except the Sioux and Assini-
boines. It must be as perfect and expressive as the language of mutes with
us ; by these signs one Indian can tell another the principal events of his
whole life and will be perfectly understood.. And this does not come from
the barrenness of their own language for it is sufficiently expressive, bnt
Mr. Clark thinks it to have originated principally from the fact of the Indi-
ans not knowing when they meet a man, whether he be a friend or an
enemy ; they do not know whether to let him approach or not and by these
signs he can learn all about him, though he be too far off to converse with
the tongue. It is therfore the language of caution and defence.

These signs are beautiful and poetic; the rude figures which we see
sometimes on buffalor robes are not mere awkward attempts at ornament,
[1] 126

but they are hieroglyphics, as easily read by an intelligent Indian as words by
us, and perhaps containing a whole history of some great event.

The Blackfeet do not place their dead on seaffolds but either in a hole
well covered to keep off the wolves, or they leave them in the lodge with
everything just as it is when they die. In that case the wolves of course
eat their bodies very soon; and I am told that in this way the body of
nearly every Blackfoot is disposed of. When one of them is in mourning
he puts white earth on his head and goes out before his lodge wailing most
piteously ; as soon as the neighbors see that they all rush to his lodge and
take it and everything it contains, leaving him nothing but his horse. The
death of a relation is therefore a very serious affair, since a man loses all
his property as well as his friend. How different with us—where a man
frequently gains property with the death of a relative.

A Blackfoot has complete power over his wife; if he finds her unfaithful,
he generally cuts her nose off, but he can shoot her down if he chooses to
do so, and it is said that it is very common to see good looking young women
going about noseless. If a man loves his wife and wishes to overlook any
indiscretion of this kind, her own brother may walk into the lodge and say
“itis only to-day that you have made me ashamed,’’ and shoot her
dead before her husband’s face, while he can say not a word. The Blackfeet
are taught to beg from their infancy and are adepts in the art.

Six o’clock. — We have just started, after the longest detention we have
had except for business ; we reached this point about twelve o’clock, and
have been here ever since fixing one of the wheels. However, the time
was not lost, for the hands have cut enough of wood to take us down to the
Fort, and will not have to detain for that purpose after we have unloaded.

Milk river is said to be about twenty-five miles distant, but we would
have reached it to-day, had we not been detained long. The face of the
country to-day has been generally rolling prairies, frequently stretching many
miles from the river: About eleven o’clock we passed the outlet of a lake
or pond a short distance to the north of the river. In twenty-four hours we
shafl probably have our face turned homewards, when I shall hurrah for
the States.

We have just passed the outlet of a lake which, according to one account
is the same as that mentioned this morning; but according to another, it
belongs to a different lake — if there be but one, it must be ten or twelve
miles long. A part of it could be seen when we reached the end of the
wood, and it is narrow like a creek and winds considerably. The woods
are known as the places where the free men, (those not in the employ of the
company,) built themselves a fort, and the lake is sometimes called Free-
mens’ lake from that circumstance.

This lake is in one of the most magnificent prairies I have seen; we are
still opposite it, and it sweeps away for miles, at first very level and then
terminating in hills, gradually rismg and covered with grass. To the south
a fine prospect is also secn, but then the hills rise from the river and in the
distance black spots show that buffalo are there. The bute at Milk river is
now easily seen. Just passed a small stream called the Little river, coming
in from the south, marked but not named on the map.

Thursday, June 20 — Eight o’clock.— This morning we were off as
usual, about half-past three o’clock ; soon afterwards passed a small stream
on the south, generally called Dry Fork, though at present it contains
water. At half-past seven o’clock we passed Porcupine river coming in
i. Pe]

from the north; itis about twenty yards wide, no wood at the mouth, and
as far as we could see, very little along its banks. It comes in at the upper
end of Porcupine gut off, sometimes called Harvey’s cut off. During all
this morning we have a continuation of the prairie country seen yesterday,
especially on the north side there has been beautiful rolling prairie all along
excepting occasional timbered points; to the south low and scantily her-
baged hills have run close to the river.

This Porcupine river is the place from which the military expedition under
the command of General Atkinson in 1825, turned back. He wintered at
Old Council Bluffs, and in the spring ascended with nine keel boats. A part
of his company went by land as far as Milk river. The object of the expe-
dition was to treat with the Indians. The river to-day is still in a good
stage, but we have had to cross frequently to keep the channel.

There is always plenty of water here, say those familar with the place,
but the only trouble is to find the channel. The boat is now light and has
passed over some places where only two and a half feet of water was
sounded ; rather hard scratching however.

A large band of buffalo cows with their calves were crossing just above
the mouth of the Porcupine, but Mr. Picotte would not allow the men to
shoot ; we passed very close to them all and it was amusing and touching
too, to see the very great fear they exhibited as they in vain struggled to get
up the steep bank. I noticed here for the first time, what J had been told
before, that the buffalo grunt almost exactly like a large hog ; had a person
heard and not seen he could easily have thought that a drove of swine was
passing. The men tried to catch some calves with a lasso but did not suc-
ceed. Buffalo have been seen in great bands for several days past ; last
evening probably five-hundred were in sight at one time on the river banks.
I have seen paths beaten by them which look like travelled roads in a
thickly settled country, and paths of this kind are seen at almost every
landing.

Twelve o’clock.— We are now on the point immediately above Milk river
and will go a short distance higher up to find good timber for building a
boat. Milk River comes in from the north, and is at least two hundred
miles above Fort Union. Mr. Clark says that it passes within a hard day’s
ride — about forty miles -—— of Fort Benton, and if so it must be incorrectly
laid down on the map. Some miles below I saw the first grizzly bear ot
the season ; this is unusual as they are generally seen below Fort Union ;
and Kelly, an old hunter, told me that the reason they are not seen on the
river now, is that they are out on the prairies after the pomolanche or prairie
turnip, of which they are very fond.

We passed a few hours ago some black slate hills on the south side rising
directly from the water; the sides in several places were marked by the
buffalo tracks so as almost to resemble slate roads, and to cause one to feel
as though he was in a much traveled country.

The boat has been about twenty-seven hundred miles above St. Louis, and
a board was nailed on a large cotton wood tree near the shore, with the
following inscription: ‘ N. B. El Paso, landed here June 20, 1850, thirty-
five days from St. Louis-—— John Durack, Captain.”” The thirty-five days
is the running time. This day at twelve o’clock, we were forty days out
from St. Louis. I really fcel very thankful that my life and health have
been spared me during this journey. I have reached a point to which few,
except traders have attained, and I hope that I have gained some valuable
r 2 128

mformation as well as restored my health. But it is a long distance, nearly
four thousand miles to my home, and no one can tell what may befall me,
but my duty is clear and I hesitate not to go even at theyrisk of the cholera.
Should it please Divine Providence to restore me to mfy home and my
studies, it is my sincere prayer that it may be to employ my powers and my
knowledge as a minister of the Gospel.

Huzza for home! Here we are driving at half past three o’clock down
stream as fast as steam will let us. Our shouts of farewell have hardly
ceased to ring in these old hills that so seldom resound with the voice of
waites, and now for the first time have hear! the piff of a steamboat. We
stopped at twelve o’clock several miles above Milk River on the southern
bank, landed all the freights for Fort Benton and have turned our face
homeward. It was a picturesque scene as we rounded to, all hands on the
hurricane deck — the crew singing one of their peculiar songs — the cannon
firing and ourselves giving three goo] hearty cheers, while the shore with
its green carpet was covered with merchandize — the different families
bivouacking under the scattered and venerable trees, and the men who were
bound for the Blackfeet, returning our cheers and salute with hearty good
will.

Friday, June 21 — Siz o'clock A. M. — We are now perhaps, half way
back to Fort Union, and if we meet with no misfortune, shall probably be
there early this evening. The day is clear and pleasant and we are having
a delightful ride.

Eight o'clock. — We are now stopping at the prairie on which is the
large pile of elk horns mentioned a day or two ago. Old Mr. Picotte has
the notion into his head, of taking the whole pile to St. Louis, and soon this
noted, and almost revered land mark will be on the hurricane deck of the
El Paso. All on board, excepting the old gentleman himself, would prefer
to leave it untouched, especially as the horns are not in a good state of pre-
servation. The river is falling and we shall have no time to lose.

Adopted relations among the Blackfeet are very frequent and of the most
sacred character; two young men become comrades, and then they are
friends by the closest ties, and it is a greater disgrace for a comrade to lose
his friend in battle or want of bravery or skill, than to lose a younger bro-
ther. Whenever they are together for any time, they exchange presents.

The mere glimpse I have gained of Indian customs, convinces me that to
acquire any philosophical and valuable knowledge of them, a person must
live with them for a time. From such men as Mr. Picotte, Mr. Meldrum,
Mr. Clark and my brother, he may gain a great deal of information, but no
questioning can place him in possession of all the facts, because he does not
know what to ask, andif he did, these men not being accustomed to defi-
nitely communicate their knowledge, often so speak as to convey an exag-
gerated impression without any design to deceive. Constantly customs of
which I had no idea, are mentioned in conversation, so that it Is my opinion
that in order to a proper appreciation of the Indian, a long residence among
them is necessary.

Friday, Six o’clock, P. M.— Arrived at Fort Union again about four
o’clock having had a most delightful trip to Milk River. The river has
been falling, but as the weather is again oppressively hot, we look for more
water, although there is still plenty to run down on. We shall be off early
in the morning, and I feel glad to move on homeward as fast as possible ;
nothing could induce me to live here. I feel sad at heart to part with my
129 fri

brother and I know that I shall be lonely to-morrow without him. May all
his kindness be returned to him tenfold.

Saturday, June 22.—- The boat moved from Fort Union across the river
for wood about half past three o’clock, and about that time we had a very
fine shower of rain. At half past seven o’clock we moved off, firing a
salute to the men belonging to the fort who had come over to help us take
in fuel, Alexander was with them and the Jast sight I had of him he was
standing up in the boat which was just pushing off.

We have not made a very good run to-day because of the wind being
against us this afternoon and the wood has been bad. A good deal of bad
land appears on both sides of the river, and much of the burnt earth w ith it ;
this often appeared on the sides of grass-covered hills, and in hills rising
directly from the prairie, as well as in its usual position in the white land
hills.

While it is difficult for one not skilled in such matters to refute the com-
mon belief that the red burnt-like earth is the result of the action of fire,
it is well to mention some circumstances that at least throw some improba-
bility on that theory; the first is that if these red looking places were cra-
ters, the whole bank of the river must have been volcanoes for hundreds of
miles, with few exceptions — they occur in almost unbroken connection for
miles, and above Fort Union there is one place where they thus appear
almost continually for twenty or thirty miles, being there much more fre-
quent than lower down. Another is, that so far as I can see, these hills
exhibit no other evidence of the action of fire; there is not a single sion of
volcanic action that I have seen around these places, either in the forma-
‘ions of the hills or in the stones on their surface.

And again what appeared to me very singular on the supposition of vol-
canic action, has been that these crater remains, or volcanic remains do not
extend deep into the earth; in some places they look no deeper than a
modern lime-kiln; in others they appear almost as a stratum placed in be-
tween the other formations, and in all they have other formations below
them, and in many above them. I regret very much that I cannot describe
the geological formation of these hills.

Monday, June 24.— Yesterday we passed Fort Berthold, the Gros
Ventre Fort, and came within fifteen miles of Fort Clark, the Ree Fort at
the old Mandan village. On the map there is a Fort Mandan marked
nearly opposite Fort Clark ; this is probably the Fort built by Lewis and
Clark for their quarters, when they wintered with the Mandans. I noticed
yesterday a thick vein of coal in the bluff on which the Gros Ventre village
is built.

Tuesday, June 25. — This is one of the few rainy days we have had, but
is not uncomfortable, as we are well protected in the c abin and at the same
time are moving along slowly towards home. There has been a good deal
of detention from running on sand bars, and in looking for the channel. A
few hours ago we passed Heart river, and at the place where we were
aground so long when going up we stuck again, injuring one of the wheels.

Thursday, June 27. — Yesterday was nothing more than a bright plea-
sant day, passed in grounding, backing, wooding and going a few miles
a-head. The night previous, we had landed at a place that ought to be
called Musquito hollow, if. we may judge from the complaints made by
every one. I never suffered so much from them, and could not get to sleep

until past midnight; others were forced from below to the hurricane deck,
Mis—9
[1] 130

and there passed the night as best they could. The day was marked by
another event also worthy of record—the death of my porcupine. I had
the skeleton preserved.

In the evening when we landed, Mr. Picotte was seen running up a
very steep, high bluff, and while we were admiring his activity he called to
us; we all at once started of supposmg he had seen game. Mr. Clark
taking his rifle, and Ferd his knife; but on coming up to him we were much
amused to hear the old man instead of pointing out the game, ask us to
slide down the hill to the water’s edge. Fortune favored me at this piace,
for as we desceneded the hill, I saw for the first time in my life, the cactus
in bloom. It was a most agreeable surprise to find this unsightly plant
which is the great annoyance of moccasined voyageurs adorned with flowers
of a fine straw color. IL secured several of them although none appeared to
be in full bloom; how to preserve them is a great difficulty with me, for so
much of the fleshy substance must go with the flower, that it is almost i im-
possible to dry it. The structure of the flower, also was full of interest to
me, so that on the whole, I thought I had secured a real prize.

At night I listened with great pleasure to a long conversation between
Mr. Clark and Mr. Picotte, on Indian customs and language, and I regret
that I cannot record it fully. They mentioned the great generosity of all
Indians manifested in their disposition to give presents, and so great is the
desire to do so, that they will even steal to gratify it; the same generous
disposition is remarked in nearly all half breeds. Pol. teness amongst them,
assumes some very singular forms ; for instance, it is a mark of oreat respect
for an Indian to pass his plate w ith the remnant of his meal to any one who
may be with him; this I have observed at the feasts, and have seen it in the
halt-breeds constantly. And it is the very quintessence of politeness for an
Indian who is drinking liquor, to fill his mouth and then pass the contents
to his friend’s mouth from his own. The Indians notice the manner in
which they are treated by the traders, and think it rather strange — say they,
‘we give you the best food and the best robe, while you give us poor food
and put us in another room to sleep.” “ Well,’’ reply the traders, ‘the
reason is, that there are so many of you, and so few of us, we cannot afford
to find you all, as we feed ourselves, and if we feed one of you better than
another, jealousy is produced.

The Indians in their intercourse like to see a man well dressed because it
shows respect to them, and they despise a man who adopts their own cos=
tume; they are conscious of, and admit the white man’s superiority, and
have mind enough to despise the man who lowers himself to them. They
all make it a point to dress in their best when they reach a fort, except the
Assiniboines ; and Ferdinand says that if they are not dirty hoor they get
near the fort they make themselves so Sd

The Indian name of the Gros Ventres is Minetaree — the people of the
willows — the Aricarees call themselves Corn Eaters, and the Mandans
have no translation for their name. Mr. Clark mentioned a difficulty m
acquiring an Indian language worthy of notice, namely, that the women
and menuse a language so different that after acquirmg one you would
almost be ignorant of the other — that the men would pretend to be entire-
ly ignorant “of many words which the women use, and these are not words
peculiar to feminine dress or habits, but the names of very common articles
and acts. This is doubtless owing to the social position of the female —
their interest is separate from that of the men, and they are made to feel
131 [74

that they are regarded as inferior beings. There is a difference in the lan-
guage of the male and female even in civilized life, but this arises from a
very different reason — from the superior refinement of the latter.

It was remarked as an instance of politeness of an Indian gentleman,
that he never laughs at the awkward attempts of a white to speak his ey
guage, but on the contrary will compliment him on his success, and if
squaw breaks out into a laugh, as they sometimes do at the shghtest “Acta,
he rebukes her and tells her she does not know how to speak her own lan-
guage. This reminded me of the conduct of the Chinese to our mission-
aries in listening to their first attempts at preaching.

We spoke a little of the importance of a good half-breed school on this
river, and every one present gave it as his opinion, that an effort to esta-
blish one would meet with encouragement. It is said that there .are pro-
bably one hundred and fifty children whose parents were able to pay sixty
or eighty dollars a year for their schooling.

Evening. — Stopped about thirty miles above Fort Pierre—have there-
fore made a poor run to day, and had a great deal of grumbling. The
western bank has been almost a continuous bed of slate, thirty to forty feet
high. I went ashore, and found the bottom covered with a vine bearing a
pretty specimen of bindweed, and have preserved some good specimens ; it
differs from the beautiful pure white bindweed of Virginia, in having run-
uing vines and a purple tinge on the petal.

Friday, June 23 ——About ten miles below Fort Pierre—home seems to be
approaching quite rapidly, and we are now only about three thousand miles
from it, and no cholera in the states, as we understand. We reached the
Fort at about nine o’clock this morning, and left at two P. M. I was glad
to see again my acquaintances.

Mr. Picotte here left us, and we are to make the rest of the trip without
him. He has been very kind to me and asked me to remain with him this
summer, but this was out of the question. In leaving the Indian country,
I must record my acknowledgment of the very many acts of kindness and
hospitality extended towards me. The gentlemen, particularly of the Fur
Company, have Da treated me with eas and attention.

Saturday, June 29.—Last night closed in with clouds indicating a
shower, and a fine rain fell during the early 7 of the night. Calle d “by
Mr. Pattick about five o’clock to see the opposition boat, which was in
sight. All hands got up, and in about half an hour the two boats were
opposite one another in the stream, but not a word was exchanged-— thus
we passed, twelve hundred miles from home, and did not extend the shght-
est salutation; so much for opposition in trade. It was the St. Ange, a ‘fine
boat, owned and commanded by Captain Joseph Lebarge. There were
several ladies on board, and my eyes were delighted with the sight of a
beautiful face and fine fioure for the first time in some months. A great
many high slate hills on the west side this morning.

Monday, July 1.—On Saturday night we camped a short distance
below White river, and had something of a blow again. Yesterday we

passed the L’ Eau qui Court and encamped below it, and now at about ten

o’clock, Monday morning we are pushing down stream quite rapidly below
the river A’Jacques. It “had been my intention to have noticed with some
particularity the face of the country below Fort Pierre, but as it has been
carefully examined by scientific men with instruments, and reports made on
it, 1t appears to me scarcely worth my while to do so, and besides this it ig
‘
[i] 132

impossible for me to give an accurate account of the geological formation
from observing it as the boat passes swiftly by. I have noticed the lime-
stone mentioned by Nicollet and seen it in fine strata lying above slate; if
this stone is hard enough, it would be admirable for building. I think it too
soft however, although I have not yet been able to secure a specimen.

These slate and limestone rock occur in very high steep bluffs rismg almost
perpendicularly from the water, except when bars or narrow bottoms inter
vene ; they also often exhibit evidence of the presence of sulphur and iron ;
they donot occur in one unbroken succession, but they cross the river very
Reciedtly! being seen now on one side and again on the other, but never,
so far as I remember, appearing on opposite sides at the same place. They
do not occur in unbroken succession ever on the same side of the river, but
most generally appear as the sections of a series of short hills with ravines
between, and these ravines having in them grass and scrubby trees, fre
quently cedar. I noticed many swallow nests in these high banks.

I have looked with some care for the pseudo volcanoes of Nicollet ; we
passed the one in the bend below White River very early in the morning,
and I did not see it to my disappointment, but I noticed several places in the
banks which I supposed he called volcanoes, as they presented the red
burnt-like appearance noticed so often about Fort Union. One of these
places passed yesterday on the west bank, had so much the appearace of
having been caused by fire as to make the Captain exclaim—that must have
been a very recent fire. We are again getting into the region of snags,
but we have made fine running yesterday and to-day. Hurrah for home!

Tuesday, July 2.— We reached the Vermilion post yesterday at twelve
o’clock, and was welcomed by Mr. Larpenter. We were detained there all
the afternoon to take in packs, and at night we lay at the island opposite
and took in wood. J got two pairs of black tailed deer horns, and was
offered a young skunk, which I declined; there are two on board, really
beautiful little creatures and full of play. This morning we had made forty
miles before breakfast and have some hopes of being in St. Louis by Sunday.

Wednesday, July 3.— We spent the night a Jittle below ol Council

3luffs, and this morning soon after breakfast were at Bellena, and saw for

the first time in some months a settlement of whites. Yesterday the hills
for the first time were seen covered with timber and presented quite a
pleasing contrast with the bare bluffs of the upper river. To-day we are
hastening along and may reach St. Joe to-night.

Friday, July 5. — Yesterday was passed ‘by me delightfully, because I
was hurr ying home as fast as steam could carry me. We passed St. Joe
about ten o’clock, making only a short stop. I there got the skull of an
Assiniboine chief from Mr. M’Donald. We passed several towns but
stopped only once, at Parkville ; we met several steamboats bound upward.
This morning it is oppressively hot.

Saturday, July 6. — My trip has at last ended, so far as the Indian
country is concerned. The El Paso landed about two o’clock, all in good
health and spirits and glad to get home. I desire to feel very grateful to
Divine Providence for my safe return and restored health—may the know-
ledge gained be all employed in promoting God’s glory.
133 [Fy
APPENDIX.

As already stated, Mr, Culbertson collected numerous specimens of Natural History during
his recent expedition, Among these was a series of plants, a list of which as drawn up by
Professor Thomas C. Porter, of Marshall college, Mercersburg, is subjoined. A list of the birds
and mammialia of the Missouri river, from Fort Leavenworth to Fort Union at the mouth of
the Yellowstone, has been kindly furnished by Mr. Edward Harris, of Moorestown, N. Jersey,
and includes many species not seen by Mr Culbertson. Mr. Harris visited the Upper Missouri
in 1842, in company with the distinguished naturalist, Mr. J. J. Audubon, recently deceased, for
the purpose of assisting the latter gentleman in procuring materials for his valuable work on the
mammalia of North America. No systematic catalogue of the kind has ever been before pre-
sented, although detached notices may be found in the narrative by Maximilian Prince de Wied
of a journey along the Missouri to the Rocky mountains in 1832.

The concluding part of the appendix contains some valuable information on the numbers and
distribution of the Indians of the Upper Missouri. This is arranged in a tabular form, accom-

panied by explanations, and is published as left by Mr. Culbertson.
S. F. BAIRD.

LIST OF PLANTS COLLECTED BY MR. CULBERTSON :—BY PROFESSOR THOMAS
C. PORTER.
RANUNCULACE.

Anemone pennsylvanica, Linn, Common in moist grounds along the Missouri. June 17.
56, 52.*

Thalictrnm dioicam, Linn. Staminate plant. Missouri river, June. 76,

Thalictrum cornati, Linn, Low grounds along the Missouri. Five feet high. Jane 27. 112.

Delphinium azureum, sWichz. Grassy bank opposite Fort Lookout. June 29, 108.
BERBERIDACE.

Leontice thalictroides, Linn. Sine fl. et fr. Pinon’s spring, west of the head of Bad river.
May 11. 2.

CRUCIFERE.
Sisymbrium canescens, Nutt. Frequent near Fort Pierre. May. 26, 29.
Erysimum asperuam D.C. Abundant around Fort Pierre. May, June. 40.
Vesicaria ludoviciana D.C, Elk Horn Prairie. 12; 91,
Vesicaria (undetermined.) Prairie. May. 9.

VIOLACER:,

Viola cneullata, Ait. May. 18, 21.
Viola Nuttall, Pursh. Valley of the Missouri. May 15, 105 17:

. LINACE/&.
Linum rigidum, Pursh. Low grounds near Fort Pierre. June. 67.
Linum perenne, Linn, Near the mouth of Milk river. June 20. 98.
OXALIDACE/:.
Oxalis stricta, Linn. Bankof the Missouri below Fort Clarke. June 23. 104.

* The numbers are those attached to the specimens.
[1] 134

ANACARDIACEE.
Rhus toxicodendron, Linn. Bank ofthe Missouri. June. 58.
MALVACEZE.
Malvastrum coccinenm, Gray. Pl. Fendl. p. 34, and Gen Til. t, 219. (Sida coccinea, Nutt.)
Dry svil, near the wnouth of the Yellowstone. June 15, So.
VITACE.

Vitis riparia, Mich. Banks of the Missouri. June. 65.

POLYGALACEZ,
Polygala alba, Nutt. (P. Beyrichii, Torr § Gr.) Opposite Fort Lookout. 110.

LEGUMINOSE.

Vicia americana, Mull. Common along the Missouri, above Fort Pierre. 105.
Lathyrus linearis, Nutt. Bauks of the Missonri; frequent. 17; 95.
Lathyrus polymorphus, Nutt. Very abundant on hillsand low grounds. Fragrant. May. 12.
Amorpha nana, Nutt. Common around Fort Pierre; 18 inches to two feet high. May. 38.
Dalea (uudetermined.)  Stne fl. et fr. Bank of the Missouri. June. 62.
Psoraler esculenta, Pursh. ‘ Prairie turnip’ Near Fort Pierre. May. 42, 43, 68.
Astragalus caryocarpus, Ker. Sine fr. Common. May. 24.
Astragalus racemosus? Pursh. Elk Horu Prairie. Juue 18. 93.
Astragalus (undetermined.) Jane 20. 100.
Oxytropis Lamberti, Pursh. Dry bills on the prairie. May 16. 8, 84.
Phaca neglecta? Torr & Gr. (Specimen imperfect ) Near Fort Lookout. June 29. 111.
Ther nopsis rhombifolia, Nutt. On the Missouri above Fort Union. 92,
Lupinus pusillus, Pursh. Upper Missouri. 388.

ROSACEX.

Prunns americana, Marshall. Middle of May. 14.

Potentilla pennsylvanica, Linn. Low grounds; one hundred and twenty miles above Fort
Union. June 19. 96.

Potentilia anserina, Linn. Above Fort Union, 97.

Rosv blanda, A’t. Low grounds and woods; forty miles above Fort Union; very abundant.
June 17. 101, 102.

ONAGRACEZ.

nothera cespitosa, Nutt. Wery common on the sides of barren hills, near Fort Pierre.
End of May. BH

Gaura coccinea, Nutt Hills near the river, above the mouth of the Yellowstone. June 15.
79) 789!

Gaura(undetermined.) Perhaps a variety of G, coccinea, Nutt. Near Fort Pierre. June 49.

GROSSULARIACE®,
Ribes aureum, Pursh. Bank of the Missouri, near Fort Pierre. May. 15, 69.

UMBELLIFERZ.
Nos. 1, 7, and 46, (in fruit,) (andetermined.)

CORNACEX.
Cornus stolonifera, Mickx. Abundant on the banks of the Missouri. SOO.
.
CAPRIFOLIACEZ,.
Symphoricarpns, (fol.) Wet grounds along the Missouri. 60, 70, 99.
Viburnum lentago, Linn. Abundant on the Missouri. 74.
RUBIACEX.

Galinm boreale, Linn, Dry bank on the Missouri fifty miles below the mouth of the Yellows
stune. June. 81.
135 wk

COMPOSIT Z&.

Achillea millefolium, Linn. Elk Horn Prarie, and above Milk river. June 18 and 20,
7, 103.

Artemisia frigida, Willd. (fol.)  Praire just below Fort Pierre. 23)

Senecio (undetermined ) Common on the Prairies about Fort Pierre. May 30
Cirsum undulatum, Spreng. (fol.) River bank just above Port Pierre, May. 37,
Lygodesmnia juncea, Nutt. Opposite Fort Lookout. Juue 29 109.

"Troximun cuspidatuin, Pursh. Wet groand and prairie around Fort Pierre. May 44,

PRIMULACEZ.

Lysimachia ciliata, Linn. Moist gronnds, Upper Missouri. June 27 114.

SCROPHULARIACEA,

Pentstemon (undetermined.) Elk Horn prairie. 90.

Pentstemon (Sp. noc?) Rocky Hill near Fort Pierre. PASyereay.

Castilleja sessititlora, Pursh. Elk thoru) prairie on the Missouri, about eighty miles above
Fort Union. June 13 83.

VERBENACE.

Verbena bracteosa? MWichz, About the holes of the prairie Marmot. May 39, 22.
BORAGINACE.XZ.

Lithospermum? Bank of the Missouririver. June (We

Myosots glomerata, Nutt. Near Fort Pierre. May 27, 45

Mertensia (undetermined ) Dry prairies. May 0, 4.

CONVOLVULACE.

Calystegia sepium, R. Br. Wet grounds on the Missouri, June 27 61, 107.

APOCYNACE.

Apocynum cannabinum, Linn. Moist low grounds, eighty miles above Fort Pierre.
June 17 113:

ASCLEPIADACE,

Asclepias Sullivantii, Engelm. Wet meadows on the Missouri; common. May oF

SANTALACES.

Comandra umbellata, Nutt. Just below Fort Pierre, and bluffs near the mouth of Heart river,
May, June 25; 0 le

SALICACEZ.

Salix longifolia, Muhl. (pist. fl) Very comuon. June 52.

Salix, (undetermined.) Stam, fle Abuadant on streams and sand bars; Upper Missouri.
May 13:

Populus levigata, Willd.e Valley of the Missouri. S. fl. and fr. dl.
IRIDACEZ,

Sisyrinchium bermudiana, Linn. Prairie above Fort Pierre. June 12 106.
SMILACEZ.

Smilax herbacea, Linn. (Stam. pl.) Near Port Pierre. May Al,

LILIACER.

Smilicina stellata, Desf. Very commen in wet places along the Missonri. June 55.
Allium Candetermined.) (fl. only.) Perhaps A stellatum of Geyer’s collection 20.

COMMELYNACEZ.

Tradescantia virginica, Linn, High dry bank justbelow the mouth of Heartriver. June 10 86
ay ,
a
cl] ’ 136

CYPERACEZ,

Carex stricta, Lam. Wet sand; Upper Missouri. June 75.

GRAMINIEZ.
Elymus, (undetermined.) Elk Horn prairie. June [8 94.

; EQUISETACE.
Equisetum arvense, Linn. (Sterile plant.) Common along the Missouri. June 50.

LIST OF BIRDS AND MAMMALIA FOUND ON THE MISSOURI RIVER FROM FORT
LEAVENWORTH TO FORT UNION, AT THE MOUTH OF THE. YELLOWSTONE
RIVER, BY EDWARD HARRIS, ESQ.

(The Species marked with an asterisk were seen on the lower part of the river; the rest were
higher ap towards Fort Union.)

BIRDS,
Cathartes aura, Ill. Turkey Buzzard,
Buteo swainsoni, By? Common Buzzard.
Archibuteo St. Johannis, (Gm.) Black Hawk,
Aquila chrysetos, Golden or Ringtailed Eagle.
Haletus leucocephalus, Sav. Bald Eagle.
Paudion carolinus, Bp. Fish Hawk.
* Nauclerus furcatus, Vig. Swatlow tail Hawk, (above Council Bluffs.)
Falco peregrinus, L. Duck Hawk.
sparverius, L. Sparrow Hawk.
Circus uliginosus, Wils. Marsh Hawk.
* Athene cunicularia, Bp. Burrowing Owl.
Rubo virginianus, Great Horned Owl, the whitish variety.
Antrostomus nuttalli, Aud. Poor Will.
Chordeiles virginianus, Sw. Night Hawk,
Acanthylis pelasgia, ‘Boil. Chimney Swallow.
Hirundo purpurea, L. Purple Martin,
lunifrons, Say. Clitk Swallow.
bicolor, Vieill. White bellied Swallow.
rufa, Gn. Barn Swallow.
serripennis, Aud. Rough winged Swallow,
Tyrannus verticalis, Say. Arkansas Flycatcher.
crinitus, Sw. Great crested Flycatcher.
tntrepidus, Vieill. Wing Bird.
Tyrannula sayt, Sw. Say s. Flycatcher.
Selophaga ruticilla. Sw. Redstart.
Sylvicola estiva, Sw. Yellow Warbler.
Trichas marilandica, Bp. Maryland Yellow Throat.
Helinaia peregrina, Aud. ‘Tenuessee Warbler.
Minotilta varia, Vieill. Black and White Creeper.
Troglodytes obsoletus, Say. Rock Wren.
edon, Vieill, House Wren.
Parus septentrionalis, Harris. Long tailed Wren.
Sialia arctica, Sw. Northern Blue Bird.
Mimus carolinensis, L, Cat Bird.
rufus, Bp. Brown Thrush.
Turdus nigratorius, L. Robin.
wilsonti, Bp. ‘Tawney Thrush.
Seiurus aurocapillus, Sw. Golden Crowned Thrush,
noveboracensis, Bp. Water Thrush.
Agrodoma spraguei, Aud.  Sprague’s Lark,
Otocoris rufus, Western Sky Lark.
Plectrophanes pictus, Sw. Smith's Lark.
ornatus, Towns. Chesnut-collared Lark.
Chondestes grammaca, Bp. Lark Finch.
Zonotrichia graminea, Sw. Grass Finch.
leucophrys, Sw White crowned Sparrow.
* Zonotrichia querula, Nutt, Harris’ Finch,

*
137

Spizella pallida, Bp. Clay colored Bunting,

socialis, Bp. Chipping Sparrow.

* Passerculus savanna, Bp, Savannah Sparrow.

* Coturniculus henslowi, Bp. Wenslow’s Bunting,
lecontei, Aud, Leconte’s Bunting.
bairdu, Aud. Baird’s Bunting,

Spiza amoena, Bp Lazuli Finch.

Carduelis tristis, L. Goldfinch.

Pipilo arcticus Sw. Arctic 'Towhee,

* erythropthalmus, (L.) 'Towhee.

Corydalina bicolor, ( Towns.) White shouldered Sparrow,

* Erythrospiza purpurea. Purple Finch,

Guiraca cocrulea, Sw. Blue Grosbeak, above Council Bluffs.

ludoviciana, Sw. Rose breasted Grosbeak, above Council Bluffs.

melanocephala, Sw. Black headed Grosbeak.
* Pyranga rubra, (L.) Veeill. Scarlet Tanager.
Dolichonyx oryzivora Sw. Bob Link,
Molothrus pecoris, Sw. Cow Bird.
Agelaius phoeniceus, Viel, Red wing Blackbird.
* ganthocephalus Bp. Yellow headed Biacklird.
Icterus baltimore Daud. Hanging Bird.
Scolecophagus mexicanus, Sw. Brewer's Blackbird.
* Sturnella ludoviciana, Bp, Meadow Lark.
neglecta, Aud. Western Lark.
Corvus cacalotl, Wagl. Raven.
americanus, Aud. Crow.
Pica hudsonica, Sab. Magpie.
Lanius ludovicianus, L. Loggerhead Shrike.
Vireo olivaceus L. Red eyed Vireo.
Icteria viridis Bp Chat.
Bombycilla carolinensis, Br. Cedar Bird,
* Trochilus colubris, L. Hamming Bird.
Picus harrisi, Aud. Harris’ Woodpecker.
erythrocephalus, LL. Red head Woodpecker,
Colaptes auratus, L. Flicker,
rubricatus Licht. Red shafted Flicker,
ayresti, Aud, Ayres red shafted Flicker.
Erythrophrys erythropithalmus, Black billed Cuckoo.
* Conurus carolinensis, Kuhl. Parraquet; above Fort Leavenworth
Ectopistes migratorius, Sw. Wild Pigeon.
carolinensis Sw. Dove.
* Meleagris gallopavo, L. Wild Turkey, above Floyd’s bluff.
Tetrao urophasianus, Bp. Cock of the Plains.
* cupido, L. Prairie Hen,
phasianellus, L.. Sharp tailed Prairie Hen.
Ortyx virginiana, Steph. Bob White.
Fultca americana, Gm. Coot.
Charadrius vociferus, (L)  WKaildeer.
virginiacus, Borck. Bull head Plover.
Actitis bartramius. Field Plover.
macularius, (L) Bp. Spotted Sandpiper.
_Totanus flavipes, Vieill. Yellow Shanks.
* Rusticola minor. Woodcock.
* Recurvirostra americana, (Gm.) Avoset.
Numenius longirostris, Wils. Curlew.
Ardea herodias, (LL) Blue Heron.
Anser eanadensis (L.) Canada Goose,
* hutchinsii, Rich. Hutchin’s Canad@ Goose.
*erythropus Bp. White fronted Canada Goose.
* hyperboreus, (Pall.) Snow Goose.
Cygnus buccenator, Rich. ‘Trumpeter Swan,
Anas boschas, (L.) Mallard Duck.
strepera, (L.) Gadwall Duek,
*acuta, (L.) Sprig-tail Dnek.
Anas sponsa, (L.) Summer Duck.
* Anas obscura, (Gm.) Black Duck,
* elypeata, (L.) Shoveler
* Grus americanus, (L.) Whooping Crane.
Lasur atricilla,(L.) Black head Gull,
Sterna fissipes, (L.) Black Tern.

[1] i ” 88

aie MAMMALIA.

Bos americanus. Buffalo.
Cervus canadensis, Say. Elk.
macrotis, Say. Black tail Deer.
virginianus, (L) Common Deer.
Antilope americana, Ord. Antelope.
Ovis montana, Desm. Bighorn.
Ursus ferox. Grizzly Bear.
» * americanus. Brown Bear.
Meles labradvria, Sab. Badger.
Gulo luscus, Sab. Woiverene.
Lupus occidentalis, Rich. White Wolf.
latrans, Say, Prairie Wolf.
Vulpus velox, Say. Swilt Fox.
Mephitis chinga? Skunk.
Mustela canadensis. Fisher.
Lynx canadensis, Canada Lynx.
Castor americanus, Rich. Beaver,
Lepus townsendii, Buch. Towusend’s Hare.
artemisia, Bach. Wormwood Hare.
* sylvaticus 7 Bach. Common Rabbit.
* Spermophiius ludevictanus, Say. Prairie Dog.
Es [56a _ * tridecemlineatns, Mitch. Prairie Squirrel.
Scéurus cinereus, (L) Cat Squirrel.
*neger, Black Squirrel.
*macrourus, Say. Great tailed Sqnirrel,
* Tamias quadrtvittatus. Say. Four lined Ground Squirrel,
Neotoma fiorilana, Wood Rat.
* Mus musculus, (LL) House Mouse.
Hesperomys leucopus? Raf Deer Mouse.
Psuedostoma borealis, Rich. Gopher.
Hystrix dorsata. Poreupine.

The following new Species are indicated as occurring in this region, by Maximilian Prince de
Wied, (Voyage dans l’Amerique du Nord. Paris, 1843. 3 vols. 8 vo.)

Vespertilto ursinus. Fort Union.
Hypudeus leucogaster, Mandan Village,
Perognatas fuscus. Fort Union,

AN EXPLANATION OF THE TABULAR VIEW OF THE INDIAN TRIBES OF THE
UPPER MISSOURI.
BY THADDEUS A CULBERTSON, JuLY 1850.

Explanation of the Tabular view of the Sioux Nation of the U. Missouri.

These tables are designed to show the numbers, principal tribes, smaller divisions and
couniry of that part of the Sioux Nation living on the Upper Missouri, ‘Phe information has
been gathered from Mr Charles Gilpin, of Fort Pierre, trom several Indian chiefs, and has
been submitted to the inspection of Mr. Henry Picotte and Mr. Alexander Culbertson, partners
ofthe American Fur company, and for many years familiar with the nation referred to, as well as
with those higher up the river. The Sioux nation occupies the immense tract of country
extending ina south west direction from the Upper Mississippi to the Platte river, and bounded
on the West by the Black Hills.

This table does not refer to that part of the nation living on the Mississippi. Three thousand
lodges may be relied on as very nearly the correct number of those living on the Missouri,
according to the testimony of the best authority, and thirty thousand as nearly the correct number
of souls; the average souls per lodge has been put at ten, on the authority of Mr. Picotte, who
has had every opportunity of waking a correct estimate. He thinks that eight souls per lodge
might not be too low, but he prefers to put the estimate at ten.

The first division of the nation is inte three large tribes: — The Yanktons, the Yanktonnana
and the ‘ions or ‘Titonwans. ‘Phese speak the same language and always maintain friendly
relations, but they have few interests in common; so far as 1 could learn, they hold towards each
other no relation at all analagous to a federal union.
139 i aie)

Each of these tribes is again divided into a great number of small bands, bound together by
ties of kindred and affinity ; each of these consists of a single family connection, lives by itself,
and regulates its own private concerns. They have no chief possessing the authority which is
generally associated with that title, but the men of authority amongst them are those who have
gained it by an extensive family connection, by their great wealth, or by their success in war
and general character for wisdom. ‘Chere are a number of sach men in each band.

These bands all take names that their own taste may select, or that some circumstance may
give them. ‘Those given in the table are by no means the whole nutuber, but they are the prin-
cipal ones, and are sufficient to illustrate the nature of these divisions ‘The ‘Titons have an
intermediate division between these small bands and the larger oues, consisting of seven bands,
as marked in the table, the Brules, Blackfeet, &c. There are other associations amongst all the
tribes, Which I have not noticed in the table; these are somewhat analogous to the association of
Odd Fellows and other secret societies amongst us, having for their object mutual protection
and defence. ‘Che country of each tribe has necessarily been assigned by the most general
limits. ‘Uhe Sioux nation has no fixed place of residence; the people use skin lodges for their
habitations aud are constantly on the move, and their only wealth consists of horses and the
buffalo robes that they may procure. ‘The rivers referred to in the table are the ones on some
part of whose bisins the tribe generally passes the winter. ‘Che limits between hostile nations
inay be tolerably well defined, as they are exceedingly careful not to meet their enemies unless
traveling in large bands or 1m war parties.

The list of names that closes the table is intended principally to illustrate their method of
naming; these are the names of a few of the principal men in each band, and the same method
of naming is employed in everything. It will be seen that alt the names are significant and most
probably given to the persons from some circumstanee happening to them, or great feat per-
furmed by them. ‘lhe last column is the Indian name spelled as pronounced, as nearly as the
ear could catch the sound,

Explanation of the Tabular view of several Indian nations of the Upper
Missouri.

THE CHEYENNE NATION.

Most of the previous remarks apply also to the nations referred to in these tables. I shall here
merely note peculiarities. ‘This uation once lived on the Missouri, but has been driven backs
gradually by the Sioux people, until their principal range is west of the Black Hills. They speak
a distinct langnage, which is so difficult to acquire, that but two or three whites are able to
speak it. In 1849 they suffered severely from the cholera; about two hundred lodges being
carried off by that disease, ‘The following are the names of two of their principal men. Yellow
Wolf—Sha-ga-inan-to g’hi. Mad Bull—To-tun-cha-ga-nun-tchi-ah.

THE ARICCAREE NATION.

This people differs from most other tribes in using dirt lodges and living ina permanent
village, Their village is located at Fort Clarke, on the west bank of the Missouri, little above
forty-seven degrees of North latitude, T'hey inhabit this during the whole of the year, except a
part of the winter months ‘hey raise large quantities of corn. which differs very inuch from that
raised in our fields, but none of our vegetables have reached thei yet. The tees were once a
large nation, but within the last thirty years, pestilence, disease and war have rednced their
numbers very greatly. This has almost broken up these large family connections that consti-
tute the bands amongst the Sioux and the bands of Rees in the table, are those smaller associa-
tions mentioned in page

THE MANDAN NATION.

This is the remnant of quite a large band that was almost exterminated by the small pox in
1838 or 1839. ‘Their depopulated village was taken possession of by the Rees who now hold it
and they themselves became partly incorporated with the Rees and other tribes, excepting a
few who have a small village, five miles above that of the Rees. They are again increasing
very slowly, and are said to a brave people. ‘hey speak a distinct language.

Mr. Joseph Desautel, of Fort Clarke, is my authority fur the numbers of the Ree nation,

THE GROS VENTRE NATION.

; The Indian name for this nation is Minnetaree—people of the Willows. Like the Rees they
live ina permanent village and cultivate the land; their village is at Fort Berthold, on the east
side of the Missouri, seventy-tive miles above the Ree village. ‘They have lately enclosed it
with good pickets, ta protect themselves from their enemies, and are said to be anxious to adopt
the arts of civilized life. ‘fhe bands here, as with the Rees, are not formed by family con-
nections, but are voluntary associations and consist of persons of the same age. The Black
‘Tail Deer band consists of very old men, and the other bands of ages in a descending series to
the Foxes, which is a band of very young men.

Mr. Kipp, of Fort Bethold, is my authority here.

THE ASSINIBOINE NATION. :

This isa large wandering tribe, ranging in a very extensive country north of the Missouri,
extending far into British America, and lying east of the Blackfoot country. he larger part
trades with the British company, and only about six hundred lodges trade with the Americans,
‘Lheir name signifies the Stoue People. Their language is kindred to the Sioux.

THE CROW NATION.

This is a large nation inhabiting the country drained by the Yellowstone. It is divided into
two large villages or bands, and these are again divided into bands formed of family connections ;
the connections are here counted on the mothers’ side instead of the fathers’. he Crow people
are very brave andare great warriors. They and the Gros Ventre nation speak the same language.

Mr. Meldrum, who has lived for twenty-five years amongst the Crows, 1s my authority here.
Tie makes twelve souls the average number to a lodge amongst this people, as it is well known
tha: they have more toa lodge than any other nation. It will be noticed that the average
varies in each nation.

THE BLACKFOOT NATION.

This is also a large and very warlike nation, living north of the Missouri, and partly in the
British dominions. Its minor divisions are not well ascertained, because only a part trade with
the Americans, and they generally come to the Fort in very large numbers. The division into
North and South Blackfeet is probably a division made by the traders for their own convenience.
The first three divisions speak the same language, but the Gros Ventre du Prairie, although
fully incorporated with the Blackfoot nation, speak a different tongue, said to be the same as
that of the Arapahoes on the Arkansas.

Mr. Malcom Clark, of Fort Benton, is my authority.
L—]
— "Yey-Ry-aT] “UIOTT Pay yy,
“yRy-oy- he Ty ‘SULLY ALO ST ay,
"BS}-I-NYO}-V1-k fA] “qhy Seog ayy, “19119501
"oys-vys-yel-G 99] any M 24, ],/e5uRt spueg asol, J,
*Yeo-1Y9}-0}- “yy “IVI OWT] og. Pystaau [pequouar dy
puv puriry ‘nead
| , -ofy ‘uakeyg ayy,
: "Rys-un-aya-v Ay] ‘TOPUNYT, OYA, OL,
“vYpo- os- BYO}- Uby-R Wo pred oUuL
yej-u-eyo}-uny-e fp, Yq pay eu |
|
\, ‘(OAL OIIYT AY JO
; quot Wop|es par
"Bd satja-und-vs-P fy TOYS VOI, ot, T] ast ayer ‘oa
*1-Jaq-YRM-I-NYD T ‘Apog 8,o[5R yy ay Li-tt pun09 mb nv 7
Le YNQ-Fy-Hyyun-1y9-v Ay ‘apunyf, ey ay
= = a

‘ropidg att Ad Oty, “LINOSSITA, OT
‘yrd-qou-oj-v [q sino OM) aU,T, JO AOU pure S00}
“dinu-uoo0Yy-u Fy ‘aanpyooN ouog ayy} yur ay1 Jo sa AQ
id-po-nyar-(e-4y UT, ot} sjjor wy? ouo ayy,
‘urieny-e-td-v py] -puolyg pay ey,
*Av -Yal-qns-0}-v [4 civag Ayumg ay ‘sanbor poy
‘d-ud-v-1u-e}-vg [99g oy) SoyLIs jy au aYy,T|taATI at jo uiseg

“YRYS-1U-0]-91]

“souIRNY UPIpUy ALOT, suayy pedioung “AIWUNOD

. “AL1V9 JY) OSOU,T,
*smoq peq AUT,

Syouq a108 dt 7,

*pneq atnoy Advays ony, |

‘ajdoad aavjyoau Jwam Ysaty
sajdoed qnojo yooesg JIE ET

‘purq uvur aulolpam SfIAe(] Ou,
‘plug 1ayywaf AVOID OIL J,

"ysvy]_ oq} 0} ixau duro JVU) esoy,yT,
*sauo SUMO] peq at,

"solo payooy yor[q ayy

*sadnog sap—s\y ouT,

‘SMOID JULI LY} BSOULT,

“a[Pplul ay} Ul UALOG asoyy,

*suLIy peq ay

‘saYsip Iq) [10g IVI) asoU,L,
‘sasloy pasoo] SIq oyL

‘ajdoad yeam palloiq aq,
‘sunqdig ay.L

‘sursvayd IL,

‘soutd ay} Ur yooYs IVY) esou,T,
“paaty eu Avay at L

rajdoad ajog ayy,

esadnoy sajay,—spray uo au,
‘ornyng Ou syea yey) purg

“yooo 1,U0p yvqy purg

‘asaes OU Ss}Ra yey) purg

‘s}uSt, ayy jo purg

‘spurg jedioung

“UOLVN JOOPAILIG, OBL ION «

*saSpoy 0k
yed-vd-youg

‘saSpol (Ch

Oo Ooo" aa

|

‘OS8I ‘G@ ‘V ‘IMMOSSIN UTddn AHL NO NOLLYN XNOIS GHL dO MATA UVINAVL V

‘Vv

* JoQsorlg Hoi 08%%
udp
*s[nos 000‘0S
(inoqe)
‘soZpo| (00S
(uoqge)
-(‘unossi fq U0)
*xnolg
"sas por 00G
| sajnig
"saSpo] 0GE
UvUUO} UL A
‘sopol 00S
‘UOyyUue A
‘saquyy, qus *SOqLT, "MONE NT
>
142

[1]

*yud-o7 vyy

*pYys-RU'eYd-UIN}-O J,
“IY Yreqeue AA

“YRys ey

“yes ap BU OUIU BAA

Yay Eup Rs BOS) LAA
iared vubiyp uno ey
"YRY-B-IM-15-U09 |

*39M-YO-YRYL-9 AA
yey-ny-yeys-yQ)
“Yey Ol

—_—

‘sauiedy UeIpay sayy,

ULI VULOIpo ly aU yT

uaz jedioung

“siveg? Ino, ayy, |

‘a[Fey MO X OYL, SIA Prd

yg sarpuvys ogg! Jo iaAq pue do

“IDB AA PAY OP |-aAll one Jo sytos \
*Palmpily AQ op, YuGs pue yoy |

aka

“AvAG AZUT PUL

Jaiyanoy

‘aqua MOAD oy pasar sparg ase T,

SIH yor puke

‘sSulaeg aeyirag oyy,jieats uadeyg oy

*AALAG, OL] PUL

“UIA Pay 94,T,1JO sy1oj pue peoyy |

| “Auan0g

*SUOISTAT(] ON

‘parq eq WoYs oy,
“purq anpoy pad aug,
*pueq pnops iyo aug,
*purg vorjyooU Uys plo at y,
*purq 1alRM pat auf,
*paurq Ye[eaGQ ayy,
‘wey ey) Wa IVY] eso T,
pueg farm pat au,
“sory sarge aq],

yea yp vB vfey

"ping Sureva toys au J,
*sHOp OU {va yey) OsOy T.
“SAl{} VYI AAALL OY f,

ssparg jedioung

saspo[ 09 |
‘purg apey

—

['aaoqy 88g]

l

| soe pol 00V

| ee ea ag ]
| |

j

] |

\

‘UOT, f “xnolg
soSpol OG% |
diy surg
sas pol LZ |
eyss-Wo0d-1UI |
‘SOqILT, qug saquyy, | “UONeN

‘dT ANILNO) — : NOLLYN XOOIS CHL tO MATA
a
—
ea

7 a

143

‘yrjooyra
IO XNOIg at} 0}
poipulry aornsuey

AIVUNOD OOFAOT .
ay} jo ysva pue ‘tnosstyy ay} Jo YWON

‘ppoywwog Woy ye “yArypD
JO AAOGR SaTIU VAY AquaAos “LINOSSI AT
oy} JO YuRq seo sy} UO IHRT[LA JUIULULIO

*MOIN at} 0}
peipury asensur'y

‘QORITIA dz oY} VAOqe

(2)

Qa
‘yOUTSIP ooRNnouUR
eee ‘T SO[TUL DAY “LINOSSTIY OY} UO VHLT[LA JUULULLA

“LINOSSTJA, AY} FO YUL 4S9 AA

“JUMP ITY} OF}

2 ‘aI AMASTA JozUTM Lat
paipury osensuey eine heat iC

—! apnyyry YOu sevatsep Uards AyL0F
yhoqe “Ylr[Q WOT 7 sse][LA JUoUVUllog

“LIMOSST], OY} WO AT[RULSIIG)

A ong
a eadiaiieal | “STTLH orp ey} JO ysom Aypediouttg

|
|

a —— gO n\n SO — LOO een eee

‘ISDNGUD'T *fhaqunoy

[ spueq ‘TINOSST]E
JayJO JO sowueu oy} Ulvat you prnog] | ey} uo apeuz
pueq puepp yor oun $009 (ye ut)
pueq vsoury oy, | SASpoT OO‘T
“ouLOqIUISsSy

Slogq, [IVT SOL

piluite f a= 00K
ssoq PIO SISpOT GR
sso] ‘adj}Ud A SOLD

S80(q YST[OoT
SIXO,J IY} JO pur
[nos QGT

Sa5poT OE
‘uepureyyy

d
sjurseoyg oy,

SMOIG

SOXO J

SSo(y Suno X

SSO] YSt]oo 7

syynouLyoryg_
s[[ug oy} Jo purg
pueq paoig eA eq
pureq JOM MOTTIR OL,
pueg Latpfog 6oq oy,

sInog 90e‘T
S9SpOT 00G
‘go1VOTIY

‘s[NOS 000°E
‘saspo'T OOS
‘guuasoy

Ne rr ONY tar

“SPUDT *SUOUID AL

‘OGST ‘A ‘V ‘IMNOSSIN WHddA AHL NO ‘SNOILVN NVIGNI TVUGAGS dO MATA UVTNAVL

“a
sooyuedesy at} 0} porpury > PIULD)LIISD JOA 4 IATBIG NP 243UI A BOL |
pureg oung Moy oly, |
qoulstp asensuey : ArjuN09 suespotg Apoorg ayy, (sueseg poounou
JUTOIUISSY JO JSoA Be OAL your 1,uop yey} adoog eyJ,4 -noid) ‘suespotg ayy,

WMOSsTfA, 94} JO YOU - ALQUNLOL) Seva THVT IL
suespatg Yyyto

| (jnoqe) stnos 999°6
; apis}no 9y} UO ATeFT YIM soqoy od
| |
N |
| |

| “SaBPOT YOST

r O04 Pr
suRIpuy poorg oy, |

|

qouysIp soensur'y pueq standaq eqy,

SloyVy YSty ayy,
yooyyory_ yNog
POOP CLL THON

“ =
OF) OY URoLlowy

a Of) eq Ss Sota | Uy M IPRLT, pOOPpeyl_ aLL

"Soy MDUay “spung “Saque,],
| ( suvtpuy PIES 20 .PErd. AT[VULSIIO ): S10831(] yoo" — |
x SOSIOF]{ MOYIIM saspo] oy, —
= ATPg ey ut xory —
a re | vs-joq-diyg —
+ H rai 5 2
. rth ibis as, bi ae cea OL = inaees ( qnoqe ) sqnos 90g‘F
[2 at} fo ( sueipuy 39,7 orp Ayyeutstio ) . dnog peg — ‘sa Bpo| 00F
Mo poy —

asensueyiuiseq oy y, ‘MOID

J9Y}9.50} VSO[I aSpoT yey} esoyT, —
SULSSIT peg —

SaSpo] SCP SESE 520 [el [pce |

i pueq 7ey9 »xog —

7 SMOT[OJ Sv ‘sauo ]][VUIS ZT OZUL (‘stayons-deg) ‘t1ad-yas-aurpy

poeplarp are spueq OM} VAOqe dT, aed * MOI) —
r aspnsuny| ‘hujunog - ‘spupg "SUOUIDAS
Bes oS 2

7 ‘CAANILNO) —? MATA UVINGVL — “a
. 145 9 ,

. SUMMARY. . *

Si0UX,- = -- +--+ eter re eee erence ee ere ce eee ee eee eee ee ee 30,000
Cheyene, -- ----------- 2-222 rrr r rrr ent tern eee ener errr ee ee 3,000
Ariccaree,-------- +--+ cr rrr rrr re cere errr cere ee ee eee eee ---- 1,500
Mandan,- ----------------------- 2-2-2022 ee reer eee eee 150
Gros Ventres,------------++--- 222 ere reer rr rrr reer eee e reece eee 700
Assiniboine, ------------+----+---+-+--------------------------- 4,800
Crow, --- + rrr reer rer rr rrr errr rr rete ee eee eee reer ee- 4,800
Blackfoot,---------------------------------------------- eee 9,600
Probable number of Indians on the Upper Missouri,

and its tributaries--=++-+---+--------- 2202222 294,550

Mis.—10.
[1] gre 146

APPEN DIXIE O LIBR ARYANS JR EPO Rae.

—_——_

Copy-right Publications deposited prior to 1850.

LIST of Books, Maps, Charts, Musical Compositions, §c. delivered
to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, from August 10,
1846, to December 31, 1849; in compliance with the following
requirement of the Act of Congress, approved August 10, 1846,
establishing the Smithsonian Institution.

*¢ Section 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or proprietor
of any Book, Map, Chart, Musical Composition, Print, Cut or Engraving,
for which a copy right shall be secured under the existing acts of Congress,
or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy rights, shall,
within three months from the publication of said Book, Map, Chart, Musical
Composition, Print, Cut, or Engraving, deliver, or cause to be delivered,
one copy of the same to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and
one copy to the Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said
Libraries.”

Part i= BOOKS:
< JI.— MUSICAL COMPOS;TIONS.
‘ TII.— MAPS, PRINTS, &c. &c.

PART I.— BOOKS.

Asgott (Jacob,) History of Alexander the Great, with engravings: 12mo
278p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 :
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

History of Hannibal the Carthagenian, with engravings :
12mo 295p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1849 : deposited by Harper & Brothers.

History of Julius Cesar, with engravings: 12mo 278p —
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849: depo-
sited by Harper & Brothers.

History of King Alfred of England, with engravings :
12mo 2705 — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1849: deposited by Barver ¢ Brothers.

History of Mary Queen of Scots, with engravings: 12mo
286p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848:
deposited by Harper & Brothers.
147 | [1]

Axssorr (Jacob) History of Queen Elizabeth, with engravings: 12mo 281p;
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848: depo-
sited by Harper & Brothers.

Ea of King Charles the First, of England, with engra-
vings: 12mo 285p — New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers, 1848 : deposited by Harper & Brothers.

History of Charles the Second of England, with engravings:
12mo 3804p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1849: deposited by Harper & Brothers.

A Summer in Scotland, with engravings: Svo 331p— New
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848: deposited by
Harper & Brothers.

Aspott (John S. C, ) Kings and Queens ; or Life in the Palace ; consisting
of historical sketches of Josephine, Maria Louisa, Louis Phil-
lippe, Ferdinand of Austria, Nicholas, Isabella iis Leopold
and Victoria: 12mo 312p — New York, published by Harper
& Brothers, 1848: deposited by Harper & Brothers.

History of Maria Antoinette, with engravings: 12mo
322p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849:
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Apams (Daniel, M. D.) Book Keeping; containing a lucid explanation of the
common method of book keeping by single entry ; a new, Concise
and common sense method of book keeping, for farmers, me-
chanics, retailers and professional men, &c. &c., designed for
schools and academies : 8vo large, 141p — Keene, published by

J. W. Prentiss & Co., 1849 : deposited by J. Homer French.

Primary Arithmetic ; or Mental Operations in Num-
bers ; being an introduction to the revised edition of Adams’
new arithmetic, designed for schools and academies: 12mo0
180p — Keene, published by J. W. Prentiss & Co. 1848:
deposited by J. Homer French.

Key to Adams’s New Arithmetic, revised edition, for
the use of teachers: 12mo 88p — Keene, published by J. W.
Prentiss & Co., 1848: deposited by Daniel Adams.

Adams’s New Arithmetic, in which the principles ot
operating by numbers are analy tically explained, and synthe ti-
cally applied, illustrated by copious examples; revised edit:on,
designed for the use of schools and academies: 12mo 306p —
Keene, published by J. W. Prentiss & Co. 1848: deposited by
Daniel Adams.

Apams (Mrs.) Letters of Mrs. Adams, the wife of John Adams, with an
introductory memoir, by her grandson Charles Francis Adan s ;
fourth edition, revised and enlarged, with an appendix, conta n-
ing the letters addressed by John Adams, to his son Jchn
Quincy Adams, on the study of the bible: 12mo 472p —
Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1848: ceposiet
by Charles Francis Adams.

Avams (Rev. W., M. A) The King’s Messengers, an allegorical tale ;
from the London edition, with engravings, executed by Ww.
rh} 148°

Howland, from original designs by Weir: 12mo 141p — New
York, published by the General Protestant Episcopal Sabbath
School Union, 1848: deposited by J. W. Mitchell.

Apams (Rev. W., M. A.) The Old Man’s Home; with engravings, from origi-
nal designs by Weir: 12mo 108p— New York, published by
the General Protestant Episcopal Sabbath School Union, 1848 :
deposited by J. W. Mitchell.

Agassiz (Louis) and Goutp (Augustus A.) Principles of Zoélogy : touching
the structure, development, distribution and natural arrange-
ment of the races of animals, living and extinct, with numerous
illustrations, for the use of schools and colleges ; Part I, Com-
parative Physiology: 12mo 216p — Boston, published by
Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 1848 : deposited by Gould, Kendal!
& Lincoln.

Acnes Morris, or the Herione of domestic life: 12mo 143p — New York,
published by Harper & Brothers, 1849: deposited by Harper
& Brothers.

ALAMANCE 3 or the great and final experiment: 8vo pamphlet 15p— New
York, published by Harper & Brothers: deposited by Harper
& Brothers.

Aupen (Joseph, D. D.) The Dying Robin and other tales: 12mo 212p—
New York, published by Harper & Brothers: deposited by
Harper & Brothers.

The Lawyer’s Daughter, illustrated by H. W. Hewet:
12mo 186p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

_ Alice Gordon, or the uses of Orphanage ; with ten
illustrations : 16mo 198p — New York, published by Harper &
Brothers 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

The Young Schoolmistress: 16mo 157p— N. Y., pub-
lished by Harper & Brothers: deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Auriert (Vittorio,) The Tragic Poet. The autobiography of Alfieri, born
at Asti,1749, died at Florence, 1803, translated, with an
original essay on the genius and times of Alfieri, by C. Edwards

Lester: 12mo 269p — New York, published by Paine & Bur-
gess: deposited by Paine & Burgess.

Ausop (Samuel,) First lessons m Algebra, in which the elements of the
science are familiarly explained: 12mo 116p — Philadelphia,
published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1849: deposited by Samuel
Alsop.

An elementary treatise on Algebra, in which the principles
of the science are familiarly explained, and illustrated by
numerous examples, designed for the use of schools: 12mo
288p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1846 :
deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.

AMERICAN QuarterRLy Recister [The] and Magazine, conducted by James
Stryker: May, 1848, Vol 1, No 1; September, 1848, Vol 1,
No 2; March, 1849, Vol2, No1; June, 1849, Vol 2, No 2;
September, 1849, Vol 3, No 1; Vol 1, 8vo 608p: Vol 2, 8vo
149 [1]

607p — Philadelphia, Vol1, published by E. C. & J. Biddle,
Vols 2, and 3, published by the Proprietor, 1849: depo-
sited by James Stryker.

AMERICAN JOURNAL [The] of the Medical Sciences, edited by Isaac Hays,
M. D. published quarterly, No 24, October, 1846; No 29,
aa aot No 30, April, 1848: No 31, July, 1848; No
32 » October, 1548 ; NG 39, January, 1849 : No 34, April,
1849; No 35, July, 1849; No 36, October, 1849 — Philadel-
phia, " published by Lea & & Blanchard : deposited by Lea &
Blanchard.

American’s Orrerine [ An], A Recitative Poem, on events of revolutionary
times, dedicated to the American people, with historical notes
and memoranda, illustrative of the truth of the poem, in five
cantos: Svo 40p — Philadelphia, 1849: deposited by John
M. Crosland.

American Autmanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge for the year
1850: 12mo 548p — Boston, Published by C. "C. Little & J.
Brown, 1849; deposited by G. P. Sanger & F. E. Parker.

Anprews (S. P.) and Boyir, (Augustus F.)) The Primary Phonotypic
Reader for the use of schools and families; intended as intro-
ductory exercises in analyzing spelling and reading for children
and educated adults: 12mo 385p— New York, published by
Andrews & Boyle, 1847; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.

The Phonographic Word-book, No 1, containing all the
monosyllables of the English language, inductively ‘arranged
and classified according to the words in which they should be
written in Phonography, together with rules and explanations ;
designed immediately to succeed the Phonographic Class Book
and the Phonographic Reader: 16mo 52p—N. York, published
by Andrews & Boyle, 18495; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.

The Phonographic Reader ; a complete course of inductive
reading lessons in Phonography, eleventh edition; 12mo 6Up
— New York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 1848 ; deposited
by Andrews & Boyle.

The Phonographic Reporter’s First Book; containing a
complete list of words — signs used in the most contracted
style of Phonographic reporting; illustrated by exercises for
the use of those only who have thoroughly mastered the corres-
ponding style of Phonography, as taught in the complete Pho-
nographic Class Book and the Phonographic Reader: 12mo
287p: New York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 1848; de-
posited by Andrews & Boyle.

The complete Phonographic Class Book, containing a
strictly inductive exposition of Pitman’s Phonography, adapted
as a system of Phonetic short hand to the English language,
especially intended as a school book and to afford the fullest
instruction to those who have not the assistance of the living
teacher; eleventh edition: 12mo 131p— New York, pub-
lished by Andrews & Boyle, 1848; deposited by Andrews &
Boyle.
Liq 150

AncGeE.t (Joseph K.) A treatise on the law of Carriers of goods and _pas-
sengers by land and by water: 8vo 791p — Boston, published
by Little & Brown, 1849; deposited by J. K. Angell.

Treatise on the right of property in tide waters, and
in the soil and shores thereof; second edition, revised, corrected
and much enlarged: 8vo 475p — Boston, published by Little
& Brown, 1847; deposited by J. K. Angell.

Ancet (Oliver, A. M.) Angell’s Reader, No. 1, The Child’s First book,
complete in six numbers, new edition: 12mo72p— Phila., pub.
by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler.

Angell’s Reader, No. 2, The Child’s Second book,
new edition: 12mo 1386p — Philadelphia, published by E. H.
Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler.

Angell’s Reader, No. 3, The Child’s Third book,
new edition: 12mo 206p — Philadelphia, published by E. H.
Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.

Angell’s Reader, No. 4, The Child’s Fourth book,
new edition: 12mo 252p— Philadelphia, published by E. H.
Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.

Angell’s Fifth Reader, new edition: 12mo 296p —
Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; depo-
sited by E. H. Butler.

Angell’s Reader, No.6; The Select Reader, new
edition: 12mo 504p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. But-
ler & Co., 1849; depositedby E. H. Butler.

ANTHON ( Charles, LL. D.) A system of Ancient and Medieval Geography ;
8vo (large ) 765p — New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Key to Anthon’s Latin Prose Composition: 12mo 94p
— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; depo-
sited by Harper & Brothers.

Arirumetic, Multum in Parvo: 8vo 4p.

Arruur (T.S.) The Beautiful Widow: 8vo (pamphlet ), 103p — Phila-
delphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey
& Hart.

Debtor and Creditor, a Tale of the Times: 12mo 180p —
New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited
by Baker & Scribner.

Making Haste to be Rich, or, The Temptation and Fall:
16mo 170p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ;
deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Retiring from Business, or, The Rich Man’s Error: 16vo
166p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848;
deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Wreaths of Friendship, a gift for the young, by T. S. Ar-
thur and F. C. Woodworth: 12mo 240p— New York, pub-
lished by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker &
Scribner.
151 (iq

Artuur (T. 8S.) Riches have Wings, or, a Tale for the Rich and the Poor:
16mo 192p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1847 ;
deposited by Baker & Scribner.

AsuMEAD (Catharine Forrester) Fallings from a Lady’s Pen: 8vo 85p —
Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; depo-
sited by C. F. Ashmead.

Baker (A. R.) The Catechism tested by the Bible, in two parts: part 1,
Doctrinal; part 2, Practical: part 1, 16mo 116p, part 2, 141p;
— Boston, published by John P. Jewett, 1849; deposited by
As. RS ‘Baker.

BaLtpwin (Rey. P. C.) The Redemption of sinners by the Free Grace of
God, or, the Doctrines of unconditioned Election, Perseverance
of the Saints, Assurance, Hope, Sanctification and Glorification
freely discussed: 12mo 298p— published by Henry Perkins,
Philadelphia, 1849.

Baptist Almanac [The] and Annual Register for the year of our Lord
1850 — Thomas S. Malcom, Editor: 8vo 36p — Philadeiphia
American Baptist Publication Society.

Barer (J. W.) Incidents in American History, compiled from the most
approved authorities: 12mo 404p — New York, published by
George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1847; deposited by Cooledge
& Brother.

Barzour (Oliver L.) Reports of cases in Law and Equity in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, Vols. 1, 2,3: S8vo large,
Vol. 1, 720p; Vol. 2, 723p; Vol. 3, 696p — Albany, publish-
ed by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1848; deposited by Gould,
Banks & Gould.

Reports of cases argued and determined in the court
of Chancery of the State of New York, Vols. 1 and 3: 8vo
Vol. 1, 707p; Vol. 3, 702p — New York, published by Banks,
Gould & Co. 1847; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Barnarp (Daniel D.) Discourse on the life and character of Stephen Van
Rensselear: 8vo 144p — Albany.

Barnes (Albert) Questions on the First Epistle to the Corinthians, de-
signed for Bible classes and Sunday schools, adapted to the
author’s notes on that Epistle: 16mo 163p — New York, pub-
lished by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper &
Brothers.

Barr (Robert T.) Pennsylvania State Reports; Vol. 5, containing cases
adjudged in the Supreme Court, during part of December term
1846, March term, and part of June term 1847, and some pre-
vious cases, Vol. 6, containing cases adjudged during part of
May term, July term, and part of September term 1847. Vol.
7, containing cases adjudged during part of September term and
December term 1847, and: March term 1848. Vol. 8, con-
taining cases adjudged during May term and part of July term
1848. Vol. 9, containing cases adjudged during part of July
term, September term and part of December term 1848: S8vo
[large] Vol. 5, 566p; Vol. 6, 572p; Vol. 7, 576p; Vol. 8,
[i] 152

5595p; Vol. 9, 553p — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W.
Johnson; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson.

Barrett (Solomon, Jr.,) The Principles of Grammar, being a compen-
dious treatise on the languages, Enghsh, Latin and Greek,
founded on the immutable principle of the relation which one
word sustains to another; revised edition: 12mo 204p — Al-
bany, published by Joel Munsell, 1848; deposited by S. Bar-
rett, Jr.

Bartvett (Elisha, M. D.) The History, Diagnosis and Treatment of the
fevers of the United States; 8vo large, 547p — Philadelphia,
published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; deposited by Lea &
Blanchard.

Barton (Charles) History of a suit in equity from its commencement to its
termination; revised and enlarged, with forms of bills, plans,
demurers and decrees, by James P. Holcombe, with an appendix
containing the ordinances of Lord Bacon, Rules of practice m
Equity in the Circuit court of the United States and the English
Orders in Chancery: 8vo large, 279p — Cincinnati, published
by Derby, Bradley & Co., 1847; deposited by Derby, Brad-
ley & Co. :

Bates (David) The Eolian: 12mo 210p— Philadelphia, published by
Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Bla-
kiston.

Beck (Lewis C., M. D.) Botany of the United States north of Virginia,
comprising descriptions of the flowering and fern-like plants,
hitherto found in those states; second edition, revised and en-
larged: 12mo 471p — New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers ;. deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Adulterations of various substances used in medi-
cine and the arts, with the means of detecting them: 12mo
333p — New York, published by Samuel S. & William Wood,
1846 ; deposited by Lewis C. Beck, M. D.

Beecuer (Charles) The Incarnation, or, Pictures of the Virgin and her Son,
with an introductory essay, by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe;
16mo 227p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Beecuer (Edward, D. D.) Baptism, with reference to its import and modes ;
12mo 342p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; de-
posited by Edward Beecher, D. D.

Beixnap (Jeremy, D. D.) Life of Jeremy Belknap, Historian of New
Hampshire, with selections from his correspondence and other
writings, collected and arranged by his grand-daughter: 12mo
253p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847;
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Bex (John, M. D.) and Sroxes (William, M. D.) Lectures on the theory
and practice of Physic, fourth edition, revised and enlarged,
two volumes: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 784p; Vol. 2, 976p — Phi-
ladelphia, published by Edward Barrington & George D. Has
well, 1848; deposited by Barrington & Haswell.

153 [ig

Benepicr (David) A general history of the Baptist denomination in
America and other parts of the world; third thousand: &vo
[large] 970p — New York, published by Lewis, Colby & Co.,
1848; deposited by Lewis, Colby & Co.

Benner (Enos) Das neue Buchstabir und Lesebuch zum Gebrauch
Deutscher Volksschulen in Pennsy Ivanien und anderen Staaten :
16mo 144p — Sumneytown, printed by Samuel Diehl for Enos
Benner, 1848; deposited by E. Benner.

Bennett (James Arlington) The American system of Practical Book-keep-
ing, twenty-eighth edition: S8vo large, 160p— published by
M. H. Newman, N. York, 1848 ; deposited by Sophia Bennett.

Bent tey (Rensselaer) The Pictorial Reader: 12mo 239p— New York,
published by G. T. Cooledge & Brother; deposited by R.
Bentley.

Bentz (L) Elements of Agriculture, for the use of primary and secondary
schools, by L. Bentz of France and A. J. Chretien de Roville:
approved and recommended by the Governmental Council of the
department of the Meurthe. ‘Translated and adapted to the use
of the rural primary schools of the United States of America,
by F. G. Skinner; 16mo 91p— Philadelphia, published by
Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by F. G. Skinner.

Betuune (George W., D. D.) The History of a Penitent, a guide for the
enquiring : 12mo 264p — Philadelphia, published by Henry
Perkins, 1848; deposited by G. W. Bethune, D. D. :

The British Female Poets, with biographical]
and critical notices: 8vo (large) 490p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848; deposited by Lindsay &
Blakiston.

Biery (Cantell A.) Aurifodina, or, Adventures in the Gold Region: 12mo
103p — New York: published by Baker & Scribner, , 1849; de-
posited by Baker & Scribner.

Biscnorr (T. L. G., D. M.) Tracts on Generation, translated from the
German, by C. R. Gilman, M. D., and Theodore Tellkampf,
M. D., number 1, [being *] proofs that the periodic maturation
and discharge of ova are in the mammalia, and the human fe-
male, independent of coition, as the first condition of their pro-
pagation, by 'T. L. G. Bischoff, D. M., professor of Physiology,
&c., Giessen ; pamphlet 8vo 65p — New York, aes by
Samuel Seed William Wood, 1847; deposited by S S. & Wm.
Wood.

Buacxstone (Sir William, Kt.) Commentaries on the Laws of England, in
four volumes with notes, adapting the work to the American
student, by John L. W ende ll; Svo (large) — New York, pub-
lished by Harper & Brothers ; deposited by Harper & "Bros.

Buaxe (Rey. J. L., D. D.) The Juvenile Companion and Fire Side Reader :
12mo 252p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers :
deposited by J. L. Blake.

A History of the American Revolution, first pub-
lished in London under the. superintendence of the Society for
[iq 154

the diffusion of useful Knowledge: 16mo 252p — New York,
published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper
& Brothers.

Buanc (Lewis) History of the French Revolution of 1789, translated from
the French, one volume in two parts: 8vo 582p — Philadel-
phia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea
& Blanchard.

Buont (Joseph) The Shipmasters’ Assistant and Commercial Digest — New
York, Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by J. Blunt.

Boarpman (A) A defence of Phrenology: 12mo 222p— New York, pub-
lished by Edward Kearney, 1847; deposited by A. Boardman.

Boxer (George H.) Anne Boleyn, a tragedy: 12mo 225p— Philadelphia,
published by A. Hart, late Carey & Hart; deposited by G. H.
Boker.

Calaynos, a tragedy, second edition: 12mo 218p —
Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1848; depo-
sited by G. H. Boker.

Booru (James C., and Morrir) Campbell,) The Encyclopedia of Chemistry,
theoretical and practical, with numerous engravings, (Nos. 14
and 15 only received): 8vo large — Philadelphia published
by Carey & Hart; deposited by Carey & Hart.

The Phonographic Instructor, with engraved illustrations :
12mo 78p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co.,
1849 ; deposited by J. C. Booth.

Boston Massacre,—A short narrative of the horrid massacre in Boston,
perpetrated in the evening of the 5th day of March, 1770, by
soldiers of the 29th regiment: 8vo large, 122p— printed by
order of the town of Boston, in 1770; re-published at New
York with notes and illustrations, by John Doggett, Jr., 1849;
deposited by John Doggett, Jr.

Bostwick (Homer, M. D.) A complete practical work on the nature and
treatment of venereal diseases: 4to 547p— New York, pub-
lished by Burgess, Stringer & Co., 1848 ; deposited by H. Bost-
wick.

Povvier (John) A Law Dictionary, adapted to the Constitution and Laws
of the United States of America, and of the several States of the
American Union; third edition much improved and enlarged,
two volumes; 8vo (large) Vol. 1, 756p; Vol. 2, 757p — Phi-
ladelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson; deposited by J.
Bouvier.

Bowen (Mark Noble) Memoranda on Anatomy, Surgery and Physiology :
16mo 325p — New York, published by Samuel S. & Wilham
Wood, 1848; deposited by Samuel S. & William Wood.

Boyp (Rey. J. K.) Eclectic Moral Philosophy : 12mo 423p — New York,
published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper
& Brothers.

Bricutiy (Frederick C) A Practical Treatise on the Law of Costs in Penn-
sylvania: 8vo large, 412p — Philadelphia, published by James
YD [14

Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1847; deposited by James Kay, Jr. &
Brother.

Bricutiy (Frederick C.) Supplement to Purdon’s Digest: S8vo large,
100p — Philadelphia; deposited by F. C. Brightly.

Brispane (William Henry) Slaveholding examined in the light of the Holy
Bible: 16mo 222p — published at Philadelphia, 1847.

Brooks (N. C.) A complete History of the Mexican War, its causes, con-
duct, and consequences, illustrated and explained by maps, plans
of battles, views and portraits: Svo large, 558p — Philadel-
phia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849; deposited by
Hutchinson & Seabold.

Brown (James) An English Grammar in three books, (second book only
received): 12mo 3887p — Philadelphia, published by John T.
Lange, 1849; deposited by James Brown.

The first round in the ladder of Education: 12mo 3836p —
Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849; deposited by
James Brown.

The second round in the ladder of Education: 12mo 120p
— Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849; deposited
by James Brown.

Browne (D. G.) The Trees of America, native and foreign, pictorially and
botanically delineated, and scientifically and popularly described:
8vo large, — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Browne (J. Ross) Etchings of a Whaling Cruise, with notes of a sojourn
on the Island of Zanzibar, to which is appended a brief history
of the whale fishing, its past and present condition, illustrated

Fe with numerous engravings on steel and wood; 8vo large —
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited
by Harper & Brothers.

Bryant (William Cullen) Poems, with illustrations, by E. Leutze, engraved
by American artists, second edition — Philadelphia, published
by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by W. C. Bryant.

Buuutons (Rev. Peter, D. D.) Practical lessons in English Grammar and
Composition, being an introduction to the Principles of
English Grammar, eighth edition revised: 12mo 152 p— New
York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1844; deposited
by P. Bullions.

The principles of English Grammar, nine-
teenth edition, revised and corrected: Bvo 216p — New York,
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1846; deposited by P.
Bullions.

An Analytical and Practical Grammar of
the English language: 12mo 240p — New York, published by
Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1849; deposited by P. Bullions.

The principles of the Latin Grammar, four-
teenth edition: 8vo 312p— New York, published by Pratt,
Woodford & Co., 1846; deposited by P. Bullions.
{3 156 i.

Buuutons (Rev. Peter, D. D.) The principles of the Greek Grammar,
twelfth edition revised and improved: S8vo 312p—N. York,
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by
Peter Bullions.

A Greek Reader, with notes critical and
explanatory, second edition revised and corrected: 8vo 5389p
— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1546:
deposited by P. Bullions.

The first part of Jacob’s Latin Reader,
adapted to Bullion’s Latin Grammar, sixth edition revised and
corrected: Svo 3386p — New York, published by Pratt, Wood-
ford & Co., 1846; deposited by P. Bullions.

The first six books of Cesar’s Commenta-
ries on the Gallic War, adapted to Bullion’s Latin Grammar,
fourth edition revised and corrected: 8vo 5312p — New York,
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by P.

Bullions.

Burpverr (Charles, Esq.) Arthur Martin, or, the Mothers’ Trials: 16mo
‘ 225p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ;
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

The Gambler, or, the Policeman’s Story: 16mo
179p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848;
deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Burxuarpt (C. B.) Fairy Tales and Legends of Many Nations, selected
newly told and translated : 12mo $ 277p — New York, published
by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Burxeien (Joseph Bartlett, A. M.) The American Manual, containing a
brief outline of ‘the origin and progress of political power and
the laws of nations, a “Commentary on the Constitution of the
United States, and a lucid exposition of the duties and_respon-
sibilities of oe jurors, magistrates, &c.: 12mo — Philadel-
phia, Grigg, Elliot & Co. , 1848; with an appendix of d4p ;
deposited by JB. Burleigh.

Burton (W. C.) Waggeries and Vagaries, a series of sketches, humorous
and descriptive, with eight original illustrations by Darly,
(two copies); 12mo 191p — Philadelphia, published by Carey
& Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Busunetyi (Horace) God in Christ, three discourses delivered at New
Haven, Cambridge and "Andover, with a prelimmary disserta-

tion on language : 12mo 356p — Hartford, published by Brown
& Parsons, 1849; deposited by H. Bushnell.

Butier (Philip) Hobart’s Analysis of Bishop Butler’s Analogy of religion,
natural and revealed to the constitution and course of nature,
with notes; also, Chanfurd’s questions for examination; 12mo
228p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ;
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Catoric — Origin, matter and law of the Universe: 8vo (large) 65p —
New Orleans, 1847.

Camppect (Mrs. Maria) Revolutionary services and civil life of General
157 ri]

William Hull, by his daughter, with the History of the cam-
paign of 1812, and surrender of Detroit: Svo large — New
York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1848; deposited by E.
F. Campbell.

Camppety (William W.) The border warfare of New York, during the
Revolution, or, the annals of Tryon county: 12mo 3936p —
New York, published by Baker and Scribner, 18493; deposited
by Baker & Scribner.

Life and writings of De Witt Clinton; S8vo 5381p
— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; depo-
sited by Baker & Scribner.

Carry (Alice and Phebe) Poems: 12mo 264p— Philadelphia, published
by Moss & Brother, 1850; deposited by Moss & Brother.

Carey (Henry C.) The Past, the Present, and the Future: 12mo 474p —
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by
H. C. Carey.

Cartron (James Henry) The Battle of Buena Vista, with the operations
of the ‘ Army of Occupation’? for one month: 16mo 238p —
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposite
by Harper & Brothers.

Catecuism of the Protestant Episcopal Church, simplified by question and
answer, by a member of the diocese of South Carolina; 16mo
45p — New York, published by the General Protestant Episco-
pal Sunday School Union, 1846.

Cuambers (William and Robert.) Chambers educational course, edited by
D. M. Reese, M. D.

No. 1 — Treasury of knowledge, in three parts, by W. & R.
Chambers; Part 1, elementary lessons in common things:
90p. Part 2, practical lessons in common objects; 167p.
Part 3, introduction to the Sciences, L56p.

No. 2— Elements of drawing in two parts, by John Clark,
48p. Exercises, 187p.

No. 3 — Elements of Natural Philosophy, by W. & R. Cham-
bers; Part 1, laws of matter and motion, 98p. Part 2,
Mechanics, 108p. Part 3, hydrostatics, hydraulics and
pneumatics, LO7p.

No. 4— Chemistry and Electricity, 411p. Part 1, Chemis-
tty; by B.D. Reid. Part 2, Electricity, by Alexander

ain.

No. 5 — Elements of Physiology, by G. Hamilton; Part 1,
Vegetable, 162p. Part 2, Animal, 144p.

No. 6 — Elements of Zoélogy, 5535p.

No. 7 — Elements of Geology, by D. Paige, 3382p.

7 volumes 12mo — New York, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849%
deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.

Cuapman (J. G.) American Drawing Book, No. 3: perspective 4to 158p
— New York, published by J. S. Redfield ; deposited by J. G.
Chapman.

American Drawing Book, No. 2, Elementary: 4to 112p
~- New York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1847; deposited by

J. G, Chapman.
[1] 158

CuaseE (Stephen) A Treatise on Algebra, for the use of Schools and Col-
leges: 12mo 385p — New York, published by D. Appleton &
Co., 1849; deposited by S. Chase.

CHEEVER (Rev. Henry T.) The Whale and his captors, or, the Whale-
man’s Adventures, and the Whale’s biography, with engra-
vings : 16mo 314p — New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

CuEEveER (George B., D. D.) Windings of the river of the Water of Life in
the development, discipline and fruits of Faith: 12mo 3884p —
New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by G.
B. Cheever.

The Hill Difficulty, and some experiences of life
in the plains of Ease, with other miscellanies:.12mo 3883p —
New York, published by John Wiley, and at London by Sims,
1849 ; deposited by G. B. Cheever.

CuesTeR (Stephen M.) Columbian Magazine for June, July and August
1848, Nos. 6, 7, and 8, Vol. 9, edited by S. M. Chester: 8vo
— New York, published by ohn S. Taylor.

CuiLve (E. V.) Edward Vernon, my cousin’s story: 16mo 194p — New
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by
Harper & Brothers.

Cutty (Joseph, Esq.) A practical treatise on the criminal ee with com-
prehensive notes on each particular offence. The process, in-
dictment, piea, defence, evidence, trial, verdict, judgment, and
punishment, in three volumes; fifth American, from the second
and last London edition, corrected and enlarged by the author,
with notes and corrections by Richard Peters and Thomas
Huntington, Esqrs., to which are now added notes and _ refer-
ences to the cases decided in the courts of the United States,
and of the several States to the present time, as well as the
late English decisions; by J. C. Perkins, counsellor at law:
8vo large, Vol. 1, 994p; Vol. 2, 558p; Vol. 3, 723p — New
York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847; deposited by
Banks, Gould & Co.

A practical treatise on bills of exchange, with refer-
ences to the law of Scotland, France and America; eleventh
American from the ninth London edition, containing the
American notes of former editions, by Judge Story and others,
to which are now added the cases decided in the English courts,
the courts of the United States, and of the several States to the
present time, by J. C. Perkins: 8vo (large) 9532p — Spring-
field, published by G. & C. Merriam, 1849; deposited by G.
& C. Merriam.

Curist — The sufferings of, by a layman: 12mo 328p — New York, pub-
by Harper & Brothers, 1845; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Curistian Keepsake and missionary annual for 1849: 12mo 329p — Phila-
delphia, published by Bower, Hayes & Co., 1849; deposited
by E. H. Butler & Co.

Curistian (Robert) A dispensatory or commentary on the Pharmacopcias
159 [1]

of Great Britain and the United States; second edition revised
and improved, with a supplement containing the most import-
ant new remedies, with copious additions and two hundred and
thirteen illustrations, by Eglesfeld Griffith, M. D.: 8vo large,
1008p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ;
deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Curistmas Biossoms and New Year’s Wreath for 1849, » by Uncle Thomas ;
12mo 176p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co. ;
deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.

The same for 1850: 12mo 176p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. But-
ler & Co. .

Curistmas Carox for 1847, illustrated by T. C. Boyd — New York,

Daniel Dana, publisher, 1847 ; deposited by John M. Mitchell.

Cuussuck (Fanny) Memoir of Sarah B. Judson, member of the American
mission to Burmah, by Fanny Forrester—eighth thousand :
16mo 250p — New York, pubiished by L. Colby & Co., 184%.

CuurcuiL (Fleetwood, M. D.) On the theory and practice of midwifery,
with notes and additions by R. M. Huston, M. D.; third
American edition, revised and improved by the author, with one
hundred and tw enty-eight Ulustrations, from drawings by Bagg
and others, engraved by Gilbert : So 525p — Philadelphia,
published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea &
Blanchard.

Cicero (Marcus Tullius) The De Senectute, De Amicia, Paradoxia, and
Somnium Scipionis of Cicero, and the life of Atticus, by Corne-
hus Nepos, with English notes, critical and explanatory, by
Charles Anthon, LL. D.: 8vo 349p— New York, published
by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

The three Dialogues of Cicero on the Orator ; translated into
English by W. Guthrie, revised and corrected with notes, sec-
ond American edition: 16mo 346p — New York, published by
Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Crark (John) Elements of drawing, in two parts; embracing exercises for
the slate and black-board, edited by D. M. Reese, M. D. (See
Chambers’ Educational course) ; 12mo 87p — New York, pub,
by A. S. Barnes & Co, 1849; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co,

CLEVELAND (Charles Dexter) A compendium of English literature, chrono-
logically arranged, from Sir John Mandeville to William Cow-
per: 12mo 702p— Philadelphia, published by E.C. & J.
Biddle, 1847; deposited by C. D. Cleveland.

Ciinton (De Witt) The life and writings of, by Wm. W. Campbell: 8vo
38lp— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849;
deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Coates (Reynell, M. D.) Leaflets of memory, an illuminated annual fcr
1850: S8vo large, 312p— Philadelphia, published by E. H.
Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.

Same for 1849 — Philadelphia, published by E. H.
Butler & Co.; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
fay 160

Coty (H. G. O.) The practice in civil actions and proceedings at law in
Massachusetts, with copious references to decisions in New
Hampshire, Maine, &c.; Svo large, 515p — Boston, published
by Little & Brown, 1848; deposited by H. G. O. Colby.

Cote (S. W.) A book for every farmer—the American Veterinarian, or,

diseases of domestic animals: 12mo 288p — Boston, published
by John P. Jewett & Co, 1847; deposited by S. W. Cole.
A book for everybody—the American fruit book: 12mo ae
— Boston, published by John P. Jewett, 1849; deposited by S$
W. Cole.

Coteman (Lyman) An historical geography of the Bible, illustrated by
maps: 12mo 489p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler
& Co., 1849; deposited by Lyman Coleman. ~ :

Coutins (Lewis) peice sketches of Kentucky, embracing its history,
antiquities and natural curiosities, with anecdotes of pioneer
life, illustrated by forty engravings: 8vo (large) 560p — Mays-
ville, published by Lewis Collins; deposited by L. Collins.

Cotuins (Stephen, M. A.) Miscellanies, second edition: 12mo 8308p —
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1845; deposited by
S. Collins.

Cotman (Henry) European life and manners, in familiar letters to friends:
two volumes; 8vo Vol. 1, 360p; Vol. 2, 8392p — Boston, pub-
lished by Little & Brown, "1849. deposited by H. Colman.

European agriculture and rural economy, from personal
observations, two "volumes, second edition, with additions: Svo
Vol. 1, 492p; Vol. 2, 588p— Boston, published by Little &
Brown, 1849; deposited by H. Colman.

Coxiron (Calvin) Public economy for the United States: Svo 536p — pub-
lished by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited by C. Colton.

Coxron (Rev. C. C., A. M.) Lacon—many things in few words, addressed
to those ‘who think, revised edition with an index: 12mo d04p
— New York, published by Wm. Gowans, 1849; deposited by
Wm. Gowans.

Comstock (J. L., M. D.) A system of Natural Philosophy, illustrated by
more than two hundred and fifty engravings, with questions for
the examination of pupils, ninety- -second edition: Svo 3860p —
New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co, 1847; depo-
sited by J. L. Comstock.

Same, ninety-first edition, illustrated by nearly
three hundred engravings; Svo 3953p — New York, published
by Pratt, Woodford & Co. 1848; deposited by J. L. Comstock.

Elements of chemistry, illustrated by numerous en-
gravings, sixteenth edition from the 54th; 8vo 422p— New
York, “published by Pratt, Woodford & Co. .» 1847; deposited
by D. F. Robinson.

An introduction to the study of botany, including a
treatise on vegetable physiology, fifteenth edition; 8vo 485p—
New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co.; deposited by
J. L. Comstock.
161 [rq

Comstock (J. L., M. D.) Elements of Geology, including fossil botany and
paleontology, a popular treatise ; Svo 432p — New York, pub-
lished by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by J. L.
Comstock.

An introduction to Mineralogy, adapted to the use
of Schools and Juvenile students, illustrated by nearly two-
hundred wood cuts, twelfth edition: Svo 369p — New York,
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847: deposited by Rob-
inson, Pratt & Co.

Outlines of Physiology, both comparative and human,
together with a synopsis of human anatomy, illustrated by
numerous engravings, revised edition : 8vo 3860p — New York,
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1848: deposited by J.

° L. Comstock.

Natural History of Quadrupeds, with engravings,
on a new plan; exhibiting their comparative size: 4to 73p —
New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1848: depo-
sited by J. L. Comstock.

Comstock (Andrew, M. D.) Phonetic Magazine for July and August 1847,
and for February 1848: Svo — Philadelphia, published by A.
Comstock, M. D., 1849: deposited by A. Comstock.

Conxine (Alfred,) The jurisdiction, law and practice of the courts of the
United States, in admiralty and maritime causes, including

those of quasi admiralty jurisdiction arising under the act of

February 26, 1845, with an appendix, containing the new rules
of admiralty practice prescribed by the Supreme Court of the
United States, with numerous practical forms, &c.: Svo large,
950p — Albany, published by W. C. Little & Co., 1848: de-
posited by Alfred Conkling.

Cooxe (Philip Pendleton,) Froissart ballads and other poems: 12mo 216p
— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited
by Carey & Hart.

Coorer (J. Fennimore,) The Crater, or vulcan peak, a tale of the Pacific,
in two volumes: 12mo Vol. 1, 234p Vol, 2, 227p — New
York, published by Burgess, Stringer & Co., 1847; deposited
by J. F. Cooper.

Copway (George, ) Life, history and travels of Ka-ge-ga-gah-bowh,

[ George Copway,] a young Indian Chief of the Ojibwa nation,
a convert to the Christian faith and a missionary to his peeple
for twelve years; 8vo 224p — Albany, published by Weed &
Parsons, 1847; deposited by George Copway.

Corson (John W,) Loiterings in Europe, or Sketches of travel in France,
Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Prussia, Great Britain
and Ireland: 12mo0 3897p — New York, published by Harper
& Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Coxe (John Redman,) The writings of Hippocrates and Galen epitomized
from the original Latin translations: 8vo large, 681p — Phi-
ladelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1846 ; deposited
by J. R. Coxe.

Mis.—11.

f

‘
iad 162

Craig (R. D.) and Priiuies (T. J. Esq.) Reports of cases argued and de-
termined in the High Court of Chancery: durmg the time of
Lord Chancellor Cottenham, [See Dunlap.] 8vo large, 391p
— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; ; de-
posited by Banics, Gould & Co.

CrirrENDEN (S. W.) An inductive and practical treatise on book-keeping,
by single and double entry: S8yo large, 248p — Philadelphia,
published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1849; deposited by S. W.
Crittenden.

CRowELy (Rey. John) Republics established, and Thrones overturned by
the Bible: 12mo 202p— Philadelphia, published by John T.
Lange, 1849; deposited by John Crowell.

Cruise (William, Esq.) A digest of the law of real property, revised and
considerably enlarged, by Henry H. White, Esq. ; furthér re-
vised and abridged, aah additions and notes for the use of
American students, by Simon Greenleaf, LL. D., in 7 volumes:

Molwt, containing a preliminary dissertation cn Tenures:
title 1, estate in fee simple; 2, estate in tail; 3, estate for
life; 4, estate tail after possibility ; 5, curtesy ; 6, dower; 7,
joiture; 8, estate for years; 9, estate at will and at suffer-
ance; 10, copy hold; 11, uses; 12, trust.

Vol. 2, containing —13, estate on condition; 14, estate by
statute, merchant, &c.; 15, mortgage; 16, remainder 17, re-
version; 18, joint tenancy; 19, coparcenary ; 20, tenancy in
ee two volumes bound in one: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 434p;
Vol. 2, 408p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ;
deposited by Simon Greenleaf.

Curtis (George 'T.) The American Conveyancer, containing a large variety
of legal forms and instruments adapted to popular wants and
pr ofessional use throughout the United States : 12mo — Boston,
published by Little & Brown, 1847 ; deposited by Little &

Brown.

A treatise on the law of patents for useful inventions
in the United States of America: 8vo large, 604p — Bos-
ton, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by iG ae.
Curtis.

Curwen, (M. E.) A revising index to the statute law of Ohio, showing the
present state of the law by indicating the changes that have
been made since the public ation of Swan? S statutes : Svo 90p
— Dayton, published by Wilson & Decker, 1849; deposited
by M. E. Curwen.

CUTTER (Calvin, M. D.) First book on anatomy, physiology and hygiene,
for grammar schools and families, eighty-three engravings, ste-
reotype edition: 12mo 189p— Boston; published by Benjamin
B. Mussey & Co., 1849; deposited by C. Cutter.

A treatise on anatomy, physiology and hygiene,
with one-hundred and fifty engravings, stereotype edition : 8vo
458p — Boston, published by Benjamin Mussey & Co., 1849 ;
deposited by C. Cutter, M. D.

Currer (William) The life of Israel Putnam, Major General in the army
163 [ae

of the American Revolution, compiled from the best author-
ities: 12mo 385p — New York, published by G. F. Cooledye
& Brother, 1847; deposited by G. F. Cooledge, 1847.

The life of General Lafayette: 12mo 408p — New
York, published by G. F. Cooledge & Brother, 1849; deposi-
ted by George F. Cooledge & Brother.

Curts (James Madison) The conquest of California and New Mexico, by
the forces of the United States, in the years 1846 and 1847:
with engravings, &c.: 12mo 26. 4p -— Philadelphia, published
by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Daruincton (William, M. D., LL. D.) Memorials of John Bartram and
Humphrey Marshall, with notices of their botanical contempo-
raries, with ‘inst ratiania 8vo large, 585p — Philadelphia, pub-
hehed) by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay &
Blakiston.

Davies (Charles, LL. D.) The Arithmetical table-book, or, the method of
teaching the combinations of figures by sight ; ee 72p— New
York, published by cA. Barnes & Co. ., 1848; deposited by
C. as les.

First lessons in Arithmetic, designed for beginners :
16mo 168p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co.,
1849; deposited by C. Davies.

Arithmetic, designed for academies and schools,
with full illustrations of the method of canc ellation, revised
edition; 12mo 360p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes
& Co., L848; deposited by Charles Davies.

Davis (Andrew feriaoa) The principle of nature, her divine revelations,
and a voice to mankind, by and through A. J. Davi is in three
parts, third edition: Svo large ished by
S.S. Lyons & William Fishbough, iSt7 : ieee by S. 8S.
Lyons & William Fishbough.

Davis (N.S., M. D.) A text book on agriculture: 8vo 187p — N. York,
published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 1848; deposited by
N.S. Davis.

Day (Thomas,) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme
court of errors of the State of Connecticut, in five volumes,
second edition, with notes and references: Svo large, Vol.
1, 608p; Vol. 2, 737p; Vol. 3, 656p; Vol. 4, 627p; Vol. 5,
639p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848:
deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Dentro (Hiram,) Re ports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme
Court and in the court for the correction of e Irors, in the State
of New York: 8vo [large] Vol. 2, 679p; Vol. 3, 644p; Vol.
4, 631p — Albany, panhened by Gould, Banks: é & Gould: de-
posited by Gould, Banks & Gould, Vol. 2, 1847; Vol. 3, 1848;
Vol. 4, 1849.

Denman. — The Obstetrical Remembrancer, augmented by Michael Ryan,
M. D., first American from the ninth London edition, with ad-

ditions by Thomas F. Cock, M. D.: 16mo 258p— New York,

f a 164

published by Samuel S. & William M. Wood, 1848 ; deposited
by Samuel S. & William M. Wood.

Description of Oregon and California, embracing an account of the gold
regions, to which is added an appendix, containing descriptions
of various kinds of gold and methods of testing its genuine-
ness, with a large and accurate map of Oregon and California,
compiled from the latest authorities : 18mo 76p —Philadelphia,
published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co., 1849; deposited
by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.

Devitte (F.) Theoretical and practical exposition of the diseases of the
hair, by F. Deville: [pamphlet] 8vo 70p— Baltimore, pub-
lished by Joseph Robinson, 1849; deposited by F. Deville.

Dewey (D. M.) Rail road Hand book from Albany to Buffalo, corrected
and revised by gentlemen of the rail road : 16mo 32p—Roches-
ter, published by D. M. Dewey, 1849; deposited by D. M.
Dewey.

Dickson (Samuel M,. M. D.) The principles of the Chronothermal system of
medicine, with the fallacies of the faculty, in a series of lec-
tures; first American from the third London, People’s edition,
with an introduction and notes, by William Turner, M. D.: 8vo
228p — New York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1845.

DisturNELL (J.) A guide between Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia,
New York andBoston; tables of dist
travel between Boston and Buffalo, and from New York to
Montreal, two copies: 18mo 62p— 1846. Also one copy for
June 1846, 79p — one for September 1846, 79p— one for
January 1847, 79p — New York, published by J. Disturnell :
deposited by J. Disturnell.

United States Almanac and National Register for the year
1850; 16mo 100p — New York, published by J. Disturnell :
deposited by J. Disturnell.

The Eastern Tourist, being a guide through the States of
Connecticut, Rhode Telands Massachusetts, Vermont, New
Hampshire and Maine — also, a dash into Canada» 16mo—
New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1848; deposited by J.
Disturnell.

The Emigrant’s Guide to New Mexico, California and
Oregon: 16mo 45 5p — New York, published by J. Disturnell ;
deposited by J. Disturnell.

Guide through the middle, northern and eastern States,
with a map, for July 1847: 80p—also, one copy for June
1848, 16mo 79p— New York, published by J. Disturnell ; de-
posited by J. Disturnell.

Railroad, Steamboat and Telegraph book, being a guide
through the middle, northern and eastern States and ‘Canada—
also, giving the great lines of travel south and west, and the
ocean steam packet arrangements, &c., telegraph lines and
charges, &c., with a map, January 1849: 16mo 80p — New
York, published by J. Disturnell; deposited by J. Disturnell.
Also extra No. for May 1849 — 16mo S8p.

165 ria

Dopp (James B., A. M.) An elementary and practical arithmetic: 12mo 244p
— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1849 ; de-
posited by James B. Dodd.

Doccrrr (John, Jr.,) New York City Partnership Directory for 1849 and
1850: Svo 50p'— New York, published by J. Doggett ; depos-
ited by J. Doggett.

New York City Directory for 1849 and 1850,
eighth publication : 8vo AGB8p — New Yori, published by J.
Doggett Jr., & Co.; deposited by J. Doggett, Jr.

Donouo (Thomas, S.) Moena, and other poems : 12mo 144p — Washing-
ton, published by William M. Morrison, 1847; deposited by
Thomas 8. Donoho.

Draper (John William, M. D.) A Text Book of Natural Philosophy for
the use of schools and colleges, containing the most recent dis-
coveries and facts, compiled from the best authorities, by John
Wilham Draper, M. D. &c., with nearly four uhauered illustra-

tions: 12mo 38ip— New York, Harper & Brothers publishers,
1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

A text book on Chemistry, with nearly three hun-
dred illustrations, third edition: Svo 403; »— New York, pub-
lished by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; ee by Harper &
Brothers.

Dauirr (Robert,) The Principles and Practice of Modern Surgery, a new
American from the last and improved London edition, edited
by F. W. Sargent, M. D., illustrated by one-hundred and nine-
ty-three wood engravings, two copies: Svo 576p — Philadel-
phia, published by Lea & Blanc hard, 1848; deposited by Lea
& Blanchard.

Duane, (William, Kisq. ,) A View of the Law of roads, highways, bridges
and ferries in Fennsy! lvania: 8vo 1: 5G6p— Phil adelphia, published
by James Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1548; deposited by James Kay,
Jr. & Brother.

Durr (P.) North American Accountant, embracing single and double entry
book-keeping, in two parts: S8vo large, 192) » — New York,
published by the author, 1848; dep sosited by p. Duff.

DUNGLISON (Robley, M. D.) 1 Medical Lexicon ; a Dictionary of Medical
science, containing a concise explanation of the various sub-
jects and terms, with the French and other synonyms, notices
of climates and “cele brated mineral waters ; formule for various
officinal and empirical preparations, &c., seventh en: care-
fully revised and greatly enlarged: Svo large, 912p — Phila-
delphia, published by Lea & Blanchard; deposited 19 Lea &
Blanchard.

Dountar (John A.) Reports of cases decided in the high court of chancery,
with notes and references, to both English and American de-
cisions. Vol. 18, containing Mylne & Craig’s chancery re-
ports, Vol. 4 — Craig & Phillip’s Vol. I, IN: 38, 1839, 1840,
1841 — second, third ‘and ee Victoria. Vol. 29, containing
Bevan’s Rolls. Reports, Vol. 7, 1843, 1844, seven and eight
Victoria. Vol. 30, containing ‘Bare’ chancery repor*
Ly 166

4, 1844, 1845, 1846, seven, eight and nine Victoria. Vol. 20,
containing Young & Collyer? s reports, Vol. 1; 8vo large —
New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1947; Wan 20
in 1849; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Duntop (James) The general laws of Pennsylvania from the year 1700 to
Apnil 1849, chronologically arranged, with notes and refer-
ences to all the decisions of the Supreme courts of Pennsy]-
vania, gly ine construction to said laws, with a copious and
ate index, second edition: S8vo large — Philadlphia,
published by 'T. & J. W. Johnson, 1849: deposited by T. & J.
W. Johnson.

Dunnine (A. G., A. M.) An ancient, classical and scriptural Geography,
with a map of the countrios mentioned in the ancient, classics
and sacred scriptures: 4to 36p — New York, published by A.
S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by F. H. Brooks,

DurivacE (Francis A.) and inet ean (George P.) Stray subjects arrested
and bound over, being the fugitive offspring of the “Old ’un”’
and the “ Young un,” that have been lying round loose, and
are now tied up for fast keeping, illustrated by Darley
12mo 199p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848: 3
deposited by Carey & Hart.

Dwicur (M. A.) Grecian and Roman Mythology, with an introductory
notice by Professor ‘Taylor Lewis, and a series of illustrations
in outlme : 12mo 437p— New York, published by George P.
Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.

Dyrmwe anp Carico Printine — A practical treatise on dyeing and calico
printing, including the earliest inventions and improvements, by
an experienced dyer, assisted by several scientific gentlemen,
with engravings on steel and wood: 8vo large, 704p—
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited
by Harper & Brothers.

Dyer (Sidney,) Voices of Nature and Thoughts in Rhyme: 8vo 156p —
Louisville, published by J. V. Cowlings & G. C. Davis, 1849 ;
deposited by S. Dyer.

Earve (Thomas) The Systematic Speller, part first: 16mo 72p — Phila-
delphia, published by T. C. Chapman, 1848; deposited by T.
Earle.

Eastman (Mrs. Mary) Dahcotah, or life and legends of the Sioux around
Fort Snelling, with preface, prepared by Mrs. C. M. Kirkland,
illustrated swath drawings by Captain Eastman: 8vo 268p —
New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by J.
Wiley.

EpELMAN (George W.) Rules for converting sterling into currency, and
currency into sterling, from par to twelve and one-half per
cent., increasing by one-fourth of one per cent: 12mo 40p —
Philadelphia, published by H. L. Lipman, 1849; deposited by
George W. Edelman.

Epmonps (Hon. J. W.) An address on the constitution and code of proce-
dure: 8vo 47p — New York, 1848.

*
167 [fq

Epwarps (Frank S.) A campaign in New Mexico, with Colonel Doniphan,
with a map of the route and table of the distances traversed :
12mo 184p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849:
deposited by Carey & Hart.

Exper (W alter) The cottage gardens of America, containing practical di-
rections for the culture of flowers, fruits and vegetables, the
nature and improvement of soils, manures and their application,
&e.: 12mo 233p — Philadelphia, published by Moss & Bro-
ther, 1849; deposited by Moss & Brother.

Exrsor (Samuel A.) A sketch of the history of Harvard college and of its
present state: 12mo 190p — Boston, oublished- by Little &
Brown, 1848; deposited by S. A. Ehot.

Exverr (Mrs.) Evenings at Woodlawn: 12mo 348p— New York, pub-
lished by “Baker & | Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker &

Scribner.
Excetr (Elizabeth F.) The Women of the American ney olution, in two
volumes, second edition: 12mo Vol. 1, 348p; Vol. 2, 512p—

New York, published by Baker & Raine, ISIS; deposited
by Baker & Scribner.

Exuiorr (C. M.) Cottages and Cottage Life, containing plans for country
houses, adapted to the means and wants of the people of the
United States, &e. &c., with some sketches of life in this coun-
try: 8vo large, 226p — Cincinnati, published by H. M- Der-
by & Co., 1848; deposited by C. M. Elliott.

Exuis (Benjamin, M. D.) The Medical Formulary, much improved anc
extended, being a collection of prescriptions derived from the
writings and practice of many of the most eminent ply siclans
in Americ a and Europe, with an ap spendix containing the usual
dietetic preparations and antidotes for poison, &c., eighth edi-
tion, with numerous additions by S. G. Morton, M. "D.: 8vo
large 272p — Philadelphia, publ ished by Lea & Blanchard,
1846 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

EverGreen for 1847 — A present for all seasons, embellished with ten ele-
gant engravings, from designs by eminent artists: Svo large,
300p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; de-
posited by Carey & Hart.

Eyivences of natural and revealed religion; also, the doctrines and insti-
tutions of Christianity, with questions for Bible classes, by the
author of “ Reasons why I am a Churchman”: 16imo 2: 24) —
New York, published by the General Protestant Episcopat!
Sunday Sahbal Union, 18485 deposited by James W. Mitchell.

Ewext (James) The Medical Companion, or, Family Physician, treating
of the diseases of the United States, with their symptoms,
causes, cure and means of prevention ; Common Cases In surgery,
as fractures, dislocations, &e.; the management and dices sex
of women and children; a dispensatory for preparing family
medicines, and a elossary explaining technical terms, to whic h
are added a brief anatomy and physiology of the fiian body,
showing on rational principles, the cause and cure. of diseases,
An essay on the art of preserving health without the aid of
[wh] 168

medicine; an American Materia Medica, pomting out the vir-
tues and doses of medicinal plants. Also, the nurse’s guide —
the tenth edition, revised, enlarged and very considerably im-
proved, embracing a treatise on hydropathy, the chronother-
mal system and homeopathy — Philadelphia, published by 'Tho-
mas Cowperthwait & Co., 1847; deposited by E. Kingman.

Same, tenth edition — Philadelphia, published by Crissy
& Markley, 1848; deposited by E. Kingman.

Ewine (James) A treatise on the office and duty of a justice of the peace,
sheriff, coroner, constable, executors, administrators and guar-
dians, &c., with new and approved forms; fourth edition, re-
vised and corrected, with additional notes, &c.: Svo large,
598p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848 ;
deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Faminrar DiatoGues, and other pieces in prose and poetry, calculated
for Sunday school exhibitions, without denominational distinc-
tion: 16mo 124p — Pottsville, published for the editor, 1848 ;
deposited by the Editor.

Fercuson (William, F. R. S. E.) A system of practical surgery, third
American from the last English edition, with two-hundred and
seventy-four illustrations by Bagge, engraved by Gilbert : 8vo
630p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848;
deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Fietp, (Rev. Chester,) Scripture illustrated by interesting facts, incidents
and anecdotes, with an introduction by Rev. John Todd, D. D.:
12mo 205p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Firip, (J. M. Esq.,) The Drama in Pokerville, the bench and bar of Jury
town, and other stories, with eight illustrations, from original
designs, engraved expressly for this work by I. O. C. Darley:
12mo 200p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849;
deposited by Carey & Hart.

Fire (William,) System of trainmg and teaching in Penmanship, by exer-
cises whose errors are extravagant, and the reverse of those
into which all pupils naturally fall, &c.: Philadelphia, 1847 ;
deposited by Wilham Fife.

Fisuer (Richard 8., M. D.) The Book of the World, being an account of
all republics, empires, kingdoms and nations, in reference to
their geography, statistics, commerce, &c., in two volumes,
illustrated by charts and maps: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 614p;
Vol. 2, 705p — New York, published by J. H. Colton, 1849 ;
deposited by J. H. Colton.

Fircu (George W.) The Youth’s Mapping Book, being an introduction to
Fitch’s Chronography, containing maps of New York, New
Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania and New Jersey — Brooklyn, published by A. M.
Wilder, & Co., 1849; deposited by A. M. Wilder & George
W. Fitch, 1849.

Chorography, designed for learners in geography,
being a collection of plates prepared for delineating maps: 4to
169 [ wy

20p— Brooklyn, published by A. M. Wilder & Co., 1848 ;
deposited by A. M. Wilder.

Five months in the New York State Lunatic Asylum: 16mo 63p — Buf-
falo, 1846 Y),

FLoaerne in the Navy, an essay on, containing strictures upon existing
naval laws, and suggesting substitutes for the discipline of the
lash: 8vo iarge, 33p — New York, published by Pudney &
Russel], 1849 ; deposited by Kettell & Moore.

Forcer, (Robert M.) Exchange tables of British steriing, showing the
value in the United States currenc y, of one fenny to ten ‘thou-
sand pounds, from par to twelve ‘and seven-eighths per cent
premium, by eighths per cent progressively: Svo large, 5Ip—
New York, publ ey by Edward O. Jenkins, 1848 ; “deposited
by Robert M. Folger.

Exchange tables of British Sterling, showing the
value in United States currenc y, of one penny to ten thousand
pounds, and in English currency, of one cent to twelve thou-
sand dollars, from par to twelve and seven-eights per cent,
premium by eights per cent, progressively : Svo [large ] New
York, published by the author, 1849 ; deposited by R. M.
Folger.

koore (Rev. William Henry) Sketches of North Carolina, historical and
biographical, illustrative of the principles of a portion of her
early settlers: Svo large, 557p—- New oe published by
Robert Carter, 1846; deposited by Robert Caner

Forp (Captain Edward) The Dich of Baden, a tale of the French re-
volution, with a history of the fall of the marquis Louis de
Beauharnais and the flight and perils of his family in France,
Spain, St. Domingo and Philadelphia: Svo 110p— Philadel-
phia, published by Carey & Hart, 1549; ee by Carey
& Hart.

Fowxe (William B.) An elementary geography, being also a key to the
new series of outline maps; 240 79p — Boston, published by
William B. Fowle, 1849 ; deposited by W. B. Fowle.

Franxuin (A. W.) American cottage library, or, useful facts, figures and
hints for everybody, containing a general view of the world,
statistics of the United States, ‘Ke. 12mo 190p — New York,
published by Burgess, Stringer & Co.; deposited by Burgess,
Stringer & Co.

FRANKLIN (Benjamin) Poor Richard’s Almanac for 1850, as written by B.
Franklin for the years 1733, 1734, 1785; the astronomical
calculations by Professor Benjamin "Peirce, of Harvard Uni-
versity, and adapted to Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Bal-
timore, Washington, Charleston and New Orleans, to which
is added the commencement of the life of the great philosopher
written by himself, annual illustrated edition: 12mo 60p -—
New York, published by John Doggett, Jr., 1849; deposited
by J. Doggett, Jr.

Franky (Benjamin,) His autobiography, with a narrative of his public
life and services, by Rey. H. Hastings Weld, with numerous
iy 170

designs, by J. G. Chapman: 8vo 549p — New York, published
by Harper r & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Frencn GENDERS, in six mnemonic tables, by which the genders of all
ihe French nouns, upwards of 15, 540, may be fixed in the
memory with certainty in a few days: enue 79p — New York,
published by J. S. Redfield, 1848 ; deposited by James Corley.

Frencu (B. F.) Historical collections of Louisiana, embracing many rare
and and valuable documents relating to “He national, civil and
political history of that State, compiled with historical and
biographical notes, and an introduction; Part 1, historical
documents from 1678 to 1691: S8vo large, 229n — New
York, published by Wiley & Putnam, 1846; peppsited by B.
ine Brench

Frrienpsuip’s Orrerine, a Christmas, New Year’s, and Birth-day pres-
ent, for 1850: 12mo 3380p — Boston, published by Phillips
Sampson & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler.

ft A Ghisitay New Year and Birth-day present for
1849 : 520p — Boston, published by Phillips & Sampson,
1849; deposited by E. H. Butler.

Frost (John, LL. D.) Beauties of French History, compiled from the best
authors : 16mo 252p— New York, published by Harper &
Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

The American Generals, from the founding of the
eid to the present time, and embracing a complete mili-
tary history of the country, cillfueena ted with six hundred and
forty engravings: 8vo large, 912p — Philadelphia, published

by J. w. Bradley, 1848 ; deposited by J. Frost.

Beauties of English history: 16mo 2452p — New
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by
Harper & Brothers.

Pictorial Ancient History of the World, from the
earliest ages to the death of Constantine the Grdats Svo
large, 3868p — Philadelphia, published by Walker & Gillis,
1sd6; deposited by J. Frost.

Pictorial history of the middle ages, from the death
of Constantine the Great, to the discovery Ter Weve a by Co-
lumbus: 8vo large, 366p — Philadelphia, published by
Charles J. Gillis, 1846; deposited by J. Frost.

Pictorial history of Mexico and the Mexican war,
embellished by five hundred engravings: S8vo large, 6420p —
Philadelphia, published by Thomas “Cowperthwait &: Co.,
1849; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.

Pictorial hfe of George Washington, embracing a
complete history of the seven years war: the formation of the
Federal Constitution, and the administration of Washington,
embellished by more than one-hundred engravings: S8vo large,
58p — Philadelphia, published by Charles J. Gillis, 1847 ; de-
posited by L. Johnson.

Pictorial Life of Andrew Jackson, embellished by
171 Fwy

numerous engravings: Svo large, 512p — Hartford, published
by Belknap & Hamersly, 1847: deposited by J. Frost.

Frost (John, LL. D.) Thrillmg adventures among the Indians, comprising
the most remarkable personal narratives of events in the early
Indian wars, &c., as well as of incidents in the recent Indian
hostilities in Mexico and Texas, illustrated with numerous en-
gravings : Svo 8483p — Philadelphia, published by J. W. Brad-
ley, 1819 : deposited by J. Frost.

Thrilling incidents of the wars of the United States,
with three-hundred engravings ; Svo large, 600p — Phila
delphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; de ‘posited by Caer
& Hart.

Fry (J. Reese,) A life of General Zachary Taylor, comprising a narrative
of events connected with his professional career, derived from
public documents and private correspondence, with an original
and accurate portrait and eleven elegant illustrations of the
battles of Fort Harrison, Okee-cho- bee, Palo Alto, Resaca de
la Palma, Monterey, Buena Vista, &c.: 12mo 3382p — Phila-
delphia, published by Grige, Elliott & Co., 1847; deposited by
Grigg, Elhott & Co.

Fuiton (Levi S.) and Eastman (George W.) A practical system of book-
keeping by single entry, containing three different forms of
books ; designed respectively for the fa irmer, mechanic and
merchant , to which is added a variety of useful forms, viz : —
ROU ills, drafts, receipts, etc., etc., etc., second edition :
12mo 232p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co,
1848 ; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.

Furser (George C.) Camp stories, or incidents in the life of a soldier,
designed to give eonten? ideas of a soldier’s life: 8vo S6p —
Cinci innati, published by J. A. & U. P. James, 1849; deposited
by J.A. & U. P. James.

History of Mexico, continued from the capture of
Vera Cruz to the termination of the war with the United
States, containmg the full treaty of peace, &c., &c., being a
continuation of Young’ s History of Mexico: 8vo — Cinc innati,
published by J. A. & "U. P. James, 1848; deposited by J. A. &
U. P. James.

The twelve months volunteer, or, journal of a pri-
vate in the Tennessee regiment of cavalry in the campaign in
Mexico, 1846-47, including a complete history of the war with
Mexico, embellished by correct engravings es drawings by
the author: 8yo large, 624p — Cincinnati, published by 5

A. & U. P. James, 1848 ; a osited by George C. Furber.

Gatiauper (T. H.) and Hooker (Horace) The School and Family Dic-
tionary and Illustrative Definer; 16mo 221p— New oe
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by T.
H. Gallaudet and Horace Hooker.

Gatr (John M., M. D.) The treatment of insanity : 8vo large, 578p —
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1816; deposited
by Harper & Brothers.
[1] 172.

GARDNER (D. Pereira, M. D.) A new Medical Dictionary, contaming an
explanation of the terms in anatomy, human and comparative,
physiolog y> practice of medicine, obstetrics, surgery, thera-
bee materia medica, pharmacy, chemistry, botany, natural
philosophy, with the formulas of the principal pharmacopeias
and valuable practical articles on the treatment of diseases ; on
the basis of Hooper & Grant, adapted to the present state of
science, and for the use of medical students and the profession :
Svo large, 685p — New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers, 1847: deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Medical chemistry for the use of students
and the profession ; being a manual of the science, with its ap-
plication to toxicology, phy siology, therapeutics, hyg giene, &c.,
by D. P. Gardner, M. D.: 12mo 396p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blan-

chard.

Guost Stories — Collected with a particular view to counteract the vul-
gar beliefin ghosts and apparitions, with ten engravings: 16mo
192 2p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1846 ; de-
posited by Carey & Hart.

Gugson (William M. D.) Institutes and practice of surgery, being outlines
of a course of lectures, eighth edition, improved and “enlarged,
two volumes: 8vo, Nol: ate 5d03p; Vol. 2, 478p — Philadel-
phia, published by James Kay, Jr., & Brother, 1850: deposi-
ted by William Gibson.

GILMAN (Char! es,) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois: 8vo large, [ three volumes—2,
3 and:4 only received,| Vol. 2, 179p; Vol. 3, ZED Vol. 4,
637p — Quincy, published by Newton Flagg, Vol. 2, in 1847,
and Vols. 3 and 4, in 1848; deposited by Ghanlas Gilman.

Gitpin (Thomas) Exiles m Virginia, with observations on the conduct of
the society of Friends during the revolutionary war, compri-
sing the official papers of the : government relating to that peri-
od, 1777-1778: 8vo large, "302 p— Philadelphia, published
in 1848; deposited by Thomas Gilpin.

Girarp (J. P. L.) An elementary practical book for learning to speak and
write the Spanish language, from the method of Dr. J. H. P.
Seidenstuecker, dedicated to the use of lis pupils and others :
Svo 128p — New York, published by Collins & Brother, 1848;
deposited by Collins & Brother.

GirarD (Stephen) Will of Stephen Girard, and a short biography: 8vo
32p — Philadelphia, 1548.

Girautt (A. N.) The French student’s manual, or, colloquial and gram-
matical exercises, intended to impart to the student both a
theoretical and practical knowledge of the French language,
fourth edition, carefully revised and much enlarged: 12mo
480p — Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1848 ; de-
posited by Henry Perkins.

Goupsgury (John) The Black-board — Exercises and illustrations on .the
black-board, designed for the use of common schools; 12mo
173 E ua

144p — Keene, published by George Tilden, 1847; deposited
by J. Goldsbury.

GotpsmirH (Oliver) Pinnock’s improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith’s history
of Rome, illustrated with numerous engravings, by William i.
Taylor, LL. D., thirty-fifth American from “the twenty-third
English edition: 8vo 399p — Philadelphia, published by Tho-
mas Cowperthwait & Co., 1848; deposited by Thomas Cow-
perthwait & Co.

Pinnock’s improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith’s his-
tory of Greece, for the use of schools, illustrated with nume-
rous engravings, by William C. Taylor, LL. D., thirty-fifth
American from the nineteenth English edition : 12 mo 380p —
Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait Co.; depo-
sited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.

Pinnock’s improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith’s his-
tory of England, from the invasion of Julius Ceasar, to the
death of George III, with a continuation to the year 1845,
illustrated Sele numerous engravings, by Wilham C. Taylor,
LL. D., fifty-fifth American from the thirty-fifth English edi-
tion ; 8vo 476p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cow-
perthwait & Co., 1848; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait
& Co.

Goopricu (Samuel G.) Peter Parley’s common school history, illustrated
by engravings, new edition. revised and brought down to the
present time: 12mo 3809p — Philadelphia, published by Eck
Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co

Parley’s third book of history, containing ancient
history in connection with ancient geography, improved eci-
tion: 12mo 189p— Boston, published by rane , Palmer & Co..,
1850; deposited by Charles Hendee.

Common school history, illustrated by engravings,
new edition, revised and brought down to the present time, bs
Peter Parley : 12mo 309p — Philadelphia, published by E. H.
Butler & Co, ., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.

Brees first book of history, with sixty-eight en-

ravings and sixteen maps, fourth revised edition, enlarged and
improved: 12mo 240p — Boston, published by Jerks. “Palmer :
& Co., 1849; deposited by Charles J. Hendee.

Gove (Mary S.) Lectures to women on anatomy and physiology, with an
appendix on water cure: 12mo 5061p — New York, published
by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

GrauaM (David) A treatise on the practice of the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, third edition, revised, corrected and en-
Jarged, in two volumes: 8vo large, 7385p — New York, pub-
lished by Banks, Gould SIC. ie 1847 : deposited by Banks,
Gould, & Co.

Granam (George R,) Graham’s American Monthly Magazine, for Novem-
ber, 1846: Svo large, Philadelphia, published by George RK.
Graham ; deposited by J. Fennimore Cooper.
{aj 174

Grattan (Peachy R.) Reports of cases decided in the Supreme Court of
Appeals and in the general court of Virgima: Vol. 2, from
April 1, 1845, to April 1, 1846: 8vo large, Vol. 2, 664p —
Richmond, published by Shepherd & Colin, 1846 ; deposited
by State of Virginia, [ Vol 2, only, received. |

Graves (Robert James, M. D.) A system of clinical medicine, with notes
and a series of lectures, by W. W. Gerhard, M. D., third
American edition: Svo large, 751p— Philadelphia, published
by Edward Barrington & George D. Haswell, 1848 ; deposited
by Barrmgton & Haswell.

Gray (James, D. D.) A dissertation on the coincidence between the priest-
hoods of Jesus Christ and Melchisedec, in three parts, in which
the passages of scripture relating to that subject m the XIV
Chapter of Genesis, the XC Psalm, theV, VI, VII Chapters of
the Epistle to the Hebrews, are explained, together with a
sketch of the life of Jesus Christ : 12mo 158p — Hagerstown,
published by William Stewart, 1845; deposited by William
Stewart.

Green, (Horace, A. M., M. D.) Observations on the pathology of the croup,
with remarks on its treatment by topical medications: 12mo
115p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposi-
ted by Horace Green.

Greene (Samuel S., A. M.) First Lessons in grammar, based upon the con-
struction and analysis of sentences, designed as an introduction
to the “‘ Analysis of Sentences’: 16mo 171p — Philadelphia,
published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co, 1848; deposited
by Samuel S. Greene.

: Analysis, a treatise on the structure of the
English language, or the analysis and classification of sen-
tences and their component parts, with illustrations and exer-
cises adapted to the use of schools: 12mo 258p— Philadel-
phia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co, 1848; de-
posited by Samuel S. Green.

Gairritn (R. Eglesfield,) Medical botany, or descriptions of the more im-
portant plants used in medicine, with their history, properties
and modes of administration, with upwards of three-hundred
illustrations; Svo large — Philadelphia, published by Lea &
Blanchard, 1847: deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Grime (Frederick) Considerations upon the nature and tendency of free
institutions: 8vo large, 5444p — Cincinnati, published by H.
W. Derby & Co.: deposited by F. Grimké
Gaimsiaw (William,) An etymological dictionary of the English language,
containing the radicals and definitions of words derived from
the Greek, Latin and French languages, and al] the generally
used technical and polite phrases adopted from the French and
Latin, &c., &c., third edition, carefully revised and enlarged :
12mo 280p— Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elhott & Co.,
1848; deposited by W. Grimshaw. ,
Incidents recalled: 8vo 84p — Philadelphia, 1848.
7 175 faq
Grimsuaw (William) Questions on the History of England: 12mo 8ip
— Philadelphia, 1841.

History of the United States, from their first set+
tlement as colonies to the period of the sixth census in 1840:
12mo 3836p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co.,
1847 ; deposited by William Grimshaw.

Questions on the History of the United States:
12mo 91p — Philadelphia, 1847.

History of the United States from their first settle-
ment as colonies to the peace with Mexico in 1848: 12mo
37 1p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849 ;
deposited by William Grimshaw.

GriswoLp (Rufus Wilmot,) The prose writers of America, with a survey
of the history, condition and prospects of American literature,
illustrated with portraits from original pictures: 8vo large,
5592p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 18473; de-
posited by Carey & Hart.

The female poets of America: Svo 400p— Phila-
delphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey
& Hart.

Grover (Thomas D.,) Will of, with a short sketch of his life: Svo 2383p —
Southwark, 1849.

GuENon (Francis M.) A treatise on milch cows, whereby the quality and
quantity of milk which any cow will give may be accurately
determined by observing natural marks or external indications
alone, the length of time she will continue to give milk, &c.
franslated for the Farmer’s Library, from the ”Frenc ch, by N
P. Trist, Esq., with introductory remarks on the cow and the
dairy, by John S. Skinner, illustrated by numerous engravings:
8yo 32p — New York, published by Greely & M’ Elrath ; de»
posited by Greely & M’Elrath,

Iackiey (Charles W., S. T. D.,) Elementary course of Geometry, for the
use of schools and colleges: 12mo 103p — New York, pub-
lished by Harper & Brothers » 1849; deposited by Harper &
Brothers.

A treatise on Algebra, containing the
latest improvements, adapted to the use of schools and. col-
leges: S8vo large, 503p — New York, published by Harper
& “Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

School Algebra, containing the latest
improvements; 8vo large, 226p — New NV Onk: “published by

Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Hare (David,) Memoirs of, with selections from his miscellaneous writings,
by Joseph P. Thompson : 12mo 520p — New York, published
by John Wiley, 1850; deposited by J, P. Thompson.

Hare (Salma,) Premium history, of the United States, from their first
settlement as colonies to the close of Mr. "Tyler? Ss adminis-
tration in 1845, to which are added Sue uens adapted to the
use of schools, new edition, with maps: 12mo 3826p — Coopers-
[ & Fj 176 .
town, published by H. & E. Phinny, 1846; deposited by
Salma Hale.

Hate (Sarah Josepha) Three Hours, or, The Vigil of Love, and other
poems: 12mo 216p—Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart,
1848; deposited by S. J. Hale.

The Poet’s offering for 1850: Svo large, 576p —
Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1850; depo-
sited by Grigg, Elliot & Co.

Haut (Arethusa) Manual of morals for common schools, adapted also to
the use of families: 12mo 212p — Boston, published by J. P.
Jewett, 1849; deposited by Wiliam H. Wardwell.

WIatu (Rev. Baynard R., A.M.) Teaching, a science — the teacher an
artist: Svo 3805p — New York, published by Baker & Scrib-
ner 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Hau (James) The West; its soil, surface and productions: 12mo 260p —
Cincinnati, published by Derby, Bradley & Co., 1848; depo-
sited by James Hall.

Hatt (Mrs. James) Phantasia, and other Poems: 8vo 144p— New York,

published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George
P. Putnam.

Hamizton (G.) Elements of vegetable and animal physiology, in two parts,
edited by D. M. Reese, M. D,. LL. D., [See Chamber’s educa-
tional course.|_ 12mo 144p — New York, published by A. S.
Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by A.S. Barnes & Co.

Hammonp (Jabez D.) Life and times of Silas Wright, late Governor of
New York: 8vo large, 749p — Syracuse, published by Hall
& Dickson, 1848; New York, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; de-
posited by Hall & Dickson.

Hare (J. J. Clark) and Watuace (H. B.) Select decisions of American
courts in several departments of law, with special reference to
mercantile law, with notes by J. J. Clark Hare & H. B. Wal-
lace, two volumes: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 569p; Vol. 2, 579p
— Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, Vol. 1, in
1847; Vol. 2, in 1848; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson.

Hare (Thomas,) Reports of cases adjudged in the higher courts of chan-
cery, before the Right Honorable Sir James Wigram, Kt. Vice
Chancellor, [See Dunlap]: 8vo large, 666p— New York,
published by Banks, Gould, & Co., 1847; deposited by Banks,
Gould & Co.

Harrison (W. B.) Museum comic songster, being a choice collection of
rare and original songs: 16mo 70p — Philadelphia, published
by W. B, Harrison, 1849; deposited by William B. Harrison.

Harris (Chapin A., M. D. DD. 8.) A dictionary of dental science, biogra-
phy and medical terminology: 8vo 7830p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay &
Blakiston.

Harrison (Robert, M. D.) A text book of practical anatomy, with addi-

tions by an American physician, with numerous illustrations :
Svo large, 720p — New York, published by 8. S. & W.
Wood, 1848; deposited by S. S. & W. Wood.
177 [vq

Hart, (Joseph C.) The romance of Yachting, voyage the first : 12mo 332}
—— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; dees
ited by Harper & Brothers.

Hastines (John, M. D.) The practice of Surgery, embracing minor surgery
and the application of dressings, &c., with numerous illustra-
trations : 8vo 479p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay &

Blakiston ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.

Lectures on Yellow Fever, its causes, pathology
and treatment, by John Hastings, M. D.: Svo 69p — Philadel-

phia, published by Lindsay & “Blakiston ; deposited by John
Hastings.

Haswett (Charles H.) Engineer’s and Mechanic’s pocket book, containing
United States and foreign weights and measures, Ke. , &ce., fifth
edition: 16mo 296p — ‘New York, published by Harper & Bro-

thers, 1848; deposited by Harper ‘& Brothers.

Hawker (Lieutenant Colonel P.) Instructions to young sportsmen, in all
that relates to guns and shooting; first American from the ninth
London edition ; to which is added the hunting and shooting of
America, with descriptions of the animals and birds, by Wn.
fle Porter, Esq., with illustrations; 8vo 459p — Philadelphia,
published by Lea & Blanchard, 1846; deposited by Lea &

Blanchard.

Haypen (Chester) A practical analytical digest of the Code of Proeedure
of the state of New York, embracing entire every section of
the code in an alphabetic al arrangement of its contents as ap-
plicable to actual practice ; with ‘suggestions and remarks, and
an appendix, containing the act supplementary to the code, &c.,
together with a collection of practical forms adapted to the
new practice: 8vo large, 428p— Albany, published by W.
C. Little & Co.; ; deposited by Chester Hayden.

Heapiry (J. T.) The rer orey ‘k, or, Life in the Woods: 8vo 288p
New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited
by J. T. Headley.

Absalom: published in the New York Observer, May 12,
1849; deposited by J. T. Headley.

The Chariot of Fire: published in the New York Ob-
server, April 14, 1849; deposited by J. T. Headley.

Letters from Italy, new and revised edition: 12mo 2245p
— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposi-
ted by Baker & Scribner.

The Alps and the Rhine, a series of sketches; new and
revised edition: 12mo 138p — New York, published by Baker
& Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Life of Oliver Cromwell: 12mo 446p— New York, pub-
lished by Baker &. Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker &
Scribner.

The Sacred Mountains, illustrated: 12mo 175p— New
York, published by Baker & Scribner, 18473; deposited by
Baker & Scribner.

Mis—12.
(ity 178

Washington and his Generals: 12mo Vol. 1, 8348p; Vol.
2, 3872p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner ; depos-
ited by Baker & Scribner.

Heim (Rey. James, A. M.) Memoir of Martha Thompson Sharp: 16mo
198p — Philadelphia, published by Daniels & Smith, 1849 ;
deposited by Rev. James Helm, A. M.

Henry (Capt. W.S., U.S. A.) Campaign sketches of the war with Mex-
ico, with engravings: 12mo 331p— New York, published by
Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Hensuaw (J. Sidney) A manual for United States Consuls, embracing their
rights, duties, liabilities and emoluments, the laws and judicial
decisions governing them, &c., &c., &c.: 16mo 252p — New
York, published by J. C. Riker, 1849; deposited by J. S.
Henshaw.

Hrrgert, Ellen, or Family Changes, with six illustrations: 16mo 206p —
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited
by Harper & Brothers.

Hicxry (W.) Constitution of the United States of America, the proximate
causes of its adoption and ratification, the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, the prominent political acts of George Washington ;
with an alphabetical analysis of the Constitution, by a citizen:
12mo 225p-- Washington, printed by G. S. Gideon, 1846;
deposited by the author.

Same, Second edition, Philadelphia, published by T. K. &
P. G. Collins, 1847, two copies ; deposited by W. Hickey.

Hitpreru (Richard,) The history of the United States of America, from
the discovery of the continent to the organization of the goy-
ernment under the federal constitution, in three volumes, Vol.
1, 570p; Vol. 2, 579; Vol. 3, 592p — New York, published
by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Hinx (Nicholas, Jr.) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Su-
preme court, and in the court for the correction of errors of
the State of New York: Vol. 7, 8vo large, 6382p — Albany,
published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1847 ; deposited by Gould,
Banks & Gould.

Hinns (John) Farriery and Stud book, new edition; farriery taught on a
new and easy plan, being a treatise on the diseases and acci-
dents of the horse, with instructions to the shoeing-smith,
farrier and groom; with considerable additions and improve-
ments, particularly adapted to this country, by Thomas M.
Smith, with a supplement comprismg an essay on domestic —
animals, especially the horse, together with trotting and racing
tables, &c., &e., by J. S. Skinner: 12mo 124p — Philadelphia,
published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1848; deposited by John
Grigg.

Iirrst (Henry B.) The Penance of Roland, a romance of the Peine Forte et
Dure, and other poems; 12mo 128p— Boston, published by
Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1849; deposited by W. D. Ticknor,
& Co.
179 (rq

Horrman (Charles Fenno) Greyslaer, a romance of the Mohawk, fourth
edition: Syo 5140p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner,
1849 ; deposited - C. F. Hoffman.

IloLcoMBE Gane P.) A digest of the decisions, of the Supreme court of
the United States from its organization to the present time:
Svo large, 6830p — New York, published by D. Appleton &
Co., 184 1s: deposited by D. Appleton & Co.

Horry (O. 5B.) The | ife of Benjamin Franklin: 12mo 468p — New York.
published by George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1848; deposited
by George kr. Cooledge and Brother.

The New York State Register for 1845, containing an al-
manac for 1845-6, with political, statistical and other informa-
tion relating to fhe state of New York and the United States :
also, a complete list of county officers, attorneys, &c. The
anor Register contains a full list of United States govern-
ment officers, &e.: 12mo 516p — New York, published by J.
Disturnell, 1845; deposited by J. Disturnell.

Same for 1847-8, being a supplement to the Register for
1845-6; 12mo ¢ 24p — New York, published by J. Disturnell :
deposited by J. Disturnell.

Hontick (Frederick, M. D.) Neuropathy, or the true principles of the art
of healing the sick, being an examination of the action of gal-
vanism, electricity, and magnetisin in the cure of disease, and a
comparison between their powers and those of drugs or medi-
cines of all kinds, with a view to determine their value and
proper uses ; ten 193p — Philadelphia, published by Na-
tional publishing company, 1849; deposited by F. Hollick.

The Diseases of Woman, their causes and cure
familiarly explained, with practical hints for their prevention,
and for the preservation of female health, illustrated by numer-
ous engravings: 16mo 291p — New York, published, by Bur-

fess & Stringe r, 1849; deposited by F. Hollick.

Outlines of Anatomy and Physiology, illustra-
ted by anew dissected plate of the human organization and by
separate views, &c., with a portrait of the author : 4to 40p —
Philadelphia, published by King & Baird, 1847 ; deposited by
Fs Hollick, M.D.

Hlonmes (John,) The Art of Rhetoric, or the elements of oratory, adapted
to the practice of the students of Great Britain and Ireland,
methodically arranged from the ancient and modern rhetorical
writers, to which is added Quintilian’s course of an ancient
Rowan. education ; new and carefully corrected edition in two
books, entirely remodeled, by John A. Getty, A. M.: 12mo
307p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 18- 19; ; de-
posited by J. A. Getty.

HWortiuouse (Henry James, Esq.) A new Law Dictionary, containing ex-
planations of such technical terms and phrases as occur in the
works of legal authors, in the practice of the courts and in the
parliamentary proceedings of the House of Lords and Com-
mons, to which is added an outline of an action at law, and of
[| ta 180

a suit in equity; edited from the second and enlarged London
edition, with numerous additions, by Henry Pennington: 12mo
495p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1549 ;
deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Homer — The first six books of Homer’s Iliad, with English notes, a me-
trical index and homeric glossary, by Charles Anthon, LL. D.:
Svo 8397p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847;
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Hoop (John W., M. D.) The principles and practice of medicine in a series
of essays; Svo large, 263p— Philadelphia, published by
Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co, 1848; deposited by J. W. Hood.

Hoop (Samuel,) Practical Treatise on the Law relating to registers, re-
gister’s courts, orphans’ courts, auditors, executors, adminis-
trators, guardians and trustees in Pennsy iF ania, with appendices
of acts of assembly, forms, &c., and an Meee Svo large,
580p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay, Jr. & Brother ;
deposited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.

Hooker (Worthington, M.D.) Physician and Patient, or a practical view
of the mutual duties, relations and interests of the medical
profession and the community: 8vo 453p— New York, pub-
lished by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker &
Scribner.

Hoorer (Dr.) Physician’s Vade-Mecum, or a manual of the principles and
practice of physic, considerably enlarged and improved, with
an outline of general pathology and therapeutics, by William
Augustus Grey, M. D., with additions by James Stewart, A.
M. M. D.: 12mo 541p — New York, published by Harper &
Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Horace — The works of Horace, with English notes, critical and expla-
natory, by Charles Anthon, LL. D., new edition, corrected
and enlarged, with an excursus relative to the wines and vine-

yards of the ancients, and a life of Horace by Milman: 12mo
131p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers ; deposi-
ted by Harper & Brothers.

Hoven (Lewis L.) The Wanderer, a poem: 16mo 64p — Cleveland, pub-
lished by Smead & Cowles, 1547; deposited by L. 8. Hough.

Howarp (Benjamin C.) Reports of cases argued and adjudged in the Su-
preme court of the United States, January term, 1849, vol. 7:
Svo large, IL1p — Boston, published by Little & Brown,
1849 ; deposited by Little & Brown.

Reports of cases argued and adjudged in the Su-
preme court of the United States, January term, 1847, Vol. 5;
Svo large, 65lp — Boston, published by Little & Brown;
deposited by Little & Brown.

xiowr (Henry) Historical collections of Ohio, containing a collection of the
; most interesting facts, fegitions, biographical, sketches, anec-
dotes, &c., relating to its general and local history, with de-

scriptions of its c ounties »Pl incipal towns and y illages, illustrated

by 177 engravings, &c.: 8yvo large, O8lp— Cincinnati, pub-
181 i Wed

lished by Derby, Bradley & Co., for the author, 1847; depo-
sited by J. W. Barber & H. owe.

Hower (Henr y) Memoirs of the most eminent American mechanics ; also lives
of distinguished European mechanics, together with a collec-
tion of anecdotes, descriptions, &c., relating to the mechanic
arts, illustrated by fifty engravings; 12mo 4831p — New York,
published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper
& Brothers.

Howison (Robert R.) A history of Virginia, from its discovery and settle-
ment by Europeans to the present time; Vol. 2, containing the
history of the colony and of the State, from 1763 to the retro-
cession of Alexandria in 1847, with a review of the present
condition of Virginia: 8vo large, 528p— Richmond, published

by Drinker & Morris, 1848 ; deposited by Drinker & Morris.

Howxanp (Henry J.) The Worcester Almanac, directory and business ad-
vertiser, for 1850, including the ordinances of the city of Wor-
cester: 16mo 172p— Worcester, published by H. J. Howland ;
deposited by H. J. Howland.

Hiupson (H. N.) Lectures on Shakspeare, two volumes 12mo: Vol. 1, 3836p ;
Vol. 2, 3848p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner,
1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Wovens (John T.) California; its history, population, climate, soil, produc-
tions and harbors, from Sir George Simpson’s oy erland j journey
round the w ae an account of the revolution in California,
and conquest of the country by the United States: 16mo 105p
—— Cincinnati, published by J. A. & U. P. James; “deposited by
J. A. & U. P. James.

Doniphan’s expedition, containing an account of the con-
quest of New Mexico; General Kearney’s overland expedition
to California; Doniphan’s campaign against the Navyajos, his
unparalleled march upon Chihuahua and Durango, and the ope-
rations of General Price at Santa Fe, &c., a map and five en-
gravings: 12mo 407p— Cincinnati, published J. A. & U. P.
James, 1848; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James.

Hucus (Mrs.) The Ivy Wreath, with beautiful illustrations: 12mo 175p —
Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; depos-
ited by Lindsay & Blakiston.

Birds and Blossoms for the Young, with numerous illustra-
tions: 18mo 2045p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay &
Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.

HunreER (John, ) Analytic History for Schools, founded on the late Es-
quisses historiques of M. D. Levi, [ Alvares] adapted to the
state of instruction in the United States, and brought down
to the year 1848: 12mo 312 p — New York, published
by D. Fanshaw; deposited by John H. Hunter and D.
Fanshaw.

Huston (Charles ») An essay on the history and nature of original titles to
land in the province and state of Pennsylvania: 8vo large,
A84p —Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W, Johnson, 1849 ;
deposited by 'T. & J. W. Johnson.
an 182

Hurron’s Book of Nature laid open, revised and improved, by Rey. J. L.
Blake, D. D.: 16mo 250p — New York, published by Harper
& Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Hyarr (James,) Lime and marl, their agricultural uses : Svo 3832p — Phila-
delphia, 1848.

Imray (Keith) A popular Cyclopedia of modern domestic medicine, compri-
sing every recent improvement in medical knowledge, with a
plain account of the medicines in common use ; first Avmerrean
edition, to which are prefixed by the editor, popular treatises
upon anatomy, physiology, surgery, dietectics, and the man-
agement of the sick, compiled from the works of eminent phy-
sicians and surgeons, designed for general use; S8vo large,
855p—New York, published by Gates, Stedman & Co., sd:
deposited by Gates, Stedman & Co.

[xcersouiy (Charles J.) Historical sketch of the second war between the
United States of America and Great Britain, declared by act of
Congress, the 18th of June 1812, and concluded by peace the
15th of February 1815, embracing the events of 1814: 8vo
317p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849;
deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Irvine (Washington) The Crayon Miscellany, author’s revised edition,
complete in one volume: 12mo 379p — New York, published
by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving.

Astoria, or, Anecdotes of an enterprise beyond the
Rocky mountains, author’s revised edition, complete in one
volume: 12mo 519p— New York, published by George P.
Putnam; deposited by W. Irving.

The adventures of Captain Bonneville, United States
Army, in the Rocky mountains and the far west, digested from
his journal, and illustrated from various other sources, author’s
revised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo 428p— New
York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W.

Irvi ing.

The life and voyages of Christopher Columbus, to
which are added those of his companions, in three volumes,
author’s revised edition, 12mo; Vol. 1, 457p; Vol. 2, 493p;
Vol. 3, 492p — New York, published by George P. Putnam,
1849; deposited by W. Irving.

Tales of a Traveller, by Geoffrey Crayon, author’s re-
vised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo 456p — New
York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W.
Irving:

A history of New York from the beginning of the
world to the end of the Dutch dynasty, by Diedrie h Knicker-
bocker, the author’s revised edition, complete in one volume :
{2mo 452p— New York, published by George P. Putnam,
1849; deposited by W. Irving.

The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, gent.,
author’s revised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo “465p
183 [1]

— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; depo-
sited by W. Irving.

Irvine (W ashington) Bracebridge Hall, or the Humorist, a medley, by
Geotlrey Crayon, gent. author s revised edition, complete
in one volume; 12mo AS7p — New York, published by George
P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving.

A book of the Hudson, collected from the various
works of Diedrich Knickerbocker, edited by Geoffrey Crayon :
16mo 115p— New York, published by George P. Putnam,
1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.

JackMANn (Alonzo,) A treatise on the doctrine of numerical series; 8vo
dop — 1846.

Jacosus (Melancthon W.) Notes on the Gospels, critical and explanatory,
so prepared as to accompany ate questions of the American
Sunday School Union, and incorporating with the notes on a
new plan the most approv ed harmony of the four gospels, with
illustrations; from Kitto’s Biblical Encyclopedia, &c. Matthew:
12mo 3135p — New York, published by Robert Carter, 1848 :
deposited by M. W. Jacoubs.

Jenks (Rev. William, D. D.) The explanatory Bible Atlas and Scripture
ap eticer, geographical, topographical and historical, containing
maps of all the countries and places mentioned in the old and
new testaments, drawn from the latest and best authorities, and
engraved expressly for the work, with illustrative essays for
each map, and accurate local descriptions in the gazetteer, a
colored missionary map of the world, a dictionary of the na-
tural history of the Bible, with engravings, tables of time.
weights, measures, coins, fabular views , &e., Se. : 4to 157p —
Boston published by Charles Hickling, 1849: ; deposited by Wil

ham Jenks.

Jennincs (Samuel K., M.D.) A compendium of Medical Science, or fifty
years experience in the art of healing, being a plain iad prac-
tical treatise on the prevention and cure of diseases: &vo
large, 3592p — Tuscaloosa, published by Marmaduke J. Slade,
1847: deposited by S. Kk. Jennings.

Jounson (George William, Esq.) A Dictionary of Modern Gardening, with
one-hundred anil eighty wood cuts, edited with numerous addi-
tions by David Landreth : 8vo 635p — Philadelphia, published
by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; ee a by Lea & Blanchard.

Jounson, (Samuel, LL. D.) Pocket Dictionary of the English Language,
greatly improved by an augmentation of some thousand words
and technical terms, &c., &e.- 16m 2! 3p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by Lindsay &
Blakiston.

Jounson (Theodore 'T.) Sights in the Gold Region, and scenes by the way:
Svo 2785p — New York, published by Baker & Sc ribner, 1849:
deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Jounson (William,) Reports of cases adjudged in the Supreme court ot
Judicature of the State of New York, from January term,
1799, to January term 1803, both inclusive, together with cases
i; tel 184

determined in the court for the correction of errors during that
period; second edition, with many additional cases not included
in the former edition, from the original notes of the late Hon.
Jacob Radcliff, with copious references to the American and
English decisions, by Lorenzo B. Shepard, second volume —
containing the cases from October term 1800, to October
term 1801, inclusive: 8vo large, 595p— New York, pub-
lished by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848; deposited by Banks,
Gould & Co.

Jounson (William, Architect,) The Carpenters’ new Guide, being a com-
plete book of lines for carpentry and joinery; treating fully on
practical geometry, soffits, brick and plaster groins, niches of
every description, sky lights, lines for roofs and domes, with a
great variety of designs for roofs, trussed girders, floors, domes,
bridges, &c.; angle bars for shop fronts, &c., raking mould-
ings, &c., &c. The whole founded on true geometrical princi-
ples, the theory and practice well explained and fully exempli-
fied on eighty-three copper plates, including some observations
and calculations on the strength of timber, by Peter Nicholson,
thirteenth edition: 4dto 117p — Philadelphia, published by
Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1848; deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co.

Jones (Major) Sketches of travel, comprising the scenes, incidents and ad-
ventures in his tour from Georgia to Canada, with eight origi-
nal engravings: 12mo 192p — Philadelphia, published by
Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Jones (Thomas) Book-keeping and accountantship, elementary and practi-
cal, in two parts, with a key for teachers: Svo large, — New
York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by Thomas
Jones.

Jones (‘T. Wharton, F. A. S.) The principles and practice of Ophthalmic
medicine and surgery, with one hundred and two illustrations,
edited by Isaac Hays, M. D.: 8vo 509p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; deposited by Lea & Blan-
chard.

Kewxioe (Edward) Labor and other capital; the rights of each secured and
the wrongs of both eradicated, or an exposition of the cause
why few are wealthy and many poor, and the delineation of a
system, which, without infringing the rights of property will
give to labor its just reward: 8vo 298p— New York, pub-
lished by the author, 1849; deposited by E. Kellog.

Kerrey (Jame M., counsellor at law and State reporter) Reports of cases
in law and equity argued and determined in the Supreme court
of the state of Georgia, three volumes; volume 1, including
the year 1846; volume 2, commencing January 1847; volume
3, commencing July 1847: 8vo large, vol. 1, 679p; vol. 2,
524p; vol. 3, 6387p: vol. 1, published by Edward O. Jenkins,
New York, 1847; vols. 2 and 3, at Savannah by W. T. Willi-
ams; vol. 2, in 1847 and vol. 8, in 1848; deposited by James
M. Kelley.

Kexsey (William R.) The Apiarians guide, being a practical treatise on
185 [14

the culture and management of bees, by Wilham R. Kelsey:
pamphlet 12mo 45p — Syracuse, printed by Kinney, Marsh &
Barnes, L847.

Kennepy (John P.) Memoirs of the life of Wilham Wirt, Attorney General
of the United States, in two volumes: S8vo large, vol. 1, 417p;
vol. 2, 450p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard,
1849: deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Kenr (James) Commentaries on American Law, four volumes sixth edition ;
8vo large, vol. 1, 560p; vol. 2, 646p; vol. 3, 514p; vol. 4,
5386p — New York, published by William Kent, 1848; depo-
sited by W. Kent.

Kent (Edward N.) Instructions for collecting, testing, melting and assay-
ing gold: 8vo 8389p — New York, 1848.

Kipyey (John Steinfort) Catawba river, and other poems: 12mo 119p—
New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1847; deposited
by J. S. Kidney.

Kinespury (Harmon) The Immigrant’s Good Samaritan: 16mo 117p —
New York, published by D. Fanshaw ; deposited by E. Vernon,

Kirkianp (Mrs.) Holidays abroad, or Europe from the West, two volumes
i2mo; vol. 1,303p; vol. 2, 3832p — New York, published by
Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.

Kurestetn (Louis F.) Analecta Anglo Saxonica; selections in prose and
verse, from the Anglo Saxon literature, with an introductory
Ethnological essay and notes, critical and explanatory, two
volumes 12mo: vol. 1, 430p; vol. 2, 444p — New York, pub-

lished by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P.

Putnam.

Knapp (Dr. F.) Chemical Technology, or Chemistry applied to the arts and
to manufacturers, translated and edited with numerous notes
and additions, by Dr. Edmund Ronalds and Dr. Thomas Rich-
ardson; first American edition, with notes and additions by
Professor Walter R. Johnson, Vol. 1., illustrated with two-hun-
dred and fourteen engravings on wood: Svo large, 504p —
Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848.

Lamson (David R.) ‘Two years experience among the Shakers, being a de-
scription of the manners and customs of that people, the nature
and policy of their government, &c., &c.: 12mo 212p — West
Boyleston, published by the author, 1848; deposited by D. R.-
Lampson.

Lanpis (Robert W.) Liberty’s Triumph, a poem: Svo 544p— New York,
published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by R. W. Landis.

Lapua (I. A.) Wisconsin, its geography and topography, history, geol-
ogy and mineralogy, together with brief sketches of its anti-
quities, natural history, soil, productions and government ;
second edition, greatly improved: 12mo 208p — Milwaukie,
published by J. H. Hopkins, 1846; deposited by Increase A.
Lapham.

Larra (Rev. S. A., A. M. M. D.) Chain of Sacred Wonders: 16mo 211p
—published by the author at Cincinnati, 1849 ; deposited by
the author.
[ wa 186

Lawrence (Robert I.) Lectures to Youth, containing instructions prepa-
ratory to their entrance upon the active duties of life: 16mo
193p — Boston, published by James French, 1548; deposited
by R. F. Lawrenee.

Lawrence (W. F. R.S.) A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, a new
edition, edited with numerous additions, and one-hundred and
seventy-six illustrations, by Isaac Hays, M. D.: 8vo large,
859p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847 ; de-
posited by Lea & Blanchard.

Leeser (Isaac,) The book of daily Prayers for every day in the year, ac-
cording to the custom of the German and Polish Jews [He-
brew and English]: 8vo 243p — Philadelphia, published by
C. Sherman, 5608; deposited by Isaac Leeser..

Leonarp (L. W.) Analy sis of the elementary sounds of the English Lan-
guage, designed to accompany a chart of the same, with Wor-
cester’s notation, by George Tilden: 16mo 36p — Keene, N.
H., published by George Tilden, 1848; deposited by George
Tilden.

The North American Spelling Book, conformed to Wor-
cester’s dictionary, with a progressive series of easy reading
lessons, new edition, revised and enlarged: 12mo 18( Ope
Keene, published by George ‘Tilden, 1847 ; deposited by
George Tilden.

Lesrur (Francis) A new system of Christian Philosophy: 8vo 40p—
Hartford, 1848.

Leste (Miss Eliza) Amelia, or a young lady’s vicissitudes, a novel com-
plete in one volume: 8vo pamphlet S6p — Philadelphia,
published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey &
Hart.

Leonilla Ly nmore, and Mr. and Mrs. Woodbridge, or
a lesson for young wives, also, Dudley Villiers : S8vo pamphlet
118p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; de-
posited by Carey & Hart.

The Indian meal book, uae aS the best receipts
for the preparation of that article: 12mo 7 1p —— Philadelphia,
published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey &
Hart.

The Lady’s receipt book, a useful companion for large
and small families, being a sequel to her former work on domestic
cooking, comprising new and improved directions for preparing
soups, shy meats, vegetables, poultry, game, ee puddings,

cakes, confectionery, ‘Sweet- meats, jellies, &c.; also, a list of
dishes for breakfast, dinner and supper table: 12mo 405p —
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847.

Lwpevu (Henry George, M. D., and Scorr (Robert, M. D.,) A Greek En-
lish lexicon, based on the German work of Francis Passow,
with corrections and additions, and the insertion in alphabetical
order of the proper names occurring in the principal Greek
authors, by Henry Drisler, M. A.; lexicon 8yo 1705 5p: New
187 ft 4

York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by
Harper & Brothers.

Locxe (J. De C linton) The Swiss family Robinson, second series, being the
continuation of the work already published under that title,
translated from the French, by J. De Clinton Locke, two vols.
l6mo; vol. 1, 258p; vol. 2, 237p — New York, published by
Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Locxwoop (Ralph) An analytical and practical synopsis of all the cases
argued and reversed in law and equity in the court for the cor-
rection of errors of the State of New York, from 1799 to 1847,
with the names of the cases and a table of the titles, &c.: Svo
large, 605p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co.,
ISds : deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Lonerettow (Henry W adsworth) Evangeline, a tale of Acadia, sixth edi-
tion: 12mo 1653p — Boston, published by William D. Ticknor
& Co., 1848; deposited by H. W. Longfellow.

Loomis (Elias, A. ie ) El eitens of geometry and conic sections: 8vo 222p
— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; depo-
sited by Harper & Brothers.

Tables of Logarithms of numbers and sines, and tan-
gents for every ten seconds of the quadrant, with other useful
tables: Svo large, 150p — New York, published by Harper
& Brother rs, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Elements of plain and spherical trigonometry, with
their applications to mensuration, surveying and navigation :
8vo large, 1483p — New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Lorratne (Carl) Gems for boys and girls: 18mo 112p— Hartford, published
by Brown & Parsons, 1849; deposited by Brown & Parsons.

Lossine (B. J.) Biographical Sketches of the Signers of the Declaration
of American Independence, the declaration historically consi-
dered, and a sketch of the leading events connected with the
adoption of the articles of confederation and the federal consti-
tations illustrated by fifty portraits and other engravings: 12mo
384p — New York, published by George I*. Cooledge &
Brother, 1845 ; deposited by George F. Cooledge & Brother.

A Pictorial description of Obie, comprising a sketch of its
physical geography, history, politic al divisions, resources, gOV-
ernment and constitution, antiquities, public lands, &c., com-
piled from the best authorities, Jlusteated by maps tid forty
engravings: 8vo 13lp— New York, published by Ensign &
Thayer, 1849; deposited by Ensign & Thayer.

o, containing
a compendium of the practice of the high court of chancery
and the foundation of its rules, ete with an illustration of
the analogy between pleadings at common law and equity, s
cond Ame ‘rican from the last London edition, with notes Saal
references to the American cases, by J. D. Wheeler: Svo
large, 415p— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co.,
1546; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Lupe (D. G.) An Analysig of the principles 2 Equity pleading
c1] 188

Lyncu (Anne C.) Poems with illustrations: 8vo 189p — New York, pub-
lished by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P.
Putnam.

Lyncu (W. F., U.S. N.) Narratives of the United States Expedition to
the River Jordan and the Dead Sea, with maps and numerous
illustrations: Svo large, 508p — Philadelphia, published by
Lea & Blanchard 1849; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Lynp (James,) The Class Book of Etymology, designed to promote preci-
sion in the use, and facilitate the acquisition of a knowledge of
the English language: 12mo 277p, with ake to both Greek,
Latin and other roots, in 58p — Philadelphia, published by E.
C. & J. Biddle, 1847; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.

The First Book of Etymology, designed to promote pre-
cision in the use, and facilitate the ac quisition of a knowledge
of the English language for beginners: 12mo 215p — Phila-
delphia, published by E..C..& J. ’ Biddle, 1847.

M’CLELLANp (George, M. D.) Principles and Practice of Sur gery, edited
by his son, John H. B. M’Clelland, M. D.: 8vo large, 452p
— Philadelphia, published by Grige, Elliott & Co., 1848; de-
posited by John H. B. M’Clelland.

M’Curytock (John,) and Croox (G. R.) A First Book in Latin, containing
Grammar exercises and vocabulas, on the method of constant
imitation and repetition, second edition: Svo 409p — New
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by
Harper & Brothers.

A First Book in Greek, containing a
full view of the form of words, with vocabularies and copious
exercises on the method of constant imitation and repetition :
Svo 3815p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers 1848 ;
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

M’Cxovre (Samuel) The Psalms of David, and song of Solomon, in metre :
16mo 304p — Lewistown, Pennsylvania, published ‘by Samuel
M’Clure, 1849 ; deposited by Samuel M’Clure.

M’Corp (Louisa 8S.) My Dreams: 12mo 211p— Philadelphia, published
by Carey & ‘Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Macerecor, (James Jr.) Mechanics’ Guide for constructing belting, pul-
leys, cone pulleys and water wheels, &c., also, for computing
the power of water wheels and high pressure steam engines,
by James Macgregor, Jr., pamphlet : : 12mo 36p — Washing-
ton, printed by John T. Te 1846.

M‘Gurrey (William H., D. D.,) Newly revised Eclectic Primer, with pic-
torial illustrations: 16mo 60p— New York, published by
Clark, Austin & Smith, 1849 ; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith.

Eclectic First Reader, permanent stereotype
edition: 12mo 108p — Cincinnati, published by W. B. Smith,
1848; deposited by W. B. Sinith.

Newly revised Eclectic Second Reader, per-
manent stereotype edition: 12mo 192p — Cincinnati, published

by W. B. Smith, 1848; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith.
189 [ig
M‘Gurrey (William H., D. D.) Newly revised Eclectic Third Reader, per-

manent stereotype edition: Svo 216p— Cincinnati, published

by W. B. Smith, 1848; deposited by W. B. Smith.

Newly revised Fourth Reader, permanent
stereotype edition: 12mo 3836p — Cincinnati, published by W.
B. Smith, 1848; deposited by W. B. Smith.

Macketiar (Thomas) Tain’s fortnight ramble, and other poems; 12mo
216p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1817; de-
posited by T. Mackellar.

M‘MurtTRIE (Henry, M. D.) Lexicon scientiarum; a dictionary of terms
used in the various branches of anatomy, botany, ceology, oe-
ometry, hygiene, mineralogy, natural philosophy, phy siology,
zoology, &c: 12mo 246p — Philadelphia, published by E, eo
& J. Biddle, 1847; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.

Magcoon (E. L.) Living orators in America: 12mo 462p— New York,
published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker &
Scribner.

Orators of the American revolution: 12mo 456p — New
York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by
Baker & Seribner.

Manan (Rev. Asa) The True Believer, his character, any and privileges,
elucidated in a series of discourses ; 12mo 280p — New York,
published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper
& Brothers. :

Maistre (M. Le Conte Joseph dé) Essay on the generative principle of po-
litical constitutitions, translated from the French; 16mo 173p
— Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847; deposited by
Little & Brown.

Mattory (R. P.) A panoramic view from Bunker Hill monument — Boston,
published by Redding & Co., 1848; deposited by J. C. Cross-
man and R. P. Mallory.

Manvevitie (f., D. D.) An introduction to the author’s ‘Course of
oe and elements of Reading and Oratory,”’ part. first :
12mo 212p — New York, published by D. Appleton & Co.,
[848 ; deposited by D. Appleton & Co.

Mansrietp (Edward D., Esq.,) The Mexican war}; a history of its origin,

and a detailed account of the victories which terminated in the
surrender of the Capital, with the official dispatches of the
Generals, illustrated with maps and engravings: 12mo 323p —
New York, published by H. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited
by H. S. Barnes & Co.

MarxuAm (Mrs.) A History of France from the conquest of Gaul by Juli-
us Cesar, to the reign of Louis Phillippe, with conversations
at the end of each ¢ chapte r, prepared for the use of schools ;
the addition of a map, notes and questions, and a supplemen-
tary chapter brmging down the history to the present time, by
Jacob Abbott : 12mo 629p — New York, published by Harper
& Brothers 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
[aa 190

Marquart (John, Jr.) and Scuremer (Henry,) Gaging Simplified, or
every merchant his own gager: 12mo 44p — Philadelphia,
published by William S. Young, 1849; deposited by John Mar-

quart and Henry Schreiner.

Marryatr (Captain,) Valerie, a tale, one volume, 8vo pamphlet 98p—
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849.

Marsu (C. C.) La Ciencia de Teneduria de Libros, simplificada por la apli-
cacion de una regla infalible para acertar el deudor y el acredor,
bien calculada para ens ensenar completamente la teoria jy
practica de la partida doble, sienda una serie de operaciones
mercantiles bien escojidas, y ‘arriglidas para former un curso
completo de instruccion practicas designado paro el uso de escu-
elas y Casas de Comercio de las Americas. | Acompanando
numerosos ejamplos de calcalos mercantiles. Traducido de la

. Vigisima Edicion inglesa por A. G. Beck, Bajo la immediata
aoe del Autor: 8vo 195p— New York, published by J.

. Riker, 1849: deposited by C. C. Marsh.

Marvin (J. G. ) Legal Bibliography, or a thesaurus of American, English,
Irish and Scoteh law books, together with some continental
treatises, interspersed with critical observations upon their vari-
ous editions and authority, to which is prefixed a copious list
of abbreviations, by J. G. Marvin, counsellor at law: 8vo
800p — Philadelphia, T. & J. W. Johnson, 1847; deposited
by J. G. Marvin.

‘Lason (John M., D D) The complete works of John M. Mason, D D, in
four volumes, edited by his son, Ebenezer Mason: Bro large,
vol. 1, 557p; vol. 2 , 593p; Pah 3, O9Sp; vol. 4 , 579p — New
York, published by Baker & Schibrier) 1849; deposited by
Baker & Scribner.

Mason (Richard, M. D.,) Mason’s Farrier and stud book, new edition, to
which is added a prize essay on mules, and an appendix con-
taining recipes for diseases of horses, oxen cows, calves, sheep,
dogs, swine, &c., with a supplement, comprising an essay on
domestic animals, especially the horse, &c., by J. S. Skinner :
12mo 415p — Philadelphia; published by Grigg, Elhot & Co.,
1848; deposited by John Grigg.

Maxwett (John L.) The Czar, his court and people, ineluding a tour in
Norway and Sweden: 12mo 5368p — New York, published by

«

Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Sennen

May (Caroline) The American Female Poets, with biographical and critical
notices: 8vo large, 532p — Philadelphia, pubhshed by Lind-
say & Blakiston, 1848; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.

Mayye (John, M. D.,) A Dispensa tory and Therapeutical Remembrancer :
comprising the entire lists of materia medica, preparations and
compounds, with a full and distinct version of every practical
formula, as authorized by the London, Edinburgh, and Dublin
Royal college of physicians, &c., revised, with the addition ot
the formula of the United States Pharmacopeia, &e., by R.
Eglefield Grifhth, M D: 8yvo 3829p — Philadelphia, published
by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
191 [ag

Mayo (W.S., M. D.) Kaloolah, or journeyings to the Djebel Kumri, an
autobiography of Jonathan Romer: 12mo 514p— New York,
published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. S.
Mayo, M. D.

Meics (Charles D., M. D.) Females and their Diseases, a series of letters
to his class: Svo large, 670p— Philadelphia, published by
Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Obstetrics, the science and the art, with illus-
trations: Svo 685p— Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blan-
chard, 1849 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Meics (J. Forsyth, M. D.) A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Chil-
dren: 8vo 5975p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Bla-
kiston, 1848 ; deposited by J. F. Meigs, M. D.

Merrvitie (Herman,) Redburn, his first voyage, being the sailor boy con-
fession and reminiscence of the son of a gentleman in the mer-
chant service: 12mo 390p — New York, published by Harper
& Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by H. Melville.

Mardi, and a voyage thither, two volumes, 12mo
Vol. 1,865p; Vol. 2, 8387p — New York, published by Har-
per & Brothers; deposited by H. Melville.

Omoo, a narrative of adventures in the South Seas :
12mo 3889p — New York, published by Harper. & Brother,
1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Typee, a peep at Polynesian life, during a four
months’ residence in the valley of the Marquesas, the revised
edition, with a sequel, by Herman Melville: 12mo 3807p —
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited
by Henry Melville.

Metreatr (Theron) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme
judicial court of Massachusetts, volumes 10, 11 and 12: 8vo
large — vol. 10, 640p; vol. 11, 629p; vol. 12, 615p — Bos-
ton, published by Little & Brown, 1349; deposited by Little
& Brown.

Mires (Pliny) American Mnemotechny, or Art of Memory, theoretical and
practical, on the basis of the most recent discoveries and im-
provements in Europe and America, &c., with a mnemotechnic
dictionary, second edition: 12mo 40%p— New York, published
by Wiley & Putnam, 1848; deposited by P. Miles.

Same, fifth edition: 12mo 4530p — Published by M. H. New-
man & Co., 1848; deposited by P. Miles.

The Statistical Register and book of general reference and
quotations, a compilation of remarkable events from Ancient
and Modern history ; great discoveries and inventions ; literary
and biographical chronology, remarkable battles, lists of so-
vereigns, &c.; also, poetical and prose selections, geographical
statistics, value of coins, specific gravities, astronomical statis-
tics, sentiments of flowers, mythological tables, names, &c.,
second edition: 12mo 200p — New York, published by Mark
H. Newman & Co., 1849; deposited by Pliny Miles.
Lad 192

Miter (H., M. D.) A theoretical and practical treatise on human parturi-
tion: 8vo large, 463p— Louisville, published by John V.
Cowling and George C. Davis, 1849; deposited by Henry
Miller.

Minter (Linus W. ) Notes of an exile to Van Dieman’s Land, comprising
incidents of the Canadian rebellion in 1838, trial of the author
in Canada and subsequent appearance before her Majesty’s
court of queen’s Bench in London, imprisonment in England,
and transportation to Van Dieman’s Land, also an account of
the horrible suffermgs endured by ninety political prisoners,
during a residence of six years in that land of British slavery,
together with sketches of the island, its history, productions,
inhabitants, &c., &c.: 12mo — Fredonia, New York, 1846 ;
deposited by Linus W. Miller.

Minirie (William,) A text book of Geometrical Drawings, abridged from
the octavo edition for the use of schools, with an introduction
to isometrical drawing, and an essay on linear perspective and
shadows, the whole illustrated with forty-eight steel plates :
12mo 156p — Baltimore, published by William Minifie & Co.,
1849 ; deposited by William Minifie.

The Architect, a text book of geometrical drawings
for the use of mechanics’ and schools, with an introduction to
isometrical drawing, and an essay on linear perspective and
shadows, the whole illustrated with fifty-six steel Pe con-
taining over two-hundred diagrams: 8vo large, 127 pe sBal-

timore, published by William Minifie & Co., 1849 ; donned
by William Minifie.

Minot (George) Public Laws of the United States of America, passed at
the second session of the thirtieth Congress, 1848 — 1849,
carefully collated with the originals at W ashington, to be con-
tinued annually : 8vo large, 151p-— Boston, published by

Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by Little & Brown.
Mitcuet (O. M., A. M.) The Plinetary and Stellar World, a popular ex-

position of the great discoveries and theories of modern astron-
omy, ina series of ten lectures: 12mo 356p— New York,
published by Baker and Scribner, 1848; deposited by O. M.
Mitchel.

Mircuett (S. Augustus) Intermediate or Secondary Geography, a system
of modern geography comprising a description of the present
state of the world, and its five great divisions — America, &c:
illustrated by forty maps and numerous wood cut engravings :
Ato 8 {Op : — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwaite
& Co 18: 19; deposited by S. Augustus Mitchel i.

MitcHe.t (Donald G.) Giesh Gleanings, or a new sheaf from the old fields
of Continental Europe, by He Marvel: 12mo 366p—New York,
published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper &
Brothers.

Moure (Francis Philip D.) and Repwoop (Theophilus) Practical Pharmacy,
the arrangements, apparatus and manipulations of the pharma-
ceutical shop and laboratory, edited with extensive additions,
193 [ 14]

edited with extensive additions by William Proctor, Jr. ; illus-
trated by five hundred engravings on wood: Svo large, 576p
—— Philadelphia, published by he 2a & Blanchard, S49; depo-
sited by Lea & Blanchard.

Mone tz (Claudius L.) A treatise on the practice of the courts of the
State of New York, adapted to the code of procedure as amend-
ed by the act of April 4, 1849, and the rules of the Supreme
court, to which is added ‘Nie practice in courts of justices of the
peace, with an appendix of practical forms: 8vo large,’ d7dp
—— Albany, published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1849: depo-
sited by Gould, Banks & Gould.

Monette (John W., M. D.) History of the discovery and settlement of the
valley of the Mississippi, by the three great European powers,
Spain, France and Great Britain, and “the subsequent occupa-
tion, settlement and extension of ‘the civil government of the
Unite d States, until We year 1846, in two volumes : Svo large,
vol. 1, 561p; vol. 2, 595p — New York, published by Harper
& Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Mowro (Rev. Edward) The Combatants; an allegory. From the London
edition; with ie rane® executed by B. I’. Childs from original
designs by Darley : 12mo 182p— New York, published by the
General Protestant Episcopal Sunday School Union, 1848; de-
posited by John W. Mitchell.

MonraGuE (Edward P.) Narrative of the late expedition to the Dead Sea,
from a diary by one of the party; with incidents and adventures
from the time of the sailing of the expedition in November 1847,
till the return of the same in December 1848. Illustrated with a
map of the Holy Land, handsomely colored. 16mo 336p—
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849, deposited by
Carey & Hart.

Moore (Jacob Bailey) Memoirs of American governors, vol. 1: Svo large,
439p — New York published by Gates & Stedman, 1846 ;
deposited by Jacob Bailey Moore.

MoreneaD (Hon. J. M.) The Siamese Twins: 8yo 24p— published at
Raleigh, 1848.

Morrir (Campbell) Chemical and Pharmaceutic Manipulations; a manual
of the mechanical and chemic-mechanical operations of the labo-
ratory, containing a complete description of the most approved
apparatus, with instructions as to their application and manage-
ment, both in manufacturing processes and in the more exact
details of analysis and accurate research, by C. Morfit, assisted
by Alexander Muckle; with four hundred and twenty-three
illustrations: Svo large, 482p— Philadelphia, published by
Lindsay & Blakiston, 18. i9,

Chemistry applied to the manufacture of soap and can-
dles; illustrated with one hundred and seventy engravings on
wood: 8vo 544p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart,
1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Manures; their composition, preparation and action upon

Mis.—13.
ial 194

soils, with the quantities to be applied; being a field companion
for the farmer; from the French of standard authorities: 16mo
LOOp -— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848 ;
deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.

Perfumery, its manufacture and use, with instructions m
every branch of the art and recipes for all the fashionable pre-
parations, illustrated by numerous woodcuts. From the French
of Celnart and other late authorities, with additions and im-
provements. 12mo 285p — Philadelphia, published by Carey
& Hart, 1547; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Mortey (C.) The Power of Kindness: 12mo 108p— New York, published
by J. R. Wellman, 18465; deposited by C. Morley.

Morais (Pemberton P.) A Practical Treatise on the Law of Replevin in the
United States; with an appendix of forms and a digest of sta-
tutes: Svo large, 8316p — Philadelphia, published by James
Kay, Jn. }& Brother, 1849; deposited by James Kay, Ira &
Brother.

Moses Thomas P.) Leisure Thoughts in prose and verse: 12mo 192p—

Portsmouth, published by Samuel A. Badger, 1849; deposited

: by Samuel A Badger.

Muucenserc (Henry A.) The Life of Major General Peter Muhlenberg of

the revolutionary army, by Henry A. Muhlenberg: 12mo 456p

— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, N19 ; deposited
by Carey & Hart.

Mutter (J.) Principles of Physics and Meteorology; first American edition,
revised and illustrated with five-hundred and thirty-eight en-
gravings on wood and two colored plates : 8vo 635p — Phila-
delphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by
Lea & Blanchard.

Murr (John) The American Formulary, comprising oath, verdict, deed,
will, indenture, contract, lease, bond, notice, petition and other
useful forms, pertaining to judicial and social affairs; with re~
marks concerning witnesses, jurors, verdicts, lawyers, instruc~
tions, wills, contracts, &c., 18mo — Alexandria, 1849; de-
posited by John Muir.

The American Reference Book, comprising in sundry divi-
sions, divers useful tables, abbreviations, forms, rules, remarks,
&c., &c., pamphlet: 18mo— Baltimore, 1847 ; deposited by
John Muir.

Mourrny (John M’Leod,) and Jerrers (W. N. Jr.) Nautical routine and
stowage; with short rules in Navigation: 8vo 174p— New
York, “published by Henry Spear 1s. 19; deposited by Henry
Spear.

Myers (Hamilton P.) The First of the Knickerbockers, a tale of 1673,
second edition: 12mo 222p — New York, published by George
P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George P. Putnam.

My Moruer: or recollections of maternal influence: 12mo 240p — New
York, published by William H. Hyde, 1849; deposited by
William H. Hyde.
195 ci]

Mytye (J. W.) and Craia (R. D.,) Reports of cases argued and deter-
mined in the high court of chancery, during dhe time of Lord
Chancellor Cottenham ; with notes and references to both
English and American OSS, by John A. Dunlap, counsellor
at law, vol. 4, 1838-39-40; 2, 3, and 4 Vic toria — [See Dun-
lap]: Bio large, 719 —— New York, published by Banks, Gould
& Co., and at Albany by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1846; depo-
sited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Napotron and the Marshals of the Empire, complete in two volumes, with
sixteen steel portraits in military costume: Svo, vol. 1, 348p;
vol. 2, 3872p: Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848 ;
deposited by Carey & Hart.

NEANDER (Augustus) The Life of Jesus Christ in its historical connexion and
historical development; translated from the fourth German edi-
tion, by John M‘Clintock and Charles E. Blumenthal: 8yvo
large, 450p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
ISIS; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Neu (John, M. D. ,) and Smrrn (Francis Gurney, M. D.,) An analytical
compendium of the various branches of medical science, for the
use and os camination of students ; eee anatomy, 12mo,
180p; 2, Physiology,133p; 3, Surgery, 122p; 4, Obstetrics,
115p; 5, Materia Medica and Therapeutics, 115 5p; 6, Chem-
istry, 93p; 7 Practice of Medicine, 152p, 12mo — Phila-
delphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1845; deposited by
Lea & Blanchard.

NeEWwTON (Sir Isaac,) Principia. The mathematical principles of Natural Phi-
losophy translated into English by Andrew Mott; to which is
added Newton’s system of the world; with a portrait taken
from the bust in the Royal observatory at Greenwich; first
American edition, carefully revised and corrected, with a life of
the author, by N. W. Chittenden: S8vo large, OS lp— New
York, published by Daniel Adee, 1548; deposited by Daniel
Adee.

New Testament (The) in Comstock’s perfect alphabet : Svo 597p — Phi-
ladelphia, published by A. Comstock, M. D., 1845; deposited
by Andrew Comstock, M. D.

Nicuotson (A.) Ireland’s welcome to the stranger, or, an excursion through
Treland in 1844-45, for the purpose of personally investigating
the condition of the poor: 12mo 456p -— New York, published
by Baker & Scribner, L847; deposited by A. Nicholson.

Norris (William Henry,) Brown (George William,) and Brune (Frede-
rick William, Jr.,) Digest of the ] Maryland reports, Comprising
Harris & M‘Henry, four volumes; Harris & Johnson, seven
volumes; Harris & Gill, two volumes: Gill & Johnson,
twelve volumes; Bland’s.chancery reports, three volumes :
8yo large, 922p — Baltimore, published by Cushing & Bro-
ther; deposited by the authors.

Nortuenp (Charles, ) School dialogues; being a collection of exer-
cises particularly designed for the use of schools; 12mo 8352p
grey 196
ue — Syracuse, published by L. W. Hall, 1849; deposited by
Charles Northend.

Norton (Rev. Herman,) Record of Facts, concerning the persecutions at
Madeira, in 1843 and 1846; the flight of a thousand converts
to the West India Islands; and also the sufferings of those who
arrived in the United States: 16mo 228p— New York, pub-
lished by the American Protestant Society, 1849; deposited by
Edward Vernon.

Norges on the structure and philosophy of the English language, designed
for mutual or self instruction; also a text book for review in
high schools, academies, and colleges: with a lecture on elocu-
tion, by the author of ‘‘ Lectures on the English Language ”’ :
18mo 43p — New York, published by Redfield & Savage,
1846 ; deposited by J. H. Hull.

Nuttine (B. F.) Initiatory drawing cards, in four parts, eighteen cards in
each, presenting carefully drawn examples, and accompanied
by directions illustrating the first principles of drawing, for the
use of schools and families: 16mo — Boston, published by M.
J. Whipple, 1849; deposited by M. J. Whipple.

OxsseRVATIONS and exhortations based upon the catechism of the Protes-
tant Episcopal Church; intended chiefly for the use of teachers
in instructing classes of servants or other uneducated persons,
designed to accompany the church catechism, simplified by a
member of the diocese of South Carolina: 16mo 84p — New
York, published by Daniel Dana, Jr., 1847; deposited by Dan-
iel Dana, Jr.

Oxncook, (Dr.) Receipt Book; with notes for the preservation of health:
12mo 144p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Ouyey (J., A. M.) A Practical Introduction to the Study of Geography;
embellished with maps from steel plates, and engravings on
wood: 16mo 108p— New York, published by Pratt, Wood-
ford & Co., 1847; deposited by Canfield & Robins.

School Atlas containing twenty-four maps: 4to — New
York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co.; deposited by D.
F.. Robinson.

An Elementary Geography, adapted to Olney’s outline
maps, for common schools and general use : 16mo 90p— New
York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited
by Pratt, Woodford & Co.

A practical system of modern geography simplified and
adapted to the capacity of youth; containing numerous tables,
and embellished with numerous engravings of manners, cus-
toms, &c., revised and illustrated by a new and enlarged atlas,
fifty-fifth edition: 12mo 3800p — New York, published by Pratt,
Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by D. F’. Robinson.

Onperponk (Henry, Jr.) Documents and letters intended to illustrate the
revolutionary incidents of Queens county; with connecting nar-
ratives, explanatory notes and additions: 12mo 264p— New
197 [aa

York, published by Leavitt, Trow & Co., 1846; deposited by
H. Onderdonk, Jr.

Revolutionary incidents of Suffolk and Kings coun-
ties; with an account of the battle of Long Island, and the
British prisons and prison ships of New York: 12mo 268p —
New York, published by Leavitt & Co. 1849.

Orpnan Twrys (The); or the adventures of a brother and sister; a poem=
12mo 100p— New York, published by Stanford & Swords,
1849; deposited by David Bigler.

Orton (J. W.) The miner’s guide and metallurgist’s directory: 16mo 86p
— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849, depo-
sited by A. S. Barnes & Co.

Oscoop (Frances Sargent) Poems; illustrated by Huntingdon, Darly, Ros-
siter, Cushman and Osgood: Svo 466p— Philadelphia, pub-
lished by Carey & Hart, 1850; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Oswatp (John,) An Etymological Dictionary of the English Language;
revised and improved, and especially adapted to the purpose of
teaching English composition in schools and academies, by J.
M. Keazy3; to which is appended a key to the Latin, Greek,
and other roots: 12mo— Philadelphia, 1847; deposited by E.
C. & J. Biddle.

Our.ines of the History of France, from the earliest times to the Revo-
Jution of 1848; for schools and families, with numerous: engra-
vings and questions for the examination of pupils: 16mo 240p
— Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co.,
1848 ; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co.

Paine (Martyn, A. M., M. D.) The Institutes of Medicine: Svo large,
&26p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ;
deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Materia Medica and Therapeutics: 12mo
411p — New York, published by Samuel S. & William Wood,
1848; deposited by Samuel S. & William Wood.

Pacer (David P., A. M.) Theory and practice of teaching, or the motives
and methods of good school-keeping: 12mo 3849p — Syracuse,
published by Hall & Dickson, 1847; deposited by D. P. Page.

Patry (William,) A Treatise on the Law of Principal and Agent, chiefly
with reference to mercantile transactions; thifd edition, with
considerable additions, by J, H. Lloyd, third American edition,
with further extensive additions, by J. A. Dunlap: 8vo large,
A61p— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ;
deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.

Parentat Instruction, or Guide to Wisdom and Virtue; designed for young
persons of both sexes; selected chiefly from the writings of an
eminent physician: 12mo 252p— New York, published by
Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

PARKER (Richard Green, A. M.) Geographical Questions. Questions in Ge-
ography, adapted for the use of Morse’s, Woodbridge’s, Wor-
cester’s, Mitchel’s, Field’s, Malte Brun’s, Smith’s, Olney’s,
Goodrich’s, or any other respectacle collection of maps; to
gil. 3 198

which is added a concise description of the terrestrial globe :
12mo 60p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Parker (Richard Green) First Lessons in Natural Philosophy ; abridged

ke from the compendium of school philosophy : 16mo 150p—
New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited
by A. S. Barnes & Co.

A school compendium of natural and experi-
mental Philosophy, embracing the elementary principles of
mec hanics, hy drostatics, hydraulics, pneumatics, acoustics, py-
ronomies, optics, astronomy, electricity, ¢ gvalvanism, magnetism,
electro magnetism, and magneto electricity, with a description
of the steam and locomotive engines, a new edition with addi-
tions and improvements: 8yo 382p — New York, published by
A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.

Rhetorical Reader, exercises in rhetorical
reading, with a series of introductory lessons: 12mo 432p —
New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1349; deposited
by A. S. Barnes.

Parke (Uriah) Stewart’s new edition, farmers’ mechanics’ and merchant’s
practical Arithmetic, revised and improved, with additions;
twentieth edition : 12mo 179p — Hagerstown, published by W.
Stewart, 1848; deposited by W. Stewart.

Parxman (Francis, Jr.,) The California and Oregon trail; being sketches
of Prairie and Rocky mountain life: 12mo 448p—-— New York,
published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George
P. Putnam.

Patterns for ornamenting the covers of books, patterns of rolls, stamps,
scrolls and connecting lines : 4to 24p — Philadelphia, published
by Gaskill & Copper, 1847; deposited by Gaskill & Copper.

Parrerson (Robert) The Reporter’s Assistant ; being an exposition of the
reporting style of phonography: 12mo 52p — Philadelphia,
published by E. Webster; deposited by R. Patterson.

Pauupine (J. K.) The Hertan and his Daughter, two volumes: 8vo vol. 1,
216p; vol. 2, 270p; New York, published by Baker & Sérihe
ner, 1849: deposited by Baker & Scribner.

he Old Continental; or, the price of liberty, two volumes,
[ first volume only receiv ede | 16mo vol. 1, 191p — New York,
published by Paine & Burgess, 1846; deposited by Paine &

Burgess.

And Pauxpine (William Irv ing) American Comedies: con-

tents, the Bucktails, or Americans in England ; the Noble Exile ;
Madmen all, or the Gure of love; Antipathies, or the Enthusiasts
by the ears: 12mo 295p — Philadelphia, published by Carey
& Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Perce (Oliver B.) Natural series of Reading books, second reader: 12mo
252p —— New York, published by Gates, Stedman & Co., 1849 ;
deposited by O. B. Peirce.
199 [ Aa
Penn (William) The life of William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania;

with numerous illustrative anecdotes and embellishments: 16mo
— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; de-
posited by Lindsay & Blakiston.

Prortr’s Vape Mecum (The) Comprising a colaenen of valuable receipts
in the useful and interesting arts, &c., ; by a practical che-
mist: 16mo 46p — Buffalo, published a Jewett, Thomas &
Co., 1849; deposited by George W. Merchant.

PeRKINS ee R.,, A.M.) Perkins’ Sones: an elementary arithmetic.
Stereotype edition, revised and improved: 8vo 347p — Hart-
ford, published by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1849; deposited by
George R. Perkins.

Higher Arithmetic, ee an appendix, stere-
otype edition; revised and improved: 12mo 3842p — Utica,
published by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1818: deposited by Geo.
R. Perkins.

A Treatise on Algebra, embracing besides
the elementary principles, all the higher parts usually taught in
colleges, &c., &c. Second edition ; revised, enlarged and im-
proy ed: 8vo: 420p — Utica, published by Tete. Hawley &-
Co, 1847; deposited by George R. Perkins.

Elements of Geometry, with practical ap-
plications; designed for beginners: 12:n0 30Sp — Utica, pub-
lished by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1847; deposited by George R.
Perkins.

Peter Schlemihl in America,: 8vo 494p— Philadelphia, published by
Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.

PETERS (Richard) A full and Sel Digest of the decisions in com-
mon law, equity and adiniralt y of the courts of the United
States, from the organization of the government in 1789 to
1847, in the Supreme, Circuit, District and Admiralty court ;
reported in Dallas, Cranch, Wihesiton, Peters and Howard’s
Supreme court reports; in Gallison, Mason, Paine, Peters,
Washington, Wallace, Sumner, Story, Baldwin, Brocken-
brough, andl M’ Iedahi’s Circuit ‘éourt reports, and in Bees,
Ware, Peters and Gilpin’s District and Admiralty reports; with
an. appendix, &e., &c.; two volumes: S8vo large, Vol. 1, 8319p;
Vol. 2, 770p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart ; de-
posited by Richard Peters.

Perer (Wilham, A. M.) Spec imens of the poets and poetry of Greece and
a) by various translators: 8vo large, 530p — Philadelphia,
published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey &
Hart.

Pererson (Charles J.) The military Heroes of the Revolution, with a narra-
tive of the war of Independence : 8vo large, 487p — Philadel-
phia, published by William A. Leary, LS48; deposited by
James L. Gihon.

The military Heroes of the War of 1812; with a nar-
rative of the war: 8vo large, 208p— Philadelphia, published

by Wilham A. Leary, 1848; deposited by James L. Gihon,
fi ij 200

a (Charles J.) The military Heroes of the War with Mexico, with
anarrative of the war: 8vo large, 282p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by William A. Leary, 1848; deposited by James L.
Gihon.

Puetres (Mrs. Lincoln,) Ida Norman; or, trials and their uses: 12mo 272p
— Baltimore, published by Cushing & Brother, 1848 ; deposi-
ted by Cushing & Brother.

Picxerine (John, LL. D.) A Comprehensive Lexicon of the Greek Lan-
guage, adapted to the use of schools and colleges, in the Uni-
ted States. Third edition, greatly enlarged and improved:
8vo 1456p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co.;
deposited by Wilkins, Carter & Co., and Sarah Pickering, Ex-

ecutrix.

Pickerine (John) The working man’s Political Economy, founded upon the
principle of immutable justice, and the inalienable rights of
man; designed for the promotion of national reform : 8vo 206p
—— Cincinnati, published by Thomas Varney, 1847; deposited
by John Pickering.

Pinneo (T.S., M. D.,) The Heman’s young ladies Reader, for female schools;
containing extracts m prose and poetry, selected from the
writings of more than one hundred and thirty different authors;
Eclectic series: Svo 480p— New York, published by Pratt,
Woodford & Co.; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith.

Electic educational series; primary Grammar of the
English language for beginners; 16mo 110p — Cincinnati,
published by Winthrop B. Smith, 1849 ; deposited by W. B.
Smith.

Pontiac; or the siege of Detroit; a drama, in three acts: 12mo 60p —Bos-
ton, published by Samuel Colman, 1835; deposited by Samuel
Colman.

Porter (William) A quarter race in Kentucky, and other sketches, il-
lustrative of scenes, characters and incidents, throughout the
universal Yankee nation; with illustrations by Darley : 12mo
203p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; depo-
sited by Carey & Hart.

Porter (J. Hamilton, M. D.,) The Consumptive’s Guide to health; or the
invalid’s five questions and the doctor’s five answers; being a
comprehensive and practical treatise on pulmonary consumption,
&c., &c.: 12mo 78p — Philadelphia, published by the author,
1849; deposited by J. Hamilton Potter, M. D.

Prescorr (William H.) History of the conquest of Peru, with a preliminary
view of the civilization of the Incas; two volumes Svo large,
— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; depo-
sited by William H. Prescott.

Primer — The illustrated Primer, or child’s first book; embellished with nu-
merous engravings : Sy o — New York, published by George F.
Cooledge & Brother, 1847; deposited by George F. Cooledge
& Brother.

Pore (Dr. J. H.,) Organon der Weltgeschichte : Svo 125p — Cincinnati,
201 [

1848; printed by C. F. Schmidt, and for sale at New York by
W. Radde; deposited by J. H. Pulte.

Purvon (John, Esq.,) and Stroup (George M.) A digest of the laws of
Pennsylvania, from the year 1700 to the 22d day of April 1546;
seventh edition; the first four editions by the late John Purdon,
isq-, the last three, by George M. Stroud: Svo large — Phila-
delphia, published by Thomas Davis, 1847.

Supplement to the digest of the laws of Pennsylvania,
from 22d April 1846, to 11th April 1848, with some older
laws not included in the last edition of Purdon’s digest; by F.
C. Brightly : 8vo — Philadelphia, published by J. Kay & Bro-
ther, 1848; deposited by F. C. Brightly.

Purnam (John Phelps) United States digest; being a digest of decisions of
the courts of the common law, equity and ea ae in the
United States: vol. 1, annual digest for 1847; vol. 2, annual
digest for L848: Svo large — Boston, published by ‘Lite &
Brown; vol. 1 in 1848, 498p; vol. 2 in 1849, 502p; deposited
by Little & Brown.

Quary (Jones, M. D.,) Human anatomy; edited by, Richard Quain, F. R. 8.
and William Sharpey, M. D., F. R.S., First American, Be
the fifth London edition, edited by Joseph Leidy, M. D.:
two oe with over five hundred illustrations: 8vo + ol L.
638p; vol. 2, 6389p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blan-
chard, 1849 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

Rasapan (Don Carlos) Manescas oral system of teaching living languages,
illustrated by a practical course of lessons in the Spanish lan-
guage, through the medium of the English; in one volume :
Svo 1029p — New York, printed at the Spanish printing office
No. 88 William street, 1846; deposited by Don Carlos Ra-
badan.

Ranpauu (Henry S.) Sheep Husbandry in the South ; comprising a treatise
on the acclimation of sheep i in the emutnern states, an account
of the different breeds ; also, a complete manual of breeding,
summer and winter management, and of the treatment of diseases;
with portraits and other illustrations, in series of letters to R.
F. W. Allston, Esq.: Svo large, 320p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by J. S. Skinner & Son, 1848 ; deposited by J. S. Skin-
ner & Son.

Raw e (William, Jr.) Reports of cases adjuged in the Supreme court of
Pennsylvania. Volumes one and two. Se ong edition, revised

and corrected ; 8vo; vol. 1, 480p; vol. 2, 476p — Philadel.
phia, published by. Thomas Davis, 1849 ; deposited by Thomas
Davis.

Ray (Joseph) Eclectic educational series—Algebra, part first, on the ana-
lytic and inductive method of instruc tion with numerous prac-
tical exercises } designed for common schools and academies.
Stereotype edition: 12mo 240p— Cincinnati, published by
Winthrop B. Smith & Co., 1848; deposited by Winthrop 8B.
Smith.
[1] , 208

Ray (Joseph) Arithmetic: part second —A thorough course of mental
arithmetic, by induction and analysis. Revised edition: 16mo
128p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop B. Smith, 1849; de-
posited by Winthrop B. Smith.

Arithmetic, part third —on the inductive and analytic me-
thods of instruction, embracing cancellation and factoring.
New and thoroughly revised edition. Designed for schools and
acadenues: 16mo 3820p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop
B. Smith & Co.; deposited by W. B. Smith.

Reap (Thomas Buchanan) Lays and ballads: 12mo 140p — Philadelphia,
published by George S. Appleton, and at New York by D. Ap-
pleton & Co., 1849; deposited by George S. Appleton.

The female poets of America; with portraits, bi-
ographical notices, and specimens of their writings: Svo large,
420p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849 ;
deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.

Reysaup (Madame Charles) The Cadet de Colobrires. A tale of the old
convents of Paris; translated from the French. Complete in one
volume. Second edition: Syvo 92p — Philadelphia, published
by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Ruoaps (J., M. D.) The second part of practical arithmetic: 12mo 204p—
Philadelphia, published by John H. Simon, 1849; deposited by
J. Rhoads.

Ricuarpson (William H.) Journal of a private soldier in Colonel Doni-
phan’s command: 8vo 84p— Baltimore, 1847; deposited by
W. H. Richardson.

Journal of a private soldier in the campaign of New
and Old Mexico, under the command of Colonel Doniphan.
Second edition: 12mo 96p — Baltimore, published by J. W.
Woods, 1848; deposited by William H. Richardson.

Ricke (S.S.) No. 1, Deutscher Schulbiicher. A. B.C. Buch: 12mo32p —
Columbus, published by Whiting & Huntington, 1848; depo-
sited by Whiting & Huntington.

Rippie (Joseph Esmond,-M. A.,) and Arnoup (T. k., M. A.) A copious
and critical English Latin lexicon, founded on the German
Latin Dictionary of Dr. Charles Ernest Georges. First American

edition, carefully revised, and contaming a copious dictionary of
proper names from the best sources; by Charles Anthon, LL. D.:
Svo large, 753p— New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Rine (David) Key to three thousand exercises in arithmetic, and appendix ;
12mo 36p—— Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle,
1847; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.

RincevBercius (Joach. Fortius) The celebrated treatise of Joach. Fortius
Ringelbergius de Ratione Studii: translated from the edition of
Van Erpe, by G. B. Earp, Coll. Corp. Xti. Cant.: with pre-
face and appendix, by W. H. Odenheimer, A. M.: 12mo 103p
— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited
by Carey & Hart.

8,
203 [ 1

Rirtey (R. 8.) The war with Mexico. In two volumes: Svo vol.1, 524p ;
vol. 2, 550p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers,
1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

Rirrer (Thomas, M. D.,) A medical manual and medicine-chest companion
for popular use in families and on ship board, for the treatment
of the ordinary diseases of the human system. Fourth edition,
revised and enlarged: 12mo L48p — New York,. published by
S. W. Benedict, 1849; deposited by Thomas Ritter.

Ross (John L.) Streaks of a Sqiiatter life, and far west scenes. A series of
humorous sketches, descriptive of incidents and character in the
wild west ; to which are added other miscellaneous pieces, by
Solitaire: 12mo 187p — Philadelphia, published by Carey &
Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.

Roserts (Samuel) Digest of select British statutes, comprising those, which,
ac cording t to the report of the Judges of the Supreme Court made
to the Legislature, appears to be in force in Pennsylvania; with
some others; with notes and illustrations; second editions with
additional notes and references to English and American deci-
sions, giving construction to these statutes, down to the present
time, and also, the report made by the Judges of the Supreme

fourt to the Legislature. By Robert E. Wright, counsellor at
law: 8vo large, 444p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay
ITA Ss Brother, and at Pittsburgh by C. A. Kay, 1847; depos
sited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.

Rosinson (Conway) An account of discoveries in the west until 1519, and
of voy ages to and along the Atlantic coast of North America,
from 1520 to 1573. Prepared for “The Virginia historical and
philosophical society,’? and published by the society : Svo large
— Richmond, printed by Shepherd & Colin, 1845; deposited
by Wilham Maxw ell.

Rosiyson (Horatio N., A. M.) A treatise on astronomy descriptive, physi-
cal and practical. Designed for schools, colleges and private
students: Svo 3847p — Albany, published by Erastus Kk. Pease
& Co., 1549; deposited by H. N, Robinson.

University edition. A theoretical and practical
treatise on algebra; in w hich the excellencies of the demonstra-
tive methods of the French are combined with the more prac-
tical operations of the English, and concise solutions are pointed
out and partic ularly incule ated; designed for schools, col-
leges, and private students: 12mo large, 3828p —— Cincinnati,
published by Jacob Ernst, 1847; depositcd by Horatio N. Ro-

binson.

Elements of natural philosophy, with some of
their results and applications; designed for schools, academies,
and private students: 12mo 87) —— Cincinnati, published by
Jacob Ernst, 1848; deposited by H. N. Robinson.

Rosinson (Rew Phitchas. A. M.) Immortality ; a poem in ten cantos:
12mo 411p — New York, published by Leavitt, Trow & Co.,
1846 ; deposited by Phinehas Robinson, A. M.
(ey 204

lements of chemis-
agriculture, or the e
Ropeers (M. M., fee D.) Cre he aera jen ey, applied . i
try geology, erous eneray ings and ¢ ‘
agriculture ; illustrated by ete Ballished by Erastus Dar
12mo 279p — Rochester,
Sena vis lennsited hv Erastus Darrow. ., ae Saale copious
Pe a trated by numerous engravin ee
agriculture ; illus Rochester, published “by Erastt
lossary : 12mo 279p — Roc tus eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
assanginé emnOWads Pirates tns Darrow. —
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary : 12mo 279p — Roc tus eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary : 12mo 279p — Roc tus eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary : 12mo 279p — Roc tus eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roc me ein ~
Se ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engravingdand Le copious
Iture ; illustratec vy had & Ruadinslblae
agricu ; Rochester, published by
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe fans eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe fans eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe fans eee kn
Se ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engravingdand Le copious
Iture; illustrated by hed by cuastussba
agricu ; Rochester, published by
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe tus eee kn
se pam : h eerie engravings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
assanginé emnOWads Pirates tns Darrow. —
se pam : h eerie engravings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe fans eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe fans eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe fans eee kn
ee ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engrav ings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roc me ein ~
Se ISAS, dennsited a en tiie engravingdand Le copious
Iture ; illustratec vy had & Ruadinslblae
agricu ; Rochester, published by
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe tus eee kn
se pam : h eerie engravings and a oe
agriculture ; illustratec y hester, published “by Erastus Dar
lossary: 12mo 279p — Roe fans eee kn
ee ISAR :, neni a en tiie engravings and a oe
car Pano 2709 Rochester, published “by Erastus Dar
ar mo Tao

ai
a %.
