o is ae Be an a Fae alle ae 7 “ee ee Aa ee -
qe Ja ae He He Me a i. a ‘tt ce oe oe oe
i as oe Jy dy Ae fy ug A at Ye woe te ae ae te w ." ae
da Te Fa Se ge oe ‘e * ae a % & 2 C eh & fh ke eB. wie
Cnt ee ee oe ee ee ew we © a we
| a eer ree a igi “gi ig 5 | a & w Pia fie. te ie a
je ts Oe ae age ck Lye ae me ee ;
ais Te We ce ae, <a AG. ie i i a a ee
a ee ew we ee Oe et oe we 3B ee * ee oe
, ie T&R Ve Te <a a o & Se ee ef Ls i p ?
Tae Cn a ee ~ cy v ye ¥ 5s
ae ie te a i. aes kk ® @& ae” ye he *
Ye Wy ty ty Ke te a ae ww we we "rw fh Pb ®
he Te we we we ee Ph Rh wk PY . , 3 AL
“ kw iv ie ew a ee ww wee Pe eh Ph we ee
We We We We Ke We Oe ye we ww le Jo Ie
as ay de We We ae ly we oy he woe we fF & BS B ’
% .
ot : a

¢ We We We Ve We an . ye @ & ye le fe we fe fe
Qe ie We de ie ee ee le we fee js
D Ye a 8S 8H Fe - ye @ @. fw Vy & fe le fb Te
% iy Wy te Ww We we ew Ae hw we eB we he &
a, A Ae A cs Ps bag me ee ee DH FB

&

f
\
ae
« Te. fe Je
op cm y*, $
se
gue “yt
HA

ime
STANT
PCH UATE ATT EE

PTT ea

A OUT
PTE

ATTA TAEAUHATATATA TATE

PataRerae

Hitt] i] Halt HAT
: HAT HTH

Hit HEHE
i i

i |

tl i i {|
|| | : i
i |

Ml i

i VA

|

i i
ult

|
4

il

AE

Hj i

) i
Hi

Hie
WE ies
WA a
\
i \ 3 Ns
TN
HHT
|

i

i)

Bi

ma
i

i

|

a

q

i

> D |

Ui

=

4 SSF

ee

a a
ref Zo

se

)

i /

re

Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

Evel INCRE
Baa mie

EE
GOD e
fry Tone Cae
iA si STG;

K rin Ie
W4 CHES yy

BTV, 10,
7 (cron wy

PUBLICATION 4392

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the

Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1959

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1960
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1959.

To the Congress of the United States :

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1959. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
Lronarp CarMIcHaEL, Secretary.
It
CONTENTS

MIB tLOLeOLI Cla lS eae ard et in Bede Mien Seti a een Hie fe Seb es ee Ee Sates
Generalistatement= oe. sae ope ea pec see ee ee ase ee er ay
AP TEVS) 1 HEV aa op kV olan (saat yee ieee ee ee ee Si eats Pee eee ee ee ha i See

WEIL OT fSfse i eee NI gl eI 2 SO ee ie ey HS eal: sage ee ee
Summary of the year’s activities of the Institution______-_-------------
Reports of branches of the Institution:
United StatesuNational Miuseuni <2 2 oe
Burcauror Amercan Ethnology. 82. 2220 22s 22.5222. seceacss
AStopiyelcal OPServAlory: qeeeceeeees = = oo sees eee
INationaluCollectionvoivbinerATies as - as e e e
iireer Gallery OleAtus se 2s ees SEA et koe eS
INiagtionalwAiraMuiseumel 5242 2 teeseens a tee lo ae ey ee oe Se
National Zeological -Park=0t. 2) 825.220 222. 2). SOG BOY
Canal-Zone Biological Aréa- += =28lsa22 Sessssc2cccsscos2 ste eS
International-“Exchange-Service= 2225 BD
National Gallery of-Artpasce #23 -S2 2 See te SORES RHE. Se VE
Weportrontheuibrary2ee 2222-2 essa > ee = Le Sie Se
iepoOrwonepublicationse=< == teas kata eek 2 ies See ae ener st 8
Ooner setivities:= see Hh NIN BIO SE EOE OE ITIS MOT YOO
ieetures =< 28 Sees ak Be ce Re OAR LT UO OLDE
Bio-Sciences Information Exchanges: 2222 s= ===" 2 4. = ene 2
Aviation sidueation? Instititelt 2e- ee Ss eee ® = eoO es ere 20 4

GENERAL APPENDIX

The transuranium elements, by Glenn T. Seaborg---_------------------
The IGY in retrospect, by Elliott B. Roberts. .---______--_----U---+2--
Astronomy from artificial satellites, by Leo Goldberg__________---_--_--
polar radio astronomy; by Alan’ Maxwell: . 1solcai0 ool sopjol 2 buble
The new uses of the abstract, by George A. W. Boehm___________-_-_-.-
NMiraces) by.Jiames- El. .Gordome-=-=—-ess SeeBE ee eek
Lessons from the history of flight, by Grover Loening_____________-__--
ihe.usert oceanography, by ,G. H.R... Deacon, —» -oo5- 42-35. 4- == =---
Ambergris—Neptune’s treasure, by C. P. Idyll______________----------
The rhythmic nature of animals and plants, by Frank A. Brown, Jr____--
The survival of animals in hot deserts, by E. B. Edney_____----_---------
Amphibians, pioneers of terrestrial breeding habits, by Coleman J. Goin _-
A study of saturniid moths in the Canal Zone Biological Area, by A. D.
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Page

Evolution of knowledge concerning the roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides,
by, benjaminvochwartz220. 2.5 $6" 2. eee oe oe eee eee eee meee 465
The protection of fauna in the U.S.S.R., by G. P. Dementiev --------_-- 483
Reconstructing the ancestor of corn, by Paul C. Mangelsdorf- ---------- 495
‘The meed' to classity, by Roger jib. Batten® oe ers 2s ae see 509

Current advances and concepts in virology, by staff members of Lilly
iResearchu laboratories 22 2. 2 Seaman be oie 3 pe eee 523

In search of a home: From the Mutiny to Pitcairn Island (1789-1790), by
PEEP OaAUGOt = See Mee eee es eo oe ee. hae Pee eo ee ema a eee 533

The Chinook sign of freedom: A study of the skull of the famous chief
Comcomly by rhe. stewalv: ==. sone ae ome a ote oe ee ore 563

The Muldbjerg dwelling place: An early Neolithic archeological site in
the Aamosen Bog, West-Zealand, Denmark, by J. Troels-Smith_---__ 577

Three adult Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar Cave, northern Iraq,
by RialphiS2 SOleC kd ee ae oe oe eee eee eet ee 603
Sumerian technology, by .da bobula: Soom. ween ee eee ee 637
Brandywine: An early flour-milling center, by Peter C. Welsh_____---- Rete 7 67/

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report:

Platesil=42 22222. Usetu 2 cee ccs. bee oe pat ates eR ee eee 70
Plates 5 G2 oa ee ee ee EE ee a ie ae ee ee See 134
Plates7— 10). 2 faa kN Oe ed ee a a ee 214
Transuranium: elements.(Seaborg) :) Plate. 1=- =. -=- 22... -=225 eae sce 254
Gre TG Y (Roberts): blates.l—3. 22... =. Seek ee 278
Astronomy from artificial satellites (Goldberg): Plates 1-4__._---------- 294
Solar radio astronomy (Maxwell): Plates 1, 2-..---------------------- 302
Nuirages' (Gordon): Plate 1.2 02. 2 a ee ee 342
Mastory of fieht Cuoening): Plates 1-72 22s eee ee 350
Oceanography (Deacon): Plates |, 2--- 39235502 os --  eeea a 366
Ambergris: (rcv lly) yikes) gee ee 382
Saturniid moths: (Blest)<) blates:|—5 = ee ee eee 454
Roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides (Schwartz): Plates 1, 2-_------------- 470
Ancestor of corn (Mangelsdorf): Plates 1—4_-.------------------------ 502
iNeed ito classibyAG@b atten) 2 ee Water L  e e e i  eeeee 522
Virology (Lilly Research Laboratories): Plates 1-4-------------------- 526
From the Mutiny to Pitcairn Island (Maude): Plate 1_---------------- 534
Skull of famous chief Comcomly (Stewart): Plates 1-6_-._._----------- 576
Muldbjerg dwelling place (Troels-Smith): Plates 1-6___.--------------- 598
Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar Cave (Solecki): Plates 1-6___------ 614
Sumerian technology (Bobula):#Plates 1—62.<__ .2. 2522 ste o22-b- eee 646
Plates 7-12... = 5 2c et eee et 662

Brandywine (Welsh): Platesds7@2.5 245526 = sos Ub 2 - se a asee beds sass? 2 686
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1959

Presiding Officer ex officio—DwicHr D. EISENHOWER, President of the United
States.
Chancellor.—HaRL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
DwicHt D. EISENHOWER, President of the United States.
RicHArRD M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States.
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER, Secretary of State.
RoBerT B. ANDERSON, Secretary of the Treasury.
Nei H. McE.roy, Secretary of Defense.
WILLIAM P. Rocers, Attorney General.
ARTHUR EH. SUMMERFIELD, Postmaster General.
Frep A. SEATON, Secretary of the Interior.
Hzkra Tart Benson, Secretary of Agriculture.
Lewis L. STRAUSS, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES P. MITCHELL, Secretary of Labor.
ArTHoUR 8S. FLEMMING, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
RicHarD M. Nrxon, Vice President of the United States.
CLinton P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
J. WILLIAM FULBRIGHT, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
Frank T. Bow, Member of the House of Representatives.
OvERTON Brooks, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
JoHN NICHOLAS Brown, citizen of Rhode Island. i
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
RosBERT VY. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D.C.
CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Delaware.
CaryYL P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, Citizen of Massachusetts.
Ezecutive Commitiee.—Rosert V. FLEMING, Chairman, CLARENCE CANNON, CARYL
P. HASKINS.
Secretary.—LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries.—J. L. Kreppy, A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.
Assistant to the Secretary.—JAMES C. BRADLEY.
Administrative assistant to the Secretury.—Mrs. Louise M. Pearson.
Treasurer.—T. F. CuarkK.
Chief, editorial and publications division.—PAvL H. OEHSER.
Librarian.—RvutTH EB. BLANCHARD.
Curator, Smithsonian Museum Service.—G. CaRrroit LINpsAy, acting.
Buildings Manager.—AnvrREW F. MICHAELS, JR., acting.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Chief, personnel division.—Mrs. ANN S. CAMPBELL, acting.
Chief, supply division.—A. W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic service division.—O. H. GREESON.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. Remington Kellogg.
Registrar.—Helena M. Weiss.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director.—A. C. Smith.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: FE. M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews,
exhibits specialist.
Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., Ralph
S. Solecki, associate curators.
Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, curator; G. D. Gibson, H. I. Knez,
associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY : Herbert Friedmann, head curator.
Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; ©. O. Handley, Jr., H. W.
Setzer, associate curators.
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, acting curator; H. G. Deignan, as-
sociate curator.
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator.
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; H. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor,
associate curators.
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. Crabill,
Jr., W. D. Field, associate curators; Sophy Parfin, assistant curator.
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; I’. M. Bayer,
T. E. Bowman, C. EH. Cutress, Jr., associate curators.
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, associate
curator.
DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY (NATIONAL HERBARIUM): J. R. Swallen, head curator.
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. S. Cowan, E. C. Leonard,
Velva E. Rudd, HE. H. Walker, associate curators.
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, acting curator.
Division of Cryptogams: M. BH. Hale, Jr., acting curator; P. S. Conger, as-
sociate curator; R. R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: G. A. Cooper, head curator.
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, curator; R. 8. Clarke,
Jr., P. E. Desautels, H. P. Henderson, associate curators.
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: G. A. Cooper, acting
curator; R. S. Boardman, P. M. Kier, associate curators.
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
Nicholas Hotton, 3d, P. P. Vaughn, associate curators; F. L. Pearce, ex-
hibits specialist.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director.— F.. A. Taylor.
Assistant Director.—J. C. Hwers.
SECRETARY’S REPORT VII

Chief exhibits specialist —J. E. Anglim.

Chief zoological exhibits specialist—W. L. Brown.

Assistant chief exhibits specialists —B. S. Bory, R. O. Hower, B. W. Law-
less, Jr.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY: R. P. Multhauf, head curator.

Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multhauf, acting curator.

Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: . 8. Ferguson, curator;
Hi. A. Battison, associate curator; R. M. Vogel, assistant curator.

Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, associate
eurator; J. H. White, assistant curator.

Division of Hlectricity: W. J. King, Jr., acting curator.

Division of Medical Sciences: G. B. Griffenhagen, curator; J. B. Blake,
associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES: P. W. Bishop, head curator.

Division of Agriculture and Wood Products: W. N. Watkins, curator; E. C.
Kendall, associate curator.

Division of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, acting curator.

Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, acting curator.

Division of Graphic Aris; Jacob Kainen, curator; A. J. Wedderburn, Jr.,
associate curator; F. O. Griffith, 3d, assistant curator.

Division of Industrial Cooperation: P. W. Bishop, acting curator.

DEPARTMENT OF CiIvm. History: A. N. B. Garvan, head curator; P. C. Welsh,
associate curator; A. P. Krimgold, Jr., junior curator.

Division of Political History: W. E. Washburn, curator; Mrs. Margaret B.
Klapthor, associate curator; C. G. Dorman, Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assist-
ant curators.

Division of Cultural History: C. M. Watkins, acting curator; J. D. Shortridge,
associate curator; Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator.

Division of Philately and Postal History: G. T. Turner, acting curator ,
F. J. McCall, associate curator.

Division of Numismatics: Viadimir Clain-Stefanelli, acting curator; Mrs.
Hilvira Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Forces History: M. L. Peterson, head curator.

Division of Military History: BE. M. Howell, acting curator; C. R. Goins, Jr.,
assistant curator.

Division of Naval History: M. L. Peterson, acting curator; P. K. Lundeberg,
associate curator.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Direcior.—¥. H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Anthropologist—H. B. Collins, Jr.

Hthnologists.—W. C. Sturtevant, W. L. Chafe.

River Basin Surveys.—I’. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; R. L. Stephenson, Chief,
Missouri Basin Project.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—¥. L. Whipple.

Associate Directors.—J. A. Hynek, T. E. Sterne.

Astrophysicists.—R. J. Davis, BE. L. Fireman, L. G. Jacchia, Max Krook, F. B.
Riggs, Jr., C. A. Whitney.

Mathematician.—R. BE. Briggs.

TABLE MOUNTAIN, CAULIF., FIELD STATION.—A. G. Froiland, physicist.
VIII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—W. H. Klein.
Plant physiologists.—V. B. Elstad, Leonard Price.
Electronic engineer.—J. H. Harrison.
Instrument maker.—D. G. Talbert.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—T. M. Beggs.
Associate curator.—Rowland Lym.
SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SeRviceE.—Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A, G. Wenley.

Assistant Director.—J. A. Pope.

Associate in Near Hastern art.—Richard Ettinghausen.
Associate in technical research.—R. J. Gettens.
Associate curators.—J. F. Cahill, H. P. Stern.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:
Leonard Carmichael, Chairman.
Maj. Gen. Reuben C. Hood, Jr., U.S. Air Force.
Rear Adm. R. HE. Dixon, U.S. Navy.
Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle.
Grover Loening.
Director.— P. 8. Hopkins.
Head curator and historian.—P. HE. Garber.
Associate curators.—L. 8. Casey, W. M. Male, K. EB. Newland.
Junior curator.—R. B. Meyer.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—T. H. Reed.
Associate Director.—J. L. Grimmer.
Veterinarian.—James F. Wright.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA
Resident Naturalist —_M. H. Moynihan.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Chief.—J. A. Collins.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER, Secretary of State.
ROBERT B. ANDERSON, Secretary of the Treasury.
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
F. LAmMMorT BEtin.
DUNCAN PHILIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
PAUL MELLON.
RusH H. Kpgesss.
SECRETARY’S REPORT IX

President.—CHESTER DALE.

Vice President.—IF. LAMMoT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HuUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director—JOHN WALKER.
Administrator.—ERNEST R. FEILER.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—PeErRRyY B. Cort.

Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
John E. Graf
Unirep States NationaL Museum

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Anthropology

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood. H. Morgan Smith, Archeology.
N. M. Judd, Archeology. W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology.
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology. W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology.
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology.

Zoology
Paul Bartsch, Mollusks. W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera.
J. Bruce Bredin. Allen McIntosh, Mollusks.
M. A. Carriker, Insects. J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates.
C. J. Drake, Insects. C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects.
tsaae Ginsberg, Fishes. W. L. Schmitt.
D. C. Graham, Biology. Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine R. E. Snodgrass, Insects.

Invertebrates. TT. E. Snyder, Insects.

A. B. Howell, Mammals, Alexander Wetmore, Birds.
Laurence Irving, Birds. Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Copepod
W. L. Jellison, Insects. Crustacea.

Botany
Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses. F. A. McClure, Grasses.
Ky. P. Killip, Phanerogams. J. A. Stevenson, Fungi.

Geology
R. 8. Bassler, Paleontology. C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate
R. W. Brown, Paleobotany. Paleontology.
Preston Cloud, Invertebrate J. B. Knight, Invertebrate Paleon-

Paleontology. tology.

W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy.
MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY
History
Elmer C. Herber. | F. W. MacKay, Numismatics.
x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

BuREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

J. P. Harrington. M. W. Stirling.
Sister M. Inez Hilger. A. J. Waring, Jr.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

C. G. Abbot.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Oleg Grabar. Max Loebr.

Grace Dunham Guest. Katherine N. Rhoades.
NATIONAL Air MusEuM

Frederick C. Crawford. | John J. Ide.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

W. M. Mann. | EB. P. Walker.
CanaL ZONE BrotogicaL AREA

C. C. Soper.

1959
Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

LEONARD CARMICHAEL
For the Year Ended June 30, 1959

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the activ-
ities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The activities of the 113th year of the Smithsonian Institution are
presented in this report. In many ways this has been an outstanding
year at the Smithsonian. Once again the services rendered by the
Institution demonstrate the wisdom of our distinguished founder
and man of science, James Smithson, in establishing in Washington
an institution for the “increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” The increase in knowledge is embodied in research, and this
year the investigations of the Smithsonian staff have been very fruit-
ful, as the details given herein will indicate. The diffusion of knowl-
edge has involved the answering of some 260,000 specific mquiries re-
lated to the fields of expertness found in the Smithsonian’s various
divisions, laboratories, and libraries. The diffusion of knowledge
has also been actively carried on by the publication of scholarly and
semipopular works, which are also described elsewhere in this report.
Possibly, however, the main means by which the Smithsonian Insti-
tution diffuses knowledge is through its museum exhibits and the edu-
cational and inspirational opportunity that these displays give to
our millions of visitors each year.

As pointed out in recent annual reports, real progress has been made
in the past few years in transforming the old, outmoded museum dis-
plays of the Smithsonian into modern, effective, teaching exhibits.
The visitors who now come to the Smithsonian Institution are deeply
grateful that Congress has made it possible to bring about this grad-
ual transformation of Smithsonian exhibition halls from what in too
many respects was until recently an old-fashioned place for “visual
storage.”
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

In 1954, for the first time in the long history of the Smithsonian
Institution, a fully outlined program was adopted for the progressive
improvement of all its exhibition halls and for the modern presenta-
tion of tens of thousands of appropriate objects from the great na-
tional collections that are in its charge. This modernization is now
complete in 17 major galleries. To put this in another way, a total of
about 80,000 square feet of exhibition space has now been transformed,
and 673 separate exhibit units have been fully reorganized and mod-
ernized for the benefit and education of the public.

Before this modernization program began, many of the Smith-
sonian Institution exhibits had not been changed for as long as 75
years. Amazing as it may seem, the great and often unique treasures
of the Institution, which today include over 52 million cataloged ob-
jects, were still being displayed in a manner that had long before be-
come outmoded in almost every other national museum in the world.
When the present transformation began, for example, gas fixtures
were still in place, although not in use, in some of our exhibition halls.
In a few large sections of Smithsonian buildings there was as recently
as 5 years ago no provision for artificial light of any kind either
in display cases or in public spaces. This meant that on many winter
afternoons some of the great treasures of the Smithsonian were almost
invisible to visitors.

It may be pointed out that all around the globe, especially since
the Second World War, there has been a new recognition of the role
of the museum as a public information center. More and more mu-
seums are seen as places needed to inspire each new generation with
the kind of patriotism that is based on a valid understanding of the
factors that have led to national growth. The history of the devel-
opment of science, for example, as displayed in a modern museum
has a significant function in interesting and inspiring a real interest
in science on the part of school boys and girls.

This new museum philosophy has been wholeheartedly accepted and
adopted at the Smithsonian. The experts in each of its great sub-
ject-matter fields have given much thought to developing the best ways
to present their exhibits so as to meet this modern and challenging
view of what a museum should be. The present objective of renova-
tion at the Smithsonian, therefore, is not only to show many interest-
ing objects in a clear way but also to explain how and why the partic-
ular items selected for display are intellectually significant. An old
shoe with a wooden sole is unimportant alone, but when shown as part
of the field equipment of a soldier of the Confederate States of
America it explains much about the problems of equipment during the
Civil War.

At the present time as a visitor studies the presentation of objects
in any of the modernized exhibition halls of the Institution, he can
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

see clearly illustrated such great ideas as man’s use of natural re-
sources and man’s gradual triumph in the long development of specific
arts and sciences.

The newly modernized exhibits of the Smithsonian cover diverse
fields. For example, the displays of the anthropology, ethnology, and
archeology of the New World before Columbus have been admirably
rearranged. The birds of the world are presented as important and
beautiful in themselves and as significant elements in the economy
of nature and in zoological science in general. <A large section is de-
voted to the great mammals of America, showing in artistic and ac-
curately composed habitat groups the way in which such animals as
the bison, the wolves, and the elk lived. The geological sciences are
presented in a new exhibition hall, which has been called the most
notable display of its kind in the world. Here minerals, gems, and
the new Vetlesen jade collection are most clearly displayed. But
the minerals actually shown are not more than 3 percent of the total
Smithsonian study collections in this field.

For more than a century the Smithsonian Institution has been as-
sembling unequaled collections of important items dealing with the
history of the United States. Some of the most significant of these
have never been displayed for the benefit of the public. Now thou-
sands of these objects are presented in an appropriate and instructive
manner. Typical of the display of historic materials is the hall in
which the dresses of the First Ladies of the White House are shown,
each in an authentic setting. In the period room in which Martha
Washington’s dress is shown, for example, there are exhibited only
objects that belonged to and were used by George Washington him-
self. The halls of American military history have been transformed,
and the displays of many of the arts and manufacturing processes
have also been entirely made over. Among other new displays is a
hall for the presentation of machines and products used in the
graphic arts and one for textiles and textile machinery. In the latter
hall a great Jacquard loom has been installed in operating condition,
with its amazing punch-card mechanism clearly explained to the
visitor. Another new exhibit is a complete 17th-century American
house brought piece by piece from Massachusetts and carefully and
authentically reerected and furnished with objects of everyday use of
just the sort employed by early New England Colonial families.

One indirect result of the still far from complete modernization
program of the Smithsonian has been an increase in the use of the
study collections of the Institution by research workers. Students
in schools and colleges now also come in larger numbers to the new
exhibition halls of the Institution. Some come alone or with par-
ents and some under the supervision of teachers. In the new halls
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

they learn as they cannot elsewhere important lessons about the nat-
ural resources of America, the natural history of the world, and
special aspects of the history of their own United States. Many leave
better informed and are more truly patriotic Americans than when
they came. As noted elsewhere in this report, volunteer, unpaid but
well-trained docents from the Junior League of Washington instruct
thousands of schoolchildren each year as they carefully lead them
through specially selected halls on educational tours.

The modernization program has had a great effect on attendance
at the Smithsonian. The number of visitors to the Smithsonian, not
including the National Gallery of Art or the National Zoological
Park, in 1954, when the modernization of exhibits program began,
was 3,658,000. The attendance of the year covered by this report,
1959, was, as is elsewhere noted, 6,351,000. This phenomenal in-
crease in number of visitors is certainly due in considerable measure
to the new interest generated by the modernized exhibits.

The staff of the Smithsonian Institution has planned and is con-
tinuing active work on the modernization of an additional 28 exhibi-
tion halls in our existing buildings. It is also engaged in planning
and preparing exhibits for 47 large halls in the Smithsonian’s new
Museum of History and Technology Building, which is being erected
on Constitution Avenue between 12th and 14th Streets,

This total exhibit-development program in the Smithsonian, there-
fore, will, when it is completed, have included well over a hundred
large galleries or major halls and literally thousands of specific ex-
hibition units. These units will in sum total display for the public
more than a million objects from our unrivaled national collections
in new, clear, and intelligible settings.

The Smithsonian Institution has long been called the Nation’s
Treasure House. When the modernization program described in the
preceding paragraphs is complete and when the new Museum of His-
tory and Technology Building is opened, certainly this great national
treasury will at long last be presented in a way that is worthy of
modern America.

When James Smithson specified that he wished his institution to be
concerned not only with research but also with the diffusion of knowl-
edge, he set a pattern that has inspired the devoted and effective work
of the staff of his institution that has made this modernization pro-
gram so successful.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The current year brought the retirement of two members of the
Board of Regents: Senator H. Alexander Smith and Representative
John M. Vorys. At the time of the annual meeting the Speaker of the
House of Representatives appointed Representative Frank T. Bow of
Ohio to succeed Representative John M. Vorys. On February 5, 1959,
the Vice President appointed Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkan-
sas to succeed Senator H. Alexander Smith.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice
President Richard M. Nixon; members from the Senate: Clinton P.
Anderson, J. William Fulbright, Leverett Saltonstall; members from
the House of Representatives: Frank T. Bow, Overton Brooks, Clar-
ence Cannon; citizen members: John Nicholas Brown, Arthur H.
Compton, Robert V. Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Caryl P.
Haskins, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

On the evening of January 15, 1959, preceding the annual meeting,
an informal dinner was given in the main hall of the Smithsonian
Building amid various exhibits showing the present-day phases of
the work of the bureaus and departments. Dr. Richard Ettinghausen
spoke on “Objects Dealing with Christian Themes in the Freer Gallery
Collections”; Dr. Charles Lewis Gazin on “Eocene Mammals of the
Bridger Formation in Southwestern Wyoming”; Dr. Vladimir Clain-
Stefanelli on “Comparative Die Studies: A Method of Numismatic
Investigation and Its Historical Significance”; and Edgar M. Howell
on “Private Hermann Steiffel—Sometime Artist of the West.”

The annual meeting was held on January 16, 1959. The Secretary
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Institu-
tion together with the 1958 Annual Report of the United States Na-
tional Museum. The Chairman of the Executive and Permanent Com-
mittees of the Board, Dr. Robert V. Fleming, gave the financial report
for the fiscal year ended June 80, 1958.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

of the Board of Regents, page 234. Funds appropriated to the Insti-
tution for its regular operations for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1959, totaled $7,587,800. Besides this direct appropriation, the Insti-
tution received funds by transfer from other Government agencies as
follows:

From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park _____-_ $953, 800
From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the
RAVE T ESUT A se SUT Cy a ac ee 162, 000
VISITORS

Visitors to the Institution’s exhibition halls continue to increase.
Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings on the Mall reached a
total of 6,351,352, an all-time high and nearly a million more than the
previous year. April 1959 was the month of largest attendance, with
978,230; May 1959 second, with 867,817; August 1958 third, with 769,-
086. Largest attendance for a single day was 92,945 on April 12,
1959. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance records for the
five buildings; table 2, groups of schoolchildren. ‘These figures, when
added to the 951,608 visitors recorded at the National Gallery of Art
and the 4,055,673 estimated at the National Zoological Park, bring
the year’s total number of visitors at the Institution to 11,358,633.

TaBLE 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian’ buildings during the year ended June 80,

1959
Smithsonian Arts and Natural Aircraft Freer
Year and month Building Industries History Building | Building Total
Building Building

1958
Jaaliypes aes he 105, 654 310, 882 150, 153 | 97,050 | 12, 872 676, 611
AU CUS t= aes 141, 457 312, 426 175, 188 }125, 124 | 14, 891 769, 086
September _ ___ 49, 885 122, 427 68, 848 | 40, 766 8, 682 290, 608
October==22= 45, 002 115, 621 96, 748 | 34, 129 7, 502 299, 002
November -_ _- 55, 269 127, 064 146, 618 | 38, 483 7, 488 374, 922
December___-_- 27, 724 57, 956 ds 22042082211 4,018 183, 139

1959
Janwanyo 22-2 32, 672 C25 515 86, 980 | 25, 461 6, 248 223, 876
February - = __- 46, 899 103, 074 109, 682 | 36, 037 6, 218 301, 910
Mle ne oe eS 110, 821 229, 864 209, 894 | 69, 695 | 10, 825 631, 099
Aprils os. 2 170, 520 392, 353 303, 991 | 96, 800 | 14, 566 978, 230
IMifsivas Ss ee ere 139, 186 301, 701 319, 018 | 95, 398 | 12, 514 867, 817
June see 126, 039 286, 978 217, 407 |111, 119 | 13, 509 755, 052

Motdic. 22-5 1, 051, 128 |2, 432, 861 |1, 957, 747 |790, 283 |119, 333 |6, 351, 352
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

TaBLE 2.—Groups of schoolchildren visiting the Smithsonian Institution during the
year ended June 30, 1959

Year and month Number of Number of
children groups
1958
Slee BEBO SUT SOMO IM SION E (SUR OLS 7, 670 301
PIOUS hse 5 eos se tndverte ones bE osrrttn Ee aiid 8, 648 405
September (4.4.0) 40 ores ee eT Et Be 4, 433 145
WCtObe reese ee a ee oe Ee re Ae dea 19, 534 644
Is (OHA DLAI OC esate apaererets ete etiate hes Mise iat a iaee. Als elas 21, 083 612
IE CEM er es ee ae La RES og A aoe Ee 9, 801 295
1959
TAT os Be a OS a SS Vs Rh 5 9, 769 346
J BE) OV FOYT 7 oT i ae tn te a rane ee 18, 339 581
IVC lon ee ee eee ee eer ae ns nye ae 54. 235 1, 426
rile MOU TO OF Linas BASIS OIN ION. 15h ae 110, 950 2, 431
Mia eee Pe STOO Pe a OUR eA ge 148, 789 3, 338
AULT Ge ee ro Pe a Ds ae, a a 44, 424 1, 354
A OLS ak ed Lp a eB POE ec Sey 457, 675 11, 878

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES

National Museum.—The national collections were augmented dur-
ing the year by a total of 1,144,445 specimens, bringing the total
catalog entries in all departments to more than 52 million. Some of
the outstanding items received included: In anthropology, a 12th-cen-
tury stone Buddha from Cambodia, 4 collections of Micronesian
ethnological material, and a cast of the Génovce (Slovakia) Neander-
thal skull; in botany, the entire herbarium of Goucher College, con-
sisting of about 6,100 specimens; in geology, the legendary Hope
diamond, a superb collection of Chinese jade carvings, the largest
dinosaur bone known from this country, and more than 7,300 speci-
mens of Carboniferous plants; in zoology, large lots of mammals and
birds from Panama, 2 large collections of fishes from the eastern
United States; the Monrés collection of more than 54,000 chrysomelid
beetles, and many mollusks and marine invertebrates collected by the
Bredin-Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition; in civil history, an entire
room from the Gothic Revival Harral-Wheeler house in Bridgeport,
Conn., an entire 18th-century loghouse from Wilmington, Del., addi-
tions to the White House china collection, and important lots of
philatelic and numismatic material, including the Dwight D. Hisen-
hower collection of coins, medals, and memorabilia; in Armed Forces
history, early U.S. military and naval insignia from the W. Stokes

536608—60——2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Kirk collection and 117 original drawings of U.S. sailing ships; in
arts and manufactures, several important gifts of ceramics and glass,
a group of fine prints, and an 18th-century French hand-and-foot
treadle loom for the new textile hall; and in science and technology, a
collection of early handmade locks, bolts, and decorative handware,
an acquisition of dental instruments, furniture, and equipment re-
lating to the history of dentistry, and a group of scientific instruments
used by Ira Remsen at Johns Hopkins University.

Members of the staff conducted fieldwork in Central America, South
America, the Caribbean, Europe, and many parts of the United States.

Under the exhibits-modernization program, three new halls were
opened to the public during the year—the Graphic Arts Hall, the
Hall of Gems and Minerals, and the Textile Hall. An event of the
year of particular public interest was the unveiling of the Fénykévi
elephant in the rotunda of the Natural History Building. Fitting
ceremonies were also held in connection with the opening of the
room displaying the Maude Monell Vetlesen collection of Chinese
jade carvings.

Bureau of American Ethnology—The members of the Bureau staff
continued their research in archeology and ethnology: Director Rob-
erts particularly on matters pertaining to the River Basin Surveys,
Dr. Collins his Arctic and Eskimo studies, Dr. Sturtevant his Semi-
nole and Seneca researches, Mr, Miller his archeological work at Rus-
sell Cave in Alabama.

Astrophysical Observatory.—The year’s researches of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory have embraced solar astrophysics,
upper atmosphere studies, meteoritical studies, and satellite science.
The satellite-tracking program was continued, with notable results.
The division of radiation and organisms continued its researches on
the photomorphogenic mechanism in plants as controlled by radiant
energy.

National Collection of Fine Arts—The Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion accepted for the Gallery 19 bronzes, 1 bronze plaque, 4 medal-
lions, 3 oils, and 4 watercolors. The Gallery held 17 special exhibitions
during the year; and the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service
circulated 100 exhibitions (29 new and 71 held from previous years)
to 240 museums.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Purchases for the Freer Gallery Collec-
tions included outstanding examples of Syrian glass; Indian lacquer-
work; Indian and Persian metalwork; Indian, Chinese, and Japanese
painting; and Chinese and Japanese pottery. The Gallery continued
its program of illustrated lectures by distinguished scholars in the
auditorium, the 1958-59 season numbering six.

National Air Museum.—Site for the new building for the National
Air Museum was approved during the year, and preliminary studies
SECRETARY'S REPORT 9

and estimates of planning costs are in progress. During the year
341 specimens in 56 separate accessions were added to the aeronautical
collections, including an early example of a German one-man heli-
copter, a DM-1 delta-winged glider of World War II, the Jupiter
“CO” missile and the recovered nose cone of the Jupiter “C,” the “Data-
Sphere” (a recovered instrumented capsule from a long-range ballistic
missile), and a large quantity of documents and memorabilia pertain-
ing to the pioneer rocketry research by Dr. Robert H. Goddard.

National Zoological Park.—The Zoo accessioned 1,286 animals dur-
ing the year. The net count at the close of the year was 2,384. Note-
worthy among the additions were a herd of 14 reindeer from Kotzebue,
a trio of Rocky Mountain goats and 5 pronghorns, 6 albatrosses, the
first Dall sheep ever to be exhibited in an American zoo, and a pair of
Pallas’s cats. A female wisent was born in captivity.

Canal Zone Biological Area.—About 400 persons visited the island
during the year, including 54 scientists, students, and observers using
the station’s facilities for special researches, particularly in plant
and insect studies, wildlife observation, nature writing, and
photography.

International Exchange Service——As the official U.S. agency for
the exchange of governmental, scientific, and literary publications be-
tween this country and other nations, the International Exchange
Service handled during the year 1,129,476 packages of such publica-
tions, weighing 767,389 pounds.

National Gallery of Art.—The Gallery received 370 accessions dur-
ing the year, by gift, loan, or deposit. Eight special exhibits were
held, and 27 traveling exhibitions of prints from the Rosenwald Col-
lection were circulated elsewhere. Exhibitions from the “Index of
American Design” were given 43 bookings in 17 States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and 1 in Germany. More than 40,500 persons
attended the general tours conducted by Gallery personnel, and more
than 11,500 attended tours, lectures, and conferences by special ap-
pointment. The Sunday afternoon auditorium lectures drew 14,500
persons. The Sunday evening concerts in the east garden court were
continued.

Library.—The library received a total of 52,669 publications during
the year, and 159 new exchanges were arranged. At the close of the
year the holdings of the library and its branches aggregated 982,596
volumes, including 586,722 in the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library
of Congress but excluding unbound periodicals and reprints and
separates of serial publications.

Publications—Kighty-one publications appeared under Smithso-
nian imprint during the year. (See Report of Publications, p. 224,
for full list.) Outstanding among these were: “Studies in Inverte-
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

brate Morphology,” papers by 18 contributors published in honor of
Dr. Robert Evans Snodgrass; “Pueblo del Arroyo, Chaco Canyon,
New Mexico,” by Neil M. Judd; “The Journals of Daniel Noble
Johnson (1822-1863), United States Navy,” edited by Mendel L. Peter-
son; “First Book of Grasses,” third edition, by Agnes Chase; “Check-
list of the Millipeds of North America,” by Ralph V. Chamberlin
and Richard L. Hoffman; “Ichneumon-flies of America North of
Mexico,” by Henry and Marjorie Townes; “The Native Brotherhoods:
Modern Intertribal Organizations on the Northwest Coast,” by Philip
Drucker; “The North Alaska Eskimo: A Study in Ecology and
Society,” by Robert F. Spencer.

Personnel.—Lawrence L. Oliver, buildings manager, retired on May
31, 1959, after 38 years of service with the Institution. Charles C.
Sinclair, assistant buildings manager, retired on February 24, 1959;
he had been with the Smithsonian since 1935.

Other changes in staff made during the year are noted as appro-
priate in the reports of the various branches of the Institution that
follow.
Report on the United States National
Museum

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the U.S. National Museum for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1959:

COLLECTIONS

Specimens incorporated into the national collections totaled
1,144,445, distributed among the eight departments as follows: An-
thropology, 14,497 ; zoology, 452,163 ; botany, 50,641; geology, 189,070;
Armed Forces history, 984; arts and manufactures, 12,699; civil
history, 469,612; science and technology, 4,829. This increase is
smaller than last year, when an unusual accretion resulted from the
accession of a large number of stamps. This year’s total is a more
normal figure. Most of the accessions were acquired as gifts from
individuals or as transfers from Government departments and agen-
cies. The Annual Report of the Museum, published as a separate
document, contains a detailed list of the year’s acquisitions, of which
the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries in all
departments now total 52,022,520.

Anthropology—FPrince Norodom Sihanouk, formerly King of
Cambodia and now Prime Minister of that country, presented to
the people of the United States through President Dwight D. Hisen-
hower a fine example of a stone Buddha, seated on a coiled serpent
(the King Muchilinda) and protected by a crown of seven heads of
the serpent. The Buddha was made in the Cambodian city of Angkor
Thom during the reign of King Jayavarmon VII, A.D, 1181-1215.

Four collections, totaling 249 specimens, were received by transfer
from the Department of the Interior, through Delmas H. Nucker,
High Commissioner, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, from the
districts of Yap, Truk, Ponape, and the Marshall Islands. These
specimens, obtained especially for the division of ethnology, con-
siderably enrich the material from Micronesia, an area until now not
well represented in the national collections. Among them are two
fishing kites from Ifalik, which are flown from canoes and from which
dangle a ball of cobwebs for catching garfish. After a fish strikes
the sticky substance it cannot open its mouth. There is a war
club from Satawan, some excellent knuckle dusters and weather charm

11
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

idols, belt looms with ring-woven fabrics, and a good stick chart used
as a native navigational device by the Marshall Islanders.

Several archeological accessions are of especial interest. One is a
plaster cast of a colossal stone head of the Olmec culture (ca. 500 B.C.),
the original of which was found near San Lorenzo in southern Vera-
cruz, Mexico. The cast was received in 31 pieces, which were assembled,
painted, and placed on exhibit in the Highlights of Latin American
Archeology Hall. <A collection of primitive stone implements from
northern Australia, collected by F. D. McCarthy, of the Australian
Museum, and Frank M. Setzler during the Smithsonian-National Geo-
graphic Society Arnhem Land Expedition in 1948, constitutes an un-
usual accession. Type samples and all unique specimens collected in
British Guiana in 1952-53 by the Smithsonian Institution-Fulbright
Research Fellowship Expedition have added much to the Museum’s
collections from South America.

New accessions in the division of physical anthropology include a
plaster cast of the Ganovce Neanderthal skull found in 1926 in a
travertine quarry in northern Slovakia. The original is a travertine
cast of the endocranial cavity with only a little adherent cranial bone
still in place. So far as is known, no other copy of this important
specimen has reached the United States. A skull (with parts of the
skeleton) exhibiting filed teeth was found in January 1954 by Dr.
Preston Holder in a burial pit at the great Cahokia Mound site in East
St. Louis, Ill. Although the pit contained the skeletal remains of a
number of individuals, only the one skeleton has filed teeth, and the
fact that it alone was articulated suggests that filed teeth were a sign
of distinction. One of the conclusions reached, in a report published
in the November 1958 Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences,
is that the custom of tooth filing in the Mississippi Valley probably had
its origin in Middle America but became attenuated and modified.

Botany.—Significant gifts to the department of botany were 130
slides of diatoms, presented by Mrs. Eloise Stump, Oak Park, IIL;
6,183 specimens given by Goucher College, Baltimore, Md., consisting
of their entire herbarium, including a large number of cryptogams;
388 plants of Australia from Dr. C. L. Wilson, Hanover, N.H.; and
1,749 mosses contributed by E. C. Leonard from his personal collection.

Among the numerous exchanges were 4,875 specimens of Sumatra
and the East Indies from the University of Michigan; 1,152 specimens
of Canadian and Arctic plants, received from the Canada Department
of Agriculture; 1,403 specimens from Cuba received from the Colegio
de la Salle, Havana; 921 specimens, collected in Argentina by T. M.
Pedersen, from the Botanical Museum, University of Copenhagen;
1,002 specimens of New Guinea and Australia from the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia;
SECRETARY'S REPORT 13

352 plants, collected by Dr. Bassett Maguire in the “Lost World” region
of Venezuela, from the New York Botanical Garden; and 282 plants
from the V. L. Komarov Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences of
the USSR, consisting of issues 81-84 of their “Herbarium of the Flora
of the USSR” and “Decas I-V Hepaticae and Musci USSR
Exsiccati.”

Several large collections were received with identifications requested,
including 490 specimens, collected in Colombia by Jean Langenheim,
from the University of California; 943 plants of Santa Catarina,
Brazil, from the Herbirio “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Santa Cata-
rina, Brazil; and 268 miscellaneous South American specimens from
the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris.

Dr. Mason EK. Hale and Robert R. Ireland collected 4,295 lichens
and 1,491 mosses on field trips in Virginia in connection with their
research projects. Transferred from the Department of the Interior
were 1,851 plants of Polynesia collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg. ‘There
were purchased from the Archbold Expeditions 1,902 specimens col-
lected by L. J. Brass on the Fifth Archbold Expedition to New
Guinea; from Paul Aellen, Basel, Switzerland, 1,140 specimens col-
lected by Dr. K. Rechinger in Ivan and Greece; and from Winifred
M. A. Brooke, Liss, England, 830 plants she collected in Sarawak.

Geology—The legendary Hope diamond, the largest and most no-
tuble of all blue diamonds, was presented on November 10, 1958, by
Harry Winston, New York gem merchant and connoisseur. The
Hope diamond ranks in importance with other famous gems, such
as the Kohinoor, Cullinan, and Regent, found only in the Crown
Jewels of Europe. Because of its long and dramatic history, the
legends built around it, and its rare, deep-blue color, the Hope dia-
mond is probably the best known diamond in the world. Mr. Win-
ston acquired it in 1949 from the estate of the late Mrs. Evalyn Walsh
McLean, of Washington, who received it from her husband, Edward
B. McLean, in 1911. Its known history prior to the McLean pur-
chase dates from 1830, when David Eliason, a noted gem dealer, sold
the stone to Henry Thomas Hope, an Irish squire and banker. ‘The
stone was shown at the London Exposition in 1851. In 1867 it was
sold at Christie’s in London. It was acquired in 1908 by the Sultan
Habib Bey, but after the Young Turks Revolt the gem was again
placed on the market and purchased by Mr. McLean in 1911.

One of the world’s finest collections of Chinese jade carvings was
presented by the estate of Mrs. Maude Monell Vetlesen through her
son, Edmund C. Monell. The collection comprises 130 pieces, carved
in one or the other of the two jade minerals, nephrite or jadeite. Some
of the specimens date from the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644), but most
are from the Ching Dynasty (1644-1912). Noteworthy gifts in min-
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

erals received from individuals are: genthelvite, Colorado, from
Glenn R. Scott; opal, Nevada, from Mark C. Bandy; jade, Burma,
from Martin L. Ehrmann; milky quartz crystals, Colorado, from E.
M. Gunnell; gorceixite, French Equatorial Africa, from Mahlon Mil-
ler; spangolite, Arizona, from Arch Oboler; and clinchedrite and
roeblingite, New Jersey, from John S. Albanese.

Important additions to the Roebling collection by purchase and ex-
change include a collection of 249 specimens of exceptional rarity and
quality; a fine large crystal of phosphophyllite from Bolivia; a crys-
tal of beryl, variety aquamarine, from Brazil; bikitaite from South-
ern Rhodesia; an unusually large mass of thorite from Colorado;
danburite from Mexico; and four tourmaline crystals from
Mozambique.

Several items of outstanding exhibition quality were added to the
Canfield collection by purchase, Among these are proustite from
Chile; spodumene from Brazil; pyrite from Colorado; euclase from
Brazil; smoky quartz from Switzerland; and cyrtolite from Colorado.

Gems and jewels acquired for the Isaac Lea collection by purchase
from the Chamberlain fund include a 10.8-carat kornerupine from
Madagascar; an 18.5-carat golden sphalerite from Utah; a colorless
zircon from Ceylon, weighing 48.2 carats; a star garnet sphere weigh-
ing 67.3 carats, from Idaho; and a 43.4-carat sinhalite from Ceylon.

Important additions to the meteorite collection include the follow-
ing: Ladder Creek, Kans., from the Argonne National Laboratory ;
Vera, Santa Fé, Argentina, from Lorenzo Orestes Giacomelli; Belle
Plaine, Kans., from Prof. Walter Scott Huston; Idutwa, Cape
Province, South Africa, from Dr. Edgar D. Mountain; Nuevo Laredo,
Mexico, from C. C. Patterson; and Sikhote-Alin, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, from the USSR Academy of Sciences.

In the division of vertebrate paleontology the outstanding acces-
sion of the year resulted from fieldwork by Peter P. Vaughn, who
obtained excellent materials representing a number of genera of fishes,
amphibians, and reptiles from the Clyde and Arroyo formations of
Baylor County, Tex. A dinosaur bone, the largest known from this
country, 6 feet 10 inches long, a humerus of the Jurassic genus
Brachiosaurus, was donated by D. E. Jones. Two accessions of fossil
fishes received in exchanges furnished exhibition material: one, a
specimen of the Triassic coelacanth Diplurus newarki, together with
its life restoration to scale, was received from Princeton University ;
the other includes 81 specimens of fossil sharks and ray-finned fishes
from two marine Upper Cretaceous formations in Lebanon from the
School of Engineering, American University of Beirut, through Dr.
Harry M. Smith. Of mammalian materials acquired, the skull of the
Miocene whale Cetotherium megalophysum is outstanding. It was
SECRETARY’S REPORT 15

collected by Capts. Daniel and Edward Harrison of Ewell, Md., and
was presented by the Ewell Junior High School.

Among the important gifts received in the division of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany are 7,345 specimens of Carboniferous
plants collected by Dr. Harvey Bassler, received from the Maryland
Department of Geology, Mines, and Water Resources, Johns Hopkins
University ; 23 type specimens of Miocene mollusks from the Chesa-
peake Bay area from Dr. John Oleksyshyn, Boston University; 144
slides of Recent Foraminifera and Ostracoda from the Antarctic
from Rear Adm. Charles W. Thomas; 63 specimens of Oligomiocene
ostracods from the Brasso formation of Trinidad from Dr. W. A. van
den Bold; 200 Mesozoic invertebrate fossils from Israel from Dr. J.
Wahrman; and 263 foraminiferal concentrates and well cuttings from
Italian Somalia from the Sinclair Oil and Gas Co.

Through funds provided by the Walcott bequest 438 invertebrate
fossils, including over 400 goniatites from Oklahoma, were acquired
by the Museum. A grant from the National Science Foundation
permitted Associate Curator Porter M. Kier to collect 1,490 echinoids
and other invertebrate fossils in Belgium, France, Holland, and
Switzerland.

Among the important exchanges received are 750 specimens of as-
sorted invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic and Tertiary of Great
Britain from Sgt. Philip Cambridge; 61 blocks of Permian lime-
stone from West Texas from Harvard University through Dr. H. B.
Whittington ; and one specimen of the very rare brachiopod /’nantios-
phen from the Devonian of Germany donated by Dr. Wolfgang
Struve, Senckenberg Museum, Frankfurt, Germany.

Zoology.—The largest accession and the largest single collection to
be received in the division of mammals in several years includes more
than 1,600 specimens from Panama collected by C. O. Handley, Jr.,
and Bernard Feinstein in cooperation with the Gorgas Memorial
Laboratory. More than a hundred mammals, including a specimen
of the rare suni antelope, were collected in East Africa and presented
by Judge Russell E. Train. Antarctic explorations connected with
the International Geophysical Year, under the auspices of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, brought a specimen of the rare Ross seal.
Individual specimens of unusual interest are the skin of a snow leopard
collected in the Himalayas by Maj. Gen. M. Hayaud Din and pre-
sented by the Embassy of Pakistan, and the unique type specimens
of a new race of the large spiny rat Haplomys gymnurus collected
by Dr. A. Wetmore on the tiny island of Escudo de Veraguas,
Panama.

An important accession to the bird collection consisted of 572 bird-
skins amassed in Panama by Dr. A. Wetmore. Another large acces-
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

sion of 591 skins of birds and other ornithological material from
North America was transferred from the Fish and Wildlife Service,
Department of the Interior. The Public Health Service, Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare, also transferred 75 bird-
skins from Arctic America. The rarest single specimen received was
a lyre-tailed honeyguide, Malichneutes robustus, from Cameroons,
a gift from the Zoological Society of London. ‘This is the second
known example of this bird to come to an American museum.

In reptilian and amphibian material a number of accessions of types
and paratypes of recently described species was received, the most
notable single lot being a gift of 172 specimens from Haiti, Cuba,
and Trinidad, received from Dr. W. G. Lynn.

The division of fishes received two large collections of fresh-water
fishes from the eastern United States. One of these, comprising
25,057 specimens, is an exchange from the University of South Caro-
lina through Dr. Harry Freeman; the other, consisting of 25,000
fishes, was donated by the University of Maryland through Dr. G. W.
Wharton. The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution gave 852
fishes from Labrador through Dr. Richard H. Backus. <A very fine
collection totaling 2,449 fishes from the eastern Pacific was presented
by the University of California through Wayne J. Baldwin. This
group includes numerous species not otherwise represented in the
national collections.

Several outstanding collections were acquired by the division of
insects: the Monroés collection of 54,245 chrysomelid beetles trans-
ferred by the U.S. Department of Agriculture; 30,507 insects col-
lected in El Salvador by O. L. Cartwright; 26,385 specimens of
beetles from Europe, Asia, and the Americas, collected and donated
by Paul J. Spangler; the Fish and Wildlife Service transferred
33,063 miscellaneous New World insects through Dr. Daniel L. Leedy ;
N. L. H. Kraus presented 6,924 insects from Asia, from many locali-
ties not previously represented in the national collections. Other im-
portant accessions are as follows: From Dr. W. B. Muchmore some
800 New York State centipedes, providing valuable records being in-
corporated into a statewide survey that is currently in preparation;
from Dr. Thomas C. Barr, Jr., a number of cave collections of centi-
pedes, giving information about unexplored fauna; and from Dr.
George E. Ball, some 1,000 centipedes, comprising the largest chilopod
collection known to date from Alaska and adjacent islands.

The outstanding accession of mollusks was a gift from Dr. R. L.
Alsaker of some 280 specimens of marine species of the family Volu-
tidae, including many rare and beautful forms. Other notable ac-
cessions include 900 lots, 3,100 specimens, of mollusks from the British
Virgin Islands and the Leeward Islands, collected by the Bredin-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 1 a7

Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition; 178 lots, 1,225 specimens, of
marine, fresh-water, and land mollusks from Chile, a gift of Dr.
Walter Riese; and 279 lots, 521 specimens, of marine mollusks from
Mozambique, purchased through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund.

The division of marine invertebrates received 7,685 specimens col-
lected by the Bredin-Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition. Dr. R. E.
Coker donated over 3,400 crustaceans, largely copepods, and Dr. T. E.
Bowman presented his collection of 7,154 miscellaneous invertebrates.
Type material was included in the following gifts: 897 copepod crusta-
ceans from Dr. Arthur G. Humes; 8 hermit crabs, including 3 para-
types of three species from Anthony J. Provenzano; and 3 paratypes
of a species of an ostracod crustacean from Dr. Eugene W. Kozloff.
One small accession, a gift from R. P. Higgins, of the holotype and
two paratypes of a species of /chinodera added the first representa-
tives of this little-known phylum of the Animal Kingdom to the na-
tional collections.

Civil history—Several gifts enhanced the furniture collection in
the division of cultural history. A Louis [TV commode with marble
top, labeled with the maker’s name, “M. Cresson,” was given by Mr.
and Mrs. William W. Wickes, and a painted Tyrolean wardrobe on
frame was presented by the estate of Dr. Elisabeth Lotte Franzos.
Mrs. H. B. Blackmar gave a Connecticut cherry “highboy,” an Em-
pire sofa, and several chairs; Mr. and Mrs. Louis Rothschild donated
an American secretary-bookcase, a chest of drawers, and a card table,
all late 18th century; and Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Monell presented
several examples of Chinese lacquered furniture.

Three outstanding acquisitions of architectural importance were
made this year. An entire room and numerous fragments were ob-
tained from the Gothic Revival-style Harral-Wheeler house in Bridge-
port, Conn., designed by Andrew Jackson Davis about 1848. The
material was given by the city of Bridgeport upon dismantling. A
wide variety of cast-iron architectural fragments from office buildings
and store fronts of the now-demolished old mercantile section of St.
Louis was transferred by the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial
of the National Park Service. An entire loghouse, built in Wilming-
ton, Del., in the German tradition in the late 18th century, was given
by the Board of Trustees and Building Commission of the Henry C.
Conrad School Department of Wilmington. Other gifts include a
pair of 18th-century wine coolers used in the Winter Palace of St.
Petersburg and a silver tea and coffee service originally owned by
Czar Alexander I from Col. William E. Shipp, an American Empire-
style silver tea and coffee service from Mrs. Mary A. Swanton, and a
Pennsylvanian stove plate, dated 1784, from the Union Fork
& Hoe Co.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

The division of political history received important new additions
to the White House china collection. Henry Francis Du Pont
donated a dessert service purchased for the White House during the
administration of Monroe. The china has an amaranthine border
with vignettes representing military might, agriculture, commerce,
art, and science, and was made in France by Dagoty. Outstanding
accessions to the collection of American period costume were an early
dress of homespun cotton, given by Mrs. Charles D. Collins; a dress
and wedding petticoats of the early 19th century, a gift of the Misses
Marion and Elinor Abbot; a collection of late 19th- and early 20th-
century costumes, presented by Miss Eleanor P. Custis; and a wedding
dress and other costumes of the 1890’s of historic importance because
of their connection with famous South Carolina families, the gift of
Mrs. Pinckney Alston Trapier. A flag which had been hung out in
mourning at the time of Lincoln’s death was donated by John M.
Harlan, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.

The donation of Mrs. Catherine E. Bullowa, consisting of 21,531
coins, medals, and paper currencies, is an important addition to the
numismatic collection. Of special interest in this series is a group of
504 early German and Italian silver and copper coins, dating from
the 11th through the 16th centuries, and a collection of 62 German
patterns engraved by C. Goetz at the Munich Mint after World War
I. Another noteworthy accession is the President Dwight D. Hisen-
hower collection of coins, medals, and memorabilia, including a group
of 149 gold, silver, and copper mintings covering all periods of his-
tory from Ancient Greece to modern times. Especially remarkable
are the silver shekel from Judea struck during the first revolt against
the Romans in A.D. 66-70 and a silver shekel from Tyre, Phoenicia,
considered similar to the “thirty pieces of silver” of the Bible.
A set of 14 gold medals issued by the Italo- Venezuelan Bank portray-
ing World War II leaders and a 20-dollar gold piece engraved on
the reverse “Reims, May 7, 1945, 0240” are part of a group of coins
bearing special dedications to President Eisenhower.

A collection of nine medals and plaques engraved by the American
medalist Victor D. Brenner was received from the Eric P. Newman
Numismatic Education Society of St. Louis. An important collection
of 807 proclamation pieces, struck by different Mexican cities and or-
ganizations in the late 18th and early 19th centuries in commemora-
tion of the late Spanish kings, was presented by Joseph B. Stack.

Former Postmaster General James A. Farley converted two addi-
tional units from loan to gift in the division of philately and postal
history, thus concluding the transaction begun in 1956. Two collec-
tions of inestimable reference value were transferred from the Library
of Congress—the Ackerman collection of U.S. die and plate proofs in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

three volumes features postage, and the Clarence H. Eagle collection
of U.S. revenue proofs and essays includes a comprehensive showing
of match and medicine varieties. John P. V. Heinmuller donated his
prize-winning collection of Zeppelin covers. Housed in 21 volumes,
the collection portrays the early experimental flights of the 1908-10
period, World War I, and all flights of the Graf Zeppelin. One in-
teresting specimen is a scorched cover carried on the ill-fated flight
of the Zeppelin Hindenberg, which burned at Lakehurst, N.J., May
6, 1937. Comdr. W. R. Anderson, Commanding Officer, U.S. Navy
submarine Vautilus, presented in the name of the Navy and his crew
the rubber canceling devices made by the crew members and used to
cachet envelopes in commemoration of the first navigation by sub-
marine beneath the polar icecap.

Armed Forces history—Among the outstanding material received
in Armed Forces history were early U.S. military and naval insignia
from the unique W. Stokes Kirk collection, a very rare pair of epaulets
owned by Gen. George Washington acquired from Mrs. Janet Ran-
dolph Ball Haden, and an early 19th-century broadax from the Fort
Ticonderoga Museum. Transferred from the U.S. Naval Academy
were 17 builders’ half models of early naval vessels, and examples
of diving gear were received from the Experimental Diving Unit,
Department of the Navy.

Original drawings numbering 177 of plans for U.S. sailing ships
were presented by Howard I. Chapelle, author of the important work
“The History of the American Sailing Navy.” Frank Mather Archer
presented an excellent example of the type of uniform coat worn
by a lieutenant of the U.S. Infantry during the period of 1828-36.
An outstanding collection of prints and books illustrating European
uniforms and equipment was presented by Col. William E. Shipp.
Kdward B. Tucker of Somerset, Bermuda, donated objects recovered
from 16th- and 19th-century shipwrecks. Collections of objects re-
covered from 18th-century shipwreck sites in Florida were received
through the courtesy of Edwin A. Link, Arthur McKee, and Dr. and
Mrs. George Crile, Jr. Aniron shot from the site of the 16th-century
fortress of San Lorenzo was given by Karl P. Curtis of Panama.

Arts and manufactures—An outstanding addition to the division of
ceramics and glass is a collection of 600 pieces of Dutch and German
pottery and stoneware, the gift of the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan,
Jr., Chief of Protocol, and Mrs. Buchanan. The collection is especially
rich in Medieval Dutch household wares and Rhenish stoneware
types, many of which are exhibited nowhere else in the United States.
A noteworthy slip-decorated Rhenish jar from Pingsdorf, Germany,
dated 12th or 13th century, is representative of the beginnings of the
very important German stoneware industry. A ewer from Rheren
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

dated 1585, in almost perfect condition, is exceptional in that most
wares of this type lack the spout or handle or both. The collection of
170 glass items donated by Mrs. Clara W. Berwick includes a rare
group comprising early American glass pieces of Stiegel and Amelung
type, as well as later wares from the famous Sandwich factory in Mas-
sachusetts. Mrs. Mary Roebling gave three sculptured birds and the
figures of horses by Edward Marshall Boehm. Mrs. George Hewitt
Myers presented 48 pieces of Castleford porcelain made in England
between 1790 and 1820. Among these rare items are teapots and
pitchers decorated with an American eagle after the design of con-
temporary coins.

The division of graphic arts acquired an important group of fine
prints. The selection of these examples by outstanding printmakers
from the year 1500 to the present day made it possible to fill a number
of significant gaps in the collection. The prints include an engraving
by the Italian Renaissance master Marcantonio Raimondi, “St. Ce-
celia”; two prints by important French artists of the turn of the 20th
century—a lithograph by Edouard Manet, “La Barricade,” and a
color lithograph by Edouard Vuillard, “Les Deux Belles Soeurs”;
and an exceptionally fine impression of an etching by Rembrandt van
Rijn, “Landscape with a Flock of Sheep.” A 50-line halftone screen
was presented by Max Levy & Co., Philadelphia, through Howard
S. Levy; R. R. Donnelley & Sons Co., Chicago, through Walter L.
Howe, gave a panel describing the rotogravure process; and the firm
of Edgerton, Germeshausen & Grier, Inc., Boston, donated the first
battery-operated portable electronic flash unit, invented by Dr. Harold
EK. Edgerton.

The division of textiles received from Arthur E. Wullschleger an
18th-century French hand-and-foot treadle loom to which a Jacquard
head had been added in the 19th century. Mr. Wullschleger obtained
the loom in Lyons, France, and it was renovated at Wedgewood Mills,
Jewett City, Conn. An excellent model of the 1787 patent of Cart-
wright’s power loom, an invention unrepresented in the national
collection, was made by Robert Klinger of the exhibits staff. A fine
collection of 46 18th- and 19th-century printed cottons was given
by Mrs. Kenneth Franzheim. Beautiful examples of contemporary
hand- and power-woven fabrics were presented by the Irish Linen
Guild, Potomac Craftsmen, Designer-Weavers, the American Cotton
Manufacturers Institute, the Corduroy Council, the International
Silk Association, and the Man-Made Fibers Association.

The division of industrial cooperation received the original equip-
ment used in 1956-57 to carry out the experiments suggested by Nobel
prize winners Dr. T. D. Lee of Columbia University and Dr. C. N.
Yang of the Institute for Advanced Studies to demonstrate that in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

the decay of an elementary particle into another particle parity is
not conserved. Examples of early seismometers used in exploration
for oil were presented by the Continental Oil Co.

Science and technology.—The most noteworthy accession acquired
in the division of agriculture and wood products comprised 111 au-
thentic wood samples of Santa Catarina, Brazil, collected and donated
by Dr. Lyman B. Smith. <A portable farm steam engine made in
1877 by Frick & Co. was donated by this firm.

Among the pieces of major importance added to the division of
electricity are the following: A group of pieces constructed by Thomas
Davenport, a Vermont blacksmith who obtained the first patent on
an electric motor, given by Frank Chandler; and from the General
Electric Research Laboratory, replicas of Dr. Irving Langmuir’s
vacuum distillation pump and of his apparatus for measuring surface
tension which was basic to the work for which he received the Nobel
prize. Mrs. Edith Earle donated two examples of the telephone that
her father, James H. Earle, made in the winter of 1876-77 at Brown
University under the direction of a group of professors there. The
acoustical design of the group at Brown was incorporated in the
design of the Bell telephone.

The following significant objects were acquired in the division of
mechanical and civil engineering: The personal watch of Edward
Howard, considered the parent of all American factory-made watches,
from the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association; a rare and
fine wagon-spring clock given by Mrs. Francis Boutelle Allen; and
three noteworthy precision clocks presented by the Georgetown Uni-
versity Observatory through Father F. J. Heyden. A valuable and
attractive collection of early handmade locks, bolts, and decorative
hardware, with pieces dating from the 16th century, was presented
by the Yale & Towne Manufacturing Co. Two important early
machine tools were received—an 1851 Robbins and Lawrence chain-
feed lathe given by Curtis Woodruff, and a Jones & Lamson turret
lathe of about 1880 donated by George F. Kiley. A Porter-Allen
steam engine, prototype of the compact high-speed steam engine
which dominated the medium-size engine field for many years, was
presented by the Philadelphia Electric Co.

The most significant acquisition in the division of medical sciences
is a collection of dental instruments, furniture, and equipment relat-
ing to the history of dentistry, totaling 2,869 specimens, received from
the University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry. This provides
an excellent cross section of the equipment used by the dentist from
the mid-19th century until the early 20th century, containing rare
individual items such as an early ether inhaler and two extraction
instruments. An important collection of material relating to the dis-
99 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

covery and development of the Salk poliomyelitis vaccine was con-
tributed by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. This
collection includes original flasks used by Dr. John F. Enders to
grow polio viruses in cultures of human embryonic skin and muscle
tissue; a bottle and automatic rocker used at the University of Toronto
Connaught Laboratories to grow polio virus in quantity; syringe and
residues of the first vaccines given by Dr. Jonas E. Salk; and the
original draft of the report by Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr., evaluating
the 1954 field trials of poliomyelitis vaccine.

The division of physical sciences continued its efforts to acquire
early scientific apparatus used in colleges. The majority of the ap-
paratus collected this year is chemical, and the most noteworthy ac-
cession is a group of instruments used by Ira Remsen at Johns Hop-
kins University. Other outstanding items obtained are the first equa-
torial telescope (1876) of the Warner & Swasey Co., the gift of that
firm, and the first helium liquefier built in the United States in 1931
donated by the National Bureau of Standards.

Specimens of major importance acquired in the division of trans-
portation are a model representing the sister ships /ndependence and
Constitution, modern American liners, received from American Ex-
port Lines, and the models of the Hudson River steamer Francis
Skiddy from F. Van Loon Ryder and the Narragansett Bay steamer
Mount Hope from Mary T. Campbell. Other outstanding accessions
include an oil-tank wagon from the Esso Standard Oil Co., a private
coach, presented by Mrs. Richard Saltonstall through the interest of
Senator Leverett Saltonstall, and a Conestoga wagon from Howard
©. Frey. The private coach, a most significant addition, was built
in 1851 by the famous carriage maker Thomas Goddard of Boston.

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK

The department of anthropology has underway an extensive pro-
eram to revitalize the famous paintings of Indians by George Catlin.
F. M. Setzler, head curator, went to Boston between May 26 and 28,
1959, to investigate the progress of the renovations, which are being
carried out under the guidance of Henri Courtais. Cleaning the
painted surfaces involves a variety of methods and chemical solutions,
depending on the condition of the painting and the canvas. A large
percentage of the original Catlin paintings had been relined with a
canvas about 75 years ago, when someone repainted the backgrounds
of most of the paintings involved. This repainting was done on top
of dirt, smoke, and water blemishes. The overpaint requires addi-
tional time and effort to remove before Mr. Courtais and his assistants
can clean the original painted surface. After this overpaint is re-
moved, the excellence of the painting can be truly appreciated and
SECRETARY’S REPORT 23

furthermore the garments, feathers, and Indian and European orna-
ments as depicted by Catlin can be readily identified. Mr. Courtais
is continuing his work, and it is hoped that the entire program will
be completed within the next 2 or 3 years.

Between January 18 and 20, 1959, Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator
of archeology, visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York
City to examine duplicate Egyptian antiquities with a view to obtain-
ing objects suitable to our exhibits program. With the aid of Mrs.
Virginia M. Pollak, Dr. Wedel selected 33 items for purchase. These
include several reliefs, two baskets, a bedstead and stool, a wooden
hawk case with hawk mummy, and a bronze hawk and small bronze
mummy case. Practically all these will be suitable for exhibit and
will provide displays that do not now exist in our Egyptian collec-
tions. Karly in May, following the annual meetings of the Society
for American Archeology in Salt Lake City, Utah, Dr. Wedel de-
voted several days to examination of the collections of the University
of Utah Museum, with particular reference to materials that are re-
lated to Western Plains cultures. He also visited Ogden, Utah, where
he examined an unusual collection, including many stone bowls and
manos and a considerable variety of projectile points and stone orna-
ments. The material acquired will be useful for exhibit and study
purposes.

Between July 7 and September 20, 1958, Dr. Clifford Evans, asso-
ciate curator of archeology, and Dr. Betty J. Meggers, honorary
research associate, visited Panama, Costa Rica, and Ecuador. They
spent 4 days in Panama City examining collections in the Museo
Nacional and discussing problems of museum modernization with the
director. ‘They also discussed in detail the possibilities of collabora-
tive research, using the services of H. Morgan Smith, involving arche-
ological sites now being discovered or destroyed by road or building
construction. Subsequently Mr. Smith was appointed a collaborator
of the Smithsonian Institution .

Between July 19 and July 28, Drs. Evans and Meggers participated
in the 33d International Congress of Americanists at San José, Costa
Rica. This very successful meeting was attended by a large repre-
sentation of scientists from Latin America, North America, and
Europe. The Smithsonian Institution representatives participated in
several important symposia dealing with the problem of the Forma-
tive Period in Mesoamerica and South America, in addition to deliver-
ing a scientific paper on the preliminary results of their archeological
investigations in the headwaters of the Orinoco. At this meeting,
Middle American and South American specialists decided that a
coordinated program of research toward a solution of a specific prob-
lem will produce better results than individual research projects. A

536608—60——3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

committee was appointed to organize research centering on the im-
portance of Mesoamerican and northern South American connections
from the Formative Period up to Spanish Contact, and Dr. Evans
accepted the secretaryship of this committee.

Proceeding to Guayaquil, Ecuador, on July 28, Drs. Evans and
Meggers continued their archeological research in cooperation with
Emilio Estrada, Director of the Museo Arqueolégico “Victor Emilio
Estrada.” This research was principally directed toward filling in
certain gaps in the sequences that have been worked out in the past 5
years by Estrada, Evans, and Meggers for the south coast. It is felt
that progress toward the solution of this problem is now being made.
On their return trip Drs. Evans and Meggers stopped briefly in New
Orleans and visited specialists at Tulane University. In March 1959,
Dr. Evans examined collections at the Heye Foundation in New York
City to study important material referring to coastal Ecuador; many
photographs were taken which will serve as a basis for future study.

Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, associate curator of archeology, visited Uni-
versity Park and Philadelphia, Pa., between September 15 and 19,
1958. At Pennsylvania State University he consulted with staff mem-
bers about fieldwork in the Near East and viewed the ceramic collec-
tions made by Dr. Dupree and Dr. Matson of the State University staff,
in connection with the material recovered by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Shanidar project. At the University Museum at Philadelphia,
Dr. Solecki conferred with staff members concerning fieldwork in
Iran and Iraq. A general survey of the Old World archeological
collections was made in order to ascertain what materials are lacking
in the Smithsonian collections.

During the period March 15 to April 8, 1959, Dr. Solecki was de-
tailed to participate in a UNESCO meeting in Paris, called to discuss
measures to minimize the unfavorable effects of large-scale engineer-
ing works upon items of cultural interest as well as upon the ecologi-
cal conditions of the regions affected. Dr. Solecki conferred with the
Secretariat of UNESCO and the Bureau of the International Com-
mittee on Monuments on matters of procedure regarding the prob-
lem. He prepared a summary statement of the problems involved and
suggested solutions, and subsequently participated in a regular meet-
ing of the Bureau of the International Committee on Monuments
on April 2. In Paris, and also in London, Dr. Solecki visited several
museums and scientific institutions to arrange possible archeological
exchanges between these institutions and the Smithsonian Institution.

From December 1 to 14, 1958, Dr. S. H. Riesenberg, curator of eth-
nology, visited the Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass., and Harvard
University. He continued his study of Micronesian ethnographical
collections at the Peabody Museum and also examined and abstracted
SECRETARY’S REPORT AS

pertinent Caroline Islands materials from important collections of
early American ships’ logs, journals, and manuscripts of early voy-
ages contained in the archives of that museum and the Essex Insti-
tute. Parallel] studies were made in the Harvard Peabody Museum
and in the Houghton Library of Harvard University, where many
pertinent ethnohistorical manuscript records of the American Board
of Commissioners for Foreign Missions are housed. Such museum
and library studies are aiding Dr. Riesenberg in his projected analysis
of Micronesian material culture, which is an attempt to place Micro-
nesia in its proper ethnological position with respect to Pacific island
cultural development and history. A trip for the same purposes was
made by Dr. Riesenberg to the Chicago Natural History Museum be-
tween March 9 and 13,1959. At this important museum he examined
and studied the collections of important ethnographical materials
from the Caroline and Marshall Islands.

In continuation of his African studies, Dr. Gordon D, Gibson, asso-
ciate curator of ethnology, spent the week of May 18 to 23, 1959,
examining ethnological materials from Angola in the collections of the
Chicago Natural History Museum and in conferring with staff mem-
bers with respect to the identification of African specimens in our
collections, certain problems of museum display, the possibility of
exchanging specimens, and problems connected with his research.
The Chicago Natura] History Museum has probably the largest col-
lection of Angolan ethnological materials in the United States, and
therefore the opportunity to study these materials at firsthand was
a significant aid to the progress of Dr. Gibson’s research on the eth-
nology of the southwestern Bantu.

In the latter part of July and early in August 1958 Dr. T. Dale
Stewart, curator of physical anthropology, visited several coun-
tries in Central America. Together with Dr. Evans and Dr. Meggers,
he visited the National Museum in Panama, where, as indicated above,
the Smithsonian Institution party was very well received. They
made a brief trip to the San Blas Islands on the Atlantic side of the
Isthmus, in order to see firsthand the San Blas or Cuna Indians liv-
ing thereon. These Indians have kept themselves pureblooded and
therefore offer opportunities for research. Dr. Stewart also attended
the 383d International Congress of Americanists in San José, Costa
Rica. Like Drs. Evans and Meggers, he was asked to act as chairman
at one of the sessions, and in addition he read an invited paper. It is
felt that the Smithsonian Institution staff has been and still is at
work in a critical area for the solution of problems referring to pre-
historic cultures of Central America and the coast of Ecuador.

Following the congress, Dr. and Mrs. Stewart went north to Guate-
mala, where they were joined by about 20 anthropologists. On
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

August 1, as guests of the Guatemalan Government, they were flown
into Tikal, a great Mayan ruin being excavated and restored by the
University of Pennsylvania. The travelers also made a quick trip to
Lake Atitlan and to Chichicastenango. Because of his work on the
living Indians in this area in 1947 and 1949, Dr. Stewart was inter-
ested to observe the rate of acculturation here. As far as he could
judge, there was very little change since his last visit. In Mexico City
Dr. and Mrs. Stewart called at the National Museum and subsequently
examined some promising fossil sites in the Valley of Mexico, where
a new excavation is being made and a human skull] was found at the
Pleistocene level. During the visit to Mexico City Dr. Stewart ob-
tained considerable information that will be of use to him in working
for the Handbook of Latin American Studies and the projected Hand-
book of Middle American Indians,

Between March 25 and April 18, 1959, Dr. Stewart was detailed to
travel to Czechoslovakia to act as the official U.S. representative at
ceremonies honoring the 90th birthday of the late Dr. Ale’ Hrdli¢ka,
who for so long was curator of physical anthropology at the Smith-
sonian Institution. At formal ceremonies in Prague, Dr. Stewart
had the opportunity to stress the fact of Hrdli¢ka’s American citizen-
ship. In his address to the delegates he was able to point out that
only in America could Hrdlicka have achieved his fame as an anthro-
pologist. Later the celebration moved to Humpolec, Hrdlitka’s
birthplace, 80 or 90 miles from Prague. Here Dr. Stewart and other
delegates were taken through the local high school, which has been
renamed for Hrdlicka. They also visited the site of his home, saw
the street named for him, and visited various local institutions. Ata
celebration Dr. Stewart again had an opportunity to say something
about Dr. Hrdlitka’s life in America and the opportunity for scien-
tific research in this country. On March 31 he participated in scien-
tific meetings at the Institute of Anthropology at Charles University
in Prague, on this occasion giving the delegates a report of his study
of the Shanidar skeleton. This visit to Prague gave Dr. Stewart
an opportunity to meet several of his colleagues whom he has previ-
ously known by correspondence. On his return trip Dr, Stewart made
a brief stop in Zurich to visit the Anthropological Institute. In Lon-
don he visited the British Museum to examine the Mount Carmel
Neanderthal remains, this visit providing him with a very profitable
2 days of research.

In March 1959 Dr. Lyman B. Smith, curator of phanerograms, vis-
ited Cambridge, Mass., to study Herbarium material and to verify
bibliographic references in the Harvard Herbarium in connection
with his research on the family Bromeliaeae and the flora of Santa
Catarina, Brazil.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Dil

Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator of phanerogams, visited
the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University and the New York
Botanical Garden in November 1958 in connection with his work on
the Index Nomina Genericorum, the flora of Santa Catarina, and
plants of the Guyana Highland. At the second of these institutions
he conferred with Drs, Maguire and Wurdack for the purpose of
outlining in a general way the structure and content as well as the geo-
graphic limits of the proposed Flora of Guyana. Dr. Cowan also
represented the department of botany on the 1959 Smithsonian-Bredin
Expedition.

In connection with her continuing studies of Ormosza and other
genera of the family Leguminosae, Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate
curator of phanerogams, visited New York and Philadelphia in No-
vember and Chicago in December 1958. At the New York Botan-
ical Garden, the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and
the Chicago Natural History Museum she surveyed the available study
materials in groups of interest to her, and selected specimens for
borrowing.

Between August 20 and 24, 1958, C. V. Morton, curator of ferns,
participated in the annual summer foray of the American Fern So-
ciety in southern Ohio, after which he attended the meetings of the
American Institute of Biological Sciences at Indiana University.
In November and December he studied in the herbarium and library
of the Harvard University Herbarium in Cambridge in order to check
the bibliographical citations for the Index Nomina Genericorum.
In connection with the same project he also visited the New York
Botanical Garden.

In July 1958 Dr. Mason E. Hale, associate curator of cryptogams,
spent several days in southwestern Virginia and the adjacent area
of Tennessee in company with R. R. Ireland, assistant curator of
cryptogams, in pursuance of his fieldwork on Appalachian lichens.
This study, undertaken with the aid of a grant from the National
Science Foundation, has resulted in the collection of many specimens
of lichens in the area. In February 1959 Dr. Hale spent several
days in the cryptogamic herbarium of Duke University, examining
lichens in the very important Harmand Herbarium with particular
reference to the study of the lichen flora of the central Appalachian
Mountains. In May he continued his work on the same project by
studying in the rich cryptogamic library and herbarium of Harvard
University.

Dr. Herbert Friedmann, head curator of the department of zoology,
spent the period between July 7 and 26, 1958, in England, principally
to attend the 15th International Congress of Zoology in London and
a colloquium on zoological nomenclature. The congress, attended by
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

more than 1,900 zoologists from all over the world, marked the cen-
tenary of the first announcement of the theory of evolution by natural
selection by Darwin and Wallace. Dr. Friedmann presented a paper
on some of his current work on wax digestion in honeyguides and its
microbiological implications. In October 1958 Dr. Friedmann repre-
sented the Museum of Natural History at a conference bringing to-
gether the directors of systematic collections, held at the New York
State Museum in Albany.

On January 21, 1959, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, honorary research
associate and retired Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, re-
turned to Panama to continue the survey of the birdlife of the Isthmus.
The first few days, at Juan Mina, on the Rio Chagres, he devoted
to study of limpkins, tropical yellow rails, least bitterns, and other
water birds concerning which little information has been available.
On February 6 he left Panama City for El] Real in eastern Darién,
where, through the kind assistance of Frank L. Greene, resident man-
ager of the oil company, Panamanian Delhi Petrolera, Inc., in Panama
City, and Heinz Meyer, in charge at El Real, storage for part of the
field outfit and other facilities were made available. On February
9 he continued by dugout canoe (piragua) up the Rio Tuira and the
following day reached the point where the Rio Paya, which has its
headwaters in Colombia, enters the larger stream. This is a region
of high forest with few small, scattered clearings, made by Chocé
Indians or an occasional pioneer settler from elsewhere. Tropical-
zone forest birds were present in great variety of species, but so widely
scattered through the vast forests of huge, tall trees that much search
was required to find the more unusual kinds. Many are of South
American affinity, as there is only a low divide between the upper
Paya drainage and the lower Atrato Basin of northwestern Colombia.
The collections and notes obtained here were thus of especial
importance.

On March 18 Dr. Wetmore returned to El] Real, to continue by
dugout the following morning up the Rio Chucunaque in company
with the engineer, William Sun, to a camp of the oil company above
the mouth of the Rio Tuquesa. This also is a region of vast primitive
forest, with a few Indian families living along the streams. Birds
were common, with numbers of unusual kinds not found on the Tuira,
so that the work here added much of value, particularly since the
region worked between the Tuquesa and Ucurganti Rivers was one
that scientifically had been unknown. Im addition, there was the
advantage of the engineer camp, with its small screened houses, elec-
tric light at night, and other facilities. The work closed on April
3 with return to El Real and from there to the Canal Zone on April
6 and to Washington on April 14.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 29

During April and early May 1959, three members of the staff of the
Museum of Natural History accompanied the 1959 Smithsonian-
Bredin Caribbean Expedition, made possible through the generosity
of Mr. and Mrs, J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington, Del. This was the
fifth of a series of expeditions organized by Mr. Bredin in collabora-
tion with the Smithsonian Institution, and the third in which he has
personally taken an active part. As on the previous expeditions,
Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, research associate, was in charge of field opera-
tions. The other Smithsonian scientists participating were Dr.
Thomas E. Bowman, associate curator of marine invertebrates and
specialist on copepods, and Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator
of phanerogams. Dr. Cowan left in advance of the other members
and spent the period between March 19 and April 2 on the island
of Trinidad, where he made headquarters at the Imperial College of
Tropical Agriculture, near Port-of-Spain. Excellent facilities pro-
vided by this college enabled him to reach several areas in Trinidad
from which our department of botany had only limited collections
heretofore.

The expeditionary party included, besides Mr. Bredin, John Finlay
of Varadero, Cuba, expert malacologist; Dr. Richard F. Darsie, Jr.,
entomologist of the College of Agriculture of the University of Del-
aware, especially interested in tropical mosquitoes and their life his-
tories; and William H. Amos, head of the science department of St.
Andrews School, Middletown, Del., photographer to the expedition.
They departed from Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, on the yacht Cartbee
on April 8 for the island of Tobago. Following several days of inten-
sive work on the famed Bucco Reef off the west side of Tobago, where
they obtained valuable invertebrate material, and a visit to the bird-
of-paradise sanctuary on Little Tobago, the party made brief stops
at Dominica, St. Lucia, Montserrat, Barbuda, and Antigua, where
the labors of the expedition were concluded on May 5. Most interest-
ing specimens of reef fishes were obtained off the windward side of
Barbuda. On this island a series of caves explored by earlier Smith-
sonian-Bredin expeditions had yielded several unknown species of
crustaceans, of which more extensive material was much desired;
supplementary specimens were taken in traps carried along this year
for the purpose. Many bats inhabiting a large cave on Antigua were
captured primarily for a study that Dr. Darsie wished to make of
their ectoparasites. This third trip to the Lesser Antilles sponsored
by Mr. and Mrs. Bredin has still further enhanced the collections of
the Smithsonian Institution from that important area, in which still
further undescribed species of marine life have been discovered.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate curator of mammals, spent
December 1 to 12, 1958, visiting the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia, the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard Uni-
versity, and the American Museum of Natural History in New York
to study types and other specimens pertinent to research projects in
progress. Accompanied by Bernard R. Feinstein, museum aide in the
division of birds, Dr. Handley continued his mammal survey of Pan-
ama between January 15 and March 27, 1959, working in the portion
of Darién adjacent to the Colombian boundary. Members of the
party reached mountainous areas where zoologists have not previously
collected. As a result of the trip, collections totaled more than 1,500
mammals and several hundred birds, reptiles, and various insects and
other animals. Conditions for netting bats were especially good, and
new techniques were developed. No fewer than 45 species of bats
were obtained, possibly a record high for this country. It is planned
to continue this project, which is sponsored by the Gorgas Memorial
Laboratory, Panama. In continuation of his research on the mammal
fauna of the southeastern United States, Dr. Handley spent two pe-
riods collecting in Virginia in May 1959. One of these trips took him
to the peninsulas on the west side of Chesapeake Bay and the other
to some of the northernmost ridges of the Great Smoky Mountains.
The mammal specimens preserved on these trips will add to the back-
ground material for his continuing research.

Between March 18 and 23, 1959, Herbert G. Deignan, associate
curator of birds, visited England, primarily to participate in the cen-
tenary celebration of the British Ornithologists’ Union, which was
held at Cambridge. The meetings were largely devoted to series of
symposia on various aspects of ornithology.

Dr. Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator of fishes, attended the
annual meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences in
Bloomington, Ind. While there he examined the fish collections of
the university and on the return trip to Washington studied the fish
collection at the University of Louisville. Dr. Lachner was accom-
panied by Dr. William R. Taylor, associate curator of fishes. On
their return east the two ichthyologists made collections in streams
draining Kentucky, West Virginia, and Virginia.

Between November 8 and 8, 1958, Drs. Lachner and Taylor made
a trip to the University of South Carolina to prepare and pack major
portions of the fish collection of that institution for shipping to the
Smithsonian Institution. This valuable collection, consisting of about
25,000 specimens, is composed of preserved material that is sure to be
very useful for future group revisionary studies, especially since it
comes from an area of the country not too well represented in the
national collections. On the return trip Drs. Lachner and Taylor
SECRETARY’S REPORT 31

collected at an important locality in North Carolina and also visited
the Marine Laboratory at the University of North Carolina, Morehead
City, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Laboratory at Beaufort,
N.C.

With the aid of a grant from the National Science Foundation, Dr.
J. F. Gates Clarke, curator of insects, made a trip to South America
between December 29, 1958, and March 24, 1959, the major purpose of
which was to obtain material of Microlepidoptera in localities not
otherwise represented in the collections of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Dr. Clarke traveled widely in Colombia, making headquarters
at Bogota, Cali, Popayan, Pasto, and Barranquilla. In Peru Dr.
Clarke centered his work in Lima and Cusco, from which cities he was
able to reach interesting collecting territory. <A brief stop was made
in the area of Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and then he proceeded to Argen-
tina, making his principal headquarters at Tucumin. While at
Tucumin Dr. Clarke prepared the valuable Monrés collection of
chrysomelid beetles for shipment to the National Museum. This
collection adds greatly to the value of the holdings of South American
insects in the Smithsonian Institution. He spent the latter part of his
visit in Chile, collecting in the southern part of the country in areas
reached from Punta Arenas, Puerto Varas, Peulla, and Petrohue.
Dr. Clarke collected about 15,000 specimens of insects of all groups,
but particularly of the Microlepidoptera, which will serve as the
major basis of his proposed revision of the South American species
of this large and important group.

Between May 9 and June 4, 1959, Oscar L. Cartwright, associate
curator of insects, engaged in field research in Florida to collect Scara-
baeidae, especially species of Onthophagus and Ataenius, genera he is
at present revising. The trip traversed peninsular Florida as far
south as Big Pine Key. Of the 2,356 insects collected, few have yet
been identified to species, but there are among them new records for
Florida and the United States and quite possibly some undescribed
species.

Dr. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., associate curator of insects, spent the
period July 14-18, 1958, in Cambridge, Mass., carrying on studies at
the Museum of Comparative Zoology in connection with several re-
search projects in chilopod systematics.

Dr. Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator of marine invertebrates,
visited Europe between July 17 and August 25, 1958, to attend the
15th International Congress of Zoology in London and to visit several
European museums for the purpose of evaluating the significance of
their collections of octocorals to future studies and to examine speci-
mens. Following the congress he visited museums in Leiden, Amster-
dam, and Copenhagen, as well as the British Museum (Natural His-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

tory) in London, and had an excellent opportunity to study important
historic collections in the field of his speciality.

In addition to participating in the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean
Expedition discussed earlier, Dr. Thomas E. Bowman, associate
curator of marine invertebrates, visited Puerto Rico for 2 weeks in
early April 1959, at the request of Dr. Robert M. Coker, who is
directing a study of the zooplankton of the bays along the south-
western coast. With headquarters at the Institute of Marine Biology,
Dr. Bowman made extensive collections that will materially assist
him in his project of identification of the copepods of the region.

Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, spent the week of
February 16-23, 1959, in Florida, primarily to act as one of the judges
of the annual show of the St. Petersburg Shell Club. The Smith-
sonian Institution offers an annual award for the best exhibit in this
show. Subsequently he visited the Marine Laboratory of the Uni-
versity of Miami, where he observed some of the current studies of
staff members of level bottom marine invertebrate communities along
the south Florida coast.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, head curator, department of geology, accom-
panied by Dr. Richard S. Boardman, associate curator of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany, spent the period May 18-30, 1958, on a
field trip to central New York. They were accompanied by Dr. Ger-
trude Biernat, of Polska Akademia Nauk, Zaklad Paleozoologii,
Warsaw, Poland, a visitor to the museum for several months, and
by two members of the Geological Survey staff. ‘They spent several
days studying and collecting from the type section of the Hamilton
group of the Devonian, which extends from Stockbridge Falls on
the north to North Norwich on the south. The party was joined by
other geologists, including Dr. Paul Sartenaer, of Belgium, and mem-
bers of the staff of the New York State Museum, and with this com-
pany a study of the facies changes which take place in the Tully
formation was made. Subsequently sections were examined in the
area of Cooperstown, Cobleskill, Albany, Kingston, N.Y., and
Stroudsburg, Pa. Following this trip Dr. Boardman spent a few
days at the New York State Museum at Albany to investigate the
possibility of identifying bryozoan fragments in well cuttings in the
Middle Devonian in New York State.

During August 1958 Dr. George Switzer, curator of mineralogy
and petrology, made an extended collecting trip to western localities,
particularly to various individuals and well-known localities in Iowa,
Colorado, New Mexico, California, and Montana. He obtained much
material of value to the Smithsonian for purposes of study or exhibit.
Accompanied by Paul E. Desautels, associate curator of mineralogy
and petrology, Dr. Switzer made several other trips for the purpose
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

of visiting mineral dealers and obtaining material for the Smith-
sonian collections. Short visits were made to the American Museum
of Natural History in New York and the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia; a valuable collection of minerals from the
famous zinc mine at Franklin, N.J., was examined and purchases
from it were made for the Smithsonian collections. During August
1958 and March 1959 Mr. Desautels made separate trips to Asheville,
N.C., and to several cities in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Mas-
sachusetts to acquire and examine mineralogical specimens for the
Museum.

EK. P. Henderson, associate curator of mineralogy and petrology,
spent the period November 30-December 10, 1958, in Boston, New
Haven, and New York. He discussed meteorites with members of
the staffs of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard
University, Yale University, and the American Museum of Natural
History.

In addition to participating in the field trip to New York State
discussed above, Dr. Richard S. Boardman traveled in Tennessee and
southern Virginia between September 22 and October 24, 1958, in
the company of two visiting paleontologists, one from Australia and
one from Norway. The principal objectives were to study the regional
stratigraphy and to collect Bryozoa in the Middle Ordovician rocks
of the Central Basin area of Tennessee and the southern Appalach-
ians of eastern Tennessee and southern Virginia. This preliminary
survey will form the basis for planning a continuing program in the
largely unstudied bryozoan faunas of the Middle Ordovician of the
region, Collections totaled 2,500 pounds and include many bryozoan
colonies that have biological and taxonomic interest in addition to
their potential stratigraphic value.

In connection with his work on fossil echinoids, Dr. Porter M.
Kier, associate curator of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany,
spent the period between July 19 and August 29, 1958,in Europe. Dr.
Kier’s trip was sponsored by a grant from the National Science
Foundation. He spent several days in England examining speci-
mens in the British Museum (Natural History) in London and the
Sedgwick Museum in Cambridge and subsequently visited museums
at the University of Liége and the Institute Royal des Sciences
Naturelles in Brussels. Im Paris he visited three museums where
there are important collections of fossil echinoids. During part of
his stay in Europe. Dr. Kier collected fossils in Belgium, Holland,
and France in company with various specialists. Between March 9
and 13, 1959, he visited the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Har-
vard University to study the fossil echinoid collections. Several
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

valuable and overlooked European type specimens were found there,
in addition to specimens that will subsequently be described as new
species. Accompanied by Henry B. Roberts, museum aide, he made a
field trip to Alabama and Florida, April 6-16, 1959. Collecting was
particularly productive in the Ocala area.

Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontology, visited
Princeton University and the American Museum of Natural History
in New York between November 16 and 23, 1958, to study their collec-
tions of lower Eocene primates and to make comparisons between
lower Eocene Knight materials and various Eocene collections and
type materials at those institutions. In June 1959 he made a further
visit to these same institutions and also to Yale University, Amherst
College, and Harvard University to study lower Eocene and Paleocene
insectivores, primates, condylarths, creodonts, and related groups.

Dr. David H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate paleon-
tology, spent September 24-30, 1958, at the University of Kansas,
studying their excellently curated collections of fossil fishes. In par-
ticular, he made anatomical observations upon an extensive series of
syllaemid fishes. In May 1959 he visited the site of the new airport
construction at Chantilly, Va., where he examined and collected some
Triassic bones reported by a member of the U.S. Geological Survey
staff. The bones have been tentatively identified as pertaining to a
phytosaur, an extinct reptile quite crocodilian in appearance, dis-
tantly related to the dinosaurs. This specimen is believed to be the
first such animal in the national collections from the Virginia
Triassic.

Dr. Peter P. Vaughn, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology,
made a trip to the University of Michigan and the Chicago Natural
History Museum between September 1 and 14, 1958, to study Permian
vertebrates in those important collections. Between October 6 and 13,
1958, he undertook a reconnaissance study in the Permian Cutler for-
mation of southwestern Colorado. The information gained on this
trip will be incorporated into a report on the fossil fauna of the re-
gion which he is preparing in collaboration with staff members of
the Geological Survey.

The Director of the Museum of History and Technology, Frank A.
Taylor, spent 2 days in September 1958 near Essex, N.Y., where he
visited the site of a 1776 gunboat.

Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, head curator of science and technology,
made several extensive field trips during the year for the purpose of
examining new exhibits and inspecting or acquiring important ap-
paratus to illustrate the development of the physical sciences. He
visited many institutions and individuals in the San Francisco area,
in the vicinity of New York, and in Baltimore, Philadelphia, Fred-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

ericksburg, Va., and Lexington, Ky., and acquired many items of
interest to the Smithsonian Institution exhibits and study collections.
Among them were materials associated with Ira Remsen, the famous
Johns Hopkins University chemist. At the Stevens Institute of
Technology he examined the residues of the formerly extensive mu-
seum. These comprise about 100 items, mostly models of considerable
importance. Of particular interest also was a visit to Transylvania
College, in Lexington, Ky., where Dr. Multhauf examined a collection
of early 19th-century “philosophical apparatus,” which proved to be
the most complete representation of instructional apparatus for a
single period that has yet been located. There are about 150 pieces,
all obtained between 1815 and 1839. Dr. Multhauf offered to give his
advisory assistance to Transylvania College to carry out plans for the
exhibition and study of these materials.

In continuation of his efforts to build up the exhibit and study
materials pertaining to the division of mechanical and civil engineer-
ing, Eugene S. Ferguson, curator of that division, visited many indi-
viduals and institutions throughout the eastern United States, in Con-
necticut, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, and
Wisconsin. Mr. Ferguson’s most extensive trip, however, took him to
various European countries between February 28 and April 18, 1959.
During the 6 weeks that he spent in looking critically at European
technical museums, he visited Great Britain, Sweden, Germany, Italy,
Austria, France, and Holland, seeing altogether 31 museums. He
acquired many impressions and ideas that will be useful in designing
new halls in the Museum of History and Technology. In his opinion
the best technical museum that he visited was the Deutsches Museum
in Munich. It is extravagant in its use of space and dioramas, and
of all museums he believes it to be the one that is most meticulous in
the details of exhibit design and execution.

Edwin A. Battison, associate curator of mechanical and civil engi-
neering, made several trips to various points in the eastern United
States to examine clocks and other timepieces, particularly examples
of early electric watch models and historic instruments. He visited
many watch factories, with a view to the acquisition of material with
potential value in the exhibits and study collections of the Museum of
History and Technology.

Robert M. Vogel, assistant curator of civil and mechanical engineer-
ing, made several visits to museums and other institutions in New
York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware in connection with
the planned Smithsonian Hall of Engineering. He examined exten-
sive collections of photographs of bridges, tunnels, and other struc-
tural works and investigated various historic examples of refrigera-
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

tion, farm machinery, elevators, and mills, with a view to the possible
acquisition of materials for exhibit in new Smithsonian halls.

Primarily to study models of ships, Howard I. Chapelle, curator
of transportation, visited various institutions and individuals in New
England, New York, and Virginia. He made arrangements for
photographing ships and investigating some builder’s models. Of
particular value was a visit to the Mariners’ Museum at Warwick, Va.,
where plans are available for several ships built in the late 18th cen-
tury. Mr. Chapelle’s most extensive trip took him to Rome, Paris,
and London between April 3 and 18, 1959. In Rome he attended the
International Fishing Boat Congress and delivered a paper on hull
form. He inspected fishing fleets and shipyards near Rome and also
saw models of fishing boats built around 100 B.C. By visiting mu-
seums in Paris and London, Mr. Chapelle acquired some very useful
information in reference to details of the planned Smithsonian Trans-
portation Hall.

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator of transportation, made several
trips through the Eastern States to acquire models of ships and to ex-
amine other models that are being built for the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. His visits took him to many museums and shipyards. At the
Mariners’ Museum at Warwick, Va., Mr. Perry examined a card file
of prints and paintings in the collection and recorded those pertaining
to clipper ships, pilot boats, and Hudson River steamers with their
descriptions.

John H. White, assistant curator of transportation, traveled to mu-
seums and other institutions in the eastern United States to acquaint
himself with materials pertaining to land transportation. He dis-
cussed problems of model making with staff members of various insti-
tutions, with particular emphasis on various railroad and street rail-
way collections.

In July 1958 E. C. Kendall, associate curator of agriculture and
wood products, spent a few days in New York visiting museums and
examining exhibits especially relating to forestry and agriculture.
A valuable trip was made to Waynesboro, Pa., on December 4, 1958,
to examine the 1877 steam engine owned by the Frick Co., of particu-
lar interest since practically all the farm steam engines now available
date from the early 1900’s. Mr. Kendall also accompanied Mr. Vogel
on a trip to the vicinity of Wilmington, Del., on March 24,1959. At
Chadds Ford they visited an old mill now owned by Andrew Wyeth
and examined the equipment and machinery. The mill dates from
1762 and was enlarged in the late 18th century by adding another
story; it was in operation until 1950. Some machinery of the type
in this mill would be useful in the new Agriculture Hall to illustrate
early processes relating to flour milling. Between March 27 and
SECRETARY’S REPORT Aff

April 10, 1959, Mr. Kendall made a western trip to examine certain
pieces of farm machinery. In Detroit he visited the Henry Ford
Museum, which has a large collection of machinery including an early
mowing or reaping machine made by Enoch Ambler. In Omaha
he was much impressed by the Joslyn Art Museum, where he saw
good examples of ingenuity in producing effective exhibits at rela-
tively low cost. In California he visited the Caterpillar Tractor Co.
near San Francisco and the Holt Brothers in Stockton, examining
machinery of potential use in Smithsonian exhibits.

With the intention of examining and perhaps acquiring examples
of electrical equipment for the Smithsonian Institution, W. James
King, acting curator of electricity, made several field trips. In July
1958 he visited Cornell University to study Anthony’s dynamo and
a Westinghouse alternator of the late 1880’s. In Pittsfield, Mass.,
he visited the General Electric Co. to examine William Stanley’s
papers in the Stanley Library and to see the Stanley transformer at
the Crane Museum, and at Housatonic, Mass., the site of Stanley’s
pioneer a.c. power installation. In September Mr. King discussed
the new Hall of Electricity with several officials of the American
Telephone & Telegraph Co. Visits to the General Electric Research
Laboratory, the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry, and the
Westinghouse Electric Co. in Pittsburgh, Pa., were productive of
ideas for new exhibits for the Smithsonian Institution. Between
February 2 and 8, 1959, Mr. King made a tour of various institutions
in New England and New York to gain information regarding
equipment in connection with the history of radio.

George B. Griffenhagen, curator of medical sciences, made several
field trips to museums and pharmaceutical houses throughout the
Eastern States, traveling to Chicago, Missouri, and Wisconsin. He
investigated several health museums to obtain ideas that might be
useful in planning details of new exhibits for the Museum of History
and Technology. Mr. Griffenhagen’s most extended trip took him
to England, Spain, Italy, and Belgium, between August 14 and Sep-
tember 16, 1958. The primary purpose of the trip was to attend the
17th general assembly of the International Pharmaceutical Federa-
tion, held in Brussels. Included was an all-day meeting of the World
Union of Pharmaceutical Historical Societies, during which Mr.
Griffenhagen presented a paper on “The Equipment of the Early
American Pharmacy.” He also visited the Brussels Universal Ex-
hibition. In Spain, and also in Italy, he saw some outstanding col-
lections of pharmaceutical antiquities and apothecary shop and al-
chemical laboratory restorations.

Between November 17 and 21, 1958, Dr. John B. Blake, associate
curator of medical sciences, studied the clinical amphitheater at the
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia and the Fry collection of
medical prints in New Haven and examined the outstanding micro-
scope collection of Dr. George S. M. Cowan in New York. He also
made trips to institutions and individuals in the Eastern States to
study problems of historical importance in the medical field.

Dr. Philip W. Bishop, head curator of arts and manufactures,
visited Chicago between October 26 and 29, 1958, to inspect the
Whiting refinery and meet its officials, primarily to discuss the origins
of thermal cracking of crude petroleum. He also visited the Museum
of Science and Industry to see and measure the Nasmyth steam
hammer. In November 1958 he visited the Ethyl Corp. and the Esso
Standard Oil Co. in New York to discuss matters of mutual interest
pertaining to the Hall of Petroleum of the Museum of History and
Technology. Between January 19 and 23, 1959, he visited several
institutions in southern California, primarily to inspect nuclear re-
search activities and to examine data on various geological formations
as an aid to planning some of the new halls for the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. In New York in April and June he inspected a model of a
deep-sea drilling barge and examined details of a fluid catalytic
cracking model.

Between September 28 and October 4, 1958, Miss Grace L. Rogers,
acting curator of textiles, visited New Haven, Boston, and other areas
in New England. She made an extensive study of an original model
of the Whitney cotton gin in the collections of the New Haven Colony
Historical Society. At Jewett City, Conn., she examined the old
Jacquard loom that was being assembled for the renovated Textile
Hall of the Smithsonian Institution. The Old Slater Mill Museum in
Pawtucket, R.I., provided a valuable opportunity to study a collection
of old textile machinery and noted exhibition techniques.

Paul V. Gardner, acting curator of ceramics and glass, made several
trips during the year to Norwood, Mass., to select, list, and pack vari-
ous pieces of rare glass presented to the Smithsonian Institution by
Mrs. Clara W. Berwick. Between August 20 and 23, 1958, he visited
the Corning Museum of Glass at Corning, N.Y., where he studied
many samples of different glass objects. Here it was possible to run
ultraviolet light tests on a number of glass objects from the Smith-
sonian collections to determine their origin and age. From September
8 to 15, 1958, Mr. Gardner visited New York and various points in
New England to talk with collectors and dealers in the interest of
obtaining additional ceramics and glass collections for the Smith-
sonian.

Between September 25 and 30, 1958, Jacob Kainen, curator of
graphic arts, visited Kansas City to study the engravings of Hen-
drick Golzius (1558-1617) in pursuance of a research project, particu-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

larly in the Print Department of the William Rockhill Nelson Gal-
lery of Art. He visited New York between March 22 and 28, 1959,
to check data for his study of John Baptist Jackson, to study the
work of Hendrick Golzius, and to select prints for possible purchase
for the new Museum of History and Technology. Mr. Kainen visited
the New York Public Library, the Frick Art Reference Library, and
the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Between May 20 and 24, 1959, he
made a trip to Sarasota, Fla., to gather further background data in
connection with his research project on Golzius. An extended visit
to the Ringling Museum permitted Mr. Kainen to study the largest
collection of baroque art in this country and to note its international
influences.

Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator of photography, visited
New York City between May 27 and 29, 1959, to discuss material for
exhibit in the Museum of History and Technology with a number of
manufacturers and distributors.

Fuller O. Griffith, assistant curator of graphic arts, spent 3 days in
New York in November 1958, carrying out research for his catalog
of lithographs of the American artist Childe Hassam (1859-19385).
He visited the Knoedler, Kennedy, and Weyhe galleries, where he ex-
amined numerous prints by Hassam, as well as the Grand Central Art
Galleries, the New York Historical Society, the Pierpont Morgan
Library, and the New York Public Library, where there is a large
body of Hassam’s lithographs.

Rudolph G. Morris, museum aide, division of graphic arts, visited
the Rochester, N.Y., Museum of Arts and Sciences in January 1959 to
discuss with staff members the role of photography and the Museum’s
audiovisual program. Extending his visit to Holyoke, Mass., he made
an extensive tour of inspection of the facilities of the Technifax Corp.
and discussed research facilities with members of the staff.

The head curator of civil history, Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, made
several trips to institutions and other organizations in the eastern half
of the country in connection with his historical studies. In July he
visited the Marine Historical Association in Mystic, Conn., where he
discussed with staff members the possibility of acquiring objects relat-
ing to marine industry for exhibit in the Growth of America Hall. In
October he went to St. Louis, Mo., where he spent some time with
the National Park Service, selecting structural and decorative iron
from the vast accumulation preserved by that Service. At Williams-
burg, Va., Dr. Garvan visited the Information Center in February
1959, and examined new exhibits and material of possible value to the
Smithsonian Institution. He viewed a superb series of plaster models
of houses showing their outline and linking them with horizontal
photographs and labels. He also examined a complete archeological

536608—60——4
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

site made of a new plastic material so realistic and so colored to re-
semble earth, brick, stone, etc., that the visitor feels that the actual
site has been transported into the museum. At Jamestown Dr. Garvan
examined a variety of objects recovered from the area in the anticipa-
tion that some of these may be used in the Smithsonian’s hall demon-
strating the growth of the United States.

In August 1958 Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, curator of political
history, spoke at a dinner meeting of the Eastern Shore of Virginia
Historical Society on the personalities of Governor Sir William
Berkeley and rebel Nathaniel Bacon. Subsequently he examined sev-
eral historic sites in the area, including St. George’s Church, where
archeological work is taking place, and Hungars Church. In Novem-
ber 1959 he went to Princeton, N.J., to participate in a conference
of the Institute of Early American History and Culture of Williams-
burg, Va., following which he did some research in the manuscript
collections of the University Library. In Baltimore he examined the
observation platform that the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad expects to
donate to the Smithsonian Institution for use in a political history
exhibit.

Mrs. Margaret B. Klapthor, associate curator of political history,
traveled to New York in January 1959 to pursue her research on
matters pertaining to the First Ladies Hall. She selected samples of
fabrics and discussed in some detail two mannequins to be used.

Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator of political history, visited
Dover and Wilmington, Del., in March 1959 to study 18-century tax
lists. He located hitherto unknown midcentury cabinetmakers and
followed the movements of others who moved about the colony after
their apprenticeships had been served. Mr. Dorman also spoke on the
subject of “Philadelphia Presidential Mansion” at a meeting of the
Chester County Historical Society, West Chester, Pa. Between May
19 and 24, 1959, he visited several towns in New England to study
museum design and exhibits installation. He also gave a tallx before
the Quincy Historical Society of Quincy, Mass., on “The Adams
Family in Washington, 1800-1847.”

To examine collections offered the Smithsonian Institution by vari-
ous individuals, C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of cultural his-
tory, made several trips to points in the Eastern States. At
Wilmington, Del., in December 1958, he examined a loghouse offered
to the Institution for exhibit purposes and discussed ways and means
of dismantling it and shipping it to Washington.

Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator of cultural history, visited Phila-
delphia in September 1958 for research at the American Swedish
Historical Foundation and Museum pertaining to an exhibit on
Scandinavian backgrounds planned for the Hall of Everyday Life in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 41

Early America in the new Museum of History and Technology. In
connection with planning for this hall, she visited the Winterthur
Museum in Delaware in December 1958 and again in June 1959. At
the Baltimore Museum of Arts, Miss Roth studied an imaginative
display entitled “Age of Elegance, the Rococo and Its Effect,” con-
sisting of an assemblage of fine and decorative arts of the 18th century
grouped by country of origin.

George T. Turner, acting curator of philately and postal history,
and Francis J. McCall, associate curator of that division, attended
the American Stamp Dealers’ Show in New York in November 1958.
They displayed a special Smithsonian exhibit, and Mr. Turner gave
a talk on the history of the National Postage Stamp collection and
its development under the preceding curators. During the first 10
days of 1959 Mr. Turner visited several cities in California to meet
numerous philatelists, to inform them of the material needed in the
exhibits planned for a new hall, and to tell them something of the
stamps missing in the National collection. Hespoke before a meeting
of the Philatelic Research Society on the “Activities of the Smithso-
nian’s Division of Philately and Postal History.”

On two occasions Francis J. McCall visited New York City to
discuss with several philatelists material of potential interest to the
Museum of History and Technology. At the New York Historical
Society, the Philatelic Society, and the New York Public Library he
supplemented previous studies and strengthened contacts with staff
members. Between October 31 and November 2, 1958, he attended
the American Philatelic Congress in New York. From March 15 to
20, 1959, he visited Boston and Cambridge, Mass., to discuss with
philatelists matters of mutual interest and to study documents at
various libraries.

Dr. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator of numismatics, made sev-
eral trips to New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and cities in Mas-
sachusetts during the year to select material missing from the
Smithsonian library. On September 16, 1958, he gave an illustrated
address to the Philadelphia Coin Club concerning the history of the
Smithsonian and of the national coin collections. In October 1958
he spent several days in Worcester, Mass., where he visited the
American Antiquarian Society and studied their collections of colonial
notes. At the Worcester Numismatic Club he discussed the Smith-
sonian’s modernization program and examined a collection of German
Renaissance medals, multiple talers, and ancient Greek coins. In
February 1959 he spent several days in New York, principally at the
museum of the American Numismatic Society, where he studied post-
humous Lysimachus gold and silver coinages struck in various ancient
Greek cities.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

In Philadelphia, Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator of
numismatics, examined a collection of Mrs. Catherine Bullowa, from
which she was able to select for the national collections numerous
coins, medals, and tokens in silver, copper, and other metals, repre-
senting practically all periods, from the early 13th century to date.
In September 1958 she went to New York to study Italian numismatic
periodicals at the library of the American Numismatic Society in
order to complete a study on modern Italian coin engravers.

From May 14 to 18, 1959, Dr. and Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli went to
Albany, Gloversville, and New York, N.Y. In the New York State
Museum they had useful discussions with staff members about early
trade and examined unusual collections of wampum beads and cere-
monial belts. Dr. Albert F. Goodwin, of Gloversville, permitted
them to study his very fine collection of foreign medals and
decorations.

During the year Mendel L. Peterson, head curator of Armed
Forces history, made several trips to Boston, New York, and several
other east-coast cities. In Trenton, N.J., at the State Museum Build-
ing, he attended an open meeting on the subject of underwater ex-
ploration, where he delivered a lecture. The Museum of the Naval
Academy at Annapolis, Md., disclosed some material that will be
useful to the Smithsonian exhibition series, including, for example,
a letter written by John Paul Jones.

Edgar M. Howell, acting curator of military history, made several
trips to points in the eastern United States and Canada in connection
with material needed by the Smithsonian for exhibit. Between Sep-
tember 8 and 12, 1958, he visited the Canadian War Museum in
Ottawa, the Citadel in Quebec City, Fort Henry at Kingston, On-
tario, and Fort Niagara, in New York, studying collections and ex-
hibit techniques and photographing specimens. He made especially
valuable contacts with curators specializing in the French and Indian
War and the War of 1812 periods. Between April 20 and 24, 1959,
Mr. Howell visited the Fort Sumter National Monument, the Con-
federate Museum, and the Charleston Museum in Charleston, S.C.,
the Museum at Grant Park in Atlanta, Ga., and the Castillo de San
Marcos in St. Augustine, Fla., studying collections and observing new
exhibit techniques.

Craddock R. Goins, Jr., assistant curator of military history,
visited several] museums in New York State during the period August
25 to 30, 1958, to study ordnance material, observe special exhibit
techniques, and arrange for the acquisition of specimens needed in
the Hall of Ordnance, in the Museum of History and Technology.
The most comprehensive collections of ordnance material in New
York State are part of the Museum of the U.S. Military Academy at
SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

West Point. Here Mr. Goins was particularly interested in the ex-
tensive collection of artillery tubes. The library of the Military
Academy also includes a considerable quantity of material concerning
ordnance boards, which is missing from the Ordnance Department
records in the National Archives. In February 1959 he made a short
trip to Harpers Ferry, W. Va., to examine records in the custody
of the National Park Service pertaining to a study he is preparing
on the Hall rifle.

Lucile McCain, assistant registrar, visited museums in London and
in Leiden, Holland, between September 17 and October 27, 1958, to
examine their registration methods. At the British Museum (both
Natural History and Bloomsbury), the Victoria and Albert Museum,
and the Rijksmuseum in Leiden Miss McCain learned much from
the methods in use, particularly as they refer to customs matters
and to plans for reviewing permanent files after 25 years.

Members of the staff of the office of exhibits traveled during the
year in order to examine exhibits techniques used by various museums,
with a view to their application to the new halls in the Museum of
History and Technology and the Museum of Natural History.

John E. Anglim, chief exhibits specialist, spent the period April
24 to June 20, 1958, in Europe, where he visited 16 cities in 10 coun-
tries and inspected about 70 museums and attended the World’s Fair
in Brussels. His general impression of European museums is that
nearly everywhere they are attempting to bring their exhibitions up to
higher standards.

R. O. Hower, supervisory exhibits specialist, visited New York in
November 1958, to examine new exhibition techniques in the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, where many new techniques are being developed in the exhibits
laboratories.

Benjamin Lawless, supervisory exhibits specialist, and Robert Wid-
der, exhibits designer, visited New York between September 16 and
18, 1958, to discuss with specialists various types of illumination for
the new exhibits of the Smithsonian Institution. In March 1959 Mr.
Lawless visited the new Museum of Military History and Science at
the U.S. Military Academy, at West Point, where he examined the
extensive modernization that has been completed there. In May 1959,
accompanied by James A. Mahoney, exhibits designer, he went to
Chicago and Cleveland to examine various types of exhibition cases
now being devised or in use.

Between August 19 and 22, 1958, Judith Borgogni, exhibits de-
signer, and Violet Moyer, exhibits worker, went to New York to
study exhibit techniques and to discuss trends in the exhibition of
costumes and fashions. Among institutions visited were the Museum
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

of the City of New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the
New York Public Library.

William E. Geoghegan, exhibits technician, with Kenneth Perry,
visited Warwick and Richmond, Va., between October 29 and 31,
1958. At the Mariners’ Museum in Warwick and at the Confederate
Museum in Richmond they worked on models of ships that will be
exhibited in the Museum of History and Technology. In November
1958 Mr. Geoghegan went to Providence, R.I., and Essex, Conn., to
examine the models of certain historic ships. Work on several such
models is progressing as anticipated and it is expected that they will
greatly enhance the educational value of the hall being planned by the
division of transportation.

Exhibits technician Chris Karras made a field trip in May 1959
that took him to several museums in the eastern half of the country.
He was mainly interested in marine biological displays in connection
with the new Hall of Oceanic Life that is being planned for the
Museum of Natural History.

Mrs. Ann Karras, exhibits designer, visited the Cincinnati Art
Museum and the Taft Museum, in Cincinnati, Ohio, in June 1958 to
acquire background information for details of the Hall of Musical
Instruments of the Museum of History and Technology. Between
November 15 and 26, 1958, she visited several museums for the pur-
pose of studying fossil mammal exhibits, in connection with a pend-
ing renovation of a hall in our Museum of Natural History. This
visit took her to the Chicago Natural History Museum, the University
of Nebraska State Museum, the Denver Museum of Natural History,
the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale, and the American
Museum of Natural History.

Between November 17 and 21, 1958, James A. Mahoney, exhibits
designer, visited George Eastman House, Eastman Kodak Co., and
Bausch & Lomb Co. in Rochester, N.Y., for technical data needed in
the Hall of Photographic History, in the Museum of History and
Technology. He obtained much valuable information, and got a
general view of present methods of displaying photographic and
historical topics.

William Pennock, exhibits designer, went to New York in the com-
pany of Dr. Clain-Stefanelli between August 7 and 9, 1958, to examine
various exhibit methods, color and lighting techniques, case designs,
architecture, and manufacturing processes pertaining to numismatic
displays.

John C. Widener, exhibits specialist, attended sessions of the Na-
tional Plastics Exposition held in Chicago from November 17 to 21,
1958. He discussed the utilizations of various plastics with specialists
who attended the exposition and visited several companies in order to
SECRETARY’S REPORT 45

investigate their products and techniques, in connection with the use
of plastics in exhibit construction at the Smithsonian Institution.

EXHIBITIONS

The progressive modernization of the exhibition halls of the Smith-
sonian Institution was carried forward. The program has now com-
pleted 5 years. Construction bids were received in May 1959 for the
second North American Archeology Hall, and in June 1959 for the
halls that will be devoted to the geological and fossil record of the
age of mammals; medical and pharmaceutical history; and the his-
tory of money or numismatics.

The formal opening of the renovated Graphic Arts Hall in the
connecting range of the Smithsonian Institution Building was held
on the evening of July 10, 1958. Prentiss Taylor, president of the
Society of Washington Printmakers, was the principal speaker. Hand
processes employed to produce etchings, wood engravings, lithographs,
and silk-screen prints are displayed in this hall. The history of
printing from the invention of the alphabet to the commercial pro-
duction of the printed book is illustrated by an original woodcut for
a page of a very old Chinese block book, a reproduction of ancient
Korean movable type, and a page from the Gutenberg Bible of about
1454,

The newly modernized Hall of Gems and Minerals in the Natural
History Building was dedicated by Secretary Leonard Carmichael on
the evening of July 31, 1958. Mrs. W. F. Foshag, wife of the late
head curator of the department of geology, was invited to cut the
ribbon at the formal opening. Exhibits in this hall include the most
extensive collection of gems on display in this country, and a large
and representative sampling of specimens from the national min-
eral collection, which is regarded as the world’s finest. Nearly every
variety of gem is represented. Included in this display are: A 316-
carat star sapphire; an 18.3-carat canary-yellow diamond; a 66-carat
alexandrite; and a 3810-carat peridot. Among the historic items
shown is a set of pearls consisting of a necklace, choker, and earrings
given by the Imam of Muscat to the U.S. Government; the original
gold nugget responsible for the initiation of the California gold rush
which was discovered at Sutter’s Mill in 1848 by James Marshall;
and the world’s largest flawless quartz crystal ball, a sphere almost
13 inches in diameter and weighing 10634 pounds. The Hope dia-
mond, a gift of Harry Winston, world-famous gem merchant of New
York, is spotlighted against a dark-red velvet in a centrally located,
specially designed case. In the mineral section of this hall are shown
examples of all the principal kinds of minerals, arranged in accord-
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ance with a chemical classification, and selected and lighted to make
a colorful display of their natural beauty. A fine large specimen of
smithsonite, a carbonate of zinc, named for its discoverer James
Smithson, whose bequest founded the Smithsonian Institution, is ex-
hibited in this hall. The spectacular display of fluorescent minerals
on a revolving stand has attracted considerable visitor interest.

The room designed solely for the display of the Maude Monell
Vetlesen collection of Chinese jade carvings of the 16th to 19th cen-
turies was opened to the public on the evening of December 11, 1958,
in ceremonies featuring addresses by the Vice President of the United
States and Regent of the Smithsonian Institution Richard M, Nixon,
Edmund C. Monell, the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr., Chief
of Protocol of the United States, and Dr. Leonard Carmichael, See-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution. These pieces of exquisitely
carved jade include an apple-green chrysanthemum dish of nearly
1114 inches in diameter, a massive white imperial altar incense burner
and cover of classic design, a pair of deep spinach-green altar boxes in
the shape of the divine tortoise, and two imperial scepters, made of
gold filigree and each inset with three large carved jade plaques.

The basic contract construction of the Hall of Fossil Fishes and
Primitive Tetrapods, as well as the Hall of Fossil Invertebrates and
Plants, was completed in May 1959. Shortly thereafter the exhibits
staif placed in their respective cases the giant fish Yiphactinus and
the slab displaying the skeleton of the Triassic amphibian Fupelor
fraasi, Materials for other display units have been prepared for in-
stallation. In addition to the materials prepared by the museum's
exhibit staff, two habitat groups, depicting Cretaceous and Ordo-
vician life associations, were completed and two additional groups
were being prepared with the help of George Marchand of Ann Arbor,
Mich.

Preparators in the paleontology laboratory commenced the assem-
bly of mammalian skeletons for the Age of Mammals Hall. Skeletons
of the Eocene horse Orehippus, the Oligocene Mesohippus, and the
Miocene Parahippus are in various stages of completion.

The unveiling of the Fénykévi elephant on the evening of March 6,
1959, was witnessed by a large number of invited guests following a
lecture in the auditorium of the Natural History Building by the donor.
This record specimen of African bush elephant, standing 138 feet 2
inches at the shoulder, is the largest land mammal ever to be placed on
display. Josef J. Fénykévi, Hungarian-born engineer and big-game
hunter who tracked down and shot this elephant in the largely unex-
plored Cuando River region of southeastern Angola on November 13,
1955, and who presented the specimen to the Smithsonian Institution,
came to Washington with his wife from Madrid to participate in the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

ceremonies. This elephant has been placed in the center of the rotunda
of the Natural History Building.

The preparation and installation of the habitat groups and topical
displays were nearing completion at the end of the fiscal year in the
two halls featuring the World of Mammals, following the contract
construction of the exhibit fixtures in June 1958. Nearly all the topical
units have been installed and much of the work on the habitat groups
is completed. Staff zoologists under the chairmanship of Dr. Herbert
Friedmann, head curator of zoology, continued to develop plans for
the Hall of Oceanic Life.

Associate Curator Clifford Evans, in cooperation with John C.
Ewers, Assistant Director of the Museum of History and Technology,
Howard Cline of the Hispanic Foundation of the Library of Congress,
and John Corbett of the National Park Service, prepared the scripts
and supervised the installation of an exhibit, “Anthropology and the
Nation’s Capital,” which was shown in the foyer of the Natural History
Building during November and December 1958 coincident with the
annual meetings in Washington of the American Anthropological
Association and the American Association for the Advancement of
Science.

Three types of prehistoric surgery, assembled by Dr. T. Dale Stewart,
curator of physical anthropology, were shown at the January 1959
meeting of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: (1) Amputa-
tion of the right arm in the Shanidar I Neanderthal skeleton from
Iraq (45,000 years old); (2) cranial trephining from Peru; and (3)
filed teeth from the Mississippi Valley.

The panels of photographs at the south end of the hall devoted to
Highlights of Latin American Archeology were removed and a large,
full-size plaster cast of a colossal stone head of the Olmec culture was
installed in February 1959. This cast of San Lorenzo Monument No.
1 from southern Veracruz was delivered in 31 sections and was as-
sembled by Paul Willis of the cabinet shop, with the artwork and final
painting performed by A. Joseph Andrews, chief exhibits specialist of
the department of anthropology. Three carved jade figures from La
Venta in Tabasco, Mexico, as well as other Olmec jade objects such as
beads, ceremonial axes, pendants, and ear ornaments, were installed in
June 1959 in an exhibit adjacent to the head. This exhibit also illus-
trates aboriginal methods of working jade by drilling, sawing, pecking,
and polishing. The Andean arts and crafts exhibit was renovated in
December 1958 and a few objects were withdrawn to permit the installa-
tion of a gold Chimu mask from Peru.

At the close of the fiscal year construction of the exhibit fixtures
for Hall 21, which will feature the archeology of the southwestern
United States, the Pacific coast and Columbia River Valley, and Arctic
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

America, was well advanced toward completion. A series of general
displays, such as native mines and quarries, Indian stoneworking
methods and products, Euroamerican trade items from Indian sites,
native smoking devices, and the diffusion of tobacco are planned for
topical purposes.

The Third Biennial Creative Crafts Exhibition was shown from
August 27 to September 26, 1958, in the foyer of the Natural History
Building. This was organized and installed by local craft organiza-
tions and sponsored by the division of ceramics and glass. Con-
temporary examples of ceramics, textiles, jewelry, and woodworking
were displayed, and daily demonstrations of pottery making, weaving,
and other craftwork conducted.

A ceremony of acceptance was held on the afternoon of Decem-
ber 11, 1958, to open the E. Stanley Wires collection of decorative
tiles in the specially reconditioned room in the foyer of the National
History Building. New acquisitions of glass from Mrs. Clara W.
Berwick and of Castleford porcelain from Mrs. George Hewitt Myers
were also put on exhibition, and two appropriate cases were built
to house a collection of paperweights lent by Mrs. Florence Bushee.

Historic Dutch and Rhenish pottery and stoneware now displayed
in a large alcove at the west end of the Cultural History Hall in
the Natural History Building were formally accepted by Secretary
Leonard Carmichael as a gift from the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan,
Jr., Chief of Protocol of the United States, and Mrs. Buchanan
on the afternoon of January 5, 1959. All these examples of ceramics
were excavated at sites in the Netherlands and assembled by P.
Weers of Vooburg. The exhibit illustrates household ceramics from
the Roman and Merovingian periods to the beginning of the 19th
century, and provides a basis for an understanding of the materials
exported to America during the period of early settlement as well
as its influence on the workmanship of American potters of the 17th
century.

The renovated textile exhibit located in the main south hall of
the Arts and Industries Building was formally opened to the public
on the evening of January 20, 1959, by A. E. Wullschleger and Sec-
retary Carmichael. In this hall the exhibits trace the history of
the fibers and fabrics used by man in the context of the implements
and machines that produced them, with the emphasis placed on the
technological developments from colonial times through the ensuing
years. The Eli Whitney cotton gin and the Samuel Slater cotton
machinery from the Pawtucket Mill of 1790, both unique examples
of the work of these skilled mechanics, are supplemented by many
other historic devices. Among these are a well-preserved Jacquard
loom from Lyons, France, presented by Mr. Wullschleger, of New
SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

York. No more than 4 or 5 inches of fabric could be woven on this
loom in a day. Fabrics from ancient Egypt, Colonial America,
and contemporary hand- and power-woven fabrics show the develop-
ment of the art of weaving. Another featured exhibit is an early
18th-century Don Quixote tapestry presented by Mrs. Kermit
Roosevelt.

Contract construction work on the fixtures in the south hall gallery
of the Arts and Industries Building for display of the dyeing and
printing of fabrics, needlework and lace crafts, and the development
of the sewing machine was nearing completion in June 1959. Reno-
vation of the southeast range of the Arts and Industries Building,
which will be utilized for the display of farm machinery and other
agricultural implements, was completed in April 1959 by the con-
struction contractor. ‘These exhibits will trace the growth of labor-
saving farm machines in America, with particular emphasis on the
19th century, during which various types of machinery were in-
vented or perfected for efficient planting, cultivating, and harvesting
of the Nation’s rapidly expanding farm acreage.

With the cooperation of a number of leading concerns in the petro-
leum industry, plans have been developed for a small hall to illustrate
the history of this important industry.

During March and April 1959 the Atomic Energy Commission’s
traveling exhibition “You and the Atom” was presented to the public
in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building.

On June 24, 1959, a construction contract was awarded for the
renovation of the east gallery of the Arts and Industries Building
in which will be installed a series of new display units interpreting
the history of medicine and pharmacy. These display units will be
moved to the Museum of History and Technology where they will
comprise portions of the more comprehensive exhibits in the fields
of medical, dental, and pharmaceutical history. The most important
new exhibits installed in the division of medical sciences during the
year were the two cases prepared and contributed by the National
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, which illustrate the discovery
and development of the Salk poliomyelitis vaccine.

An exhibit of “World Ebonies,” selected from the Rudolph Block
collection of walking sticks, was installed in the corridor through
the hall of wood products; and four exhibit units displaying Ameri-
can oaks, other important American hardwoods, fruitwoods, and for-
elgn cabinet woods are being renovated.

A temporary exhibit was prepared to commemorate the 100th
anniversary of the birth of William Stanley. He was responsible
for the design of the first practical electrical transformer and for
the first demonstration of an a.c, power distribution system in the
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

United States. The use of transformers made it possible to send
electrical power over great distances, instead of being limited to a
mile or so from the generating station.

Additions to the horological exhibits included a large operating
model of the Hamilton electric clock, constructed on a scale of 8 to
1, and a group of recently cleaned and restored Japanese clocks. Dur-
ing the annual meeting of the National Association of Watch and
Clock Collectors in May 1959, a number of New England watches
were placed on display.

The completely renovated 1893 Duryea automobile was returned
to the exhibition series and the Cornell-Liberty Mutual survival
car was placed on temporary exhibition.

A special exhibit commemorating the 150th anniversary of the
birth of Abraham Lincoln was opened in the west hall of the Arts
and Industries Building on February 11, 1959. Selected items from
the Museum’s collection of Lincoln memorabilia and a life-size figure
on which is displayed the office suit worn by President Lincoln
on the morning of his assassination comprise the essential elements
of this exhibit. Included are many of the items that have recently
been donated to the Institution by Lincoln Isham, of Dorset, Vt.,
great-grandson of President Lincoln. At the same time the division
of philately prepared a special exhibit, “Lincoln on Stamps,” in-
cluding free franked covers of Mrs. Lincoln lent through the assist-
ance of Mrs. Morton Dean Joyce of New York, and the division of
numismatics arranged groups of Lincoln medals to portray Lincoln’s
life and impact on history. The division of numismatics also pre-
pared a large exhibit of U.S. commemorative coins, presidential
medals, and American medallic art for the first Ibero-American
Numismatic Exhibition in Barcelona, Spain, which opened November
24, 1958.

The department of Armed Forces history presented two special
exhibitions in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building dur-
ing the year. From July through September 1958 a special showing
of the Tole paintings of Mrs. Irving Olds and naval prints from
the collection of Mr. Olds was displayed under the joint sponsorship
of the U.S. Marine Corps and the division of naval history. <A spe-
cial exhibition featuring the submarines Wauwtilus and Holland
was set up during May 1959.

During the year the appearance of the uniforms exhibited on the
west gallery of the Arts and Industries Building was materially en-
hanced by placing them on adjustable mannequins.

DOCENT SERVICE

In January 1959 the general direction of the educational program
of volunteer docent guide service, conducted with the cooperative as-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 51

sistance of the Junior League of Washington, was transferred to the
Smithsonian Museum Service, This program had been under the
direction of Frank M. Setzler, head curator of anthropology, since
its inception in 1955. This transfer was made in accord with the
purposes for which the Museum Service was established. The pro-
gram continued under the supervision of G. Carroll Lindsay, acting
curator of the Smithsonian Museum Service, working with Mrs. Peter
Macdonald, volunteer chairman of the Smithsonian Docent Commit-
tee of the Junior League of Washington. After serving for 2 years
as chairman of this committee, Mrs. Macdonald submitted her resig-
nation at the conclusion of the tours season. She was succeeded
as chairman by Mrs. C. Clarke Gearhart, formerly cochairman
of the docent committee. Mrs. Dean Cowie will serve as co-
chairman of the committee with Mrs. Gearhart.

During the 6-month season beginning in October 1958, 398 tours
were conducted, in which 11,996 children were escorted through the
3 exhibit halls included in the docent program—the American Indian
Hall, the Hall of Power Machinery, and the Hall of Everyday Life
in Early America, This represented an increase of nearly 50 percent
in the total number of children participating in this program over the
previous year.

In addition to Mrs. Macdonald and her cochairman, Mrs. Gearhart,
the following members of the Junior League of Washington partici-
pated in the docent work: Mrs. George Armstrong, Mrs. Harrison
Brand III, Mrs. Dean Cowie, Mrs. Walter Edwards, Mrs. William
Graves, Mrs. H. F. Gregory, Miss Mary Harbert, Mrs. Edward La-
mont, Mrs. Ralph W. Lee ITI, Mrs. John Manfuso, Jr., Miss Grace
C. Marshall, Mrs. William McClure, Jr., Mrs. Robert McCormick,
Mrs. John A. Medaris, Mrs. William Minshall, Mrs. Minot Mulligan,
Mrs. George Pendleton, Mrs. John Schoenfeld, Mrs. W. James Sears,
Mrs. William D. Sloan, Jr., Mrs. Walter Slowinski, Mrs. James H.
Stallings, Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, Mrs. G. G. Thomas, Mrs. David
Toll, Mrs. Richard Wallis, Mrs. Marc A. White, and Mrs. George
A. Wyeth, Jr.

In the coming season, the docent service will be extended to two
more exhibit areas—the Hall of Gems and Minerals and the Hall of

Textiles.
BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Regent of the Smithsonian Institution
and chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Construction
of a Building for a Museum of History and Technology, turned the
first shovelful of earth on August 22, 1958, and excavation for the
foundations was commenced immediately. At the close of the fiscal
year the excavation and driving piles had been accomplished. Work-
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ing drawings and specifications for the building were completed by
the contract architects, McKim, Mead & White, and reviewed by the
Smithsonian Institution and the General Services Administration.
The construction of the superstructure was advertised for bids on
June 23, 1959.

Working drawings for the construction of additions to the Natural
History Building were completed by the contract architects, Mills,
Petticord & Mills, and were reviewed in detail by the staff of the
Smithsonian Institution. Thus the architectural planning for these
wings, which are urgently required to house the increasing scientific
collections and to provide efficient working facilities for the staff, has
been accomplished. The Congress recognized the immediate need
for these additions when it appropriated the funds for the archi-
tectural services to prepare the working drawings. The Smithsonian
Institution is now prepared to contract for the construction of the
additions when funds are appropriated for the purpose.

John E. Cudd, architect of the Public Buildings Service assigned
to the Smithsonian Institution, continued to advise on both building
projects, assisting in the transmittal of requirements to the architects
and in the review of the drawings and specifications. Many individ-
uals and sections of the Public Buildings Service contributed counsel
and advice.

The contract work for replacement of the roof covering on the
Natural History Building, the first phase of which was started in the
fiscal year of 1957, has been completed. This project included the
removal of the skylight glass, the installation of sheathing and metal
covering, and the installation of fluorescent lighting to provide uni-
form illumination in the three large halls.

The floors of the auditorium in the Natural History Building have
been re-covered to minimize the hazards of the sharply inclined aisles
as well as to provide a more noiseless walking surface.

A revised electrical system has been installed to serve the Arts and
Industries, Smithsonian, and Freer Buildings. This project required
the construction of two additional transformer vaults, the installation
of two transformers, and the extensive revision of the electrical serv-
ice in order to provide sufficient electrical capacity to serve the con-
stantly increasing needs of the Institution.

The east entrance of the Arts and Industries Building has been
remodeled to permit installation of a heavy-duty hydraulic elevator
for use in the handling of large and heavy objects from truck height
to floor level. The combination of this elevator with a full-height
rollup-type door will be especially useful during the transfer of mu-
seum objects from the Arts and Industries Building to the Museum of
History and Technology on its completion. Many former hazards oc-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 53

curring during handling of heavy objects at this entrance have been
eliminated.

All exterior surfaces of window sash and frames of the Natural
History Building were painted and glass replaced where necessary.
During the year many offices and workrooms have been renovated,
including those of the registrar, division of political history, and the
library.
CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Dr. A. C. Smith was appointed Director of the Museum of Natural
History effective August 28, 1958, following transfer from the Na-
tional Science Foundation.

John C. Ewers was promoted to Assistant Director of the Museum
of History and Technology on November 29, 1958.

Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, associate curator of archeology, resigned on
June 30, 1959, to accept an associate professorship in anthropology
at Columbia University. In the division of ethnology of the depart-
ment of anthropology, Dr. Gordon D. Gibson accepted an appoint-
ment as associate curator on July 30, 1958, and Dr. Eugene Knez as
associate curator on April 30, 1959.

Dr. Peter P. Vaughn, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology,
resigned on January 15, 1959, to accept an appointment tendered by
the University of California at Los Angeles. This vacancy was filled
by Dr. Nicholas Hotton III, who reported for duty June 1, 1959.

George B, Griffenhagen, curator of medical sciences since Decem-
ber 8, 1952, resigned on June 27, 1959, to accept the position of direc-
tor of communications for the American Pharmaceutical Association.

The curatorial vacancy in the division of philately and postal his-
tory was filled by the appointment of George T. Turner on July 7,
1958.

Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg was appointed as associate curator, divi-
sion of naval history, effective June 10,1959. Dr. Lundeberg has been
serving as consultant in the department of Armed Forces history since
January 19, 1959. Peter C. Welsh accepted an appointment as asso-
ciate curator in the department of civil history and reported for duty
June 15, 1959.

John D. Shortridge was appointed, effective July 28, 1958, associate
curator of musical instruments in the division of cultural history, and
G. Carroll Lindsay, associate curator of cultural history, was trans-
ferred to the Smithsonian Museum Service.

William L. Brown, zoological exhibits specialist and chief taxi-
dermist, retired on June 30, 1959, after 51 years 3 months of service
in the taxidermy shop. Mr. Brown was responsible for the modeling
and preparing for display of the major portion of the mammals ex-
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

hibited in the Natural History Building. He was recognized by co-
workers as one of the foremost skilled artisans and modelers of
naturally posed mammals and gained an enviable reputation for the
excellence of his work.

Dr. Egbert H. Walker, associate curator in the division of phanero-
gams, retired on June 30, 1959. Dr. Walker, who was appointed to
the Smithsonian staff on July 2, 1928, has specialized in the taxonomy
and pertinent bibliography of eastern Asiatic flowering plants. He
plans to continue, under the aegis of the American Institute of Biolog-
ical Sciences, his preparation of a supplement to Merrill and Wal-
ker’s “Bibliography of Eastern Asiatic Botany” (1938).

Clarence R. Shoemaker, who was appointed research associate fol-
lowing his retirement on March 30, 1944, as assistant curator of marine
invertebrates after having served more than 34 years as an employee
of the Institution, died on December 28, 1958, in Washington, D.C.
Mr. Shoemaker was a recognized amphipod specialist.

Dr. Frederick L. Lewton, research associate who retired on June
30, 1946, as curator of arts and industries after 44 years of service
in the U.S. National Museum, died on February 21, 1959, at Winter
Park, Fla.

Dr. John B. Reeside, Jr., research associate in invertebrate paleon-
tology since June 19, 1944, died in Hyattsville, Md., on July 2, 1958.
Dr. Reeside has also served for 17 years as chief of the paleontology
and stratigraphy branch of the U.S. Geological Survey.

Paul A. Straub, research associate in numismatics since July 6,
1955, died at Summit, N.J., on December 9, 1958. Mr. Straub donated
to the division of numismatics over 5,000 gold and silver coins repre-
senting a span of 400 years. Because of the many outstanding rari-
ties included in the collection, these coins as a whole are priceless
and, in addition, enable the Smithsonian Institution to display to
its visitors the largest exhibit of gold coins in the world.

Respectfully submitted,

Remineton Kenxoce, Dérector.

Dr. LronarD CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Bureau of American

Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, oflicework, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American In-
dians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection of
the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeologic
remains.”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES
(Prepared from data submitted by staff members)

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director of the Bureau, devoted a
portion of the fiscal year to office duties and the general supervision
of the activities of the Bureau and the River Basin Surveys. In
September he went to the Mesa Verde National Park in southwestern
Colorado as a consultant to the Research Committee of the National
Geographic Society. While there he visited a number of ruins that
are to be excavated to obtain new information on the aboriginal peo-
ple of the region and also to provide additional exhibit areas for
visitors to the park. Asa result of the conferences on the Mesa Verde,
the National Geographic Society made a grant to the National Park
Service to assist in the excavation program on Wetherill Mesa. It is
contemplated that the digging will continue over approximately six
field seasons. Following the sessions on the mesa, Dr. Roberts spent
a day at Hovenweep National Monument on the Colorado-Utah line
north of the McElmo Canyon area where the late Dr. J. Walter
Fewkes, a former Chief of the Bureau, carried on investigations some
50 years ago. Judging from Dr. Fewkes’s report and the condition
of the area today, there has been little change since he first described
the towers for which the area is famous.

After his return to Washington, D.C., Dr. Roberts went late in
September to Athens, Ga., and visited a number of projects in other
parts of Georgia and South Carolina where salvage operations were
underway, and participated in discussions relative to continuing work

536608—60-——5 55
06 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

in the area. During the early part of November he went to Austin,
Tex., where he attended the Second International Congress of His-
torians which was being held at the University of Texas. He served
as one of the commentators at the session on Pre-Hispanic peoples in
the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Following his
return to Washington he took part in the sessions of the American
Anthropological Association, and toward the end of the month went
to Lincoln, Nebr., to discuss various problems in Plains archeology
with members of the Missouri Basin project staff and to attend the
sessions of the Annual Plains Conference for Archeology. During
December Dr. Roberts was a member of a panel at one of the sessions
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, where
the subject of “Anthropology in the Federal Service” was presented.

In January Dr. Roberts attended the meetings of the Committee
for the Recovery of Archeological Remains held at the Department
of the Interior in Washington, D.C., and presented a summary of the
results of the preceding year’s activities of the River Basin Surveys.
He also took part in discussions pertaining to future plans for the
Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program. At the end of Jan-
uary he went again to Georgia where he met with representatives from
the National Park Service, various State and local institutions, and
assisted in the preparation of plans for a salvage program along the
Chattahoochee River in Alabama and Georgia. Early in June he
went to Colorado where he examined collections pertaining to early
inhabitants of the Western Plains area at the Denver Museum of Nat-
ural History and in the University Museum at Boulder. Returning
to Nebraska he spent several days at the field headquarters and lab-
oratory of the Missouri Basin project at Lincoln where plans were
being completed for the summer’s investigations in reservoir areas
along the Missouri River in South Dakota. From Nebraska Dr. Rob-
erts returned to Washington.

During the fal] and winter months Dr. Roberts reviewed several
draft manuscripts of technical reports and returned them to their
authors with suggestions for correction and revision. In addition,
he did the technical editing on a series of six reports on historic sites
archeology in the Missouri Basin which will appear as Bulletin 176
of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Arctic re-
search and activities. Material was assembled for an analysis of the
“Tunnit” legends of the Canadian Eskimos, which describe in some
detail the aboriginal inhabitants of the Canadian Arctic. On the
basis of recent archeological investigations, particularly those by
Dr, Collins in the Hudson Bay region, it appears that the mysterious
Tunnits were in fact the prehistoric Dorset Eskimos rather than the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

Thule as previously assumed. Also in preparation was an article
evaluating recent archeological discoveries in Alaska and northeast
Siberia and their bearing on pre-Eskimo and Eskimo culture se-
quences and relationships in the Bering Strait area.

In December Dr. Collins attended a 2-day conference on polar re-
search held at Hanover, N.H., under the auspices of Dartmouth Col-
lege and the National Academy of Sciences Committee on Polar Re-
search. The conference discussed the probable future course of polar
research in this country and the advisability of establishing a research
institute to coordinate and administer scientific research in the Are-
tic and Antarctic.

In June Dr. Collins went to Burke County, Ga., to examine an old
Indian village site near Waynesboro where Dr. Roland Steiner in the
1890’s had collected an unusually large number of flint implements,
now in the U.S. National Museum. The implements, numbering some
16,000, were of particular interest because most of them were deeply
patinated and were types which are now recognized as belonging to the
Archaic period ; one of the types, an unusual form of asymmetric knife
or scraper, was identical with a specialized form characteristic of
the prehistoric Dorset culture of the eastern Canadian Arctic.
Through the cooperation of Raymond De Laigle, clerk of court of
Burke County, and his brothers, Ray and Roy De Laigle, it was pos-
sible to locate the site from county records. It was found to be very
much as described by Steiner 70 years ago and still prolific in stone
artifacts and rejectage. A sizable collection of flint implements and
flakes from this and other sites around Waynesboro was brought
back for study.

Dr. Collins continued to serve as a member of the research commit-
tee of the Arctic Institute of North America, which evaluates appli-
cations for research grants, and of the publications committee, which
exercises supervision of the Arctic Institute’s quarterly journal Arctic,
its Technical Papers, and its series of Special Publications. As chair-
man of the directing committee, Dr. Collins also devoted considerable
time to the planning, supervision, and financing of the Arctic Bibli-
ography, which is prepared by the Arctic Institute for and with the
support of the Department of Defense. This comprehensive ref-
erence work abstracts and indexes the contents of publications in all
languages and in all fields of science relating to the Arctic and sub-
arctic regions of the world. Volume 8, containing abstracts of 5,623
publications in 1,281 pages, was scheduled for publication by the
Government Printing Office early in July 1959, and work on volume
9 is underway. Subject fields receiving special emphasis in volume
8 include body systems, human and other; botany; construction;
disease ; ecology ; economic and social conditions; environmental effects
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

of darkness, light, and low temperature on man, animals, and plants;
Eskimos; expeditions, especially Russian; fishes and fisheries; frost-
bite; geology; hypothermia; ice and ice conditions; insects; meteorol-
ogy; physiology, human and animal; Siberian native peoples; snow;
transportation. These and some 230 other topics are listed alpha-
betically in the index and, as necessary, also under the name of the
particular locality or major geographical region to which they per-
tain. Heretofore the Arctic Bibliography has been supported almost
entirely by the Department of Defense. During the past year addi-
tional generous support has been provided by the National Science
Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, and the National
Geographic Society.

Dr. Collins also made plans for a Russian translation project
whereby the Arctic Institute, with the support of the National Science
Foundation, would make available to American anthropologists
translations of Russian publications on the archeology, ethnology,
and physical anthropology of Siberia.

Dr. William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, spent the first part of the
fiscal year in Washington at work on various projects related to his
Seminole and Seneca research. He also prepared for publication a
paper on the economic uses of Zamia, a cycad with a large under-
ground stem from which starch has been extracted for centuries by
various Indian and other inhabitants of the West Indies and Florida.
Another paper brought to completion reconsiders, with negative re-
sults, the ethnological evidence for contacts between Indians of the
southeastern United States and the West Indies (previously widely
considered to have been quite significant for the history of the culture
of the southeastern tribes). Brief papers were completed on the his-
tory of the classification of eastern Siouan languages (published in
American Anthropologist), on the authorship of J. W. Powell’s
famous classification of North American Indian languages published
by the Bureau of American Ethnology in 1892, and on two new tech-
niques for ethnographic fieldwork. Dr. Sturtevant’s pamphlet
“Anthropology as a Career,” issued by the Institution in July 1958,
proved so useful to students and their advisers throughout the country
that a second printing was required in May 1959.

In mid-February Dr. Sturtevant left for Florida to begin 6 months’
fieldwork among the Seminole Indians, with the support of a grant
from the National Science Foundation. This was a continuation of
the fieldwork Dr. Sturtevant conducted among these people before
joining the Smithsonian staff. Besides filling in gaps in informa-
tion obtained during previous trips, Dr. Sturtevant has concentrated
on studying Seminole knowledge and uses of plants, both wild and
cultivated. These Indians are the only ones in the eastern United
SECRETARY’S REPORT 59

States who still use agricultural techniques once common to all the
Indians of this region but heretofore undescribed by careful observers.
Fields are cleared by cutting and burning, planted without fertilizer,
and soon abandoned for new fields when fertility decreases and weeds
become difficult to control. In addition to the ancient North Ameri-
can Indian crops—corn, pumpkins, and beans—the Seminole grow
a number of plants that were introduced from the West Indies during
and after the 18th century (banana, sugarcane, sweetpotato, taro,
elephantear [Xanthosoma], manioc, papaya, guava, citrus). Semi-
nole knowledge of wild plants is also extensive, and they still use
many of them for medicine, food, and in the manufacture of utensils
and other artifacts. Dr. Sturtevant found that at least two dozen
fields are being cultivated with aboriginal methods, but intensive
study of these fields and other aspects of Seminole society and culture
has been even more difficult than he anticipated, owing largely to
increased political factionalism and antagonism toward inquisitive
outsiders.

Dr. Sturtevant compiled genealogical information preparatory to
collaboration with Dr. John Buettner-Janusch, a physical anthro-
pologist at Yale University, on a study of the genetic characteristics
(chiefly blood groups) of the Seminole, who certainly have fewer
non-Indian ancestors than any other surviving eastern tribes.

Besides collecting herbarium specimens of plants used and recog-
nized by the Indians, Dr. Sturtevant made an ethnological collection
to supplement the Seminole holdings of the National Museum. He
paid particular attention to clothing, since Seminole styles have
changed rapidly but are still unique in many respects, and objects
made for sale. The latter are an important part of Seminole econ-
omy and involve objects quite different from those usually made for
sale by other tribes.

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, ethnologist, joined the staff of the Bureau in
April but did not report for duty until June as he was completing
teaching duties at the University of Buffalo. Dr. Chafe spent the
3 weeks before departing on June 29 in preparing for fieldwork on the
Seneca reservations in western New York State. He will gather
material that will enable him to complete a Seneca dictionary and
will make further tape recordings of religious and mythological texts.
This work was started under the sponsorship of the New York State
Museum and Science Service and is being continued as a cooperative
effort.

On June 3, 1958, Carl F. Miller was temporarily transferred from
the staff of the River Basin Surveys to that of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology in order that he might continue directing the excava-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Expedition which had been started in 1956 at Russell Cave in Ala-
bama. This third season of work continued through September 29
and brought to completion the investigations at that site. Russell
Cave has contributed extensive information pertaining to Indian
peoples who inhabited that area over a considerable period of time.
Several cultural horizons are represented, the earliest of which is
some 9,020-++350 years old on the basis of carbon-14 dating of charcoal
from a hearth at that level. The first peoples apparently had a com-
pletely hunting-fishing economy and from that progressed through
what is called the Archaic period to a more sedentary mode of life
and became makers of pottery. The latter handicraft appeared at
about 3500 B.C. The culture subsequently developed into what is
known as the Early Woodland and continued through stages known
as Middle and Late Woodland. It was during these three stages that
agriculture became a part of their economy. The latest occupation
seems to have been by Chickamauga Cherokee Indians in the early
1600’s. During the 1958 season Mr. Miller reached the original and
lowest floor in the cave, some 43 feet below the present floor. How-
ever, no evidence of occupation was found below the 37-foot level.
During the course of the digging he found a fifth burial which helped
to throw additional light on the mortuary customs of the people who
inhabited the cave.

While in northern Alabama, Mr. Miller visited several other caves,
also Indian sites in the open, and studied many local collections in
order to correlate the cultural remains from Russel] Cave with those
of the surrounding areas, particularly those attributable to Early
Man phases. Mr. Miller also spoke before different groups of people
in Bridgeport and Huntsville, Ala., and in South Pittsburg, Richard
City, and Tullahoma, Tenn. Following his return to Washington on
October 4, Mr. Miller devoted his time to the preparation of reports.
In November and December he attended meetings of the American
Indian Ethnohistoric Conference and the American Anthropological
Association in Washington, D.C., and was one of the speakers at the
Southeastern Archeological Conference in Chapel Hill, N.C. Mr.
Miller returned to duty on the River Basin Surveys staff December
14, 1958.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

The River Basin Surveys continued its program for salvage arche-
ology in areas to be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the construction
of large dams. These investigations were carried on in cooperation
with the National Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of
the Department of the Interior, the Corps of Engineers of the De-
partment of the Army, and several State and local institutions. Dur-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

ing the fiscal year 1958-59 the work of the River Basin Surveys was
supported by a transfer of $162,000 from the National Park Service to
the Smithsonian Institution. Of that sum, $137,000 was for use in
the Missouri Basin and $25,000 was for investigations along the
Chattahoochee River in Alabama and Georgia. The Missouri Basin
Project had a carryover of $22,173 on July 1, 1958, and that, with
the new appropriation, provided a total of $159,173 for the program
in that area. The grand total of funds available for the River Basin
Surveys for 1958-59 was $184,173.

Field investigations throughout the year consisted mainly of exca-
vations, although some limited surveys were carried on. On July 1,
1958, 10 parties were in the field, all of them working in the Missouri
Basin in South Dakota. Five of the parties were doing intensive
digging in the Big Bend Reservoir area near Fort Thompson, four
were excavating, and one was doing survey testing in the Oahe Reser-
voir area north of Pierre. Most of the field parties had returned to
their headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr., by the end of August. Two
small parties made brief investigations in the Merritt and Big Bend
Reservoir areas during December and January. In February three
parties began excavations and test excavations along the Chattahoo-
chee River in Alabama-Georgia. The latter continued operations
until late in June, when work was stopped and the men returned to
their headquarters. Early in June a party from the Missouri Basin
project headquarters began excavations in several sites in the construc-
tion area for the Big Bend Dam in South Dakota.

As of June 30, 1959, reservoir areas where archeological surveys
had been made or excavations carried on since the beginning of field-
work by the River Basin Surveys in the summer of 1946 totaled
254, located in 29 States. Two lock projects and four canal areas
had also been examined. The survey parties have located 4,909
archeological sites, and of that number 1,017 have been recommended
for excavation or limited testing. The term “excavation” in this re-
spect does not imply the complete uncovering of a site, but rather
digging only enough of it to obtain a good sample of the materials
and information to be found there. While many of the locations
are unquestionably of sufficient importance to warrant complete exca-
vation, the needs of the salvage program make it impossible to con-
duct so extensive an investigation at any one location.

Preliminary appraisal reports have been issued for all the reservoir
areas surveyed, with the exception of the three along the Chattahoo-
chee River. The manuscripts of two of those reports have been com-
pleted and the third is well underway, so that all of them will be
processed early in the coming fiscal year. The preliminary appraisal
report for the Big Bend Reservoir area in South Dakota was mime-
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ographed and distributed in October 1958. Since the start of the
Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program, 185 appraisal reports
have been issued. In a number of cases the information obtained
from several reservoir projects located within a single basin or sub-
basin have been combined in one report and for that reason there is
a discrepancy between the number of reservoirs surveyed and that of
the reports issued.

At the end of the fiscal year, 434 sites in 54 reservoir basins located
in 19 different States had been either partially or extensively dug.
In some reservoir areas only a single site was excavated, while in
others a whole series was studied. At least one example of each type
of site recommended by the preliminary surveys had been investi-
gated. Where some of the larger and more complex types of village
remains were involved, it was necessary to dig a number of somewhat
similar sites in order to obtain full information about that particular
phase of aboriginal culture. The sites investigated represent cultural
complexes ranging from the early hunting peoples of approximately
10,000 years ago to early historic Indian village remains and frontier
trading and army posts of European origin. Reports on the results
obtained in some of the excavations have appeared in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, in Bulletins of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, and in various scientific journals. During the year River
Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 9 through 14, comprising Bulletin 166
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, were published and dis-
tributed. The papers consist of three reports on excavations in the
Missouri Basin, one on digging in the Alatoona Reservoir in Georgia,
one on investigations in six sites in the Jim Woodruff Reservoir basin
in Florida, and one on historic sites in and adjacent to the Jim Wood-
ruff Reservoir area in Florida-Georgia. The Missouri Basin reports
were written by Paul L. Cooper, Robert B. Cumming, Jr., and Carlyle
S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr. Those pertaining to the South-
east were prepared by William H. Sears, Mark F. Boyd, and Ripley
P. Bullen. River Basin Papers Nos. 15-21, which will constitute
Bulletin No. 176 of the Bureau of American Ethnology, were sent
to the printer in March. That series of papers pertains to studies
in historic sites in the Fort Randall, Oahe, and Garrison Reservoir
areas in South Dakota and North Dakota. Nine detailed technical
reports were completed during the year and are ready for publication
when the funds sufficient to cover their cost are available. In addi-
tion, the first and second drafts of seven technical reports were
finished. The final drafts should be ready early in the next fiscal year.

As of June 30, 1959, the distribution of the reservoir projects that
had been surveyed for archeological remains was as follows: Ala-
bama, 4; Arkansas, 1; California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 8; Idaho,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

11; Illinois, 2; Iowa, 3; Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana,
2; Minnesota, 1; Mississippi, 1; Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New
Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 18; Ohio, 2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27;
Pennsylvania, 2; South Carolina, 1; South Dakota, 10; Tennessee, 4;
Texas, 19; Virginia, 2; Washington, 11; West Virginia, 2; Wyoming,
22.

Excavations were made or were underway in reservoir basins in:
Arkansas, 1; California, 5; Colorado, 1; Iowa, 1; Georgia, 7; Kansas,
5; Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 4;
Oklahoma, 2; Oregon, 4; South Carolina, 2; South Dakota, 4; Texas,
7; Virginia, 1; Washington, 4; West Virginia, 1; Wyoming, 2. Only
the work of River Basin Surveys or that which was in direct coopera-
tion between the Surveys and local institutions is included in the
preceding figures. Investigations carried on under agreements be-
tween the National Park Service and State and local institutions have
not been included because complete information about them is not
available.

Throughout the year helpful cooperation was received from the
National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, Corps of Engi-
neers and other Army personnel, and various State and local insti-
tutions. The Corps of Engineers provided transportation and guides
for work in one of the reservoir areas and the Commanding Officer
at Fort. Benning in Georgia assigned certain Army personnel to as-
sist in some of the investigations made in that portion of the Walter
F. George Reservoir basin which lies in the Fort Benning Reserva-
tion. Helicopters were also furnished on several occasions to enable
the archeologists to take aerial photographs of several sites in the
reservoir area. In the Missouri Basin temporary headquarters and
living accommodations were provided at several projects and storage
space was made available so that much of the field equipment could be
left at Pierre, S. Dak., during the winter months. The construction
agency lent mechanical equipment in several instances to assist in
heavy excavation and the backfilling of trenches and test pits. The
various party leaders from the River Basin Surveys were given as-
sistance by field personnel of all the agencies and the work was greatly
expedited as a result. The National Park Service continued to serve
as the liaison between the various agencies in the field as well as in
Washington. The estimates and justifications for the funds needed
to carry on the salvage program were also prepared by the Park
Service. In Georgia the University of Georgia, the Georgia Histori-
cal Commission, and various local clubs and groups of citizens were
particularly helpful to the parties working along the Chattahoochee
River.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

The main office in Washington continued general supervision of
the program, while the field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln,
Nebr., was responsible for the activities in the Missouri Basin, and
in addition provided equipment and office assistance for the parties
engaged in the Chattahoochee River project. The materials collected
by excavating parties in the Missouri Basin, as well as those from
the Chattahoochee Basin, were processed at the Lincoln laboratory.

Washington office —The main headquarters of the River Basin Sur-
veys at the Bureau of American Ethnology continued under the
direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. As previously men-
tioned, Carl F. Miller, archeologist, was detailed to the regular
Bureau staff for the period July 3 to December 14, 1958. After
his return to the River Basin Surveys staff, Mr. Miller completed
the final revision of his report on the “Archeology of the John H.
Kerr Reservoir, Southern Virginia and Northern North Carolina.”
The report includes a summary of the many sites located during the
course of the original survey of the area, as well as detailed informa-
tion on those which were excavated by Mr. Miller. After submit-
ting the John H. Kerr report, Mr. Miller began work on the final
report pertaining to the investigations that he made at the Hoster-
man site (838PO7) in the Oahe Reservoir area, South Dakota, dur-
ing a previous field season. The report was approximately one-half
complete at the end of the year. During the winter and spring
months Mr. Miller spoke before several teachers’ organizations in the
Washington area, addressed a meeting of the Narragansett Archeo-
logical Society at Providence, R.I., the Archeological Society of
Virginia in Richmond, and the Southern Branch of the Archeologi-
cal Society of Maryland at Bethesda, Md. Most of his talks pertained
to the Russell Cave explorations, although the one given at Bethesda
compared the materials from the John H. Kerr Reservoir with those
from the Shepard Barracks site in Maryland where excavations were
carried on by the Maryland Society. In June, Mr. Miller read proof
on an article about Russell Cave, which is to appear in a book on
National Parks and Monuments in the United States being issued
by the National Geographic Society. In January Mr. Miller received
the Franklin L. Burr Award from the National Geographic Society
in “recognition of his outstanding contributions to the science of
geography and early American history through the archeological
investigations of Russell Cave, Alabama.” At the end of the fiscal
year Mr. Miller was working in the Washington office.

On October 13, 1958, Harold A. Huscher was transferred from
the Missouri Basin project to the Chattahoochee River project. He
was under the general supervision of the Washington office but con-
tinued to work at the headquarters in Lincoln, Nebr., where he
SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

completed reports on the surveys made during the previous year at
the Oliver and Columbia Reservoir projects on the Chattahoochee
River. He also virtually completed the first draft of his preliminary
appraisal of the archeological explorations in the Walter F. George
Reservoir area. In early February, Mr. Huscher returned to the
Chattahoochee Basin and from then until late June carried on a
series of investigations in the Columbia and Walter F. George Res-
ervoir basins. While working in Alabama and Georgia, Mr. Huscher
spoke before numerous clubs and local groups, took part in several
radio broadcasts devoted to archeological problems along the Chatta-
hoochee River, and appeared on several TV broadcasts. He returned
to the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr., on June 30.

In February, Robert W. Neuman and G. Hubert Smith were trans-
ferred to the Chattahoochee River project and under general direc-
tion from the Washington office proceeded to that area. Mr. Neu-
man, during the period February 9 to June 23, carried on excavations
in the vicinity of the Columbia Dam axis in Georgia and did test
digging in one large mound on the Alabama side of the river. While
in Georgia, Mr. Neuman spoke before various local clubs and groups
of interested citizens. He also appeared on a TV interview pertain-
ing to the salvage program and spoke before the Macon, Ga., Archeo-
logical Society. He returned to the field headquarters at Lincoln,
Nebr., on June 27. Mr. Smith worked at two locations in the Walter
F. George Reservoir area, one in Georgia and one in Alabama. He
also talked before a number of local organizations. Mr. Smith
returned to the field headquarters on June 17.

Alabama-Georgia.—During the period February through June a
series of test excavations was carried on at a number of sites in the
areas to be flooded by the Columbia Dam and Lock and the Walter F.
George Dam and Lock. Robert W. Neuman worked in seven sites
on the Georgia side of the Chattahoochee River in the vicinity of the
Columbia Dam axis. Six of the sites dated from the Archaic period
and extended into Middle Woodland times. The seventh site on the
Georgia side represented a historic Creek occupation dating about
A.D, 1830. A good collection of materials was obtained from all
these sites and the specimens will aid materially in working out the
cultural stages in that area. On the Alabama side of the river Mr.
Neuman excavated in the remains of a large mound which was being
destroyed by the river. Some work had been done there many years
ago by Clarence W. Moore, but there was little information pertain-
ing to the general character of the mound. Mr. Neuman obtained
information relative to the method of its construction and several
stages in its growth. Further work is contemplated at the site.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Harold A. Huscher carried on a series of excavations in four sites
on the axis of the Columbia Dam 214 miles below Columbia, Ala.
The area is one of extensive sandy bottoms and, with minor varia-
tions, the sites produce Weeden Island pottery types in the surface
levels and to a depth of about 2 feet. There is also a scattering of
Stallings Island potsherds, steatite fragments, and large heavy-
stemmed projectile points down to about 414 feet below the surface.
Some of the flint flakes and points from the deeper levels have been
completely altered chemically to a chalky residue. Similar points
were found previously on the Macon plateau by Dr. A. R. Kelley
and were described by him in Anthropological Paper No. 1, which
appeared in Bulletin 119 of the Bureau. Mr. Huscher made maps
and detailed excavation plans for these sites.

Construction work was underway on the Walter F. George Dam
in early February and Mr. Huscher made a series of 10- by 10-foot
test. excavations in three sites which were threatened with immedi-
ate damage. One of them at the Georgia end of the dam axis yielded
a variety of trade goods, including the mechanism of a flintlock.
The site probably represents the location of a Creek village of about
A.D, 1800. Another site on the Georgia side, a short distance above
the dam, and one on the Alabama end of the dam axis, produced
plain Early Mississippian pottery. The material from the Alabama
site indicated pottery with angled-loop handles similar to the ware
that has been called Bibb Plain. The pottery from the Georgia
site had flat strap handles with vertical incised decoration. The
pottery characteristics are so definite that it is possible to correlate
the wares with those from other sites in the general area.

Mr. Huscher later moved upstream and began the investigation of
two sites on the Fort Benning Military Reservation. One of them
on the Georgia side is an Early Lamar site and seems to contain a
single “pure” component. The site had been destroyed to a large
extent by Army bulldozers building a road, but trenches in two
separate remnants revealed post-hole patterns that apparently rep-
resented two rectangular houses. A nearby midden area yielded a
good representative sample of pottery types associated with the
houses. The second site was on the Alabama side of the river just
north of Uchee Creek. It is a Swift Creek-Weeden Island site and
has an older underlying level. Sgt. David W. Chase, curator of the
Infantry Museum at Fort Benning, Ga., had done some work there,
and because of the evidence he had obtained, indicating that it would
be a type site for the Swift Creek-Weeden Island phase of Middle
Woodland in the area, it was extensively tested by the Huscher party.
Beneath the Middle Woodland levels in a portion of the site there is
a bed of white sand which has yielded fiber-tempered potsherds of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

the Stallings Island type and fragments from steatite vessels. This
stratigraphic evidence augments that found in other locations along
the river. Sergeant Chase turned over to the River Basin Surveys
party extensive notes and collections resulting from his previous
work at both sites. He also assisted Mr. Huscher in making detailed
plane-table maps of the sites and plans of the excavations.

G. Hubert Smith excavated in two historic sites in the Walter F.
George Reservoir Basin. One of them on the Georgia side of the
river was the location of the village of Roanoke, a colonial settlement
that had originally been occupied by Creek Indians but was subse-
quently taken over by the whites who lived there from 1831 until the
community was destroyed by Indians in May 1836. Because of the
long period in which the area was under heavy cultivation, Mr. Smith
was unable to determine the settlement pattern or to obtain outlines
for any of the village structures. He did, however, obtain an ex-
tensive collection of specimens attributable both to the white occupa-
tion and that by the Indians. Careful study of the material may
provide information that will be useful in dating some of the other
late Indian sites along the river. From the Roanoke site Mr. Smith
went to one on the Alabama side in Russell County, which was the
location of a fort built and occupied by the Spaniards from 1689 to
1691. The fort known as Apalachicola was probably the most north-
ern outpost of the Spanish occupation in the Southeast and was
erected for the purpose of stemming the southward expansion of
the English. The Spaniards possibly did not occupy the fort con-
tinuously, but lived at times in an adjacent Indian village. The fort
was destroyed by the Spaniards to prevent its falling into the hands
of English traders from the Carolinas who were operating among
the Creek Indians. Mr. Smith did not dig in the fort proper but
confined his investigations to the area immediately surrounding it in
order to delimit the extent of the fortifications and to determine the
proximity of Indian occupation. The fort remains will not be sub-
jected to flooding by the Walter F. George Reservoir, but the maxi-
mum pool level will not be far distant and may damage the remains
to some extent as a result of seepage. Consequently it is thought that
a thorough study should be made of the site at a later date. Further-
more, associations between Spanish and Indian objects will provide
a helpful checking point in establishing chronology of the area, par-
ticularly since the exact dates for the fort are known. After complet-
ing the investigations at the two sites, Mr. Smith assisted Mr. Huscher
in making detailed plane-table maps and trench plans for both.

In addition to the test excavations described above, Mr. Huscher
located and recorded 10 new sites in the Walter F. George and Co-
lumbia areas and made collections from 46 sites. At the end of the
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

season’s work along the Chattahoochee, all the records and collections
of the three field parties were sent to the laboratory of the River Basin
Surveys at Lincoln, Nebr., for processing there and for use in the
preparation of reports on the investigations.

The only other work by the River Basin Surveys pertaining to
Georgia was that of Carl F. Miller, who completed a report en the
test digging that he did during the previous year at the Tugaloo site
in the Hartwell Reservoir area. However, the University of Georgia
in cooperation with the National Park Service carried on a series of
investigations in the Oliver Reservoir Basin and at the Standley
Farm site, also known as Stark’s Clay Landing, in the Walter F.
George Reservoir on the Georgia side of the river. Work was con-
tinuing at the latter location at the end of the fiscal year.

Arkansas.—No fieldwork was carried on in Arkansas during the
year ended June 30, 1959. However, a detailed technical report,
“Archeological Investigations in the Dardanelle Reservoir Area of
West-Central Arkansas,” was completed by Dr. Warren W. Caldwell.
The report consists of 85 typed pages, 2 maps, 8 plates, and 6 text
figures. It will be published as a River Basin Surveys paper when
printing funds for that purpose are available.

Kansas.—The only work done by the River Basin Surveys pertain-
ing to Kansas during the fiscal year was the completion of a detailed
technical report on the excavation of four sites in the Lovewell Reser-
voir area on White Rock Creek in Jewell County in the north-central
part of the State. The report was written by Robert W. Neuman and
is entitled, “Archeological Salvage Investigations in the Lovewell
Reservoir Area, Kansas.” It consists of 84 typed pages, 12 plates,
and 3 text figures, and will be published as a River Basin Surveys
paper.

The Kansas State Historical Society at Topeka carried on surveys
and did some test digging in the Pomona and Melvern Reservoir
areas under a cooperative agreement with the National Park Service.
The Pomona Dam is to be built on the 110-Mile Creek, and Melvern
Dam will be in the Marais de Cygnes River.

Missouri River Basin—The Missouri Basin project continued to
operate from the field headquarters and laboratory at 1517 O Street,
Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served as chief of the
project throughout the year. Activities included work on all four
phases of the salvage program: (1) Survey, (2) excavation, (3) anal-
ysis, and (4) reporting. Most of the effort during the summer months
was directed toward the second phase, with only minor attention to
the first phase. The third and fourth phases received the major at-
tention in the winter months. The special chronology program, be-
gun last fiscal year, was continued.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 69

At the beginning of the fiscal year the permanent staff, in addition
to the chief, consisted of six archeologists (one of whom was on loan
to the National Park Service), one clerk-stenographer, one file clerk,
one clerk-typist, one photographer, one illustrator, and four museum
aides. ‘Temporary employees included 1 archeologist, 1 physical an-
thropologist, 2 field assistants, 3 cooks, and 90 crewmen.

During the year, 1 archeologist was transferred to the staff from
the Chattahoochee Project on July 21, 1 cook joined the temporary
staff on July 9, and 16 temporary crewmen were added in July. Dur-
ing the last week of August and the first week of September, all
temporary crewmen and three cooks were terminated, and one cook
was transferred from that position to laboratory assistant. The tem-
porary archeologist was terminated on September 12, and the two
field assistants were terminated on August 29 and September 5, re-
spectively. The physical anthropologist was terminated on September
2, and one museum aide was transferred from full time to half time
on September 15. The archeologist on temporary-detached duty with
the National Park Service returned to the permanent staff on October
1. One archeologist was transferred on October 13 to the Chatta-
hoochee Basin project.

On September 23, one archeologist was assigned temporary-detached
duty for 8 weeks with the National Park Service to conduct excava-
tions at Fort Laramie National Monument, Wyo. He returned to the
Missouri Basin project on November 15. On December 4, one arche-
ologist was assigned temporary-detached duty for 3 weeks with the
National Park Service to conduct excavations at George Washington
Carver National Monument, Mo. He returned to the Missouri Basin
project on December 21. On February 9, two archeologists were trans-
ferred for temporary duty with the Chattahoochee Basin Project.
They returned to the Missouri Basin project on June 17 and 29, re-
spectively. One museum aide resigned to take other employment on
March 20, and one archeologist was permanently transferred to the
National Park Service on May 30, to join the staff of the Wetherill
Mesa Research project, Mesa Verde National Park, Colo. During
June, six temporary crewmen were employed.

At the end of the fiscal year there were five archeologists, in addi-
tion to the chief, one administrative assistant, one clerk-stenographer,
one file clerk, one clerk-typist, one illustrator, one photographer, and
three museum aides on the permanent staff, and one laboratory assist-
ant and six crewmen on the temporary staff.

During the year there were 14 Smithsonian Institution River Basin
Surveys field parties at work within the Missouri Basin. Of the 14
Missouri Basin parties, 5 were at work in the Oahe Reservoir area
during July and August, and 5 others were at work in the Big Bend
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Reservoir during July and August. Two small parties were at work
during December and January, respectively, in brief investigations
in the Merritt and Big Bend Reservoir areas. One party was at work
in the Big Bend Reservoir area and a second (mobile) party was
working in the general Missouri Basin area in June.

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included
10 parties from State institutions operating under cooperative agree-
ments with the National Park Service and in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution in the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage
Program.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, in the Oahe Reservoir area,
Dr. Robert L. Stephenson and a crew of 20 men were engaged in
excavations at the Sully site (89SL4). This was the third and final
season of work at this, the largest of the earth-lodge village sites in
the Missouri Basin. The site was situated on the second terrace of the
Missouri River, 21 miles above Pierre, in Sully County, S.Dak. The
1958 investigations were concentrated largely in the central and east-
ern portions of the site. These, with those of the two preceding
seasons, provided a reasonably equal sample of features and specimens
from all portions of the site. Excavation technique differed some-
what in the 1958 season. During the 1957 season, whole houses were
excavated, but the surrounding areas outside were not examined. In
1958 only one house was excavated in this manner. In the other ex-
cavation units, only half houses were dug, but the surrounding areas
on three sides of each house were also excavated. In this way portions
of 19 houses were investigated, with most of the essential structural
details obtained from all but two of them. Experience of the previous
seasons’ work at this site suggested that more could be learned of the
total village pattern in this way, and that excavation of complete
houses was neither necessary nor economically feasible. Besides the
house areas, half of a ceremonial lodge, two large cache-pit areas, a
scaffold area, a midden heap, and another portion of the “plaza” were
also excavated, and two midden areas were tested. Thus all or parts
of 32 of the nearly 400 houses have been excavated, as have been 3
of the 4 ceremonial lodges, a scaffold area, several cache-pit areas,
midden heaps, and a “plaza.” Numerous tests were made in an effort
to locate a fortification ditch or stockade, but none was found.

Emphasis was placed, in the field, upon securing architectural in-
formation, and good superposition of varying types of dwelling
houses was obtained. Two distinct, circular, dwelling-house types
were present, one with a series of widely spaced large wall posts of
an early period, and one with a series of small, closely set wall posts
of a later period. There was considerable variation within each type.
The earlier type had short entryways, while the later one had medium-
Secretary's Report, 1959 PLATE 1

1. Seminole settlement in the Everglades.

ee

2. Digging up edible roots of elephant-ear (Xanthosoma sp.), a plant cultivated
by the Seminole.
Secretary's Report, 1959

Catt tis

: . 2 4 * : ~
: _ :
2 deaiiee © :
af ha ~ Fn — “=
£ “3 MESEPT Soe, byt : Sante re

2. Corn growing in a Seminole field in the

Big Cypress Swamp.

Secretary's Report, 1959 PLATE 3

1. Excavation of Feature 1, a portion of a circular house exposed in slump bank along
Missouri River at the Ziltener Site (39SL10) in the Oahe Reservoir area, South Dakota.
Most of the house had washed away but the remainder was undisturbed, with a fair
floor and post holes dug into soft silt. River Basin Surveys.

2. Crew excavating remains at the Truman Mound Site (39BF224), a group of six
burial mounds of the pre-earth-lodge peoples in the Big Bend Reservoir area, South
Dakota. River Basin Surveys.
Secretary's Report, 1959 PLATE 4

(See legend on opposite page.)
PLATE 4

Representative examples of pottery vessels from various sites in the Missouri Basin.

(a) From site 25FT17, an Aksarben Aspect site in Medicine Creek Reservoir, Nebraska.
(b) From Leavitt Site (39ST215), Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota. (c) From White Swan
Mound Site (39CH9), a Woodland Site in Fort Randall Reservoir, South Dakota. (d) From
Leavitt Site (39ST215). (e) Stanley Tool Impressed vessel from Phillips Ranch Site
(39ST14), Oahe Reservoir. (f) From Leavitt Site (39ST215). (g) Colombe Collared
Rim vessel from Phillips Ranch Site (39ST14). (h) Foreman Cord Impressed vessel from
Dodd Site (39ST30), Oahe Reservoir. (i) Mitchell Broad Trailed vessel from Dodd Site
(39ST30). (j) From Cheyenne River Site (39ST1), Oahe Reservoir. (k) Stanley Braced
Rim vessel from Dodd Site (39ST30). (1) Truman Plain Rim vessel from Truman
Mounds Site (39BF224), Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota. (m) From White Swan
Mound Site (39CH9). (n) From Site (48FR84), Boysen Reservoir, Wyoming. Only
known restored vessel from Wyoming. (0) From Leavitt Site (39ST215).
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7a

to-long entryways. The earlier houses were of rather uniform size
(about 36 feet in diameter), while the later ones ranged from 19
feet to 47 feet in diameter. A unique feature was the presence of two
concentrically superimposed ceremonial lodges, using almost the same
floor level. One was 77 feet in diameter, superimposed upon one that
was 64 feet in diameter. All the large ceremonial lodges excavated
at the Sully site (as well as several of the later dwelling houses) were
actually polyhedral rather than round, and had between 9 and 12
sides.

All occupations of this site were relatively late, with both major
components (additional minor components have yet to be differenti-
ated) in the circular-house tradition and probably relating to the
period between roughly A.D. 1600 and 1750. The pottery sample
and other artifact inventory is large and varied, but no assessment
of it has been made at this time. This field party disbanded on Au-
gust 23, after 10 weeks in the field.

The second River Basin Surveys field party in the Oahe Reservoir
area consisted of a crew of eight men, under the leadership of William
M. Bass III, physical anthropologist. This party devoted the major
part of the season to excavations in the burial areas of the Sully site
(39SL4). This was a continuation of work begun in 1957 on a some-
what smaller scale. Work was concentrated in three areas (Features
218, 219, and 220) and 161 burials were recovered, bringing the num-
ber of burials excavated at the Sully site to 224. Only a preliminary
analysis of the skeletal remains has been made. Bodies were interred
in shallow oval pits dug into an old surface about 1 foot below the
current soil level. Burials were predominantly fiexed or semiflexed
and oriented with the head toward the west or northwest. A group
burial, recovered from Feature 218, appears to be the remnant of a
scaffold burial. Many of the graves had a covering of small poles,
but few had grave goods included. The grave goods that were re-
covered included pottery vessels, ornaments, and an occasional cat-
linite pipe.

The Bass party, in addition to work at the Sully site, excavated
nine rock-cairn burials at the Whistling Hawk site (39SL39), a
rather ephemeral site on the same terrace 2 miles east of the Sully
site. Burials were found in each cairn, but significant skeletal re-
mains were scanty, as most of the bones were badly deteriorated.
Artifacts with these burials were few.

At the end of the field season, the Bass party devoted a short period
to the excavation and collection of a group of burials and associated
artifacts from a site (89YK202) recently discovered in the course of
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service construction work near the Gavins
Point Dam. Only the prompt action and complete cooperation

5386608—60——_6
i2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

of the Commission, the local contractor, the Corps of Engineers,
members of the Yankton College staff, the National Park Service,
and the Smithsonian Institution made this salvage operation success-
ful. The burials proved to be of a group of Woodland people and
included an appreciable number of personal ornaments, as well as a
good series of skeletal remains. This party disbanded on August 23,
after 8 weeks in the field.

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area
at the beginning of the year was comprised of a crew of 10 men under
the direction of Charles H. McNutt. This party conducted excava-
tions at a series of sites in the Fielder Bottom-Telegraph Flat area
near the Sully site. The work was a continuation of excavations be-
gun the season before, designed to sample the smaller sites in the
immediate vicinity of the Sully site, in order to round out the story
of the prehistoric occupations of this once heavily populated area.
At the Sully School site (89SL7), one house was excavated in its
entirety, and portions of four more houses were exposed. Three test
trenches were cut across the fortification ditch, and a large series of
midden tests, cache pits, and subsidiary features were excavated. Be-
cause of the two seasons’ work there the total artifact sample is ex-
tensive. The architectural information recovered is less satisfactory.
The gumbo fill present in many of the features made it extremely
difficult to determine structural characteristics. Two occupations were
present, one represented by rectangular houses and pottery similar
to that from the Thomas Riggs site, the other by circular houses and
pottery in the La Roche tradition. Only part of the site was fortified.
The rectangular-house occupation was confined within the fortifica-
tion ditch, but the circular-house occupation was found both within
and without the ditch. There is additional ceramic evidence that the
fortification probably dates from the former, rather than from the
latter. occupation.

The Ziltener site (89SL10) was located along a treeless cutbank
of the Missouri River bottoms approximately 3 miles southeast of
the Sully site. Informants had reported that a number of skulls and
artifacts were eroded from-the bank from time to time by the annual
spring rises in the river. The bank was carefully watched for several
seasons by River Basin Surveys parties, but with little success. In
1958 a storage pit and a house profile were visible, and a small cache
was found where it had slumped from the cutbank. The remainder
of the house and the storage pit were excavated. The house was
circular, and the pottery of the La Roche tradition.

The Nolz site (89SL40) was located on a terrace remnant below
and somewhat to the southwest of the Sully site. Three very faint
house depressions were visible as surface features. Two of these
SECRETARY’S REPORT 73

were trenched and the third was half excavated. Central hearths
were found in all cases. Three additional tests were made on the
site. Artifact recovery was fair, but architectural data were poorly
represented, owing to the shallow depth of fill above house floors
and the clayey nature of the soil. The houses were probably circular
and the pottery in the La Roche tradition.

The Zimmerman site (89SL41), located on the same terrace as the
Nolz site, consisted of a village area marked by about 40 large round-
to-oval depressions. One rectangular house was excavated com-
pletely, and half the fill of a second was removed. A midden area and
12 cache pits were also excavated. There was no indication of the
presence of any other component. Three exploratory trenches were
dug, in an effort to find a fortification ditch, but no satisfactory ditch
profile was discovered. The total data indicate that this was a single-
component site, characterized by long-rectangular houses and Thomas
Riggs pottery.

The Glasshoff site (89SL42) was situated on the Zimmerman-Nolz
terrace below the west end of the Sully site. According to an in-
formant, the area was once used for cavalry exercises by Fort Sully
personnel. In the past, sherds were collected from the surface there,
and one test excavation (1953) had provided additional evidence
of aboriginal occupation. No well-defined house depressions were
apparent, but several surface anomalies were visible. Wherever tested,
they proved to be the result of activities attributable to the occupa-
tion of Fort Sully in the late 19th century. Trenching during the
1958 season yielded historic specimens, a cache pit, and a part of an
aboriginal dwelling. The latter was found on the last day of the
field season. Artifact recovery was fair, and although some archi-
tectural features were well preserved, few details were discernible.
Pottery is simple-stamped and somewhat like the Thomas Riggs
materials, but it appears to be a distinctive variant.

Site 89SL27, a large, unnamed site on Telegraph Flat, 1 mile east
of the Sully site, has several visible but shallow “house” depressions.
Three small pits dug in the centers of depressions yielded neither
artifacts nor architectural features. Additional work is needed at
this site.

The Whistling Hawk site (89SL39) comprised a large area along
the edge of Telegraph Flat terrace, east of 39SL27. A single pit
excavated into a deep (house?) depression yielded no artifacts or
architecture, although the Bass party excavated rock-cairn burials
at the site.

Two sites not situated in Fielder Bottom were also tested. Site
39SL19 was a low-lying area in the Little Bend region, 18 miles
upstream from the Sully site. Two small, shallow pits were dug to
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

examine the fill, and the site was walked carefully. No indication of
a village and no cultural material were found on the surface. This
area will probably be flooded in 1959 and no further efforts there
seem justified. The Pitlick site (39HU16), 8 miles downstream from
the Sully site, is the northernmost site in the Peoria Bottom group.
It will not be flooded in 1959, but will probably slump badly. Two
large trenches and two deep test pits were excavated. One trench
cut through the shoulder and floor of a house, the other through a
fortification ditch. One of the deep test pits may have cut through
a house floor. No artifacts were recovered at the site. This party
disbanded on August 23, following 10 weeks in the field. The Stephen-
son, Bass, and McNutt field parties shared camp facilities near the
Sully site in Fielder Bottom.

The fourth River Basin Surveys field party in the Oahe Reservoir
area consisted of a crew of nine, directed by Richard P. Wheeler. It
investigated a series of sites on the right bank of the Missouri River
in the Fort Bennett area, 36 river miles above Pierre, Stanley
County, S. Dak. The principal effort was directed toward excava-
tions at the H. P. Thomas site (39ST12). A total of 60 circular
earth-lodge depressions is apparent in area 1 of the site, and 21
depressions are suggested in area 2. Three lodges were excavated
in area 1 and two in area 2. Overburden was removed from six addi-
tional lodges by bulldozer, and four dozer-cut trenches were carried
across the moats in each area. Three midden deposits in area 1 were
excavated, one containing a fragment of the floor pattern of a house.
Three of the suggested five components appear to be assignable to
the Snake Butte, Stanley, and Anderson-Monroe Foci, as defined by
Lehmer for the Oahe Dam area.

At the Agency Creek site (89ST41), adjacent to site 39ST12, seven
small test pits and one bulldozer trench were excavated. Since time
did not permit detailed investigation of these sample excavations,
little can be said of the cultural implications of the site, although
laboratory analyses of the artifacts will prove informative. Addi-
tional tests were made at the Lounsbury site (89ST42) and at the
Ramsey site (89ST236), the latter situated midway between 39ST41
and 89ST42. At the Lounsbury site, test pits were excavated into the
centers of two circular-house depressions, exposing the central
hearths. The overburden was bulldozed from the surface of one
house, but the structure was not fully excavated. The Ramsey site
appears to be a series of middens only, and a stratigraphic cut, 5 feet
by 10 feet, provided an abundance of artifacts but no house remains.
These test excavations at the Agency Creek, Lounsbury, and Ramsey
sites yielded thin, horizontally incised rim sherds and simple-stamped
body sherds characteristic of the Bennett Focus as suggested earlier
SECRETARY’S REPORT rhs

at the Black Widow (39ST3) and Meyers (39ST10) sites. This party
disbanded on August 25 and returned to the headquarters in Lincoln
after 10 weeks in the field.

The fifth River Basin Surveys field party in the Oahe Reservoir
area began work on July 25. It consisted of Harold A. Huscher and -
a crew of two men and worked primarily on the left bank of the
Missouri River in Stanley County, S. Dak. This survey-mapping-
testing crew investigated a series of six sites along Black Widow
Ridge, 3 to 6 miles above the H. P. Thomas site, mapping and testing
each. They are sites 39ST25, 39ST50, 39ST3 (Black Widow),
895T49, 39ST203, and 39ST201. The Huscher party mapped all four
sites being excavated by the Wheeler party, 39ST12, 89ST41, 39ST42,
and 39ST236, and mapped and tested three other sites some 10 miles
below the H. P. Thomas site. These are sites 839ST37, 39ST388, and
39ST39. In addition, this party mapped and assisted the McNutt
crew in testing the Pitlick site (89HU16) on the left bank of the
Missouri River. Huscher was severely injured in a fall from a photo-
graphic ladder on August 24, thus terminating the work of this
‘ field party after 4 weeks in the field. Following 514 weeks in the
hospital and another month of recuperation, he returned to duty on
October 13. The Wheeler and Huscher parties shared a joint field
camp near Fort Bennett.

In the Big Bend Reservoir area there were five River Basin Surveys
field parties at work at the beginning of the fiscal year. The first. con-
sisted of a crew of 12 men under the direction of William N. Irving
and included an assistant trained in geology to aid in investigations
of stratigraphic terrace sequences relating to the geological-archeo-
logical interpretations of the sites and their immediate vicinity. This
party concentrated its efforts on the excavation of the early occupa-
tions of the Medicine Crow site (89BF2), begun last season, and other
preceramic sites in the immediate vicinity. These sites are located
near Old Fort Thompson on the left bank of the Missouri River, in
or near the construction area of the Big Bend Dam, Buffalo County,
S. Dak. At the Medicine Crow site, three major occupation zones,
each containing two or more components, are distinguishable on the
basis of the vertical distribution of point types within a 3- to 6-
foot section of primarily aeolian silt. The basal section of a small
fluted point was found in the lowermost occupation zone. From
the same zone, however, came points that resemble those of the Fron-
tier Complex, and others suggesting a long temporal range for the
basal portion of the deposit.

Additional investigations were made at two sites, 839BF238 and
39BF250, that had not been recorded previously, and at the Aiken
site (39BF215). Only at the latter were immediately significant re-
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

sults obtained. Limited excavations there indicated five occupational
layers and two well-defined, buried soils. At least two ceramic hori-
zons are present, in the upper levels, one with simple-stamped or plain
pottery, the other with cord-marked body sherds. Several additional
occupations, in stratigraphically earlier positions, have yielded
neither pottery nor other diagnostic artifacts. The great depth of
deposit and the presence of buried soils may make possible a consid-
erable refinement in the stratigraphy of late preceramic remains in
the Big Bend Reservoir area. Geological investigations carried on
by Alan H. Coogan in the area of the lower portion of this reservoir
were intended to obtain information bearing upon chronology and
the environmental sequence of the Medicine Crow, Aiken, and other
early sites in the area. The possibilities for correlation of terrace,
moraine, and other depositional features appear to be excellent. The
Irving party disbanded on September 4 and returned to the Lincoln
headquarters after 13 weeks in the field.

The second River Basin Surveys party in the field in the Big Bend
Reservoir area was a crew of 11 men under the direction of James
J. F. Deetz. This party spent the entire season in excavation of the
late (village occupation) components (areas B and C) of the Medi-
cine Crow site (89BF2). The work was done in conjunction with
that of the Irving party in an effort to provide a comprehensive pic-
ture of the site as a whole. In all, 16 houses were completely exca-
vated, and 4 were tested with varying intensity. Included within the
houses were 16 cache pits. Eleven cache pits were excavated in the
interhouse living areas. A single burial was recovered. Three well-
defined components have been established for the ceramic period of
this site and a fourth, less adequately outlined component is proposed.
The Stanley Component (latest) is characterized by a predominance
of Stanley Braced Rim pottery; circular houses, 25 to 30 feet in diam-
eter with hard, light-colored floors; mortar pits; and absence of
interior cache pits. Five domestic and four specialized house struc-
tures are included in this component. The specialized houses were
grouped about a “plaza” and included a ceremonial lodge, 50 feet in
diameter, with an altar, plastered floor, and silled entrance. The
Fort Thompson Component resembles that at the Oacoma site, but
may be somewhat later. Talking Crow ware predominates. Houses
range from 35 to 40 feet in diameter, have vaguely defined floors,
in-floor caches, and lack mortar pits. Four such structures were
excavated during the 1958 season. There were two cases of superim-
position, with Stanley houses above Fort Thompson houses. A third,
unnamed, component is represented by a series of large bell-shaped
cache pits excavated in area C. These affiliate most closely with the
Two Teeth site (89BF204) a short distance to the southeast. Talking

SECRETARY’S REPORT rig

Crow Straight Rim pottery predominates. The fourth component,
occurring in area A, is represented by a house with an indistinct post
pattern buried in Stanley and Fort Thompson refuse, The associated
ceramics are varied, and at this time no definite assessment can be
made of them.

The investigations in areas A and C at the Medicine Crow site
represent the first clear-cut Stanley occupation excavated south of
the Oahe Reservoir. It is also important to note that a temporal re-
lationship can now be established between the components involved.
Kuropean trade materials found in association with Stanley features
may be helpful in providing absolute dates for the latest occupation.
The Deetz party terminated fieldwork on August 30 after 12 weeks
in the field.

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Big Bend Reservoir was
comprised of a crew of 10 men, under the leadership of Robert W.
Neuman. This party excavated or tested a series of four sites in the
vicinity of Old Fort Thompson and three sites on the right bank of
the Missouri River, in and adjacent to Good Soldier and Counselor
Creeks. All seven sites are within the dam-construction area. The
initial effort was devoted to the Akichita site (89BF221) located in
the Missouri River bottoms adjacent to Old Fort Thompson. The
site had been tested during the 1957 season, but although extensive
evidence of occupation was recovered, no house structures were found.
A network of five extended test trenches, excavated during the 1958
season, was equally unsuccessful in locating habitations. Cache pits
were the only structures uncovered. The artifact collection is exten-
sive, and shows clear relationship to the Anderson-Monroe material
from the Dodd site (89ST30) near Pierre, S.Dak. At site 39BF220,
situated about 1 mile west of the Akichita site, much of the occupa-
tion area has been washed into the river. Two excavation units, each
30 feet by 50 feet, produced only a limited artifact return. However,
a number of pottery types were recovered. The inventory suggests
that the site was occupied by circular-house people.

The Truman Mound site (89 BF 224), also in the Old Fort Thompson
area, on the first terrace overlooking the river, was revisited for a
second season in order to excavate the remaining two of the six mounds
originally present there. The mounds, 1 to 2 feet in height, 50 feet
in diameter, contained two types of burials: (1) secondary interments
in shallow circular pits, (2) primary burials in deep oval pits. Arti-
fact material recovered from the site suggests Woodland affiliation,
but the conical-shaped vessels excavated are clearly simple-stamped,
rather than the Woodland cord-marked type. In a stratum beneath,
and not associated with the mounds, excavations recovered a number
of stone artifacts. The most diagnostic type is represented by a tri-
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

angular point with a concave base. In the same stratum were ovoid
knives, crude scrapers, a long-stemmed drill, hand-size cobbles, and
fragments of bison bone. No pottery was in association. Site
39BF270, located about 2 miles west of 39BF224, consisted of four
low circular mounds, three of which were excavated. The recovered
artifacts compare closely with those from the Truman Mound site.

At site 39L.M238, on the west side of the Missouri at the mouth
of Good Soldier Creek, where the west abutment of the dam is to be
built, a large “mound” was extensively cross-trenched and a series of
test pits were excavated in an effort to locate village remains. The
“mound” proved to be of natural origin (165 feet long, 90 feet wide,
5 feet high) but capped by two occupational deposits separated strat-
igraphically by a stratum of sterile yellow silt. The upper component
contained simple-stamped pottery, triangular points, scattered post
molds (many with bone wedges), and a few shallow firepits. The
lower component contained cord-paddled pottery, large side-notched
points, shallow basin-shaped firepits, and a large rock-filled hearth.
A small rock shelter (391L.M239), located about a mile and a half
upstream from Good Soldier Creek, was briefly tested. It was
thought that this site might possibly be the “Truteau Cave,” histori-
cally known to have been used as winter quarters by the trader Tru-
teau in 1794. Excavation demonstrated the shelter to be sterile of
any cultural material. Site 39LM6, a deeply buried, multicomponent
village site at the mouth of Counselor Creek, 3 miles upstream from
site 39L.M238, was visited, and an eroding cache pit excavated.. Some
additional collecting was done, but no further excavation was at-
tempted. The Neuman party terminated fieldwork on August 22,
after 14 weeks in the field. The Neuman, Irving, and Deez parties
shared camp facilities near the Brule Landing, 5 miles upstream from
Old Fort Thompson.

A fourth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser-
voir area consisted of nine men, directed by Bernard Golden. This
party conducted excavations at the Hickey Brothers site (89LM4),
located on the right (west) side of the Missouri River, about 7 miles
north of the Lower Brule Agency. The site is situated on the first
terrace above the river, just north of the constricted neck of the Little
Bend. The occupation area is delineated by a well-preserved fortifica-
tion ditch. The latter is “coffin shaped” in plan, with bastions at
the corners and in the intervening runs of wall. A single corner
bastion was excavated, exposing a shallow moat backed by a pendulum
loop of stockade posts. The stockade line was further verified along
one of the long walls, and a series of 25 test pits was excavated to
sample the body of the site. Four of the shallow “house” depressions
within the fortification were tested by area excavation and trenching.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

Results were limited. A relatively constant stratigraphy was re-
vealed, but no aboriginal habitations were located with certainty. At
least one hearth and other evidences of very localized “camp” areas
were excavated, but artifacts were remarkably scarce. A limited
number of potsherds (Stanley, Thomas Riggs) constitute the most
distinctive material. A portion of the site had been disturbed by
recent farming activities, but at best it does not seem to have been
heavily occupied. This crew terminated fieldwork on August 20,
after 10 weeks in the field.

The fifth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser-
voir area had a crew of 14 men under the leadership of Dr. Warren

W. Caldwell. Work of this party consisted of excavations at two _

sites immediately to the south of the Hickey Brothers site, on the
first terrace of the Missouri River. The major portion of the season
was devoted to continuing excavations begun in the 1957 season at
the Black Partizan site (89LM218), a large multicomponent earth-
lodge village, situated one-fourth mile south of the Hickey Brothers
site. Four houses within the fortification ditch were exposed. In
addition, deep cross sections of the moat were cut at two places, and
two extensive midden areas were sampled by trenching. Several
differing house patterns were recovered. The most distinctive con-
sisted of a small (18-foot diameter) square(?) house with rounded
corners, large intramural cache pits, and a dearth of house posts
Thomas Riggs pottery was characteristic. Two circular houses were
exposed, one 35 feet in diameter, the other 29 feet in diameter. The
larger, containing many bone and stone-wedged post holes, overlay
a large rectangular house. Associated cache pits are probably at-
tributable to the latter structure rather than to the former. Braced
rims and typical Thomas Riggs rims are both present. The smaller
circular house was characterized by an abnormally large group of
in-floor cache pits. The pottery sample is varied and much of it may
predate the house.

The deep midden debris overlying much of the site contained pot-
tery rim sherds with horizontal trailed or incised decoration. Be-
neath the midden, a series of large cache pits produced an abundance
of Talking Crow pottery. The fortification ditch varies from 12 to
15 feet in width and from 4 to 6 feet in depth, and contains both
water-deposited silt and midden fill. The latter normally contains
cord-marked body sherds and a scattering of mammal bone.

At site 89M215, lying between the Black Partizan and the
Hickey Brothers sites, only a single house was excavated. Site
39L.M215 physically overlaps both of the latter sites. The two houses
dug at 8391.M218 in 1957 appear to be associated with it. The single
structure excavated this year was characterized by Talking Crow
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

pottery and an abundance of sheet-copper fragments. This party
broke camp and returned to the Lincoln headquarters on August 12,
after 9 weeks in the field. The Caldwell and Golden parties shared
a joint field camp, situated adjacent to the sites under excavation.

The practice of using joint field camps of two or three parties
each has, in the past two seasons, proved very economical and efficient.
Combining of activities and expenses of several parties and the con-
sequent reduction in total quantity of field equipment, vehicles, num-
ber of cooks, and other expenses constitute a major saving. Having
several archeologists in a single camp is of great help in discussions
pertaining to excavation methods and general archeological
interpretations.

During the winter months two very brief Missouri Basin project
field parties were at work in the Missouri Basin. William N. Irving
visited the Merritt Reservoir area and the nearby vicinity in north-
central Nebraska from December 2 through December 7. This one-
man party made extensive examinations of a number of the small
Sandhills lakes for possible localities in which to collect fossil pollen.
This was in connection with building a master pollen profile which
will aid in interpreting the archeological sequences at sites in the Big
Bend Reservoir and other reservoir areas in the central portion of
the Missouri Basin. A second purpose of the trip was to determine
whether recent construction activity in the Merritt Reservoir area was
endangering any previously unknown archeological remains. The
potentialities for collecting fossil pollen looked very favorable, but
actual collecting had to await colder weather when the lakes would be
frozen over. No new archeological material that would be disturbed
by work within the Merritt Reservoir area was noted.

The second wintertime River Basin Surveys field party within the
Missouri Basin consisted of William N. Irving and Lee G. Madison,
who were in the field from January 19 through the 30th. This party
was accompanied by Dr. Paul B. Sears, pollen specialist from Yale
University, who kindly volunteered his services in order to assist in
this important aspect of the salvage program. The group visited the
vicinity of the Big Bend Reservoir area and collected an extensive
series of pond-deposit samples for pollen analysis. Dr. Sears has
kindly agreed to analyze these samples for fossil pollen, and in fact
has already begun such analyses. At least one core sample has pro-
vided a long pollen sequence, and others look promising. If a master
profile can be established from these and other sampies, it will assist
greatly in identifying the vegetations and climates of past ages. By
superimposing the pollen samples from archeological sites excavated
in the Big Bend and other related reservoir areas upon this master
pollen profile, climatic and ecological contexts can be determined for
SECRETARY’S REPORT Sl

these sites and the age of the sites thus be correlated with the climatic
changes. Details of ecology are thereby added to the archeological
records salvaged from the reservoir to provide a fuller picture of the
prehistory of the area.

The 1959 summer field season in the Missouri Basin began in the
Big Bend Reservoir area on June 4 with a single small crew, en-
camped near the Hickey Brothers site on the right bank of the Mis-
souri River in Lyman County. Dr. Warren W. Caldwell and a crew
of six began work on a series of sites at and near the proposed right
(west) abutment of the Big Bend Dam, near the mouths of Good .
Soldier Creek and Counselor Creek. On Good Soldier Creek, site
391.M235 was found to have been largely destroyed by construction
during the winter of several small boat-landing ramps, but test pits
were excavated in the remaining portion of the site. Very little ma-
terial was recovered. The nearby site, 39LM236, was found to be
completely inundated by an unusually high water level in the Fort
Randall Reservoir and no work was possible. At the mouth of Coun-
selor Creek, the Useful Heart site (39L.M6) was extensively trenched
and full-scale excavation of this earth-lodge village site was in prog-
ress at the end of the year.

The only other Missouri Basin project party at work in June was
a team of physical anthropologists consisting of William M. Bass, ITT,
and two assistants. This team, working out of the Lincoln ofiice,
began operations on June 17 at the Department of Anthropology,
University of Nebraska, making metric analyses of a large group of
human skeletal remains from several reservoir areas in the Missouri
Basin, and from other sites in the area. The team spent 5 days on a
trip to the University of Oklahoma at Norman to make similar
analyses, and at the end of the fiscal year was back in Lincoln study-
ing the skeletal remains from sites in the Oahe Reservoir area. This
party was materially assisted by a grant-in-aid to Bass from the
University of Pennsylvania, Child Growth and Development Center,
through the kindness of Dr. Wilton K. Krogman. This grant pro-
vided the salary for Bass and one assistant during June.

Cooperating institutions at work in the Missouri Basin at the be-
ginning of the fiscal year included a party from the University of
South Dakota, directed by Eugene B. Fugle, excavating at the Four
Bears site (89DW2) in the Oahe Reservoir area; a party from the
University of Idaho, directed by Dr. Alfred E. Bowers, excavating
for the second season at the Rygh site (39CA4) in the Oahe Reser-
voir area; a joint party from the University of North Dakota and
the State Historical Society of North Dakota, under the direction of
Dr. James H. Howard, excavating at the Tony Glas site (82EM3) in
the Oahe Reservoir area; a party from the University of Wyoming,
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

directed by Dr. William Mulloy, excavating at a series of sites in the
Glendo Reservoir in Platte County, Wyo.; and a party from the
University of Missouri, directed by Carl Chapman, in the Pomme de
Terre Reservoir area of west-central Missouri. At the end of the
fiscal year cooperating institutions were: A party from the University
of Kansas, directed by Dr. Carlyle S. Smith, excavating at the
Stricker Village site (89L.M1) in the Big Bend Reservoir; a joint
party from the University of North Dakota and the State Historical
Society of North Dakota, directed by Dr. James H. Howard, excavat-
ing at the Huff site (832MO11) in the Oahe Reservoir area; and two
parties from the University of Missouri, directed by Carl F. Chap-
man, excavating at a series of sites in the Pomme de Terre Reservoir
and making preliminary surveys in the Kassinger Bluff Reservoir
area of west-central Missouri. All these parties were operating
through agreements with the National Park Service and were coop-
erating in the Smithsonian Institution research program.

During the time that the archeologists were not in the field, they
were engaged in analyses of their materials and in laboratory and
library research. They also prepared manuscripts of technical scien-
tific reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular nature.

The Missouri Basin Chronology Program, begun by the staff
archeologists of the Missouri Basin project in January 1958, con-
tinued to function throughout the current year. This is a coopera-
tive program, bringing together the enthusiastic support and wide
range of experience of 34 individuals representing 20 research insti-
tutions working in the Missouri Basin area. This program, directed
toward a more precise understanding of time sequences of the pre-
historic cultures represented by the sites being excavated, is already
beginning to be useful in more efficient planning of salvage opera-
tions. Concrete results are being realized with a minimum expendi-
ture of time and funds. The program includes intensive research
in dendrochronology, and in this phase the field crews have collected
wood specimens to be used in developing two master charts, one for
the lower Big Bend Reservior area and one for the lower Oahe
Reservior area. Sufficient wood is now on hand to begin preparing
the master charts into which archeological wood samples may later be
fitted. In addition, plans are in progress for the services of a full-
time dendrochronologist, working on other funds, to concentrate his
efforts on this problem. Research in radioactive carbon-14 analyses
is well underway within the framework of the program, and 11 speci-
mens have been submitted to the University of Michigan Memorial-
Phoenix Project Laboratory under the direction of Prof. H. R. Crane.
Dates have been returned on all 11, and a second series of specimens
is being prepared for submission. Pollen samples have been collected
and are being analyzed by Dr. Paul B. Sears of Yale University.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 83
Others have already been analyzed by Mrs. Catherine Clisby of
Oberlin College, preparatory to establishing a fossil pollen sequence.
Geologic-climatic investigations have been carried out by Alan H.
Coogan, who was employed for the purpose by the River Basin Sur-
veys. He worked in collaboration with William N. Irving in the
lower Big Bend Reservior area. Other less specific researches are in
progress to bring all possible chronology techniques to bear on this
one basic framework for Missouri Basin chronology.

The laboratory and office staff devoted its full time during the
year to processing specimen materials for study, photographing speci-
mens, preparing specimen records, and typing and filing of records
and manuscript materials. The accomplishments of the laboratory
and office staff are listed in the following tables:

TaBLE 1.—Specimens processed July 1, 1958, through June 30, 1959

Reser voir Number of sites | Catalog numbers | Number of speci-

assigned mens processed

Big@BenGee ns samen a 2M Deiat Sete 50 9, 254 71, 281
Daredamellerter eas uel Ay Sei Ae wi ho ey te 13 1, 975 4,461
Hombetvan calli. fei Pit eo i A LPR 4 21 512
(GUiavc (ya etre er lee me a cn een er ore 2 10 48
Wem swear le Gi a3 Kee oe peg ete cep es 1 7 158
(CEN ES) opty pp a ig yp a 25 8, 668 80, 311
Sites not in reservoirs______________- 3 48 194
98 19, 983 156, 965

Collections not assigned site numbers_ 5 17 83
103 20, 000 157, 048

In the Arkansas Basin.

TABLE 2.—Record materials processed July 1, 1958, through June 80, 1959

Heeex coplediiof records 52 2e asters Apel Aan AeA Ue ee 8, 968
Boioeraphic, nervatives'mages 22.5. 28 ht te ee) 2, 692
PROLOLTAD OI CyPLIN tS Made. se. ee i e  e  e 11, 888
PuGtosrapnic prints, mounted snd: filed 2-70 - 2= 2.258 Uo 5, 566
late ayOucs: Made! fOr MANUSCrIPts= = eae ee Meee ea SA (al
meausparencies-mounteds in glass! eel siere es ea si) 1,108
Girtographietracingsand revisions: 2 22. 42) sae eee old eel Ph [2
Paloma cturesstaken “in: aban te6iow ond tte ey se Ae oe) Papa el a 434
STV AST IC ES GIS 0 1S Ee PN I PD ne ge IN, "op 66
ELPOR UIP OP DATOS Sas Seen ee ec ae, a 75
Pera ONEG WAT eee eer nn See eae ee et, See oe), Le eee eee 45

It is of especial interest to note that on January 22 the one-millionth
specimen was processed by the Missouri Basin project laboratory. As
of June 30, the Missouri Basin project had cataloged, in 13 years of
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

operation, a grand total of 1,074,418 specimens from 1,795 numbered
sites and 54 collections not assigned site numbers, in 92 reservoir areas
within the Missouri Basin. During the current fiscal year, 7 pottery
vessels, 23 pottery vessel sections, and 1 stoneware bowl were restored,
and 154 nonvessel artifacts were repaired. Archeological specimens
from 8 sites in 2 reservoirs were transferred to the division of archeol-
ogy, U.S. National Museum, and human skeletal remains from 26
sites in 8 reservoirs were transferred to the division of physical an-
thropology, U.S. National Museum. Archeological specimens
(mostly trade goods) from three sites in one reservoir were trans-
ferred to the Region Two Office, National Park Service, for display
at the Jefferson National Westward Expansion Memorial Museum in
St. Louis, Mo. The Missouri Basin project received, by transfer,
from the University of Kansas, through the courtesy of Dr. Carlyle
S. Smith, sample rim sherds of the Campbell Creek Indented type
from the Talking Crow site (89BF3), and sample rim sherds of three
varieties of the Cadotte Collared type from the Two Teeth site
(89BF204). These specimens have been added to the Missouri Basin
project comparative collections.

On July 26-27, archeologists of the staff of the Missouri Basin
project joined with archeologists of the National Park Service and
of State agencies at work within the Missouri Basin in a roundtable
field conference in Pierre, S. Dak. This session, called the 1514th
Plains Conference, was devoted to basic technical problems arising
from the current field activities, and such conferences are to become
a regular feature each summer. During the Thanksgiving weekend,
members of the staff participated in the 16th Plains Conference for
Archeology, held in Lincoln. On April 17, members of the staff
participated in the annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of
Sciences, also held in Lincoln. On April 30 and May 1 and 2, mem-
bers of the staff attended and participated in the annual meeting of
the Society for American Archaeology, held in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, when not in charge of field
parties, devoted most of his time to managing the office and labora-
tory in Lincoln and preparing plans and budgets for the 1959 summer
field season. He spent a portion of his time working on a summary
report of the Missouri Basin Salvage Program for the calendar years
1952-58 and on the preparation of a manuscript reporting the “Arche-
ological Investigations in the Whitney Reservoir, Texas.” He com-
pletely revised and submitted a manuscript, “Excavations at Pueblo
Pardo, New Mexico,” which he had prepared in collaboration with
Joseph H. Toulouse, Jr., in 1941, for publication as a monograph of
the School of American Research, Santa Fe, N. Mex. He prepared
and submitted for publication by the Alice Ferguson Foundation of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 85

Washington, D.C., a popular manuscript, “Prehistoric Peoples of
Accokeek Creek.” Throughout the year he served as chairman of
the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. A photographic booklet,
“The Inter-Agency Archaeological Salvage Program after Twelve
Years,” prepared by him at the end of last fiscal year, was published
in September. In July he served as chairman of the 1514th Plains
Conference held in Pierre, S. Dak. During the Thanksgiving week-
end he attended and participated in the 16th Plains Conference for
Archeology, serving as chairman for the half-day session on “Arche-
ology of the Southern Plains,” and presenting a paper on “The Sully
Site” at another session. In January he attended and participated
in the annual meeting of the Committee for the Recovery of Archaeo-
logical Remains, held in Washington, D.C. In April he attended
the annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, presenting
a paper on “Administration in Anthropology” which was published
in abstract in the Proceedings of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences.
On April 30 and May 1-2, he attended the annual meeting of the
Society for American Archaeology and presented two papers, “River
Basin Salvage Problems Today” and “The Missouri Basin Chronology
Program,” both of which were published in abstract in Abstracts of
Papers of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Society for American
Archaeology. During the year he gave eight talks on various
aspects of Missouri Basin Salvage Archeology at five local organi-
zations’ regular meetings.

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, during the fall and winter
months devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials
recovered from sites he had excavated in the Dardanelle and Big
Bend Reservoirs during the previous year. He completed all plates,
figures, and manuscript text for the final report, “Archeological In-
vestigations in the Dardanelle Reservoir of West-Central Arkansas.”
He prepared a brief technical report on “Firearms and Related
Artifacts from Fort Atkinson, Nebraska” and another entitled
“Comments on the ‘English Pattern’ Trade Rifles,” both for publica-
tion in the Afissourt Archaeologist. He prepared a manuscript, pic-
tures, and captions for a photographic booklet entitled “Gavins
Point Dam and the Lewis and Clark Lake” for publication by the
Corps of Engineers, U.S. Department of the Army; and submitted
for publication in the 7ree-Ring Journal, an article entitled “Den-
drochronology and the Missouri Basin Chronology Program.” He
prepared a statement on “Plains Archeology and the Salvage Pro-
gram” for publication in the Encyclopaedia Britannica Yearbook.
In addition, he prepared several mimeographed statements for dis-
tribution from the Missouri Basin project office, including “Report
No. 3, Missouri Basin Project and Cooperating Institutions,” and
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

“Statement No. 2, The Missouri Basin Chronology Program.” His
article “The Smithsonian Institution in Arkansas,” prepared late
last year, was published in the Ozark Mountaineer for July 1958. He
prepared a book review of “Frontier Steel” by Arthur Rosebush,
that was published in Nebraska History for March 1959. In July
he attended and participated in the 1514th Plains Conference, held
in Pierre, S. Dak. In November he attended the 16th Plains Con-
ference for Archeology and served as chairman for the half-day
session on “The Chronology Program” and presented a paper on
“The Black Partizan Site” at another session. In April he served
as the general chairman of the annual meeting of the anthropology
section of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, held in Lincoln, Nebr.,
and presented a paper entitled “Northwest Coast Archeology: An
Interpretation,’ which was published in abstract in the Proceedings
of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. During the year he served
as chairman of the dendrochronology section of the Chronology
Program and gave a talk to the North Omaha Kiwanis Club on
“The Missouri Basin Salvage Program.”

Harold A. Huscher in July participated in the 1514th Plains
Conference in Pierre, S. Dak., and in November attended the 16th
Plains Conference for Archeology, where he served as chairman for
the half-day session on “Field Reports” and presented two papers
entitled “Mapping in the Fort Bennett Area” and “Chronologies
from Ceramic Analysis.” His other activities have been reported
in @ preceding section.

William M. Bass, III, temporary physical anthropologist, partici-
pated in the 1514th Plains Conference in July and after the comple-
tion of fieldwork, left the staff on September 2. During the spring
months he devoted much of his own time to detailed metric analyses
of the human skeletal remains excavated in the Oahe and other
Missouri Basin reservoirs. On June 17 he returned to Lincoln to
serve as party chief for the mobile physical anthropology team
working in the general Missouri Basin area.

William N. Irving, archeologist, when not in the field directing
excavations, was in the Lincoln office analyzing materials he exca-
vated during the previous two summers, particularly in regard to
the Medicine Crow site (839BF2) and the Aiken site (389BF215).
In July he attended and participated in the 1514th Plains Con-
ference at Pierre, S. Dak. On November 27-28 he attended the 16th
Plains Conference for Archeology and presented two papers, “Pre-
Ceramic Sites in the Big Bend Reservoir” and “Pre-Ceramic
Chronology in the Big Bend Reservoir.” In collaboration with Alan
H. Coogan, he prepared a manuscript on “Late Pleistocene and Re-
cent Missouri River Terraces in the Big Bend Reservoir, South
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

Dakota” to be published in the Proceedings of the Iowa Academy of
Sciences. He was on leave without pay from February 9 to April
24, to complete work on a report on Arctic research previously done
for Harvard University. On April 30 and May 1-2, he attended
the annual meetings of the Society for American Archaeology. He
served throughout the year as chairman of the geologic-climatic
section of the Chronology Program. At the end of the year he was
in the Lincoln office, continuing work on his report on investigations
at the Medicine Crow and related sites.

James J. F. Deetz, temporary archeologist, participated in the
1514th Plains Conference held in July. He completed his fieldwork
on September 5 and terminated his employment at that time. He
spent a portion of his own time during the winter and spring
months analyzing materials from, and preparing a report on, the
ceramic components of the Medicine Crow site (89BF2).

Alan H. Coogan, temporary field assistant, participated in the
1514th Plains Conference held in July. He completed his fieldwork
and terminated his employment on August 29. In November he
participated in the 16th Plains Conference for Archeology held in
Lincoln, Nebr., presenting a paper entitled “The Physical Basis for
Chronology in the Big Bend Reservoir.” During the fall and winter
months, on his own time, he prepared the report in collaboration
with William N. Irving for publication in the Proceedings of the
Towa Academy of Sciences.

Bernard Golden, temporary archeologist, completed his fieldwork
and left the project on September 12. During the winter and spring
months he devoted a portion of his own time to preparation of the
first draft of a report on his 1958 excavations entitled “Excavations
at the Hickey Brothers Site (89LM4), Big Bend Reservoir,” which
he submitted for review early in June. In July he participated in
the 1514th Plains Conference held in Pierre.

Charles H. McNutt, archeologist, attended the 1514th Plains Con-
ference in July. When not in the field conducting excavations, he
devoted most of his time to analyses of materials he had excavated
over the past 2 years and to preparation of reports. He served
throughout the year as chairman of the carbon-14 section of the
Chronology Program. On temporary-detached duty to the National
Park Service from September 23 to November 15, for excavations
at Fort Laramie National Monument, he completed a report on that
work entitled “Excavations at Old Bedlam, Fort Laramie National
Monument, 48G01, Wyoming, 1958.” During the Thanksgiving week-
end he participated in the 16th Plains Conference for Arche-
ology, held in Lincoln, Nebr., and presented papers reporting
on “Excavations in Fielder Bottom Area, Oahe Reservoir,” “Exca-

536608—60-——7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

vations at Fort Laramie National Monument,” and ‘Radiocarbon
Dating in the Missouri Basin Chronology Program.” In April
he prepared a paper for the Nebraska Academy of Sciences,
entitled “Comments on Two Northern Plains Pottery Wares,”
published in abstract in the Proceedings of the Academy.
From April 7 to June 14 he was on leave without pay to complete his
doctoral dissertation, which was submitted to the University of
Michigan on June 29. On April 30 and May 1-2, he participated
in the annual meetings of the Society for American Archaeology,
held in Salt Lake City, Utah, and presented a paper entitled “Can
Paraflin Be Removed from Charcoal Samples?” in collaboration with
Dr. John L. Champe of the University of Nebraska. It was pub-
lished in abstract in the Abstracts of Papers of the 24th Annual
Meeting of the Society for American Archaeology. During the year
he also continued work on a manuscript on ceramic taxonomy of
the South Dakota area and presented two slide talks to local civic
groups concerning River Basin Salvage Archeology. He also wrote
an article, “Bibliography of Primary Sources for Radiocarbon Dates,”
in collaboration with Richard P. Wheeler, which was published in
American Antiquity, volume 24, No. 8. At the end of the year he was
preparing to begin fieldwork in the Oahe Reservoir area early in the
next fiscal year.

Robert W. Neuman, archeologist, in July participated in the 1514th
Plains Conference held in Pierre. During the time he was not in
the field conducting excavations he spent a large portion of his time
in analyzing materials and preparing reports of excavations con-
ducted the previous two summers. September 29-October 3 he made
a trip in company with Harry E. Weakly, who kindly contributed
his time, to the Big Bend and Oahe Reservoir areas to collect dendro-
chronological specimens. On November 27-28 he participated in the
16th Plains Conference for Archeology, presenting a paper on “Arche-
ological Investigations in the Fort Thompson Area.” From Decem-
ber 4 to 21 he was on temporary-detached duty with the National
Park Service to conduct excavations at George Washington Carver
National Monument. He submitted a final report on that work
early in January. He prepared a report on “Representative Quill
Flatteners from the Central United States,’ which was read in
absentia at the Nebraska Academy of Sciences meeting in Lincoln
on April 17, and which was published in abstract in the Proceedings
of the Academy. From February 9 to June 29 he was transferred
to the River Basin Surveys outside the Missouri Basin for work
in the Chattahoochee River Basin. His activities there have been
described in previous pages. At the end of the year he was back
in the Lincoln office working on a report, nearing completion, on

SECRETARY’S REPORT 89

excavations in a series of mound sites in the Big Bend Reservoir
area.

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, at the beginning of the fiscal year
was on temporary-detached duty with the National Park Service,
conducting excavations at Fort McHenry National Monument, in
Baltimore, Md. He submitted a report on his findings in September.
On October 1 he returned to duty with the Missouri Basin project
and spent the period from then until February 9 compiling a com-
prehensive report on several seasons’ work at Site 832ML2, Forts
Berthold I and IJ, and Like-a-Fishhook Village. This report will
combine the findings of five archeologists during four seasons of
work at this site in the Garrison Reservoir of North Dakota. In addi-
tion there will be an ethnohistoric account of the site. In February
he was transferred to the Chattahoochee Basin project where he
remained until June 17, when he again returned to the Missouri Basin
project. In November he attended the annual meetings of the Ameri-
can Indian Ethnohistorical Conference and the American Anthropo-
logical Association, held in Washington, D.C. At a symposium of
the latter group he contributed a paper on “Interpretive Values of
Archeological Evidence in Historical Research.” During the year
he had a previously written article entitled “Great Carrying Place”
published in the Naturalist, a quarterly publication of the Natural
History Society of Minnesota. He prepared reviews of “The Indians
of Quetico,” by Emerson 8. Coatsworth, for publication in the fall
1958 issue of Lthnohistory, and of “New Light on Old Fort Snel-
ling,” by John M. Callender, for publication in a future issue of
Nebraska History. He also prepared a brief article describing
the work at Fort McHenry and submitted it for publication in the
Maryland Historical Magazine. At the end of the year he was again
at work on the comprehensive report on Site 89ML2, Forts Berthold
Tand IJ, and Like-a-Fishhook Village.

Richard P. Wheeler, archeologist, when he was not in the field,
devoted his time to analyses of materials and preparation of reports
on sites excavated by him in past years. He completed the final draft
of his manuscript, “The Stutsman Focus: An Aboriginal Culture
Complex in the Jamestown Reservoir Area, North Dakota.” He
also completed the major portion of a draft of a manuscript entitled
“Mounds and Earthworks in the Jamestown Reservoir Area of North
Dakota” and of another entitled “Three Stratified Occupation Sites
in the Oahe Dam and Reservoir Area, South Dakota.” In July he
participated in the 1514th Plains Conference held in Pierre, and in
November attended the 16th Plains Conference for Archeology, held
in Lincoln, presenting papers on “Investigations near Old Fort Ben-
nett, Oahe Reservoir” and “Dendrochronology in the Central North-
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ern Plains,” the latter in collaboration with Harry E. Weakly. In
April he presented a paper at the Nebraska Academy of Sciences
meeting entitled “Comments on ‘Method and Theory in American Ar-
cheology,’” which was published in abstract in the Proceedings of the
Academy. On April 30 and May 1-2, he participated in the annual
meetings of the Society for American Archaeology in Salt Lake City,
Utah, and presented a paper entitled “The Middle Prehistoric Period
in the Central Plains,” which was published in abstract in the Ab-
stracts of Papers of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Society for
American Archaeology. During the year he collaborated with
Charles H. McNutt, as previously mentioned, in an article that was
published in American Antiquity. On May 380 he terminated his em-
ployment with the Missouri Basin project and transferred to the
National Park Service, joining the Wetherill Mesa project at Mesa
Verde National Park.

COOPERATING INSTITUTIONS

A number of institutions and agencies cooperated in the Inter-
Agency Salvage Program in several areas throughout the United
States. In addition to those previously mentioned in the sections on
the Missouri Basin and the State of Kansas, there were 19 working
under agreements with the National Park Service. The University of
Georgia continued its investigations at the Hartwell Reservoir on the
Tugaloo River and conducted excavations in the Oliver and Walter F.
George projects on the Chattahoochee River. The University of Ken-
tucky made surveys and did some digging in the Barkley Reservoir
area on the Cumberland River and the Nolin Reservoir Basin on the
Nolin River. The New Jersey Museum did salvage work on Tock’s
Island, N.J. The University of Michigan carried on investigations
along the Saginaw River in Michigan. The State University of Iowa
did survey and test digging at the Rathbun project on the Chariton
River in Iowa. The University of Oklahoma did some further work
at Fort Gibson on the Grand River and at the Oolagah Reservoir on the
Verdigris River. The University of Texas continued its operations in
the Ferrell’s Bridge area on Cypress Creek in eastern Texas and in
the Diablo Reservoir region along the Rio Grande. Texas Western
University also worked in the Diablo district. The School of American
Research continued its studies in the Navaho Reservoir area along the
San Juan River in northern New Mexico. The University of Utah
and the Museum of Northern Arizona completed surveys in the Glen
Canyon Reservoir area on the Upper Colorado River and started a
series of excavations in a number of sites. The University of Utah
completed its investigation of the Flaming Gorge project, also on the
Upper Colorado. The University of Arizona conducted investigations
along the Gila River above the Painted Rocks Reservoir area. In
SECRETARY’S REPORT 91

California the University of Southern California completed a series of
investigations at the Casitas Reservoir on Coyote Creek. The Univer-
sity of California at Los Angeles excavated a site in the Terminus
Reservoir area on the Kaweah River. The University of California
at Berkeley completed its excavations in the Trinity Reservoir Basin
on the Trinity River, and San Francisco State College made studies
at the Whiskeytown project on the Upper Sacramento River. The
University of Oregon continued operations in the John Day Reservoir
in the Columbia River. The University of Washington completed its
investigations in the Priest Rapids Reservoir area, also in the Columbia
River, and the State College of Washington continued its excavations
in the Ice Harbor Reservoir area on the Snake River. A number of
local groups and institutions continued to assist on a voluntary basis.
These mainly were in New York State, Ohio, Indiana, Tennessee, and
southern California.

ARCHIVES OF ETHNOLOGY

The Bureau archives continued during the year under the custody
of Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker. On June 8 Nicholas S. Hopkins entered
on duty as a summer intern to assist in arranging and describing
manuscript collections, and on June 15 Winfield H. Arneson, sum-
mer intern, entered on duty to assist with photographic collections.

The use of the manuscript collections by anthropologists and his-
torical researchers continues to increase. Approximately 329 manu-
scripts were consulted by 92 visitors to the archives, and an equal
number were consulted by the archivist in preparing replies to 87 mail
inquiries concerning the nature and extent of manuscript information
on specific topics or tribes. There were 22 purchase orders for a total
of 2,897 pages of manuscript reproductions. In the course of exami-
nation, new and more detailed descriptions of about 50 manuscripts
were prepared for the catalog, and a number of descriptive lists of
manuscripts were prepared for distribution.

An anonymous English-Arikara vocabulary in a homemade note-
book of 48 pages, thought to have been recorded ca. 1869-74 by an
associate or acquaintance of Washington Matthews, was donated by
Dr. John A. Pope of Washington, D.C.

Scholars, publishers, and the general public have continued to draw
heavily on the photographic collections of the Bureau as a source of
illustration and documentation. There were a total of 504 written
inquiries, purchase orders, and personal inquiries concerning photo-
graphs, and 1,208 prints were distributed through purchase, gift, or
exchange. As in previous years, a number of lists describing photo-
graphs in the Bureau’s collection were prepared for distribution.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

One hundred such lists relating to specific tribes and subjects are now
available.

The Bureau has been fortunate in receiving the cooperation of
several collectors of photographs that have ethnological and histori-
cal value. Some of the collectors lent their pictures for copying,
while others gave their prints to the Bureau, thus insuring their pres-
ervation and making them available to students.

An important collection of over 115 negatives of Seminole Indians
made by Charles Barney Cory, Sr., in Florida in the period 1877-95
was lent by Mrs. Zelma Carolyn Cory of Homewood, Ill., and
Charles Barney Cory of Madison, Ill., through Alan R. Sawyer of the
Art Institute of Chicago. Enlarged prints from these negatives are
on file for reference at the Bureau. In addition, a group of 28 origi-
nal and postcard prints by various photographers, collected by
Charles Barney Cory in Florida and in the West, and relating to the
Seminole, Shoshoni, Bannock, Paiute, Dakota, and other western
tribes, was lent by Mr. Sawyer for copying.

A collection of 65 photographs of Seminole Indians, made by Wil-
liam D. Boehmer, Dwight R. Gardin, and others, was lent for copying
by William D. Boehmer, educational field agent, Seminole Indian
Agency, Okeechobee, Fla.

A series of 21 negatives, prints, and postcard reproductions relating
to the Seminole Indians, made and collected by the photographer,
C. N. Dutton, in the first decade of the 20th century, was lent for
copying by Louis Capron, West Palm Beach, Fla., together with 4
Seminole photographs made by Capron in the 1930’s.

A collection of 115 prints of Indians of the Dakota, Chippewa,
Winnebago, Paiute, Crow, Apache, and other tribes, made by com-
mercial photographers in the latter half of the 19th century, was
donated by G. Hubert Smith of Lincoln, Nebr. In addition, several
early stereographs of Minnesota Indian subjects were lent by him for
copying.

A microfilm of the South Dakota Historical Society’s collection of
about 400 photographic prints relating to Western Indian history and
Indian wars, along with a transcript of the accompanying caption
material, was made available to the Bureau, through the courtesy of
James Tubbesing of Winchester, Va., who made the film. A ref-
erence set of enlarged prints has been made of about 130 subjects se-
lected from the series because they supplement or document photo-
graphs already in the Bureaw’s collections.

A series of commercial photographs, including 17 by H. Bueh-
mann, Tucson, Arizona Territory, relating to the Apache Indians,
and 9 by J. N. Choate, Carlisle, Pa., showing students at the Indian
School at Carlisle, was received by transfer from the Department of
Civil History, Smithsonian Institution.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 93

A group of commercial photographs of Indians—including six out-
door scenes made by F. A. Rinehart in 1900, relating to the Crow In-
dians and showing details of costume and horse gear—was received
as a gift from Henry G. K. Tyrell of Baltimore, Md., in memory of
his father, Henry Grattan Tyrell.

A reference set of 18 photographs of drawings by Charles-Alex-
andre Lesueur, showing Indians and archeological sites sketched by
Lesueur in the lower Mississippi Valley in the period 1816-37, was
purchased from the studio of Victor Genetier in Paris. The original
drawings are owned by the Museum of Natural History, Havre,
France.

Six portraits of the Creek chief Pleasant Porter, made at various
dates from 1872 to 1905 and assembled by Ralph W. Goodwin of
Cambridge, Mass., while writing a biography of the chief, were lent
by Mr. Goodwin for copying. He also provided biographical and
other background information on several photographs of Creek In-
dians in the Bureau collections.

While examining the collections of Pawnee photographs at the
Bureau, Stephen G. Gover of Weatherford, Okla., a member of the
Pawnee tribe, supplied notes on a number of the photographs, in-
cluding pronunciations and translations of personal names. Mr.
Gover also lent for copying a photograph of the Pawnee chief,
Crooked Hand, and another of Dog Chief, son of Crooked Hand.

With the assistance of Cheyenne informants, Mrs. Margot Liberty
of Birney, Mont., provided identifications and biographical notes for
a number of portraits of Cheyenne Indians in the Bureau collections.
Father Peter Powell of Chicago, Ill., also furnished notes of this
kind.

The extensive collection of photographs of North American In-
dians transferred to the Bureau from the Library of Congress last
year has been sorted and arranged by tribe or area, and is now avail-
able for reference.

ILLUSTRATIONS

EK. G. Schumacher, staff artist, prepared original illustrations and
examined and approved or redrew other illustrations for the various
Bureau publications that were being edited for printing. Among the
subjects worked on during the year were Kansas archeology and
archeological investigations in British Guiana, Mohave ethnopsychia-
try and suicide, historic sites archeology on the Upper Missouri, and
historic trading posts in North and South Dakota. In addition, a
variety of scientific and technical art work was completed for other
branches of the Institution.
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959
EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The Bureau’s editorial work continued during the year under the
immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. There were issued
one annual report and four bulletins, as follows:

Seventy-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1957-1958.
ii+36 pp., 5 pls. 1959.

Bulletin 168. The Native Brotherhoods: Modern intertribal organizations on
the Northwest coast, by Philip Drucker. iv-+194 pp. 1958.

Bulletin 169. River Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 9-14, Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
editor. ix-+392 pp., 73 pls., 13 figs.,9 maps. 1958.

No. 9. Archeological investigations in the Heart Butte Reservoir area, North
Dakota, by Paul L. Cooper.

No. 10. Archeological investigations at the Tuttle Creek Dam, Kansas, by
Robert B. Cumming, Jr.

No. 11. The Spain site (391L.M301), a winter village in Fort Randall Res-
ervoir, South Dakota, by Carlyle S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr.

No. 12. The Wilbanks site (9CK-5), Georgia, by William H. Sears.

No. 18. Historie sites in and around the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area,
Florida-Georgia, by Mark F. Boyd.

No. 14. Six sites near the Chattahoochee River in the Jim Woodruff Res-
ervoir area, Florida, by Ripley P. Bullen.

Bulletin 170. Excavations at La Venta, Tabasco, 1955, by Philip Drucker, Robert
F. Heizer, and Robert J. Squier. With appendixes by Jonas E. Gullberg,
Garniss H. Curtis, and A. Starker Leopold. viii++-312 pp., 63 pls., 82 figs. 1959.

Bulletin 171. The North Alaskan Eskimo: A study in ecology and society, by
Robert F. Spencer. vi-+490 pp., 9 pls., 2 figs., 4 maps. 1959.

Publications distributed totaled 27,721, as compared with 28,131
for the fiscal year 1958.

COLLECTIONS

The following collections were made by staff members of the Bureau
of American Ethnology or of the River Basin Surveys and trans-
ferred to the permanent collections of the Department of Anthro-
pology, U.S. National Museum:

FROM BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY
Acc. No.

224347. Archeological materials collected by Ralph S. Solecki, from Marshall
County, W. Va., during December 1948 and January 1949.

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

222362. Indian skeletal material from the Lake Spring site, Columbia County,
Ga., collected by Dr. Joseph R. Caldwell.

224546. Archeological material collected by Waldo R. Wedel, for the R.B.S.,
B.A.H., from Oahe Reservoir, Stanley County. S. Dak., during 19651.

224549. Samples of rock, brick, burned-earth, etc., collected by Ralph S. Solecki,
R.B.8S., from Ross County, Ohio, on November 30, 1949.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 95
MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. John P. Harrington, Dr. A. J. Waring, and Dr. M. W. Stirling
continued as research associates of the Bureau. Dr. Stirling used
the facilities of the Bureau laboratory in the preparation of final
reports on collections made in previous years during field trips to
Panama and Ecuador.

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, scientific linguist, joined the staff on April
3, 1959. In addition to the two summer interns mentioned in the re-
port of the archivist, the Bureau was fortunate in having the services
of Norma L. Hackelman, another summer intern, who assisted with
the preparation and checking of bibliographies to be included in
the Bureau’s most useful bibliography and information leaflet series.
Owing to the limited staff and heavy workload, there were issued only
two new bibliographies and one revised list for distribution to the
public, as follows:

SIL-50, 2d rev., 9/58. Selected list of portraits of prominent Indians in the
collections of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 3 pp.

SIL-174, 12/58. Selected references on the Indians of Southeastern North
America. (State index, pp. 12-14; musical recordings, p. 14; museum ex-
hibits, pp. 14-16.) 16 pp.

SIL-197, 11/58. Selected bibliography of maps relating to the American Indian.
4 pp.

There were 2,759 letters of inquiry about American Indians and
related problems received in the Director’s office alone during the
year. Information was furnished by staff members in answer to many
of the queries, and to others, information leaflets or other printed
items were supplied. In addition to the printed bibliographies and
information leaflets described above several such items were compiled
on topics of a general or specific nature and typescript copies sent out
in answer to the hundreds of requests for this information. Several
manuscripts were read and appraised by staff members for colleagues
and scientific organizations. Numerous specimens were identified for
owners and data supplied on them.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.

Dr. Lronarp CarMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1959:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two divisions: the Division
of Astrophysical Research, for the study of solar and other types of
energy impinging on the earth, and the Division of Radiation and
Organisms, for the investigation of radiation as it relates directly
or indirectly to biological problems. Shops maintained in Washing-
ton, for work in metals, woods, and optical electronics, prepare spe-
cial equipment for both divisions, and a shop in Cambridge provides
high-precision mechanical work. The field station at Table Moun-
tain, Calif., carries out solar observations.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The research carried on at the Observatory during the past year
has produced gratifying results in the areas of solar astrophysics,
upper atmosphere studies, meteoritical studies, and satellite science.
Some long-term objectives have been reached. The resulting gains in
knowledge and the development of advanced observational techniques
have revealed fresh areas of research and established new goals.

The Observatory has continued to maintain close liaison with Har-
vard College Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
and other research centers. This policy confers mutual benefits.

Solar astrophysics —At the Table Mountain station Alfred G. Froi-
land, employing methods recently developed, has made progress in
his attempts to determine, from the Smithsonian solar spectrobolo-
grams, the amount of atmospheric ozone in a vertical path, both in
the visible spectral range and in the infrared region. He continues
his study of the quantity and quality of haze in the atmosphere. The
availability of a datatron at the California Institute of Technology
has broadened and simplified the scope of this work. These new
techniques are expected to lead to a more accurate and consistent
method of measurement. Already, they have provided evidence for
the existence of other related effects of energy absorption in the upper
atmosphere.

Dr. Max Krook has developed two methods for determining the
structure of nongray stellar atmospheres. They provide, for the first

96
SECRETARY’S REPORT Q7

time, rapidly converging procedures for calculating the structure of
model atmospheres for hot stars, with given chemical composition,
effective temperature, and surface gravity. He has formulated a
method for calculating the structure of shock fronts in completely
ionized hydrogen and in the presence of magnetic fields. The
calculations contribute to our understanding of the fundamental
properties of ionized gases. Procedures were devised for translating
a microscopically formulated problem of gas dynamics into an ap-
proximately equivalent continuum problem. This method applies par-
ticularly to cases in which the Knudsen number, X, is not very small.
Dr. Krook continues to study various problems in the dynamics of
gases and the kinetic theory of gases.

Dr. Charles A. Whitney has begun a study of atmospheric structure
and its correlation with solar activity. This work involves empirical
analyses of satellite and solar data as they relate to atmospheric
physics. Dr. Whitney continued his study of gas dynamics in astro-
physical contexts, to obtain a numerical solution of the nonadiabatic
equations of motion for the solar atmosphere. The procedure involves
integration of the equations of motion for a variety of conditions.
This is the first critical investigation of the propagation of nonlinear
and nonadiabatic waves in the solar atmosphere. It will provide a
basis for the interpretation of high-resolution photographs of the
solar disk obtained by balloon-mounted telescopes. A comparison
between the adiabatic and nonadiabatic equations will have a direct
bearing on the theory of stellar chromospheres. A program to pro-
vide a firm basis for the theory of stellar pulsation was initiated by
Dr. Whitney in 1955. This fundamental problem of classical astro-
physics requires a variety of procedures, primarily theoretical. With
the help of Dr. John Cox, the development of machine methods for
the solution of pertinent equations has made considerable progress.

Upper atmosphere.—Dr. Jacchia’s research on the secular accelera-
tion of artificial satellites enabled him to establish marked transient
effects on the acceleration of Satellite 1958 Delta One, which coincided
with the great magnetic storms of July and September 1958. Dr.
Jacchia’s study established that these variations in acceleration were
not due to solar electromagnetic radiation but to solar corpuscular
radiation. ‘This novel result is of outstanding significance in the field
of solar-terrestrial relationships.

Studying the orbital accelerations of Satellites 1958 Beta Two and
1958 Delta Two, Dr. Jacchia found that they show semiregular fluctua-
tions with an average period of 29 days. Further study suggested
that a semiperiodic variation in the solar radiation with the synodic
period of rotation of the sun, 27 days, seemed a more probable cycle.

Dr. Theodore E. Sterne completed a study of the inferential
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

methods used in evaluating observational data. He developed
new methods, based on cellestial mechanics, for inferring the
density of the upper atmosphere from the motions of artificial
satellites, and derived a value much higher than previous estimates.
At an altitude of 220 km the density was found to be about 4.01078
gm/cm *, and at 368 km the value was about 1.4X10-* gm/cem, These
methods for developing satellite data have particular importance be-
cause the satellites provide our only reliable source of information
about the upper atmosphere. This knowledge, in turn, will augment
our understanding of solar-terrestrial relationships. Dr. Sterne has
also studied the theories and the types of reasoning involved in
cosmology, to evaluate the probable reliability of our knowledge of
the universe and its origin, and to compare the relative merits of
various observational approaches.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek and George J. Neilson began a series of balloon
experiments in cooperation with Col. David G. Simons of the Aero
Medical Field Laboratory at Holloman Air Force Base, the Winzen
Laboratories of Minneapolis, and the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology Instrumentation Laboratories. This program will deter-
mine the feasibility of using a stabilized platform system in balloons
designed for high-altitude observations. Two types of experiments
are planned: (1) Unmanned balloons will carry a radio-controlled
stabilization system for stellar observations made at altitudes up to
50,000 feet. (2) Manned balloons will carry a different type of stabili-
zation system, controlled by an observer and a navigator (U.S. Air
Force pilot) riding in the balloon gondola. They will attempt to
make stellar observations at altitudes up to 85,000 feet, and, eventually,
from beyond the earth’s atmosphere. Both stabilization systems have
now been developed and built by the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology Instrumentation Laboratories. Preliminary tests and prepara-
tions have been made. Two observers, Mr. Neilson and William
White, have been checked for physical fitness for flights up to 80,000
feet. The first launching of the unmanned balloon has been fixed for
the fall of 1959.

The Director and Robert J. Davis completed the design of a tele-
scope for use in space. The instrument will include an optical system,
a detecting device, circuits to amplify and modify the output signal
of the detecting device, and the auxiliary circuits necessary to protect
the instrument from the effects of direct sunlight. Fitted into a socket
in a “stable platform” within a satellite, the telescope will obtain
important astrophysical data. The chief goals at present include an
ultraviolet survey of the sky in three wavelength regions, and spec-
troscopic studies of particular celestial objects. Completion of the
project will require about 3 years.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

Meteoritical studies —Research in meteoritics has provided inval-
uable information on the relation between meteors and comets, and
the origin of comets. The Director’s analyses of data, based on his
Icy Comet theory, have yielded more information on the nature
and origin of comets, and possibly the origin of the solar system.
Recent studies of micrometeorites in the earth’s atmosphere indicate
that heavier elements, of the meteoritic category, condensed early in
the original gases responsible for the formation of the cometary
system and probably the planets.

An electron probe microanalyzer, designed and developed by Dr. F.
Behn Riggs, Jr., with Dr. Andrew R. Lang as consultant, for the
study of meteorites, is expected to be in full operation in the fall.
Electron probe microanalysis is one of the newest methods for chemical
analysis. In addition to its use for point-to-point analysis of the
metallic constituents of iron meteorites, the microanalyzer will permit
study of the gross distribution of elements across the surface of a
sectioned meteorite measuring up to ten inches across. The distribu-
tion of elements cannot be measured on such a scale by any other
method.

The Director, Dr. Fireman, Dr. Frances W. Wright, Paul W.
Hodge, Hai Chin Rhee, Kenneth Covey, and Adolph Esposito con-
tinued the program of collection and identification of micrometeoritic
dust. Collections of atmospheric particulate matter were made by
high-flying jet aircraft. A collector mounted on a B-52 by the
Boeing Aircraft Co. and flown by them has provided 19 exposed
filters usable for analysis. The filters have been examined optically
under a high-powered microscope and particles of various descrip-
tions have been identified and counted. Those particles which might
be meteoritic have been listed for analysis; some have been used for
chemical analysis; and the rest will be used in a general analysis of
contamination problems. The analysis of micrometeoritic dust in-
dicates that these particles are magnetic and have more or less normal
densities; tests for copper and nickel by neutron activation revealed
that the sensitivity for copper was somewhat better than the value
0.1 percent for 10p particles. The Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology reactor and the counting equipment of the Observatory labo-
ratory were used for the experiment. The development of new and
improved types of dust collectors for high-altitude aircraft is a
continuing part of this program. The most recent development is a
cylindrical impactor.

Dr. John Wood has investigated the various types of silicate me-
teorites, particularly of chondrites. Analysis of thin sections of
chondrites in polarized light with the petrographic microscope has
shown that the petrographic characteristics of these meteorites do not
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

appear to support the existence of primary bodies which antedated
the parent meteorite planets.

Under the supervision of Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia, the precise reduction
and analysis of photographic meteor trails have shown that practically
all the visual meteors are cometary in origin; fewer than 1 percent
are interstellar in origin, and the contribution from asteroidal sources
is probably not much greater.

Under the supervision of the Director, Robert Briggs is studying
the distribution of interplanetary dust particles to measure the num-
ber of particles in various parts of the solar system.

Dr. Fireman completed measurements of helium 3 in the Grant,
N. Mex., meteorite and has determined its original mass (EK. L. Fire-
man, Planetary and Space Science, vol. 1, pp 66-70, 1959). The
helium 8 contents ranged from 6.5X10-§ em #/g to 5.110 cm $/g.
The Grant meteorite apparently was a pear-shaped object in space,
with a mass of approximately 880 kg; its loss of mass during its
plunge through the earth’s atmosphere was approximately 400 kg.
Dr. Fireman continued his measurement of the tritium, helium 8, and
argon 39 in three stone and seven iron meteorites (KE. L. Fireman and
J. De Felice, Astron. Journ. vol. 64, p. 127, 1959; also Geochim. et
Cosmochim. Acta, in press). The argon-exposure age of these me-
teorites ranges from 107 years to 6X10% years. This exposure age
has been interpreted in terms of space erosion (F. L. Whipple and
K. L. Fireman, Nature, vol. 188, p. 1815, 1959) and leads to the value
1.5X 10-7 cm/year, for the upper limit of total erosion on an iron
surface in space.

Satellite-tracking program.—The network of 12 satellite-tracking
stations, under the supervision of Dr. Hynek, has gathered photo-
graphic data on the positions of artificial satellites. These data have
allowed precision determination of the orbits of satellites and have
thus provided geophysical and geodetic information. Seven objects
were tracked. A total of 2,902 successful observations and more than
6,000 photographs were obtained. Engineering studies were begun
to improve both the Baker-Nunn camera and the timing system, to
refine the photography of orbiting objects. The stations were manned
by 38 observers.

The Baker-Nunn camera has produced results of inestimable scien-
tific value. The cameras are able to photograph stars to magnitude
12.0 with an effective exposure time of 1 second. Tracking accuracy
ranges between 1 percent and 5 percent. The ultimate limiting magni-
tude, established principally by the time required to record appreciable
skyfog, is about 16.0. The Baker-Nunn cameras secured photographs
of the Vanguard experimental sphere, 1958 Beta Two, at ranges beyond
2,400 miles. These cameras also obtained photographs of the carrier
SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

rocket of the Vanguard sphere, 1958 Beta One. This tracking system
has demonstrated its ability to acquire as many as three photographs
of satellites per day over a long period of time, in spite of bad weather
and mechanical breakdowns. This rate of photography exceeds the
original expectation by about 50 percent.

The Moonwatch program, under the supervision of Leon Campbell,
Jr., depends on 218 teams comprising 5,000 volunteer observers, in the
United States and abroad. Worldwide interest in the program con-
tinues, as evidenced by requests for affiliation from groups in North
and South America, Africa, England, Spain, and the Middle Kast.
Since the program began, Moonwatch has communicated 9,825 observa-
tions to the Cambridge headquarters. Arthur S. Leonard, leader of
the Sacramento, Calif., team obtained improved values for the orbital
elements of Satellite 1958 Beta One, which was believed “lost.” These
values led to the recovery of the satellite, which was then photographed
by the Smithsonian camera stations.

These unprecedented accomplishments of the satellite-tracking pro-
grams prompted the executive director of the International Geophysi-
cal Year to congratulate the Director of the Observatory and his staff,
on behalf of the U.S. National Committee and the Earth Satellite
Panel.

The computation and analysis of optical observations continued
under the supervision of Richard Adams as chief and Dr. Whitney as
scientific supervisor. Refinements of techniques and programing
methods have yielded gratifying results.

The Cunningham integration methods for the machine programing
of satellite orbits, together with Dr. Don A. Lautman’s equations for
the osculating elements, have greatly facilitated the handling of satel-
lite data and the graphing of perturbations of the orbital elements.
A limited variety of orbits can be studied at present; for an orbit
similar to that of Satellite 1957 Alpha the methods show separately the
perturbational effects of drag and of the earth’s oblateness.

Drs. Jacchia and Kozai derived new values for the second and fourth
order coefficients of the earth’s gravitational potential.

Dr. George Veis has initiated a differential corrections program
which is being used to revise the orbits of Satellite 1958 Alpha and
to obtain accurate elements for all satellites, in particular for 1959
Alpha One and 1959 Beta One. This program has also produced
an ephemeris for 1958 Delta Two, during the period September 1958
to May 1959.
~ Jack Slowey has developed a program which makes it possible for
the Baker-Nunn cameras to photograph satellites successfully over a
long arc. The preliminary results have yielded much valuable in-
formation, and the Slowey Long-Are Ephemeris will greatly increase
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

the flexibility and area of accomplishment of the camera stations.

Dr. Yoshihide Kozai has developed a theory of orbit perturbations
including effects due to the sun and the moon. The use of this theory
has yielded three coefficients of the earth’s gravitational potential.

Dr. Sterne advanced a general, analytical theory of the motions of
satellites, which makes allowance for air resistance and the earth’s
equatorial bulge, leading to improved understanding of the shape of
the earth.

Dr. Whitney, in cooperation with the Army Ballistic Missile
Agency, is working on a program to derive the orientation of satel-
lites from observations of the strength of radio emission. His study
of the periodic effects of atmospheric drag on a satellite orbit is of
basic importance to the tracking program.

Dr. Veis is preparing a star catalog in the form of punched cards.
This catalog will have particular value in photo reduction.

George G. Barton and Richard S. Aikens are developing a program
of electronic image conversion whereby artificial earth satellites may
be tracked by photoelectric methods. This program will facilitate
visual observation of orbiting objects.

The number of observations processed by the Computation and
Analysis Center totals 43,752; predictions sent to optical tracking sta-
tions number 12,825.

A program has begun for the reduction of photographic observa-
tions of satellites by the tracking stations. Under the supervision of
Dr. Karoly Lassovszky, two methods are employed: (1) The astro-
metric method allows the computation of the exact orbits of the
satellites and the derivation of important data relating to the distri-
bution of mass inside the earth, the form of the earth, the true value
of distances on the surface of the earth, and the variation in density
in the atmosphere. (2) The photometric analysis method makes it
possible to study the tumbling of the satellites, the secular changes of
brightness of satellites, and the deterioration of their surfaces by
meteoritic pitting and cosmic rays.

Two types of measuring engines have been evaluated: the Van
Biesbroeck goniometer and the two-screw Mann engine. The system
best suited to our needs has proved to be the Mann engine. A work
rate study has shown that it will be necessary to operate at least five
Mann engines for 8 hours a day, in order to reduce the most significant
data flowing in from the camera tracking stations. <A staff of 30 to
50 persons will be required to operate these five measuring systems.

To date, of the 5,981 films received, 62 percent were successful.
Examination of the successful films reveals that 86 percent are
measurable. About 500 precisely determined positions are ready for
publication, although the precise time data have yet to be obtained
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

in some cases. The determination of the phototime expressed in
terms of atomic time is now in progress.

For a program involving the measurement of the earth’s albedo,
observations have been made of the brightness of the earthshine on
the dark part of the moon’s crescent disk. These data will make it
possible to evaluate the percent of clear and of cloudy parts of the
atmosphere which contribute to earthshine.

Under the supervision of Charles A. Peterson, the Communications
Center’s activity has increased proportionately with the number of
objects launched. An average of 539,057 words per month is cleared
through the center; most of these words (groups of five numerals or
letters) represent satellite information received or sent throughout

the world.
PUBLICATIONS

Numbers 1 to 5 of volume 3, Smithsonian Contributions to Astro-
physics, were published during the year. The following papers by
staff members of the Astrophysical Observatory appeared in various
journals:

Davis, R. J.. McCrosxky, R. E., WHIPrPLE, F. L., and WuiTney, C. A. A plan for
operating an astronomical telescope in an earth satellite. Astron. Journ.,
vol. 64, p. 50, 1959.

Davis, R. J.. WHIPPLE, F. L., and Wuirney, C. A. An astronomical telescope in
space. Astronaut. Sci. Rev., vol. 1, p. 9 et seq., 1959.

Fireman, Hi. L. The distribution of helium-3 in the Grant meteorite and a de-
termination of the original mass. Planetary and Space Sci., vol. 1, pp. 66-70,
1959.

FirEMAan, HE. L., and Dr Ferice, J. Argon-39 and tritium in meteorites. Astron.
Journ., vol. 64, p. 127, 1959.

Hawkins, G. S., and WuHrepiz, F. L. The width of meteor trails. Astron.
Journ., vol. 63, pp. 283-291, 1958.

Henizz, K. G. A new planetary nebula NGC 6164-65 (Cederblad 135a, b).
Astron. Journ., vol. 64, pp. 51-52, 1959.

Hywnek, J. A., Henizz, K. G., and Wurppre, F. L. Report on the precision opti-
eal tracking program for artificial earth satellites. Astron. Journ., vol. 64,
p. 52, 1959.

Jaccuis, L. G. The final moments of Sputnik II. Sky and Telescope, vol. 17, pp.
561-562, 1958.

Two atmospheric effects in the orbital acceleration of artificial satel-

lites. Nature, vol. 188, pp. 526-527, 1959.

Corpuscular radiation and the acceleration of artificial satellites. Na-
ture, vol. 183, p. 1662, 1959.

Krook, M. Structure of stellar atmospheres II. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 129,
pp. 724-733, 1959.

Structure of shock fronts in ionized gases. Ann. Phys., vol. 6, pp. 188-
207, 1959.

Krooxk, M., and Precxer, J. C. Sur le calcul de modéles d’atmosphére en
équilibre radiatif (cas non-gris). Comptes Rendus Acad. Sci. Paris, vol.
247, pp. 1177-1179, 1958.

536608—60——_8

104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Rinewant, J. S. Meteorites, satellites, and ceramics. Bull. Amer. Ceramic Soc.,
vol. 37, pp. 461-467, 1958.

Impact effects and tektites. Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 14, pp.
287-290, 1958.

Scumiine, G. F., and Sterne, T. H. Densities and temperatures of the upper
atmosphere inferred from satellite observations. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol.
64, pp. 1-4, 1959.

Scumine, G. F., and Wuirney, C. A. Derivation and analysis of atmospheric
density from observations of Satellite 1958 Bpsilon. Planetary and Space
Sci., vol. 1, pp. 186-145, 1959.

Sterne, T. E. The gravitational orbit of a satellite of an oblate planet. Astron.
Journ., vol. 63, pp. 29-40, 1958.

Density of the upper atmosphere. Science, vol. 128, p. 420, 1958.

The effect of the rotation of a planetary atmosphere upon the orbit of

a close satellite. Astron. Journ., vol. 64, p. 64, 1959.

Note on R. R. Newton's paper, “Motion of a Satellite Around an Un-
symmetrical Central Body.” Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 30, p. 270, 1959.

Srerne, T. E., and Dieter, N. The constancy of the solar constant. Smithsonian
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 3, pp. 9-21, 1958.

Wurrertr, F. L. The coming exploration of space. Saturday Evening Post,
August 16, 1958.

Optical tracking of artificial satellites. Science, vol. 128, pp. 124-129,

1958.

Notes on comets, meteors, and planetary evolution. Publ. Astron. Soc.

Pacific, vol. 70, pp. 485-488, 1958.

Man into space. In “Vistas in Astronautics,” vol. 2, pp. 145-147, Per-

gamon Press, 1959.

On the lunar dust layer. In “Vistas in Astronautics,” vol. 2, pp. 267-
272, Pergamon Press, 1959.

Wu es, F. L., and Fireman, E. L. Caleulation of erosion in space from the
cosmic-ray exposure age of meteorites. Nature, vol. 183, p. 1315, 1959.
Wuierte, F. L., and Hawkins, G. 8. Meteors. In Handbuch der Physik, vol.

52, pp. 519-564. Springer-Verlag, 1959.
Wurrte, F. L., and Hynex, J. A. The IGY satellite tracking program as a
source of geodetic information. Ann. Geophys., vol. 14, pp. 826-328, 1958.
The IGY optical satellite tracking program as a source of geodetic
information. Bull. Geod., No. 49, pp. 50-52, 1958.

The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory continue to
present the results of analyses of satellite data carried out by various
staff members. The demand has grown so that at present more than
1,500 individual scientists and research institutions regularly receive
them. Special Reports Nos. 14-27, issued during the year, contain
the following papers:

Apams, R. M., Briaes, R. B., and Upton, B. K. L. Positions of Satellite 1957
Beta One during the first 100 revolutions. Spec. Rep. No. 16, pp. 1-22,
July 25, 1958.

Apert, R. G., and ApaMs, R. M. Catalogue of satellite observations for Janu-
ary and February, 1959. Spec. Rep. No. 24, pp. 1-47, Apr. 9, 1959.

Catalogue of satellite observations for March and April 1959. Spec.

Rep. No. 26, pp. 1-51, May 21, 1959.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 105

Briaas, R. B., and Stowey, J. W. An iterative method of orbit determination
from three observations of a nearby satellite. Spec. Rep. No. 27, pp. 1-8,
June 30, 1959.

Buus, H. P. Moonwatch catalogue, October, November, and December, 1958.
Spec. Rep. No. 21, pp. 138-36, Feb. 27, 1959.

Buus, H. P., and CAMPBELL, L., Jk. Moonwatch catalogue, May through June,
1958. Spee. Rep. No. 14, pp. 1-21, July 15, 1958.

Moonwatch catalogue, July and August, 1958. Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp.

23-44, Oct. 4, 1958.

Moonwatch catalogue, September 1958. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 19-46,
Jan. 5, 1959.

CLARKE, J. B. Technical parameters of Satellites 1958 Delta and 1958 Epsilon.
Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 3-4, Oct. 4, 1958.

Davis, R. J. Timing satellite observations. Spec. Rep. No. 14, pp. 26-31,
July 15, 1958.

Progress report on the planning of an artificial satellite containing an
astronomical telescope. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 9-12, Jan. 5, 1959.

Hawkins, G. S. A satellite meteor trap. Spec. Rep. No. 19, pp. 6-8, Dee. 6,
1958.

Henizr, K. G. Status of the photographic satellite tracking system. Spec. Rep.
No. 14, pp. 22-25, July 15, 1958.

JaccHia, L. G. The descent of Satellite 1957 Beta One. Spec. Rep. No. 15,
pp. 1-13, July 20, 1958.

—-—. The earth’s gravitational potential as derived from Satellites 1957
Beta One and 1958 Beta Two. Spec. Rep. No. 19, pp. 1-5, Dee. 6, 1958.

An empirical formula for satellite ephemerides near the end of their

lifetime. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 1-4, Jan. 5, 1959.

The diurnal effect in the orbital acceleration of Satellite 1957 Beta
One. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 5-8, Jan. 5, 1959.

Jaccuia, L. G., and Bricas, R. HE. Orbital acceleration of Satellite 1958 Beta
Two. Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 9-12, Oct. 4, 1958.

Koza, Y. The earth’s gravitational potential derived from the motion of Satel-
lite 1958 Beta Two. Spec. Rep. No. 22, pp. 1-6, Mar. 20, 1959.

On the effects of the sun and the moon upon the motion of a close
earth satellite. Spec. Rep. No. 22, pp. 7-10, Mar. 20, 1959.

Lreonarp, A. 8. Determination of the orbit of Satellite 1958 Beta One. Spec.
Rep. No. 27, pp. 9-15, June 30, 1959.

McCrosxry, R. BH. A suggested rocket experiment for determination of atmos-
pheric densities and winds at extreme heights. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 13-16,
Jan. 5, 1959.

PETERSON, C. M. Communications center of the optical satellite tracking pro-
gram. Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 5-8, Oct. 4, 1958.

ScHriLine, G. F., and WuHitTnry, C. A. Atmospheric densities from Explorer IV.
Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 138-22, Oct. 4, 1958.

Scuituine, G. F., WuHirney, C. A., and ForKart, B. M. Preliminary note on
the mass-area ratios of Satellites 1958 Delta One and 1958 Delta Two.
Spec. Rep. No. 14, pp. 32-34, July 15, 1958.

Treske, R. G. Positions of Satellite 1958 Alpha during the first 1,400 revolu-
tions. Spec. Rep. No. 17, pp. 1-173, Sept. 5, 1958.

VeIs, G. The orbit of Satellite 1958 Zeta. Spec. Rep. No. 23, pp. 1-80, Mar.
30, 1959.

106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Wuirney, ©. A. The structure of the high atmosphere. I. Linear models.
Spec. Rep. No. 21, pp. 1-12, Feb. 27, 1959.

The structure of the high atmosphere. II. A conduction model. Spec.
Rep. No. 25, pp. 1-6, Apr. 20, 1959.

Wuirney, C. A., and Vets, G. A flashing satellite for geodetic studies. Spec.
Rep. No. 19, pp. 9-19, Dec. 6, 1958.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The Director, Dr. Jacchia, and Dr. Hynek attended meetings and
participated in discussions of the 10th General Assembly of the Inter-
national Astronomical Union in Moscow, August 1958. They visited
various scientific institutions in the USSR. The Director presided at
a symposium on astronomy from balloons, rockets, and satellites.

The Director, Dr. Jacchia, and Dr. Hynek participated in the dis-
cussions of the Fifth Congress of the Comité Special de ? Année Geo-
physique Internationale (CSAGI) in Moscow. Dr. Jacchia pre-
sented his study of the descent of Satellite 1957 Beta One, and served
on the subcommittees for Rockets and Satellites and for Ionospheric
Research.

The Director attended the Ninth Congress of the International
Astronautical Federation for 1958, in Amsterdam.

Dr. Riggs attended the meeting of the Meteoritical Society held at
Winslow, Ariz., and at the nearby Barringer Crater.

Mr. Davis participated in the meetings of the Optical Society of
America, October 1958.

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling participated in the Conferences on Satel-
lite Launching at the National Academy of Sciences and at the Pen-
tagon, October 1958.

A Conference on Contemporary Geodesy was held in December 1958
under the sponsorship of the American Geophysical Union in coopera-
tion with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and Harvard
College Observatory. The Director and various members of the staff
participated in the discussions.

Dr. Fireman gave a lecture, “Sampling the Solar System for Iso-
topes,” in February 1959, at the American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York.

Dr. Whitney presented papers, by invitation, to the American
Meteorological Society, in Chicago, Ill.; to the American Rocket Soci-
ety, in Cambridge, Mass.; and at a symposium held by the Rand
Corporation, Santa Monica, Calif., in the spring of 1959.

The Director took part in a Space Symposium sponsored by the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the American
Physical Society in April 1959.

Dr. Fireman attended a Conference on Meteors at the Karlinka In-
stitute, Stockholm, Sweden, June 1959.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 107

Dr. Whitney participated in the discussions of the International
Conference of Information Processing of the UNESCO, in Paris.
He also presented a paper at the Ninth International Colloquium of
the Institut d’Astrophysique, in Liége, Belgium, June 1959.

Dr. Hynek and Mr, Neilson made preparations for carrying out
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s expedition to Spain,
to observe the occultation of the star Regulus by the planet Venus.

Members of the staff attended meetings and presented papers before
the American Astronomical Society, the American Physical Society,
the American Geophysical Union, the National Telemetering Con-
ference, the American Meteorological Society, the Department of
Defense, the International Association of Geodesy, the American As-
tronautical Society, the American Society of Photogrammetry, the
Mellon Institute, and the American Philosophical Society.

Every member of the scientific staff has given lectures at schools,
colleges, civic groups, and military organization assemblies on the
subject of satellites and space science.

A conference of the chiefs of satellite tracking stations was held on
June 15-29, 1959, at the training station in Las Cruces, N. Mex., at
the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., and at the Observa-
tory in Cambridge. This conference, which provided the first oppor-
tunity for the chief observers to discuss particular problems related
to the operation of tracking stations, proved of great benefit to all
who attended.

The Director was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in
April 1959. He served as consultant to the U.S. Office of Naval Re-
search, to the U.S. Air Weather Service on problems related to the
space age, and to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
He is chairman of the Technical Panel on Rocketry and member of
the Technical Panel of the Earth Satellite Program of the Interna-
tional Geophysical Year; chairman of the Panel on the Atmosphere
of the Scientific Advisory Board of the U.S. Air Force; president
of Commission 22, Meteors, Zodiacal Light, and Analogous Problems,
of the International Astronomical Union; member of the U.S. Rocket
and Satellite Research Panel; member of the Committee on
Meteorology of the National Academy of Sciences, National Research
Council; member of Upper Atmosphere Committee in the Meteor-
ology Section of the American Geophysical Union; member of the
Committee on Cosmic and Terrestrial Relationships of the American
Geophysical Union; member of the Committee on Atmospheric Sci-
ences of the National Academy of Sciences, National Research Coun-
cil; member of the Panel on Chemistry of Space and Exploration of
Moon and Planets of the National Academy of Sciences, National
Research Council Committee on Bio-Astronautics; member of Space
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Sciences Working Group on Orbiting Astronomical Observatories,
National Aeronautics and Space Administration; and member of
Physics of the Atmosphere and Space Committee, American Rocket
Society.

The Director is general editor of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Astrophysics; and of the international publication Planetary and
Space Physics.

CHANGES IN STAFF

Dr. John S. Rinehart accepted a professorship at the Colorado
School of Mines, Golden, Colo. He left the Observatory during the
summer of 1958.

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling resigned from the Observatory upon
his appointment as Chief, Astronomy and Astrophysics, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, March 1959.

Richard M. Adams, who had been on leave from Texas A. & M.
College, resumed his duties there in June 1959.

As of June 30, 1959, there were 179 persons employed at the
Observatory.

BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT

The Astrophysical Observatory occupies space in five separate
buildings. Plans for the erection of a new building on the grounds
of the Harvard College Observatory have been approved; construc-
tion is expected to begin during the fall of 1959.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

The Division has been engaged in research into the biochemistry and
biophysics of the photomorphogenic mechanism in plants as controlled
by radiant energy. In general, the red portion of the spectrum induces
growth reactions that can be nullified by subsequent exposure to the
far-red part of the spectrum.

Normal green sunflower seedlings produce large quantities of chlo-
rophyll when grown in red or blue light, while, under the same condi-
tions, mutant yellow or white seedlings lose their ability to synthesize
protochlorophyll and chlorophyll. Although some chlorophyll is
formed initially in these mutants, it is destroyed under continued
exposure to light. Investigation of the photomorphogenic mechanism
as measured by hypocotyl! inhibition indicated that the response was
the same in yellow mutants and normal green seedlings, but 50 percent
greater in the white mutants. The inference is that the yellow pig-
ments may be active in a protective function.

Studies are continuing on the biochemical changes that occur during
the development of the chloroplasts of higher plants. It has been
shown in our laboratory that excised leaves of dark-grown seedlings,
when incubated on water and in the dark for 18 hours, lose one-half

SECRETARY’S REPORT 109

of their protochlorophyllide synthesizing ability. Adding certain
carbohydrates at optimal concentration or leaving one cotyledon
attached prevented the loss of synthesizing ability. When sucrose was
supplied as a substrate, the determination of carbohydrates within the
leaves revealed a marked increase in reducing sugars and starch, indi-
cating a rapid utilization of the products of phosphorolysis of sucrose.

Determination of the specificity of carbohydrates causing a stimula-
tion of pigment synthesis and of their rates of metabolic utilization re-
vealed that, of a dozen or more sugars varying from 8 to 18 carbon
atoms, glucose at a concentration of 0.20 to 0.25 mole was most effective.
This was found both through direct measurement of protochlorophyl-
lide synthesis and by manometric measurements of respiration on tis-
sues supplied with various carbohydrates. Technics are being
developed for the isolation of proplastids and the measurement of
their subsequent photomorphogenic development into mature
chloroplasts.

During the course of our investigation of light-induced develop-
mental changes in plants, one of our reported observations was that
the lag phase in chlorophyll synthesis in etiolated bean leaf tissue could
be eliminated by pretreating the leaves with low irradiances of mono-
chromatic red or blue energy. The study of the lag phase of chloro-
phyll synthesis has been continued, and it has been demonstrated that
X-irradiation of 5-10 kiloroentgens can increase the lag phase in
etiolated bean leaves. Subsequent exposure to 10 minutes of white
light initiated recovery of the chlorophyll synthesizing mechanism.
Iixperiments are in progress to ascertain whether the recovery is a red-
or blue-sensitive reaction and whether nonionizing radiation can coun-
teract the effect of ionizing radiation in chlorophyll synthesis.

Radiant energy in the spectral region of 710 to 820 my significantly
increases the frequency of chromosomal aberrations when used as a
supplement to X-irradiation. Biochemical studies are being pursued
to investigate the mechanism of the effect of far-red (710-820 mp) on
the rejoining of chromosomes.

Three new members of the research staff of the Division are: Dr.
Edward C. Sisler, biochemist; Dr. Walter A. Shropshire, Jr., bio-
physicist; and Dr. Maurice M. Margulies, biochemist. Dr. Sisler
comes to the Smithsonian Institution from Brookhaven National Lab-
oratory where he was engaged in photosynthesis studies. Dr. Shrop-
shire returns to the Division from the California Institute of Tech-
nology, where he worked on action and transmission spectra. Dr.
Margulies was formerly at Johns Hopkins University, where he was
investigating photosynthesis and the biochemistry of micro-
organisms.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

In November 1958, the Research Corporation of New York granted
funds to the Division for the installation of a radioisotopes laboratory
and for construction of greenhouse facilities and control rooms. The
installation of the radioisotopes laboratory is well underway, and
it should be in operation in the near future. The greenhouse is ex-
pected to be completed by the fall of 1959.

PUBLICATIONS

Mou C. C., and WirHROow, R. B. Nonionizing radiant energy as an agent in
altering the incidence of X-ray-induced chromatid aberrations. II. Reversal
of the far-red potentiating effect in Vicia by red radiant energy. Radiation
Res., vol. 10, pp. 18-19, 1959.

SHROPSHIRE, WALTER A., JR., and WirHROW, Rosert B. Action spectrum of
phototropie tip-curvature of Avena. Plant Physiol., vol. 33, pp. 860-365,
1958.

WirHrow, Roserr B., and Kie1n, W. H. Action spectra and kinetics of photo-
morphogenesis. Atti del 2° Congresso Internazionale di Fotobiologia.
Edizioni Minerva Medica, pp. 443-451. Torino, Italia (1958).

Respectfully submitted.
F. L. Wuterte, Director.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Report on the National Collection of
Fine Arts

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June

30, 1959:
SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 36th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in the Regents Room of the Smithsonian Building on Tuesday,
December 2, 1958. Members present were Paul Manship, chairman;
Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; Leonard Carmichael, secretary ;
Gilmore D. Clarke, David E. Finley, Walter Hancock, Bartlett Hayes,
Henry P. McIlhenny, Ogden M. Pleissner, Charles Sawyer, Stow
Wengenroth, and Andrew Wyeth. Thomas M. Beggs, Director, Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts, was also present.

A resolution on the death of George Hewitt Myers, a member of the
Commission from 1944 until his death on December 23, 1957, was
unanimously adopted.

Dr. Finley, chairman, reported for the executive committee that, as
a result of balloting by mail, the Commission recommended Wilmarth
S. Lewis to fill the vacancy caused by the death of George Hewitt
Myers.

The Commission recommended reappointment of Gilmore D. Clarke,
Stow Wengenroth, and Andrew Wyeth for the usual 4-year period.

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard
Carmichael, secretary.

The following were reelected members of the executive committee
for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss,
Gilmore D. Clarke, and Archibald G. Wenley, with Paul Manship and
Leonard Carmichael, ex officio.

A motion was passed that the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
be asked to appoint a committee to advise in the development of plans
for adapting the Civil Service Commission Building, formerly the
Old Patent Office Building, to the needs of a National Portrait Gal-
lery, and to prepare legislation concerning such.

It was further resolved that the chairman of the Smithsonian Art
Commission shall appoint from its membership a subcommittee, includ-

111
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ing three artist members, two museum director members, and the Direc-
tor of the National Collection of Fine Arts, to advise in the develop-
ment of plans for the housing of the National Collection of Fine Arts
in the Old Patent Office Building.

Mr. Beggs pointed out that during the past year preservation activi-
ties, temporary and traveling exhibitions, and information services
have greatly increased, with no concomitant additions to the adminis-
trative staff.

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects:

Bronze, Dr. John Dewey, by Alexander Portnoff (1887-1949), for the National
Portrait Gallery. Gift of Mrs. Alexander Portnoff.

Bronze plaque, Paul Wayland Bartlett, N.A. (1865-1925), by John Flanagan,
N.A. (1865-1952). Gift of Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr.

Highteen bronzes and four medallions by Paul Wayland Bartlett, N.A. (1865-
1925). Gift of Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr.

Bronzes: Walter Griffin (1861-1935); Lafayette; Head of a Girl; Seated
Torso; Standing Torso; Male Figure From Fountain; Male Figure From Foun-
tain; Poetry; Philosophy ; Rabbit; Rabbit; Eagle; Baby Robin; Cat; Pup; Goat;
Lion; Two Teams of Horses. Medallions: Walt Whitman (1819-92) ; Woman
Knitting ; Georges Corneau; Primavera.

Oil, Fisherboys at Provincetown, by Charles Webster Hawthorne, N.A. (1872-
1930). Gift of Walter Bachrach.

Oil, House in the Valley of Wyoming, by Henry Boese (1824-?). Gift of
Cornelia Hill.

Oil, Paul Wayland Bartlett, N.A. (1865-1925), by Charles Sprague Pearce,
A.N.A. (1851-1914), for the National Portrait Gallery. Gift of Mrs. Armistead
Peter, Jr.

Three watercolors, Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone; Canyon of the Yel-
lowstone; and River-Pinnacle, by Thomas Moran, N.A. (1887-1926). Gift of
Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr.

Watercolor on ivory, A. Laurason, by Jean Francois Vallee (fl. 1785-1815).
Gift of Miss Mary Taylor through Mrs. Helen T. Steinbarger.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

The following miniature, watercolor on ivory, was acquired from
the fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden
Myer:

113. Miriam Etting Myers (1787-1808), by Benjamin Trott (ce. 1770-c. 1841),
from Mrs. Lesley Ashburner, Washington, D.C.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two miniatures, watercolor on ivory, Martha “Patty” Custis and
John Parke Custis, by Charles Willson Peale (1741-1827), lent Janu-
ary 29, 1934, were withdrawn for exhibition purposes by Mrs. W.
Hunter deButts and Mrs. H. E. Ely, Jr., on April 26, 1959.

LOANS RETURNED

Two oils, High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer, and
Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder, lent September 25, 1957, to the Car-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 113

negie Institute, Pittsburgh, for inclusion in its traveling exhibition
of American Classics of the 19th century, were returned July 2 and
3, 1958, respectively.

Oil, Street Shrine, by Jerome Myers, lent November 27, 1957, to the
Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, was recalled July 3,
1958, for inclusion in the Ranger Centennial Exhibition.

Oil, Man in White, by Cecilia Beaux, lent February 28, 1958, to
the White House, was recalled July 3, 1958, for inclusion in the Ran-
ger Centennial Exhibition.

Oil, Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payne, lent December 30, 1957, to the
Office of the Vice President was recalled July 8, 1958, for inclusion
in the Ranger Centennial Exhibition.

Three oils, The Figurine, by William Paxton; New Year’s Shooter,
by George Luks; and Self Portrait, by Will H. Low, lent March 15,
1955, October 18, 1956, and February 14, 1957, respectively, to the De-
partment of Justice, were recalled July 10, 1958, for inclusion in the
Ranger Centennial Exhibition.

Two oils, Tohickon, by Daniel Garber, and The Rapids, by W.
Elmer Schofield, lent August 23, 1955, to the Department of Defense
were recalled July 15, 1958, for inclusion in the Ranger Centennial
Exhibition.

Oil, Heavy Sea, by Paul Dougherty, lent January 20, 1958, to the
White House, was recalled July 21, 1958, for inclusion in the Ranger
Centennial Exhibition.

Two sculptures, Manifest Destiny and Grizzly Bear, by Edward
Kemeys, lent February 14, 1957, to the Department of Justice, were
returned September 26, 1958.

Oil, George Washington, attributed to William Winstanley, lent
May 13, 1955, to the Department of State, was recalled October 14,
1958, for inclusion in the exhibition “Profiles of the Times of James
Monroe,” October 26 to November 23, 1958.

Oil, The Island, by Edward W. Redfield, lent January 3, 1957, to
the Corcoran Gallery of Art for their 25th Biennial] Exhibition of
Contemporary American Oil Paintings and circulated by the Ameri-
can Federation of Arts, was returned October 16, 1958.

Oil, Beach of Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Massachusetts, by Frank
Knox Morton Rehn, lent November 6, 1957, to the office of Represent-
ative Richard Wigglesworth, was returned December 8, 1958.

Oil, Laguna, New Mexico, by Albert Lorey Groll, lent April 15,
1954, to the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, was returned March 11,
1959.

Two oils, Flume, Opalescent River, by Alexander Wyant, lent
January 30, 1958, to the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, and Round
Hill Road, by John Henry Twachtman, lent November 7, 1957, to the
Municipal Court of Appeals, were recalled April 7, 1959, for the
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

exhibition “Turn-of-the-Century Paintings from the William T.
Evans Collection,” April 23 to June 1, 1959.

Ou, The Bathers, by Robert Reid, lent November 7, 1957, to the
Municipal Court of Appeals, was returned April 7, 1959.

Three oils, South Strand, by Emil Carlsen, lent September 21, 1956,
to the Bureau of the Budget; End of Winter, by John Henry Twacht-
man, lent January 22, 1957, to the Department of State; and Idle
Hours, by Harry Mowbray, lent November 6, 1956, to the Interstate
Commerce Commission, were recalled April 8, 1959, for the exhibition
“Turn-of-the-Century Paintings from the William T. Evans
Collection.”

ART WORKS LENT

The following art works, oi] paintings on canvas unless otherwise
noted, were lent for varying periods:

To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D.C.:
Hepruaryels. L959 2s Abraham Lincoln, by George Story.
To the Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa., for their International Retrospective
Exhibition, December 4, 1958, through February 8, 1959:
September 15, 1988________ Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder. (Returned
February 138, 1959.)
To the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C.:
March: 201959 n oases My Old Mill, Holmescroft, near Rockville, by
William H. Holmes (watercolor).
A Maryland Wheat Field, by William H.
Holmes (watercolor).
Over the Maryland Fields, by William H.
Holmes (watercolor).
The Normal Rock Creek about 1910, by William
H. Holmes (watercolor).
To the Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.:

October)29) 1958s_2— 22s: Major John Wesley Powell, by Henry Ulke.
(Returned November 4, 1958.)
November 14, 1958___--___. Major John Wesley Powell, by Edmund
Clarence Messer. (Returned December 8,
1958.)
To the Department of Defense, Washington, D.C.:
Sulyally, el Oh See ae oe ee Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by
Ralph A. Blakelock. (Returned August 13,
1958. )
AULUStl Selon Sea In the Orchard, by Edmund C. Tarbell.
To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.:
May-o5 19592 tae eee Lauhala, by Hue M. Luquiens (drypoint).

Derelict, by Beatrice 8S. Levy (aquatint).

Winter Moonlight, by George Jo Mess (aqua-
tint).

In the Assiniboine Country, by R. H. Palenske
(drypoint).

A Mallard Marsh, by Roland Clark (drypoint).
SECRETARY’S REPORT 115

Spring Blossoms, Magnolia, by Bertha HE.
Jaques (drypoint).

Anemones, by Bertha HE. Jaques (drypoint).

Canada Thistle, by Bertha EH. Jaques (etch-
ing.)

Madonna Lilies, by Bertha E. Jaques (dry-
point).

To the Department of History, U.S. National Museum, for an exhibition of the
Cyrus W. Field Collection commemorating the centennial anniversary of the
laying of the Atlantic Cable:

October!85195s2 First messages sent over the Atlantic Cable
(original message from Queen Victoria and
copy of President Buchanan’s reply). (Re
turned October 31, 1958. )

To the Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.:

July" 15S see ees Mrs. Joseph B. Collins, by G. P. A. Healy.

Coal Barge, Capri, 1880, by William H. Holmes
(watercolor).
Miss Mildred Lee, by S. Seymour Thomas.

To the Knoedler Galleries, New York City, for an exhibition of the works of
Raphaelle Peale, March 2 through 81, 1959, following the exhibition at the
Milwaukee Art Center:

Mebruary 1959 222222222 Robert Oliphant, by Raphaelle Peale (minia-
ture, watercolor on ivory).

Rubens Peale, by Raphaelle Peale (miniature,
watercolor on ivory).
(Both returned April 20, 1959.)

To the Lincoln Sesquicentennial Commission, Washington, D.C.:

February 11, 1959_________. Abraham Lincoln, by George Story. (Returned
February 13, 1959.)

To the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, for an exhibition of the
works of Winslow Homer, January 27 through March 8, 1959, following the
exhibition at the National Gallery of Art:

January 15, 1959__________- The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer.

High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer.
(Both returned April 3, 1959.)

To the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, Washington, D.C.:

DUNE Gis O59 eae ee Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way,
by Emanuel Leutze. (Recalled July 13, 1959,
to be sent to the American National Exhibi-
tion in Moscow.)

To the Milwaukee Art Center, Milwaukee, Wis., for an exhibition of works by
Raphaelle Peale, January 15 through February 15, 1959:

December 24, 1958_________ Robert Oliphant, by Raphaelle Peale (minia-
ture, watercolor on ivory).

Rubens Peale, by Raphaelle Peale (miniature,
watercolor on ivory).

(Both forwarded to Knoedler Galleries for

an exhibition March 2 through 31, 1959.)

To the Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C. :

July S.1958 325222 2 ee. Twilight After Rain, by Norwood Hodge Mac-
Gilvary.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

To the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., for an exhibition of the works
of Winslow Homer, November 28, 1958, to January 4, 1959:

Julya6 1953s ee The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer.

High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer.

(Both forwarded to the Metropolitan Mu-

seum of Art January 15, 1959, for ex-

hibition. )
Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. :
Marche 959 Laguna, New Mexico, by Albert Lorey Groll.
To the Department of State, Washington, D.C.:
October 14, 1958_.-----_--_ Housatonic Valley, by Alexander Wyant.
December 31, 1958_----_-- The Grindstone, by Charles W. Dahlgreen
(etching).
Horse and Wagon, Noon, by George Fawcett
(etching).

The Tramp, by Sears Gallagher (etching).

Syeamores by the River, by Alfred Hutty
(etching).

Fiesole from San Francisco, by Ernest Roth
(etching).

Locating the Blind, by Lee Sturges (etching).

Winter Cornfield, by Lee Sturges (etching).

The New Outfit, by Walter C. Yeomans (etch-

ing).
DUNGES) TOHORsae oes ee Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander Wyant.
June 25,1 959Ss= End of Winter, by John H. Twachtman.
To the Department of the Treasury, Washington, D.C.:
Mareh: 3.1 000ns=2=5s—==—— Portrait of a Lady, by Anders Zorn.

To the U.S. Information Agency, Washington, D.C., for the American National
Exhibition in Moscow, July 25 through September 25, 1959:

TUNER O59 a a eee High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer.
To the Veterans’ Administration, Washington, D.C.:
December 16, 1958___----- Schoolgirl, by Mlle. Marie Louise-Catherine

Breslau (charcoal drawing).

Nurse and Patient, by Jules Cayron (crayon
drawing).

“Ostend,” by Arsene Chabanian (watercolor).

Before the Crucifix, by Louis Adolphe
Dechenaud (crayon drawing).

Homeless Victim of War, by Hubert-Denis
Htcheverry (crayon drawing).

“Saint Cloud, 4 Juin, 1906,” by Francois Pla-

meng (watercolor).

Wounded Soldier, by Henri Gervex (pastel).

Peasant Girl, by P.-Franc Lamy (watercolor).

Church Interior, by Maurice Lobre (charcoal
drawing).

“Primavera,” by Hdgard Henri Marie Maxence
(red chalk drawing).

“Les Poilus.” “Quand je pense que j’aspirais
a la vie au grand air,” by Louis Abel Tru-
chet (charcoal drawing).

“Pour que la liberté continue d’éclairer le
monde,” by Henri Zo (charcoal drawing).
February 16, 1959

SECRETARY’S REPORT ety

The First Sharps Rifle (Homer D. Jennings,
St. Cloud, Florida), by Walter Beck (pastel).

The Signal, After the Battle of Big Bethel
(John Tregaskis), by Walter Beck (pastel).

Fisher of the Fifth New York Volunteer In-
fantry, Duryee Zouaves, by Walter Beck
(pastel).

Drummer Boy of the Fighting Fifth after
Gaines Mills (Robert F. Daly, New York
City), by Walter Beck (pastel).

The Lone Tree, by Arthur W. Hall (etching).

Fry Street and the Old Polish Church, by
Morris Henry Hobbs (etching).

Mackerel, by Sears Gallagher (etching).

Swift Current Falls, by Eugene Glaman (etch-

ing).

Davy Jones’ Locker, by Margaret Ann Gaug
(etching).

Homeward Bound, by Sears Gallagher (etch-
ing).

The Port of Calvi, Corsica, by Philip H. Gid-
dens (etching).

Little Mexico, by Louis Oscar Griffith (etching).

Top of Brooklyn Arch, by Allen Lewis (etch-
ing).

Port of the Passing Ship, by Allen Philbrick
(etching).

The Great Tapestry Hall, Hampton Court
Palace, by Leon R. Pescheret (etching).

Middle Temple Hall, London, by Leon R. Pes-
cheret (etching).

Avenue of Flags, by Leon R. Pescheret (etch-
ing).

Miao Feng T’a (near the Jade Fountain Pa-
goda), by Hans Luthmann (etching).

Village Street, Bedford, Massachusetts, by
Chester Leich (etching).

Tree, Manhattan, by Martin Lewis (etching).

Salem’s Old Wharves, Massachusetts, by Philip
Little (etching).

Arch, Roman Forum, by Bertha E. Jaques
(etching).

Boat Shop, Venice, by Bertha BE. Jaques (etch-
ing).

Cheviot Sheep, Hampstead Heath, London, by
Bertha EK. Jaques (etching).

Sphinx, Thames, London, by Bertha HE. Jaques
(etching).

German Building, Chicago, by Bertha BH. Jaques
(etching).

Seiners, Chioggia, by Bertha E. Jaques (etch-
ing).

The Temple, by Bertha EH. Jaques (etching).

Artichoke, by Bertha E. Jaques (etching).
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

To the Office of Vice President Nixon, Washington, D.C.:
Sully VSel GSS eas Fae are

Niagara, by George Inness. (Returned April
7, 1959.)

To The White House, Washington, D.C.:

July 11, 1958_

July 21, 1908_— = 222-23 --=

August LO u1ooszae eee

December 17, 1958____-__-_

January 2a, LOb9e2 ee ee
MarchiG91 9502s See

April 10.1050 eee ee

June 9, 1959__

June 25, 1959_

Fruit, March 18,

Minnete and Minet (pastel).

Portrait of J. J. Shannon, R.A., by Orlando
Rouland.

Southwesterly Gale, St. Ives, by Frederick
Judd Waugh.

(Recalled April 8, 1959, for the exhibition,
“Turn-of-the-Century Paintings From the
William T. Evans Collection.” )

Lower Ausable Pond, by Homer Dodge Martin.
(Returned October 27, 1958.)
Male Wood Duck on Shallow Water, by Richard
Meryman.
The Island, by Edward Willis Redfield.
Beach of Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Massachu-
setts, by Frank Knox Morton Rehn.
Herbert Hoover, by Edmund Charles Tarbell.
Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way,
by Emanuel Leutze.
(Returned March 13, 1959.)
Outskirts of the Woods, by David Cox.
(Returned June 25, 1959.)
Southwesterly Gale, St. Ives, by Frederick
Judd Waugh.
Sun and Storm, by Paul Dougherty.

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

Three oils, Little Paulus, Little Rosa, and Watching, by S. Sey-
mour Thomas (1868-1956), gift of Mrs. Jean Haskell, were added
December 2, 1958.

Bronze, Sun Dance, by Paul Wayland Bartlett, N.A. (1865-1925),
gift of Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr., was added December 2, 1958.

Fourteen paintings by Alice Pike Barney, lent November 2, 1955,
to the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange were returned January 23,
1959, during a period of redecoration and re-lent, with Child with

1959:

The Visitor (pastel).

Endymion.
The Dimple.

Little Girl (pastel).
Hail Fellow, Well Met (pastel). Peggy (pastel).

An Oriental (

pastel).

Fantasy (pastel).

Gladys (pastel).

Hippolyte Thom (pastel).
Laura in Hat (pastel).
Natalie in Greens (pastel).

Romance (pastel).

The following paintings were lent for varying periods:
To The White House, Washington, D.C.:
December 17, 1958_-.--...

Ships at Anchor, Cherbourg No. 1, by Edwin
Scott.

To the Department of the Treasury, Washington, D.C.:

March 3, 1959

Shapes of Fear, by Maynard Dixon.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 119

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

The following paintings, purchased previously but not assigned,
have been allocated to the institutions indicated :

Title and artist Assignment
194. Circus Friends (watercolor), by A. University of South Carolina, Colum-
Henry Nordhausen (1901-_ ). bia, S.C.
195. That Lonesome Road (water- San Joaquin Pioneer and Historical
color), by Roy M. Mason Society, Stockton, Calif.
(1886-_).

205. Benares on the Ganges, by Mau- Phillips Gallery, Washington, D.C.
rice Sterne, N.A. (1877-1957).

206. Sea and Wharf at Provincetown, M. H. De Young Museum, San Francis-
by Eric Isenburger, N.A. co, Calif.
(1902-— ).

209. Everyday Is Washday (water- Henry Art Gallery, University of Wash-
color), by Frederic Whitaker, ington, Seattle, Wash.
N.A. (1891— ).

210. Philadelphia (watercolor), by Art Institute of Zanesville, Zanesville,
Hugh Gumpel (1926-_ ). Ohio.

No. 25, Sleep, by Leon Kroll, N.A. (1884—_ ), purchased by the Council of the
National Academy of Design December 4, 1922, was reassigned by the Academy
to the Fitchburg Art Museum, Fitchburg, Mass., on February 20, 1959.

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest, that paintings pur-
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger Bequest, and assigned to
American art institutions, may be claimed during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the fol-
lowing painting was recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art Com-
mission at its meeting December 2, 1958 :

No. 68, Mlle. Maria Safonoff, by Irving R. Wiles, N.A. (1861-1948), returned
to the Mount Holyoke College, Mount Holyoke, Mass., where it was originally
assigned in 1928.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as
follows:

Title and artist Assignment
212. Boardwalk, by Carl Setterberg Columbus Museum of Arts & Crafts,
(1897-—_ ). Columbus, Ga.

213. The Critic (Kermit Lansner), by (Assignment pending.)
Aaron Shikler (1922— ).

214. Yesterday and Before and Before, (Assignment pending. )
by Loring W. Coleman
(1918- ).

215. Night Road, Sheffield, by Joseph Hollins College, Hollins, Va.
Barber (1915-  ).

216. Autumn Landscape, by Robert Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Vickrey (1926— ).

217. The Painter, Shelley Fink, by (Assignment pending.)
David Levine (1926- ).
536608—60——_9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Title and artist Assignment
218. Practice, by Iver Rose (1899- ). H. B. Crocker Art Gallery, Sacramento,
Calif.
219. Shopping District, by Sol Wilson Mary Washington College, University
(1896-—_). of Virginia, Fredericksburg, Va.

220. At Foot of Mount Teton (water- Queens College Art Association, Flush-
color), by Chen Chi, A.N.A. ing, N.Y.

(1912- ).

221. Port City, by John Guerin J. B. Speed Art Museum, Louisville, Ky.
(1889-_).

222. Harvest Time, Extremadura University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
(watereolor), by Hileen Mona- Mass.
ghan Whitaker, A.N.A.
(1911- ).

223. Still Life (watercolor), by Avel Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minn.
de Knight (1923- ).

224. Houses in Shade (watercolor), by Wesleyan University, Middletown,
Edwin L. Dahlberg (1901- ). Conn.

225. Men and Mist (watercolor), by University of Vermont, Burlington, Vt.
Irving Shapiro ( — ).

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

In addition to 71 exhibits held over from previous years as listed
below, 29 new shows were introduced. The total of 100 were circulated
to 240 museums, one having been prepared for the U.S. Information
Service’s use abroad.

1954-1955: Japanese Woodcuts I; Design in Holland; and Carl Bodmer Paints
the Indian Frontier.

1955-1956: Sargent Watercolors; Architectural Photography; Contemporary
Finnish Architecture; European Glass Design; Two Finnish Craftsmen; Japan I
by Werner Bischof; This is the American Earth; and Chinese Ivories from the
Collection of Sir Victor Sassoon.

1956-1957: A Frenchman in America, Charles-Alexandre Lesueur; Paintings by
Tessai; American Printmakers; George Bellows Prints and Drawings; Contem-
porary German Prints; Japanese Fish Prints; Architectural Photography II;
German Architecture Today; Landscape Architecture Today; American Crafts-
men, 1957 ; Recent Work by Harry Bertoia ; Good Design in Switzerland; German
Art Books; A World of Children’s Books; Six Japanese Painters; Early American
Woodcarving; Punch and Judy; Japan II by Werner Bischof; The World of
Edward Weston; Young Germans Behind the Camera; and Swedish Rock
Carvings.

1957-1958: American Primitive Paintings; Paintings by Jan Cox; Indian
Paintings from Rajasthan; Mexican Work by Cock van Gent; Second Pacific
Coast Biennial; The American City in the 19th Century; Recent American
Prints; Early Prints and Drawings of California; Japanese Woodblock Prints;
Theatrical Posters of the Gay Nineties; Birds by Emerson Tuttle; 100 Years of
American Architecture; A Century of New England Architecture; Contemporary
Portuguese Architecture; National Ceramic Exhibition, Sixth Miami Annual;
Fulbright Designers; Nylon Rug Designs; Religious Banners; Twelve Scandi-
navian Designers; Swedish Textiles Today; Art Books from Italy; Books for
Young Scientists; Burmese Embroideries ; The Way of Chinese Landscape Paint-
ing; Japanese Dolls; Thai Painting; Paintings by Jamini Roy; The Anatomy of
Nature; Photographs of Angkor Wat; Image of America; Pup, Cub and Kitten;
SECRETARY’S REPORT 1A

Photographs of Sarawak; Glimpses of Switzerland; Argentine Children as Illus-
trators; Art in Opera I—Tosca; Art in Opera II—Carmen; As I See Myself; The
Four Seasons; and Children’s Paintings from Morocco.

The exhibition American Folk Art was prepared for the use of the
U.S. Information Agency in the Brussels Universal and International

Exhibition.
UNITED STATES

Paintings and Drawings

Title Source
Young British Painters________ Arts Club of Chicago; Gimpel Fils, London;
artists.
Dutch Master Drawings___-__~ Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam; Netherlands Em-

bassy ; museums and private lenders.
Institute of International Education; Senator

GRU) BIE TENENGLS Wooo ogee J. William Fulbright; Lloyd Goodrich and

Fulbright Painters II________- artists.

German Artists of Today______ Dr. Kurt Martin; Kleemann Gallery; German
Embassy.

Northwest Painters of Today_- Seattle Art Museum; Dr. Richard Fuller;
artists.

Recent Work by Peter Takal__ Cleveland Museum of Art, Miss Leona BKB.
Prasse; artists and collectors.
Transferences| {esl 24_ 225 eee Michael Chase, Zwemmer Gallery, London.

Graphic Arts

Advertising in 19th Century Prints and Photographs Division of the Library
America. of Congress.

The Engravings of Pieter Brue- Mr. and Mrs. Jake Zeitlin, Los Angeles, Calif.
ghel the Elder.

Three Danish Printmakers_____ Venice Biennale, 1958; Danish Embassy, Wash-

ington, D.C.; artists.
Great European Printmakers___ Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute, Utica, N.Y.
Charles Fenderich—Lithogra- Prints and Photographs Division of the Library

pher of American Statesmen. of Congress.
Drawings from Latin Amer- Visual Arts Section, Pan American Union,
ica. Washington, D.C.; artists; collectors.
Contemporary Religious Prints Mr. and Mrs. W. Ross Sloniker; Cincinnati
from the Sloniker Collec- Art Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio.

tion.

Religious Subjects in Modern Pennell Collection, Library of Congress.
Graphic Arts.
UNESCO Watercolor Repro- UNESCO, Paris, France.
ductions.
Design

British Artists-Craftsmen______ British Artists-Craftsmen, Ltd.; artists.

Contemporary Finnish Rugs_-_ Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Co., Inc.; “Ornamo,”
the Finnish Crafts Guild; weavers.

Contemporary French Tapes- Association des Peintres-Cortonniers de Tapi-

tries. series, Paris; Association Francaise d’ Ac-
tion Artistique; French Ambassador; artists.
Contemporary Indian Crafts_.__ Bengal Home Industries Association, Calcutta,

India.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Oriental Art

Stone Rubbings from Angkor Cultural Center of Angkor; Weyhe Gallery.
Wat.
Folk Art

Shaker Craftsmanship_________ Index of American Design, National Gallery
of Art.

Photography

The Unguarded Moment, Pho- Peter Hunter, George Eastman House; Time
tographs by Erich Salomon. and Life Building, New York; Library of
Congress.

Children’s Exhibitions

Children’s Paintings from Yorkville Youth Council, Inc., N.Y.; Shankers

Southeast Asia. Weekly.

Drawings by European Chil- Dr. Joy B. Roy, collector.
dren.

Children’s Paintings from In- Shankers Weekly; Fine Arts Commission’s
dia. People to People Program.

A Child Looks at the Museum__ Junior School, Art Institute of Chicago.

Swiss Children’s Paintings._._._-. Mrs. Dorothy Snow, Boston Museum of Fine

Arts.

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 2,016.
In all, 199 works of art were submitted for examination and identi-
fication.

Special catalogs with introductions and biographical notes by the
Director were published for the following three exhibitions: Profiles
of the Time of James Monroe; Henry Ward Ranger Centennial Ex-
hibition; and Turn-of-the-Century Paintings from the William T.
Evans Collection. He also published a vignette, Francis Davis Millet,
in the Cosmos Club Bulletin for May 1959.

Special catalogs were published for the following traveling exhibi-
tions: American Primitive Paintings; British Artist-Craftsmen;
Dutch Master Drawings; Contemporary French Tapestries; Fulbright
Painters; Recent Work by Peter Takal; and UNESCO Water Color
Reproductions. Special acknowledgments for two of these were writ-
ten by Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope and Mrs. Jo Ann Sukel Lewis.

Mr. Beggs was one of the three jurors for the national newspaper
cartoon contest on the subject of “Human Betterment,” Birmingham,
Ala., on January 16, 1959, and he judged the regional exhibition of
the National League of American Pen Women on April 27, 1959.
On September 1, 1958, he participated in a symposium, “The Study of
Art as the Study of Man,” at the American Psychological Association
SECRETARY’S REPORT 123

meetings, and on May 10, 1959, in a television show, “The 25th Hour,”
concerning the history of miniatures, showing examples from the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts permanent collection. He served on
the Committee on Liturgical Arts of the Rock Spring Congregational
Church, Arlington, Va., contributing three talks on the fine arts in a
series of 12. He spoke on “Henry Ward Ranger, Painter and Bene-
factor,” at the Art League of Manatee County, Bradenton, Fla., Feb-
ruary 24, 1959. He became a member of the Committee for the
Preservation of American Art, New York City, which awarded three
heroic sculptures by Karl Bitter (1867-1915) to the city of Indian-
apolis in a national competition, and served for the third year on the
Cultural Presentations Committee, Operations Coordinating Board,
which advises the Department of State in the selection of artists for its
oversea program.

On June 1-3, 1959, Mr. Beggs attended meetings of the Interna-
tional Institute for Conservation and the opening of the American
Association of Museums meetings in Pittsburgh.

Mrs. Pope gave a talk on May 8 at the University of Virginia in
Charlottesville on the Traveling Exhibition Service program. She
attended openings of the Dutch Master Drawings in Washington,
New York, Cleveland, and Chicago, and the meetings of the American
Association of Museums in Pittsburgh. Miss Acton represented the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service in a panel] discussion at
the meetings of the Southeast Museums Conference at Winston-Salem,
N.C., between October 15 and 18, 1958.

The staff participated in the organization of three important special
commemorative exhibitions in cooperation with other institutions.
At the request of the James Monroe Memorial Foundation, a bicenten-
nial exhibition was shown in the rotunda of the Natural History
Building, a special brochure and catalog being published. An exhibi-
tion requested on behalf of the Lincoln Sesquicentennial Commis-
sion was organized, with the assistance of the Lincoln Museum, and
shown at the Washington Cathedral. It was also exhibited in New
York at the Sheraton Park Hotel in connection with the Independ-
ence Stamp Show. In cooperation with the National Academy of
Design, a Henry Ward Ranger Centennial exhibition was shown in
New York City during the fall, and circulated in part from January
through June.

Rowland Lyon served as juror for the following four shows: To-
day’s Artists in Charles County (Maryland); Westmoreland Hills
Art Fair; Miniature Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of
Washington, D.C.; and the Arts Club Outdoor Art Fair.

Twenty-seven paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent col-
lections were cleaned and revarnished, 1 was relined, and 58 picture
frames were repaired and refinished with the assistance of Buildings
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Management Service. One painting, James W. Melville, by S. de
Ivanowitz, was relined to repair a 16-inch tear in the canvas, for the
U.S. National Museum.

Three paintings, Italian Landscape, Sunset Glow, by Tom Jones;
Lord Roth, by Sir Joshua Reynolds; and Fishing Boats Beating
Up to Windward, by Edward Moran, were renovated by Henri G.
Courtais, who also restored The Cottage Door, by Thomas
Gainsborough.

An oil, Major John Wesley Powell, by Edmund C. Messer, was
renovated by Francis Sullivan.

Janice Hines relined two oil paintings, Major John Wesley Powell,
by Henry Ulke, and House in the Valley of Wyoming, by Boese, and
renovated the following from the William T. Evans Collection: The
Blacksmith, by James Caroll Beckwith; The Black Orchid, by Fred-
erick Stuart Church; The Spouting Whale, by William Morris Hunt;
Algerian Water Carrier, by William Sartain; Water Lilies, by Walter
Shirlaw; The Boy with the Arrow, by Douglas Volk; Mrs. William
T. Evans and Son John, by Henry Oliver Walker; and A Gentle-
woman, by J. Alden Weir.

Joseph Ternbach renovated the following 12 objects from the Gel-
latly collection: Incense burner, enameled and chased copper, 15th
century (234.1); Byzantine necklace of gold medallions with inlaid
depictions of Christ and Apostles (247.1) ; Champleve limoges plaque,
the Crucifixion, French, 13th century (250.1) ; copper chasse, French,
18th century (251.1); Champleve limoges crucifix, French, 13th cen-
tury (252.1); Champleve crozier, the Annunciation, French, 13th
century (254.1) ; Russian ikon, Our Lady of Vladimir, (488.1) ; Pyxis
with enamel decoration, 13th century (602.1) ; silver filigreed phoenix,
Chinese (271.1); silver filigreed crown, ornamented with gems and
symbols, Chinese (272.1) ; silver and enamel peacock (621.1) ; Chinese
glass bowl (580).

Donald Hitchcock, Dumbarton Oaks Research Library, translated
the Church Russian inscriptions on the silver-gilt ikon, Our Lady of
Vladimir, in the Gellatly collection.

The entrance to the Benjamin H. Warder home, received from the
Cooperating Committee on Architecture in May 1923, was dismantled,
crated, and stored at Suitland on May 15, 1959.

An oul, John Tyler, by G. P. A. Healy, was copied by C. Gregory
Stapko in a studio furnished to the National Collection of Fine Arts
for that purpose through the courtesy of the National Gallery of Art.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Seventeen special exhibitions were held during the year:

August 27 through September 26, 1958.—Third Biennial Exhibition of Creative
Crafts sponsored by the Ceramic Guild of Bethesda, Cherry Tree Textile Design-

SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

ers, Clay Pigeons Ceramic Workshop, Designer-Weavers, the Potomac Craftsmen,
and the Kiln Club of Washington, consisting of 142 items. Craft demonstrations
were given. A catalog was privately printed.

October 12 through November 2, 1958.—Sculptures, Oils, Watercolors, and
Drawings by Charles M. Russell, sponsored by the Montana State Society of
Washington, D.C., consisting of 205 items. An illustrated catalog was privately
printed.

October 26 through November 23, 1958.—Profiles of the Time of James Monroe,
under the auspices of the James Monroe Memorial Foundation, consisting of
178 objects including paintings, sculpture, silhouettes, and memorabilia, was
held in the rotunda. A catalog was printed.

December 3, 1958, through January 4, 1959.—The 21st Anniversary of the
Metropolitan Art Exhibition, sponsored by the American Art League, consisting
of 63 paintings and 12 sculptures, was held in the rotunda.

December 8, 1958, through January 4, 1959—Henry Ward Ranger Centennial
Exhibition consisting of 30 paintings from the National Collection of Fine
Arts permanent collection that had been exhibited at the National Academy of
Design, September 25 through October 12, 1958, in its commemoration of this
artist’s birth, was held in the rotunda. A catalog was printed.

Following the National Collection of Fine Arts showing, these 30 paintings
were circulated from January through June 1959 to the following museums:
Mint Museum of Art, Charlotte, N.C.; Art League of Manatee County, Braden-
ton, Fla.; Jacksonville Art Museum, Jacksonville, Fla.; Gibbes Art Gallery,
Charleston, 8.C.; and North Carolina Museum of Art, Raleigh, N.C.

January 10 through February 1, 1959.—British Artist-Craftsmen, sponsored
by the Ambassador of Great Britain and Lady Caccia, and later circulated by
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of 178 objects, altar
sculpture, stained glass, ceramics, glass, silver, etc. The Rose Book was lent
by the Churchill family for special showing during this exhibition. A catalog
was privately printed.

February 7 through 27, 1959.—The 66th Annual Exhibition of the Society of
Washington Artists, consisting of 66 paintings and 18 seulptures. A catalog
was privately printed.

February 28 through March 22, 1959.—Fulbright Painters and Designers,
under the sponsorship of the Honorable J. W. Fulbright, Senator from Arkansas
(circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service), consisting of
60 paintings and approximately 200 objects, including furniture, textiles, silver,
ceramics, stained glass, ete. A catalog was privately printed.

March 29 through April 26, 1959.—Contemporary Glass and Textiles by Lu-
erecia Moyano de Muniz, sponsored by the Ambassador of Argentina, Dr. César
Barros Hurtado, consisting of 49 glass objects and 12 rugs.

March 29 through April 26, 1959——Photographs of Argentina by Gustavo
Thorlichen, sponsored by the Ambassador of Argentina, Dr. César Barros Hur-
tado, consisting of 58 prints.

April 19 through May 3, 1959——Stone Rubbings from Angkor Wat (circulated
by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service), consisting of 23 rubbings
made from the 12th-century sandstone reliefs.

April 19 through May 8, 1959.—Photographs of Angkor Wat (circulated by
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service), consisting of 100 photographs
stressing architecture of monuments built by Khmer King, Suryavarman II.

April 28 through June 1, 1959.—Turn-of-the-Century Paintings from the Wil-
liam T. Evans Collection, consisting of 57 paintings exhibited for the 50th
Anniversary American Federation of Arts Convention, was held in the first-
floor galleries. A catalog was printed.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

May 3 through 21, 1959.—The 26th Annual Exhibition of the Miniature Paint-
ers, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D.C., consisting of 191 items.
A eatalog was privately printed.

May 3 through 21, 1959.—The 63d Annual National Exhibition of the Washing-
ton Water Color Club, consisting of 117 paintings. A catalog was privately
printed.

June 2 through 9, 1959.—Children’s Paintings from Morocco, a selection from
the paintings owned by the Moroccan Embassy, consisting of 79 works.

June 14 through July 5, 1959.—Highth Interservice Photography Contest, con-
sisting of 75 photographs by members of the Armed Forces.

Respectfully submitted.
Tuomas M. Brces, Director.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit the 39th annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 80, 1959.

THE COLLECTIONS

Twenty-seven objects were added to the collections by purchase

as follows:
GLASS

58.16. Syrian, early 14th century. Footed bowl with cover; gilding with red
outlines and richly enameled with red, blue, green, white, and yellow
colors forming floral and animal designs; much of it in Chinese style.
Height 0.311 x diameter 0.210. (Illustrated. )

LACQUER

59.5. Indian, Dececani school, mid-17th century. Signed by Rahim Dekkani;
penbox (qgalamddan) with figural scenes of the life of princes on both
sides of the cover; arabesque and floral designs on brick-red outer side
walls; gold floral pattern on the greenish-brown bottom and undecorated
black interior; two metal chains at sides, and clasp. 0.282 x 0.053 x

0.049.
METALWORK

58.15. Indian, Mughal, 17th century (1605-27). Dagger with name of Jahangir
on upper chape. Steel blade with central ridge. Ivory flange inlaid
with black mastic and gold wire (the hilt flange of walrus ivory is
fixed to steel tang by pins ending in two silver rosettes) ; tang sheathed
with gold and studded with 16 larger and 34 smaller jewels; guard and
two chapes either in silver or niello or in reverse (chapes are now
detachable) ; one larger, six smaller stones, and some gold inlay lost,
one ivory corner chipped. Length (overall) 0.295 x width of guard
0.210.

58.6. Persian, Seljuq period, 11th century. Gold bracelet; quatrefoil hinge
decoration composed of 4 large and 12 small domes with granulation
work, and four inlaid turquoises. Diameter 0.106; weight 73.6 grams.

58.7. Persian, Sasanian period. Silver gilt plate; spherical, footless, with
spread-eagle design in low, chased relief; framing wreath, double walls;
part of gilt worn off; patination. 0.044 x 0.282.

58.14. Persian, Seljuq period, 11th-12th century. Gold bracelet, oval shaped;
three rows of conical projections (66 in all), framed by two rows of
smaller cones (172 in all); at the top side opening (closed by pin) 4
pairs of confronted dove figures partly executed with filigree, stand
on 2 x 11 strands of twisted wire. Maximum diameter (overall)
0.097 x width 0.050; weight 354.5 grams.

127
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959
PAINTING

58.8. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty. Two mynah birds on a branch; a squirrel
leaping for a wild grapevine; ink and light color on paper; by Hua
Yen (1682-1758) ; artist’s inscription and two of his seals on painting.
0.603 x 1.345.

58.9. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty. Landscape, “A Morning View of the Yao Peak,”
by Chiang Shih-chieh (1647-1709) ; two inscriptions by the artist and
nine of his seals on the painting; one collector’s seal. 0.540 x 0.242.

58.10. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, 17th century. Landscape in ink and color on
paper; by Hsiao Yiin-ts‘ung; inscription by the artist, signed and dated
(1658) ; one seal of the artist. 0.410 x 0.957.

59.1— Indian, Sultanate period, middle or second half of 15th century. Set of

59.4. four miniatures from a manuscript of Amir Khusraw Dihlavi’s Khamse ;
nasta‘liq writing in four columns; painting in colors on paper. Average:

0.110 x 0.210.
58.4— Japanese, Ashikaga period, Idealistic Chinese school. A pair of 6-fold
58.5. screens painted in ink and color on paper; mountain landscape by

Sesshu (1420-1506). Average: 1.610 x 3.512. (58.5 illustrated.)

58.11. Japanese, Kamakura period, Yamatoe school. ‘Yuzu Nembutsu Hugi,”
dated 1829; in ink and color on paper. 0.290 x 14.168.

58.12. Japanese, Decorative school, 17th century. Wistaria and other flowers;
by Roshi ; ink and color on paper. 1.259 x 0.520.

58.17— Japanese, Ashikaga period, Yamatoe school, 15th century. Set of three;

58.19. landscape-Kumano Mandara; ink, color, and gold on silk. Average:
1.165 x 0.593.

59.8. Japanese, Momoyama, Ukiyoe school, mid-17th century. Scenes in Kyoto,
“Gion Festival’; 6-fold screen; ink, color, and gold leaf on paper.
3.480 x 1.505.

POTTERY

58.18. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty, San-ts‘ai ware. Bowl with plain rim; clay: buff
stoneware; transparent glaze, streaked with brownish-yellow and
green; finely crackled; iridescent inside bottom. 0.047 x 0.103.

59.6 Chinese, Sung dynasty, ting ware. Vase of truncated bottle shape with
flat base, rounded shoulders, short neck, and flaring lip; clay: fine-
grained white stoneware; glaze: transparent, glossy ; decoration: peony
scrolls in brown slip with incised details. 0.163 x 0.166. (Illustrated.)

59.7 Chinese, Sung dynasty, celadon, Li-shui type. Covered vase with flaring
foot ring; two loop handles; flaring mouth and vertical lip; clay: light-
gray porcellaneous stoneware, fired reddish brown; glaze: transparent
olive-green with fine crackle; decoration: incised on body, carved on
eover. 0.370 (with cover) x 0.165.

59.9 Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hsiian-te period. Bowl, deep with thick walls and
flat, low foot ring; clay: fine white porcelain; glaze: transparent, faintly
bluish inside and flocculent blue outside, none on base; decoration:
incised in the paste outside are waves, dragons, and lotus panels; 6-
character mark of the period inside bottom. 0.125 x 0.264.

58.8 Japanese, Edo period, Kakiemon, early 18th century. Octagonal dish:
clay: fine white porcelain; glaze: transparent, very slightly mat; deco-
ration: two large fish in underglaze blue among water weeds in over-
glaze enamels. 0.050 x 0.333.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 129
59.10 Japanese, Hdo period, Nabeshima. Shallow dish with high, thin foot ring;
clay: fine white porcelain; glaze: transparent; decoration: in under-
glaze blue outside and in, the latter combined with overglaze enamels.
0.037 x 0.150.
REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

Twenty-nine Chinese, Japanese, and Persian objects were restored,
repaired, or remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition, he repaired 18
books for the library.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 445 as follows:

American art: Paintings? 2s eset Se 60
Drawings) Sit eres 29 Stone sculpture_____- 10
Mtchings\=s-ssssa se 20 Japanese art: Paintings__ 4
Lithographs —------__ 18 Korean art:

Chinese art: IBLONZEG 252s o8 oe eeee 6
IBTONZE eas te eas oe 34 Jahres oa oe (¢
Voy!) att See eI ENA 8 Metalwork ~_-----_~- 6
lacquers 4 Pottery; i281 se" ar be 65

Christian art: Near Eastern art:

Ory stale nee 1 Bookbindings ~_----~- 10
Glass) sa 82 ee ee 3 Manuscripts 22-2-—-—— 28
Goldiqeeccnceee eee 9 Metalwork” 2222222245 30
Paintings! 22 2S = bees 8 Paintings) 2Yilge As dt
Stone sculpture_____- 1 Pottery velés4 18

Indian art: Stone sculpture___--~- 2
IBTONZC) a= ate tees 2 Wood sculpture_____- 2
Manuseripts: 2 -——=-—— 12 Tibetan art: Paintings___~ 4

LIBRARY

Among the 1,005 acquisitions for the library of the Freer Gallery,
there were 533 welcome gifts from individuals and exchanges from
other institutions. Outstanding in the purchases were: Dai kan wa
jiten (Great Chinese-Japanese dictionary), 10 of the 13 volumes have
been received; Sekai top zenshu (Catalogue of the world’s ceramics)
in 16 volumes, Tokyo, Kawade Shobo, 1955-58; Sekai kokogaku
taiket (Archaeology of the world), to be complete in 16 volumes,
Tokyo, Heibonsha, 1958-; Pearson, /ndea T[slamicus, 1906-1955,
Cambridge, Heffer & Sons, 1958; Kern Institute, Annual bibliography
of Indian archaeology, vol. 16 (1948-1953), Leiden, Brill, 1958;
Gulik, R. H. van, Chinese pictorial art as viewed by the connoisseur,
Roma, 1958; Nishimura Tei, Vamban art, Christian art in Japan,
1549-1639, Tokyo, 1959.

The library receives publications from mainland China and ex-
changes publications with the Hermitage Museum, Leningrad.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

In all, 454 scholars and students other than the Gallery staff read
and studied in the library. Twenty interested persons saw the Wash-
ington Manuscripts from the vault and studied the facsimiles.

In the reshelving of the library a rare book division was estab-
lished. This includes these books which are outstanding examples of
Japanese rare books: Sanjiirok-kasen (The thirty-six immortals of
Japanese poetry), [n.p., Suminokura Soan, n.d.]. Each page con-
tains a portrait with the name of the poet and his or her poem. These
poets were selected by the poet Fujiwara no Kinto, with illustrations
considered to be by Tosa Mitsushige. This is a perfect copy, prob-
ably in its original condition. Its slightly tinted papers of yellowish
and brownish shades are interleaved with white papers. ‘The sheets
are not numbered and there is no other inscription except the names
of the poets and their poems. The writings are judged to be in the
style of K6éetsu’s calligraphy. The second book is a collection: Utai-
bon (one hundred utai for the No plays of Kanze school), first
edition. Calligraphy by Honami Koetsu with the 36 designs said to
be by Sotatsu, brother-in-law of Koetsu. These are Saga-bon (books
printed in Saga) under the patronage of Suminokura Soan, a very
wealthy businessman and an ardent pupil of Kéetsu in calligraphy.
The paper was probably prepared by “paper maker Ky6ji,” who lived
with K6etsu at his villa Takagamine. The papermill was situated by
the river Kamiyagawa, which flows near Koetsu’s own villa at Takaga-
mine. The books are printed from movable type on both sides of
the paper. The sheets are folded once in the center, sewed with red
silk, and bound two quires to a volume. The paper is white and
colored, heavy, coated with clay, and printed with floral designs in
mica. The covers are various-colored papers of the same quality,
with dark-tan labels. 100 volumes in 6 lacquer boxes after XGetsu’s
designs. Dr. Yukio Yashiro of Japan, an authority on these books,
says the calligraphy on the boxes is not Kéetsu’s. These volumes are
extremely rare in Japan.

The year’s record of cataloging included a total of 1,422 entries of
which 666 analytics were made, 425 titles of books and pamphlets were
cataloged, and 53 titles were recataloged and reclassified. Of the total
of 4,970 cards necessary for the above work, only 610 were available
as printed cards from the Library of Congress.

PUBLICATIONS

Two publications were issued by the Gallery as follows:

The Freer Gallery of Art. 16 pp., 8 pls., 2 floor plans, 1 plan of court planting.
Rey. ed. 1958. (Smithsonian Inst. Publ. 4185.)

Fong, Wén. The lohans and a bridge to heaven. Occas. Pap., vol. 3, No. 1, 64
pp., 18 pls., 1 fig., 1958. (Smithsonian Inst. Publ. 4305.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT 131

Papers by staff members appeared in outside publications as fol-
lows:

CAHILL, JAMES F. Review of “The Arts of the Ming Dynasty.” Catalog of
an exhibition organized by the Arts Council of Great Britain and the Ori-
ental Ceramie Society. The Journal of Asian Studies, Ann Arbor, vol. 18,
No. 2, pp. 289-290, February 1959.

Foreword for the exhibition of paintings by Chi Chuan Wang held

March 10-April 4, 1959, at Mi Chou Gallery, New York City.

Ch‘ien Hsiian and his figure paintings. Archives of the Chinese Art
Society of America, vol. 12, pp. 10-29, 1958.

ETTINGHAUSEN, RicHARD. An exhibition of the ancient arts of Muslim coun-
tries in Lahore. West Pakistan, vol. 1, No. 8, April 1958.

Comments on the nature of Islamic art and its symbols. In The Pak-

istan Quarterly, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 39-40, 64, Spring 1958.

‘Abbiasidi-la pittura murale la miniature le arte decorative. Enciclo-

pedia Universale dell’Arte, vol. 1, col. 10-18. Roma, Istituto per la Col-

laborazione Culturale, 1959.

‘Abdu’s-Samad. In Enciclopedia Universale dell’ Arte, vol. 1, col. 18-21.

Roma, Istituto per la Collaborazione Culturale, 1959.

Review of ‘‘Der Orientalische Kntipfteppich, Versuch einer Darstellung

seiner Geschichte,” by K. Erdmann. Oriens, vol. 2, pp. 257-264, 1958.

Review of “Islamic Woodcarvers and their Works,” by L. A. Mayer,
for The Muslim World, Hartford (Conn.) Seminary Foundation, January
1959, p. 60.

GETTENS, RUTHERFORD J. The identification of pigments and inerts on paintings
and other museum objects. Application of Science in Examination of Works
of Art, Sept. 15-18, 1958, pp. 31-49.

Examining tables in use at the Freer Gallery of Art. Studies in Con-
servation, vol. 4, pp. 23-27, illus., February 1959.

Porr, JOHN ALEXANDER. Two Chinese porcelains in the Umezawa Collection.
Yamato Bunka No. 28, pp. 1-12, December 1958.

Chinese characters in Brunei and Sarawak ceramics. The Sarawak
Museum Journal, vol. 3, No. 11 (new series), pp. 267-272, 1958.

STERN, Harotp P. Ukiyoe paintings; selected problems. University of Michi-
gan, 1958.

WEsT, ELISABETH HERARD. A ring-mount for micro-cross-sections of paint and
other materials. In Studies in Conservation, vol. 4, pp. 27-381, illus., Feb-
ruary 1959.

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY AND SALES DESK

The photographic laboratory made 6,960 items during the year, as
follows: 4,072 prints, 606 negatives, 1,894 color slides, 405 black-and-
white slides, and 83 color film sheets. In all, 2,463 slides were lent
during the year. At the sales desk 23,921 items were sold, compris-
ing 2,098 publications and 21,823 reproductions (including postcards,
slides, photographs, reproductions in the round, etc.).

BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The exterior walls of the building appear to be in good condition,
but the roof has begun to show signs of wear. The exterior doors at
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

the north and south entrances were refinished to an antique bronze,
and a brass handrail was installed at the north entrance. Window
sills throughout the building have been painted, and painting of struc-
tural steel and metalwork in the attic was begun.

Four bookcases were completed for the library and one for the office
of the Assistant Director, and work on exhibition cases for the gal-
leries continued. A radial saw was installed in the cabinet shop, and a
cabinet for a print dryer for the photographic laboratory and light-
proof equipment for the technical laboratory were constructed. Gal-
lery benches were redesigned and upholstered.

All trees, plants, and shrubs appear to be doing very well. The
Meyer zoysia grass is making an excellent showing, except for two
small plots on the south side that are in complete shade for the winter
season. Experiments are being made to correct this situation. Vinca
and Gomphrena planted around the fountain for the present season
are doing very well.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day except
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 119,333. The highest monthly attendance was in Au-
gust, 14,891, and the lowest was in December, 4,018.

There were 2,508 visitors to the office for the following purposes:

Mon general intonm atl One sec = ae seen wee ee ee ee 1, 012
Tosubmitobjectsitor examina tions ea ee le es ee 470
To: See State MemMpers S2s ee ea an a ae 193
To take photographs in court or exhibition galleries___-______.________ 127
Torstudyai nal bia y sae ee es eS 454
To see buildingvandvinstallations= 2 eee as ee ee 37
TOLEXAMING: OF DOrrow; SLideS=— = = see ee ee 41
Tosketehrinisallenies si. Sass ee Ae ee eA ee ee a ae 3
To see objects in storage:
IMS hy ha ee ee a ee eee 23
ChristianvartaCwWeshine tony his Seo =e ee ee ee 46
Far Hastern jade, lacquer, wood, ivory, ete________-___.-----__- 20
Har Hasternymetal worksq2rs2 + ao eae ees er ee ee ee 28
Marvhasternspaintings soo aan ee eee ae ee ee 183
Har} Hastern;: pottery 222-4 2 bes sees ened beh ee de 35
Near, Bastern bookbindings, glass; etc__----=_~=--- -_-==2_=--___ qT
Nearpbastermmmetal works saan. see te eee Ee ies See ee Bars yf
INGarshasterny painting siees 2S are pe a ee eee 26
Near hastern “pottery so Se ee See a eee AY ee 10
AUDITORIUM

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:

1958
October 7. Dr. Richard Ettinghausen, Curator of Near Hastern Art,
Freer Gallery of Art. ‘Paintings of the Sultans and Em-
perors of India.” Attendance, 296.
1958
November 4.

1959
January 6.

February 10.

March 10.

April 7.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 133

Basil Gray, Keeper of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum,
London, England. “Five Hundred Years of Chinese Wall
Painting at Tun-huang.” Attendance, 2938.

Dr. Wén Fong, Princeton University. ‘How to Look at
Chinese Paintings.” Attendance, 298.

Miss Elizabeth Lyons, Queens College, New York City.
“Temple Paintings of Thailand.” Attendance, 234.

Harold P. Stern, Associate Curator of Japanese Art,
Freer Gallery of Art. “Popular Paintings of Tokugawa,
Japan.” Attendance, 157.

Dr. John A. Pope, Assistant Director, Freer Gallery of Art.
“Hinduism and Buddhism at Angkor.” Attendance, 326.

Outside organizations used the auditorium as follows:

1958
August 13.

Ikebana International held a meeting during which. Miss
Seikoh Ogawa gave a demonstration and illustrated lec-
ture on “Japanese Flower Arrangement.” Attendance, 428.

September 23-26. The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Marketing Workshop,

1959
January 8-9.

January 13-20.

January 27.
Tebruary 2.

February 19.

April 2.

April, 14—

June 29,

May 6.

May 20.

June 2.

June 18.

held meetings with attendance as follows: 82, 96, 83, and
127 ; total, 388.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Federal Extension Serv-
ice, held meetings with attendance as follows: 96 and 81;
total, 177.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture held all-day meetings of
Administrative Conference (Telephone) with attendance as
follows: 121 and 124; total, 245.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Under Secretary’s Office,
held a meeting of the Farmers’ Union. Attendance, 156.
The District of Columbia Psychological Association held an

evening meeting. Attendance, 62.

The U.S. Department of Health, HWducation, and Welfare,
Food and Drug Administration, held a seminar on “Meta-
bolic Fate of Drugs in Different Species.” Attendance, 167.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agricultural
Service, showed a movie on Africa. Attendance, 153.

Twelve rehearsals were held by a group from the Smithsonian
Institution for a musical program of 15th-century music
using antique musical instruments. ;

The U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Food
and Drug Administration, held an all-day meeting.
Attendance, 82.

The Smithsonian Institution sponsored an illustrated lecture
by H. Alan Lloyd on “Pre-Renaissance Clocks and Their
Influence.” Attendance, 92.

The Museum Store Managers held a meeting; cochairmen
were Mrs. Elizabeth Ostertag, National Gallery of Art, and
Mrs. Lnor O. West, Freer Gallery of Art. A talk on “Copy-
right” was given by Richard MacCarteney, Copyright Divi-
sion, Library of Congress. Attendance, 35.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food Extension Service,
and The 4-H Club held a meeting. Attendance, 112.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

1959

June 24. American Library Association, Art Section, Chairman, Mrs.
Bertha Usilton, librarian, Freer Gallery of Art, held a
meeting. A talk was given on “A New Program in the
Documentation of Art.” Attendance, 220.

June 30. The Smithsonion Institution, Division of Cultural History,
presented “A Program of 15th-Century Music.” Attend-
ance, 361.

On October 8, 1958, the Gallery was open in the evening and docent
service was given by Dr. James Cahill and Rutherford J. Gettens
to a group of nine members of the Executive Committee, International
Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry; Dr. Edward Wichers headed
this distinguished group.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub-
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects
in the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Per-
sian, Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral and written, and
exclusive of those made by the technical laboratory (listed below)
were made on 8,637 objects as follows: For private individuals,
4,785; for dealers, 1,619; for other museums, 2,233. In all, 834 photo-
graphs were examined, and 1,151 Oriental language inscriptions were
translated for outside individuals and institutions. By request, 20
groups totaling 430 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent
service by the staff members.

Five groups totaling 101 persons were given docent service by staff
members in the storage rooms.

Among the visitors were 87 distinguished foreign scholars or per-
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here
under the auspices of the State Department to study museum admin-
istration and practices in this country.

During the year the technical laboratory carried on the following
activities :

Mreer:Gallery: objects examined 2 225 asst ee ee 115
Microchemicallliy ase te ee Suet A Sout Bn eee 2 oe 2
Microscopicallygen see. 2 ee ae ee ene ee ee 36
WilttravlOl eG ere at cee see enna A ea ee SS 30
EXCT AVA CEPA CELLONE ke echt ne) Sher ET a eee 31
Chemical analysis 20) ee eee. Messe ie PA
Treated) .cleaned::or Tepained Sa ee. come SN ee 37

Outsidevobjectsjexamin egies ts ee MN ee ek, a es 107
Microchemicallly eit s fy wk ewek Se ee err eye 2 23
MTICFOSCODIGAT V7 sce et Bee Fe eel ceed a nee a Pp 2 45
Ultraviolet. 28.2 bree Ae sper eee Cds At fh i) ee 41
Xray) diffraction.) kek Sei eer eae ee ee See eee 4

Treated:.cleaned: for repairedies eee esta eee 6
PLATE 5

Secretary's Report, 1959

“WV jo Alay[ey Tool yf 94} JO SUOTIDII{[OD

34} 0} suOTIppe Juaey

9T°8S

PLATE 6

Secretary's Report, 1959

WV fo Alay]eyy Tool 94} fo SUOTID9][OI VY OF uOolIppe JUDD

Shag)

SECRETARY’S REPORT 135

The following projects were undertaken by the laboratory during
the year:

1. During February and March Mr. Gettens spent 2 weeks, and
Miss West 6 weeks, working as guests in the Chemistry Department,
Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, Long Island, N.Y. The
project of spectrochemical analysis of some 30 inscribed ceremonial
bronzes from the Freer collection, which was begun last year, was
brought nearly to completion.

2. Chemical anaylsis of the same series of bronzes by conventional
wet methods was completed.

3. Examination of some 550 jade objects in the Freer collection,
which included X-ray diffraction analysis of 150 jades, was completed.

4. Mr. Gettens took over editorship of Abstracts of the Technical
Literature and Archaeology and the Fine Arts, published by the
International Institute for Conservation of Museum Objects, London,
England.

5. The systematic collection of data on the technology of ancient
copper and bronze in the Far East was continued.

6. Studies on the corrosion products of ancient metal objects were
continued.

During the year, 4 written reports were made and 128 verbal reports
given on objects examined in the technical laboratory.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) :

1958
July 1. Dr. Cahill, to the Society for Asian Art, San Francisco,
Calif., ‘Painting Albums in China and Japan.” Attend-
ance, 100.
September 1. Dr. Pope, at a session of the Division of Esthetics, Sympo-

sium of the American Psychological Association, Statler
Hotel, Washington, D.C., ‘‘The Freer Gallery of Art.”
Attendance, 150.

September 3. Dr. Cahill, at the Fourth Conference on Chinese Thought,
Aspen, Colo., “‘Confucian Elements in Chinese Painting
Theory.” Attendance, 16. (Not illustrated.)

September 15. Mr. Gettens, at the Seminar on Applications of Science in
Examination of Works of Art, Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston, Mass., “Identification of Pigments.” Attend-

ance, 73.
November 3. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore,
Md., “Islam.” Attendance, 183.
December 11. Dr. Cahill, at the University of Chicago, Chicago, III,
“Two Concepts of Painting in China.’”’ Attendance, 50.
December 12. Dr. Cahill, at the University of Chicago, Chicago, IIL,
“The Theory of Literati Painting.” Attendance, 60.
December 14. Mr, Stern, at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor,

San Francisco, Calif., “The Korean Exhibition.” At-
tendance, 100.
536608—60——_10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

1959
January 15. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the annual Regents’ dinner, Smith-
sonian Institution, ‘Objects Dealing with Christmas
Themes in the Freer Gallery Collections.” Attendance
34,
January 16. Mr. Stern, to the Japan-American Society, Georgetown

Presbyterian Church, Washington, D.C., ‘‘Hokusai.”
Attendance, 30.

January 29. Dr. Cahill, to the College Art Association, Cleveland, Ohio,
‘“‘Criteria of Evaluation in Chinese Criticism of Painting.”
Attendance, 60.

January 30. Dr. Pope, at the Antiques Forum, Williamsburg, Va.,
“Chinese Export Porcelain in Perspective.” Attendance,
395.

February 3. Mr. Stern, at the Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles,
Calif., ‘‘The Korean Exhibition.”’ Attendance, 350.

February 9. Mr. Stern, to the Society for Asian Arts, San Francisco,
Calif., “Hokusai.” Attendance, 150.

March 17. Dr. Cahill, at the Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Mass.,
“Two Concepts of Painting in China.” Attendance, 60.

March 18. Dr, Cahill, at the Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Mass.,
“The Theory of Literati Painting.” Attendance, 60.

March 19. Dr. Cahill, at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.,
“Yiian Dynasty Painting.” Attendance, 12.

April 9. Dr. Pope, to the American Oriental Society, University of

Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., ‘‘Notes on Saga of Porce-
lain: How Old Is Koimari?”’ Attendance, 100.

April 10. Dr. Ettinghausen, to the American Oriental Society, Uni-
versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., ‘Miniatures
Related to the ‘Demotte’ Shdh-nadmeh.”’ Attendance, 75.

April 16. Mr. Stern, at Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
“Hokusai the Painter.’”’ Attendance, 110.

April 30. Mr. Stern, to the Japan Society, New York City, “Japanese
Art, Visual Aspects.’”? Attendance, 60.

May 7. Dr. Pope, at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.,
“Temples of Angkor.”’ Attendance, 175.

May 23. Mr. Gettens, to the Eastern New York American Chemical

Society, Top of the World Inn, Lake George, N.Y.,
“ Adventures in Archaeological Chemistry.””? Attendance,
50.

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi-
ness as follows:

1958

June 20- Dr. Pope, in Europe, examined objects in museums and

August 11. private collections as follows: London: British Museum,
Percival David Foundation, Victoria and Albert Museum,
and six private collections; Amsterdam: Museum for
Asiatic Art and one private collection; The Hague: One
private collection; Brussels: Musée du Cinquantenaire
and Stoclet Collection; Athens: Benaki Museum; Rome:
Istituto Italiano per il Medio ed Estremo Oriente;
Venice: Oriental Museum; Lugano: Dubose Collection
and Vanotti Collection.
1958
July 1-3.

July 7.

July 17-18.

September 3-11.

September 11.

September 12.

September 12.

September 13-15.

September 15.

September 15-17.

September 15-18.

October 11-22.

October 22.

October 23-25.

October 23-25.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

Mr. Stern, in New York City with Dr. George Switzer of the
U. §. National Museum, examined the Vetlesen jade
collection, and arranged for transportation as a gift to the
Smithsonian Institution.

Mr. Gettens, with Dr. Harold Plenderleith of the British
Museum, London, England, visited the Mellon Institute,
Pittsburgh, Pa., where Dr. Robert Feller showed them
installations.

Mr. Gettens, with Dr. Harold Plenderleith, attended the
Seminar on Museum Science at the Winterthur Museum,
Winterthur, Del.

Dr. Cahill, in Aspen, Colo., attended the ‘‘Conference on
Chinese Thought.”

Mr. Wenley, in Ann Arbor, Mich., conferred with the Freer
Fund Committee, head of the art department, and editors
at the University of Michigan.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, Md., examined Near East-
ern manuscripts and miniatures in the Baltimore Museum
of Art.

Dr. Cahill, in Chicago, Ill., examined Chinese paintings at
the Art Institute of Chicago.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined objects at dealers.

Dr. Pope, in Baltimore, Md., examined one Japanese sculp-
ture in the Baltimore Museum of Art.

Mr. Stern, in Ann Arbor, Mich., consulted with Doctoral
Committee at the University of Michigan.

Mr. Gettens, in Boston, Mass., attended a Seminar on Appli-
cation of Science in Examination of Works of Art at the
Museum of Fine Arts; participated in the ceremonies to
honor Edward Waldo Forbes, director emeritus of the
Fogg Art Museum, on his 85th birthday.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Cleveland, Ohio, examined Rajasthani
miniatures belonging to G. K. Kanoria, Calcutta, India,
exhibited in the Cleveland Museum of Art; examined
Mughal, Rajasthani, and Pahari miniatures in a private
collection; examined and photographed 4 Mughal minia-
tures in the Cleveland Museum of Art; in Ann Arbor,
Mich., examined 40 pieces of pottery in the Museum of
Art, University of Michigan; examined 1 Persian manu-
script and photographed 3 Persian miniatures in a private
collection; in Detroit, Mich., examined 1 Indian miniature
and 1 Egyptian ceremonial mace in the Detroit Institute
of Art.

Mr. Gettens and Miss Elisabeth H. West, in Upton, Long
Island, N.Y., visited Brookhaven National Laboratory
where technical matters were discussed with Dr. E. V.
Sayre, and other members of the Chemistry Department.

Dr. Pope, in New York City, examined 30 objects at dealers.
Attended a meeting of the American Council of Learned
Societies, Committee on Asia.

Mr. Gettens, in Brooklyn, N.Y., attended a ‘‘Conference on
Conservation” at the Brooklyn Museum. Served as
a member of the ad hoc committee on Resolutions for
Exploratory Conference on Conservation.
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

1958
November 1.

November 3-4,

November 8-11.

November 20-26.

December 8-10.

1959
February 1-24,

February 11.

February 16-26.

February 16-27.

February 18-20.

March 17-22.

April 8-12.

April 8-14.

Mrs. Usilton and Mrs. Hogenson, in Baltimore, Md., at-
tended an all-day meeting of Regional Catalogers of
Maryland, Virginia, and District of Columbia at the
Peabody Institute.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, Md., examined 1 Christian-
Arab dagger, 1 Turkish box, 1 Moroccan dagger, 4
Indian manuscripts, and 10 Indian miniatures in the
Walters Art Gallery; did research work in their library.

Mr. Stern, in New York City, examined 141 objects at
dealers. Looked at the collections of the Museum of
Modern Art; examined 30 pieces of Japanese porcelain
and 1 Japanese painting at the Metropolitan Museum
of Art.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined 30 Chinese paint-
ings in private coilections, and 88 objects at dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in Boston and Cambridge, Mass., examined 86
Chinese paintings in the Museum of Fine Arts, and 24
Chinese paintings at the Fogg Art Museum.

Mr. Stern, in Los Angeles, Calif., examined 50 Far Eastern
objects in the Los Angeles County Museum, and 62
objects in private collections; in San Diego, examined 60
Japanese objects in the Museum of Art; in Santa Barbara,
examined 145 Chinese and Japanese objects in the
Museum of Art, and 215 Far Eastern objects in private
collections; in San Francisco, examined 40 Indian paint-
ings at the De Young Memorial Museum, 406 objects
belonging to various dealers, and 457 Far Eastern objects
in private collections. In Kansas City, examined 207
Far Eastern objects in the William Rockhill Nelson
Gallery of Art, and 35 Indian bronzes in a private col-
lection. In Chicago, examined 43 Far Eastern objects
in the Art Institute of Chicago, and 25 Japanese paintings
in private collections.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, Md., examined objects in
the Walters Art Gallery.

Mr. Gettens, in Upton, Long Island, N.Y., continued the
spectrographic analysis of Chinese bronzes begun last
year at the Brookhaven National Laboratory.

Miss Elisabeth H. West, in Upton, Long Island, N.Y.,
continued the spectrographic analysis of Chinese bronzes
begun last year at the Brookhaven National Laboratory.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects at
dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in Cambridge, Mass., examined 12 Far Eastern
paintings at the Fogg Art Museum, and 41 paintings in
private collections; in Boston, examined 17 paintings at
the Museum of Fine Arts.

Dr. Pope, in Ann Arbor, Mich., attended a meeting of the
American Oriental Society; examined 100 objects in the
University Museum of Anthropology.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Ann Arbor, Mich., attended a meeting
of the American Oriental Society; examined 155 Persian
objects and 20 transparencies of Persian miniatures at a
special exhibition in the Museum of the Near East.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 139

1959

April 15-17. Mr. Stern, in New Haven, Conn., examined 40 Japanese
prints and 50 Japanese paintings at the Yale University
Art Museum; in New York City, examined 160 objects
belonging to dealers.

April 24-29. Dr. Pope, in New York City, attended meetings of the
American Council of Learned Societies, Joint Committee
on the Award of Fellowships; examined 136 Far Eastern
objects belonging to dealers.

April 30-May 1. Mr. Stern, in New York City, examined 35 objects belong-
ing to dealers.

May 8. Dr. Pope, in Charlottesville, Va., examined 4 Chinese
paintings and 15 pieces of Chinese pottery in a private
collection.

May 12-18. Dr. Pope, in New York City, attended meetings of the

American Council of Learned Societies, Committee on
Asia; examined a number of objects in the Metropolitan
Museum of Art; in Boston, Mass., presided at meetings
of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group at the Museum of
Fine Arts.

May 23-30. Mr. Stern, in Cambridge, Mass., conferred with Robert
Treat Paine, Jr., at the Fogg Art Museum, and Prof.
James N. Plumer of the University of Michigan; in New
York City, examined 170 objects belonging to dealers,
and 52 objects in two museums.

May 23. Mr. Gettens, in Lake George, N.Y., attended meetings of
the Eastern New York American Chemical Society.
June 1-4. Mr. Gettens, in Pittsburgh, Pa., attended meetings of the

American Association of Museums. He presided as
chairman of the Temporary Committee of the Inter-
national Institute for the Conservation of Museum
Objects, at a meeting for the purpose of forming the
American Group.

Mr. Gettens left for Europe on June 14, 1959, to attend meetings
of the International Council of Museums in Copenhagen and Stock-
holm, and en route, to consult with colleagues and visit collections in
Scotland, England, and Belgium.

As in former years, members of the staff undertook a wide variety
of peripheral duties outside the Gallery, served on committees, held
honorary posts, and received recognitions.

On June 9, 1959, the Gallery cooperated with the Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection, Trustees for Harvard University,
in sponsoring a performance of Gagaku, the musicians and dancers
of the Imperial Japanese Household. This ancient company made
its first journey outside of Japan, thanks to the interest and influence
of Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold, to perform before the
United Nations in New York. A 2-week schedule followed under
the auspices of the New York City Ballet Company; and it was the
generosity of the latter organization that made possible the single ap-
pearance in Washington. Over 500 invited guests attended the
production in the gardens of Dumbarton Oaks.
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

The Freer Gallery of Art again participated in the Wellesley- Vassar
Washington Summer Intern Program designed for students inter-
ested in obtaining rounded experience in the general operation and
purposes of a gallery, and in broadening familiarity with the field of
art in general. Miss Nancy Orbison, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie,
N.Y., served as our volunteer for this program during the summer
of 1959.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. Wentey, Director.

Dr. Leonard CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Air Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1959:

On September 6, 1958, President Eisenhower signed the bill (S.
1958), originally introduced by Senator Clinton P. Anderson and
passed by the 85th Congress, authorizing and directing the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution to prepare plans, including drawings
and specifications, for the construction of a suitable building for a
National Air Museum to be located on the site bounded by Fourth and
Seventh Streets SW., Independence Avenue, and Jefferson Drive.
Thus, with the passage of this act (Public Law 85-935), another
step forward has been taken toward the provision of adequate housing
for the National Air Museum. The architectural firm of Harbeson,
Hough, Livingston & Larson, of Philadelphia, Pa., is making prelim-
inary studies and an estimate of planning costs for the building.

A number of significant accessions were received. Among these
were the first recovered nose cone from outer space, a replica of the
Jupiter C rocket and satellite Explorer I, a recovered data capsule
from outer space, some original documents of the early experiments
in rocketry by Dr. Robert H. Goddard, and a Curtiss-Wright Jr.
airplane.

Considerable progress was made in the improvement and prepara-
tion of storage and restoration facilities.

Plans for a new exhibit in the Aircraft Building were approved,
and construction will begin this fall. It is expected that the new
exhibit will be opened in the spring of 1960.

Information service in the form of technical, historical, and bio-
graphical information pertaining to the development of aviation,
furnished to Government agencies, schools, research workers, authors,
students, and the public, increased in scope and in volume during the
year. Many useful acquisitions to the Museum’s library, reference,
and photographic files were received.

New staff members reporting for duty include Kenneth E. Newland,
curator; Robert Meyer, junior curator; and Robert Wood, museum
aide.

Walter M. Male, associate curator, has been assigned to Suitland,
Md., as operations manager in charge of the Museum’s restoration
program.

141
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ADVISORY BOARD

Although no meetings of the Advisory Board were held during the
year, the members have been consulted from time to time on important
museum activities. One member of the Board, Grover C. Loening,
gave the Lester D. Gardner Lecture in Washington, under the spon-
sorship of the National Air Museum.

SPECIAL EVENTS

Several notable presentation ceremonies were held during the year.
Outstanding was the presentation of the Jupiter C rocket and Ex-
plorer I satellite by Secretary of the Army Wilber M. Brucker, on
January 31, 1959, the anniversary date of the placing of the first
American satellite into orbit. Other special ceremonies included the
presentation of a recovered data capsule by Gen. Bernard Schriever,
U.S. Air Force; a working model of the Vanguard satellite, presented
by Dr. John P. Hagen of NASA; and the first recovered nose cone,
presented by Secretary of the Army Wilber M. Brucker. In each in-
stance Dr. Carmichael accepted the gift for the Museum with ap-
propriate remarks.

The Director attended the World Congress of Flight at Las Vegas,
Nev., April 12-18, and from there proceeded to the National Aviation
Educational Council held at Riverside, Calif., April 19-20, 1959.

The head curator and historian, Paul E. Garber, represented the
Museum at a number of events identified with aviation history. These
included the Vanguard satellite anniversary banquet; the annual
meeting of the American Helicopter Society; the National Rocket
Club annual banquet; the annual meeting of the Early Birds; and
the National Postage Stamp Show. He delivered 13 lectures during
the year and conducted 6 special tours of the Museum for groups of
military visitors. He also participated in a number of television and
radio programs during the year and paid visits to Hammondsport,
New York, and St. Louis on Museum business.

Both the Director and head curator were appointed by the National
Aeronautic Association as members of the committee to select the
annual recipient of the National Frank G. Brewer Award for Aviation

Education.
IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS

The aircraft, engines, and other aviation equipment scheduled for
display in the new exhibit for the Aircraft Building are being cleaned,
repaired, and made ready for exhibition.

A general cleaning and renovation of exhibits and some minor re-
pairs were undertaken.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION

A small office has been provided at the Suitland storage facility, and
a paint and spray booth is under construction. A fabric department
and document room are in process of planning. Additional machine
tools and equipment have been acquired. Most of the aircraft and en-
gines in the Aircraft Building have been moved to Suitland and are
undergoing cleaning, repair, and preparation for storage or exhibition.

In anticipation of the restoration program which lies ahead in
preparation for the new building, the Director has visited many air-
craft factories and has received assurances of cooperation from the
manufacturers by way of providing us with technical data, lending
mechanics to assist in restoration and to advise on methods of display.

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

The National Air Museum has served many Government depart-
ments during the year. Among these were the Department of Justice
in connection with patent litigation, the Voice of America, the De-
partment of the Air Force, and the Department of the Navy.

PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES

Providing information to the public continues as a very active and
growing function of the Museum. For example, telephone calls dur-
ing the year requesting historical, technical, or biographical informa-
tion on the development of aviation numbered more than 700 from
Government agencies and more than 1,400 from other sources. Corre-
spondence is averaging around 100 letters a week. Approximately
19,000 leaflets were distributed during the year, in addition to some
1,100 photographs and drawings.

The Museum continues to serve aircraft manufacturers, airlines,
publishers, authors, schools and colleges, and many individual stu-
dents, teachers, and research workers.

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Many useful and valuable additions to the reference files, photo-
graphic files, and library of the Museum were received during the
year. These records and documents are helpful to the Museum staff
in providing information service, authenticating data, and for
research.

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in
providing this material is sincerely appreciated :

ArR Forcr, DEPARTMENT OF THE, AIR Force Museum, Wright-Patterson Air

Force Base, Ohio: Negatives of flight of Col. Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne

Morrow Lindbergh in the Lockheed Sirius seaplane Tingmissartog, 1929. AIR

UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Field, Ala.: Pamphlets of USAF Historical Studies
No. 98.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ARMY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, INFORMATION OFFICE, U.S. MrtirAry ACADEMY, West
Point, N.Y.: Photograph “Cenotaph at Post Cemetery,’ dedicated to Lt.
Thomas Selfridge. Pustic INFORMATION OFFICE, MILITARY DisTRICYT OF WASH-
INGTON, Gravelly Point, Va.: Pictorial record and articles relating to Wright-
Selfridge flight. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF INFORMATION, Washington, D.C.:
Tape recording of the presentation ceremony of the Explorer I. Photograph
of Explorer I.

ARTISTS AND WRITERS PRESS, INc., New York, N.Y. (Caroline Ungemah) : The
Story of Flight—A Giant Golden Book.

BauscH & Loms Opticat Co., Rochester, N.Y.: Copies of booklet “Reprint of First
Exhibition of the Aeronautic Society of New York,” at Morris Park, New York
City, November 38, 1908.

BrrcHu ArrcraFrt Corp., Wichita, Kans.: A collection of photographs and 3-view
drawings of Beech aircraft.

BorEING AIRPLANE Co., Washington, D.C.: Photographs of Boeing 707 jetplane.

Briok, Mrs. Kay, Norwood, N.J.: Official programs of the Women’s Transconti-
nental Races.

Bronson, C. L.. Lookout Mountain, Tenn.: Photographs of Glenn H. Curtiss and
Curtiss airplanes.

Brown, Mas. KimprouaH 8., USAF, Bedford, Mass.: A copy of his recent book
“Von Richthofen and the Flying Circus.”

BuRKE, JUSTIN J., Dubuque, Iowa: Notarized statement and supporting docu-
ments relating to and describing the first installation of navigation lights on
military airplanes, Ellington Field, Tex., 1918.

CAFFREY, Francis J., Liverpool, N.Y.: A collection of pamphlets and material
pertaining to aircraft and flight operations.

CANADAITR LiMiTED, Montreal, Canada: A collection of photographs and descrip-
tive literature on Canadian aircraft.

Casry, Louis S., Washington, D.C.: A collection of handbooks pertaining to
Consolidated PBY-5, Pratt and Whitney Twin Wasp C series, and Twin Wasp
C3 series.

CESSNA AIRCRAFT Co., Wichita, Kans.: A collection of photographs and a geneal-
ogy chart of Cessna aircraft. Photograph of Clyde V. Cessna and Dwayne L.
Wallace, 1954. Three-view drawings of Cessna aircraft as follows: 305 A,
B, and C; 321; 140A; 170A; 120; 140; H-001; DC6; CW-6; C-106A;
FC-1; C-165; T-37; LC—-126; 170; 172; 175; 180; 182; 310 Band C; T-50;
Monoplane; Gobel Special; and Glider.

CoHEN, Compr. ALBERT M., USNR, Retired, Wynnewood, Pa.: A collection of
photographs re: Brest, France, and vicinity, U.S. Navy Aviation Section, WWI.

CooxkE, DAvip C., Valley Stream, N.Y.: A copy of his book “Bomber Planes That
Made History.”

CornisH, J. J., 3d, Mississippi State University, State College, Miss.: A copy of
his article “The Flight of Seeds.”

DEARBORN HISTORICAL MUSEUM, Dearborn, Mich.: Booklet entitled ‘‘Tin Goose.”

DruTscHES MusEuM, Munchen, Germany: Fabric section duplicating the color
scheme from the Fokker D—VII in possession of Deutsches Museum.

EASTERN AIRLINES, New York, N.Y.: Photostats from Fokker Catalog re: Fokker
Universal and Super Universal aircraft.

Emmons, Conant, Washington, D.C.: Four glass negatives of Wright Type “A”
airplane at Fort Myer, 1909.

Esso Export Corp., New York, N.Y.: A collection of magazines (bound volumes) :
Flight, The Aeroplane, and Aviation Week.

Esso STANDARD O1L Co., W. H. Kepret, New York, N.Y.: A collection of refer-
ence material on Curtiss H-16 flying boat.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 145

Ferry Service, Inc., Pontiac, Mich.: Drawings of Stinson aircraft models with
the exception of models 108 and L-5.

FRANKLIN InstirutTs, Philadelphia, Pa.: Blueprints of Wilford Gyroseaplane.

Froyp, Mrs. SHIRLEY B., Pasadena, Calif.: Newspaper and magazine clippings
on aviation, period 1925-27.

Goopwin, GARLAND O., San Diego, Calif.: Drawing of Montgomery glider of 1883.

GRIFFENHAGEN, GEORGE, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.: A collection
of timetables for various airlines.

GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CorP., Bethpage, N.Y.: A collection of specifi-
eations, brochures, and photographs of Grumman “Gulfstream” aircraft.
Pilots’ handbooks for Model F8F, and Erection and Maintenance manual for
the F3F-1 aircraft.

Hatsety, Miss Marion S., Washington, D.C.: Two aircraft identification booklets.

Herrick, Mrs. GrrarpD P., New York, N.Y.: A collection of materials of the late
Girard P. Herrick, Records of Invention; reference books; “Story of the Heli-
copter” ; and engineers’ handbooks.

Hitt, JAMES N. B., Boston, Mass.: Booklet entitled ‘Kites and Experiments in
Aerial Photographs.”

Hirxson & JORGENSEN, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif.: Lithographs, Leach “Heritage of
the Air” series, copy proofs 1 through 5.

HutTcHinson, RoLtanp V., Birmingham, Mich.: A collection of photographs of
first DH-4 brought to the United States from England. Donated to NAM
via A. V. Verville.

JET PIONEERS ASSOCIATION, C/o GENERAL HLEcTRIG Co., West Lynn, Mass.:
Leather-bound looseleaf binder containing photographs of the Jet Pioneers of
U.S.A.

Kaui, Otto, New York, N.Y.: Roll of poster paper 30 feet in length on which is
recorded by Kronfeld his important glider flights.

Leg, FreD B., c/o OLIN MATHIESON CHEMICAL CorP., Washington, D.C.: Three
books, Aeronautical Annual for 1895, 1896, and 1897. Three separate volumes.

LocKHEED AIRCRAFT Corp., Burbank, Calif.: A collection of photographs and 3-
view drawings of Lockheed Sirius, reference and historical information on
the aircraft.

MASUNAGE, KANOSUKE, USHIO SHOBO PUBLISHING Co., Tokyo, Japan: A collec-
tion of photographs of Japanese and captured American aircraft: Army type
99 trainer, type 98 light bomber, Navy type 96 carrier fighter, Douglas DC-5,
Boeing B-17E, Douglas A-20A, and Brewster F2A-2 “Buffalo.”

McCoy, Joun T., New York, N.Y.: Two paintings (reproductions), The Wright
Brothers at Fort Myer, Va., July 30, 1909; and Eugene Ely taking off from
the U.S.S. Pennsylvania, January 18, 1911.

McDonnety ArroraFrt Corp., St. Louis, Mo.: Two photocopies of 3-view drawing
of McDonnell FH-1 Phantom.

MIKESH, Capt. Ropert C., APO 994, San Francisco, Calif.: Color film of kite
festival held in Japan.

MILLER, Rear ApM. H. B., USN, Retired, New York, N.Y.: Collection of photo-
graphs of operational use of Curtiss F9C-2.

Munson, H. A., Charlottesville, Va.: Booklet entitled “Santos-Dumont, Father of
Aviation.”

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FoR AERONAUTICS, LANGLEY Fir~tp LABORATORY,
Va.: Reference material.

NATIONAL BROADCASTING Co., New York, N.Y.: Transcript of Paul BE. Garber’s
talk on his recollections of the Postal Aviation Service.

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, BUREAU or AERONAUTICS, Washington, D.C.: A col-
lection of photographs of historic aircraft and aviation personages. Verville
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Aircraft Co.’s brochures on the Verville Air Coach and Verville Sports Training
Plane. Drawings of HS2L and JN4D aircraft. Drawings of US—-D4, Army
Curtiss Racer, 1922, Navy Curtiss Seaplane Racer R2C-2, and PW-1.

NELSON, CHARLES P., Lynn, Mass.: Typed copy of story of cruise of the ZR-1
Shenandoah from Lakehurst, N.J., to St. Louis, Mo., and return.

PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SysTEM, New York, N.Y.: Photostats of Lind-
bergh’s survey report (Lockheed Sirius), background information on survey
for Pan American. Photographs of Lindbergh’s arrival at Belem.

PutTnaAM’s, G. P., Sons, New York, N.Y.: Book entitled “Fighting Planes That
Made History,” by David Cooke.

RoyaL CANADIAN AtR Force, S/L R. Woop, Trenton, Ontario, Canada: Plans of
aircraft (3 sets of 8 plans) of RCAF types Fairchild 71, A. W. Atlas, DeHavil-
land-60, Vickers Bedette, Curtiss Canuck, Curtiss HS2L, Avro 504K, and A. W.
Siskin.

ScHWEIZER AtRcorAFT Corp., Elmira, N.Y.: A collection of photographs and 3-view
drawings of Schweizer 2—22C, 1-23G, and 1-30 experimental light plane.

Srkorsky ArrcraFt Co., Stratford, Conn.: A collection of photographs and speci-
fications on Sikorsky S-38, S-39, S-40, S-51, S-52, S-55, S-56, S-58, S-62, and
H-18. Drawings and photographs of PS-3 (S-38). Photographs of Sikorsky
HSS-2 Amphibious Helicopter.

SUBMARINE Liprary, Groton, Conn.: A collection of drawings and photographs of
Loening amphibians.

Tuompson, Mrs. R., Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.: Photographs and magazine
article, “Cross Country Flight of ‘Yankee Doodle,’” by Harry J. Tucker, and
“Wings for Our Business.” Two 8- by 10-inch photographs of Lockheed Vega
Yankee Doodle.

THOMPSON Propucts, INc., Cleveland, Ohio: Lithographs of Hubbell paintings.
Various sets representing events or periods in aviation history.

Victor1A and ALBERT Musreum, South Kensington, London, England: January
1959 issue of Journal of the Royal Society of Arts.

Weaver, Capt. T. C., Fairborn, Ohio: A collection of photographs of racing

aircraft.
ACCESSIONS

Additions to the National aeronautical collections received and re-
corded during the fiscal year 1959 totaled 341 specimens in 56 separate
accessions from 38 sources.

Those from Government departments are entered as transfers;
others were received as gifts except as noted.

Atm Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: The “Pioneer-I” exhibit
consisting of a scale model of a Douglas Thor ballistic missile and related
electrical and mechanical display units, illustrating the first attempts made
in August and October 1958 to place a man-made object in an orbit around
the moon. Although not successful, useful information was obtained about
the radiation belt surrounding the earth. (NAM 1023.) The ‘“Data-Sphere,”
an instrumented capsule containing a tape recorder and other apparatus for
receiving and preserving data during the launching, climb, and descent of
a Thor ballistic missile. This one is the first of the series to be recovered.
(NAM 1043.) Arm Forct Museum, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio:
A German Nagler-Rolz helicopter, type NR-54 V2. An early example of a
one-man helicopter, it was developed during World War II. On each of its
two rotor blades an 8-hp. Argus engine with a 23-inch wooden propeller is
mounted, about midway, to revolve the rotor. (NAM 1019.) <A group of 11
SECRETARY’S REPORT 144

scale models, 1:48 size, of Beechcraft, Boeing, Curtiss, North American, and
Stearman airplanes used by the U.S. Air Force or its predecessor units.
(NAM 1029.) The DM-1 delta-winged glider designed by Alexander Lippisch
in Germany during World War II as a primary step in the development of
a supersonic airplane. This is one of the first configurations of the delta
wing. (NAM 1041.)

ARMY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: Nose cone of the Jupiter “C”
missile. The first object recovered after returning from outer space. This
cone was featured in a television broadcast by President Hisenhower on
November 7, 1957. (NAM 1020.) The Jupiter ‘“C” missile, a duplicate of the
vehicle produced by the Chrysler Corp. which on January 31, 1958, launched
the Explorer I. This was America’s first satellite to be propelled into orbit.
This vehicle was presented to the Museum on the first anniversary of that
historic occasion. (NAM 1081.)

BrrecH AIRcrarr Corp., Wichita Kans.: Scale models, 1:16 size, of two airplanes
developed by Walter Beech and his associates, the Travelair biplane of 1926
(NAM 10138) and the Travelair Mystery S of 1929 (NAM 1008).

Biack, Mrs. PAuMA, Bakersville, Calif.: A piece of the gas cell fabric of the
U.S. naval airship Shenandoah, 1925. (NAM 1009.)

BRITISH OveRSEAS AIRWAYS Corp., London, England: A scale model, 1:72 size,
of the original Comet-I jet airliner which inaugurated jet-engined civil trans-
port service in 1952. (NAM 1035.)

CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, Pasadena, Calif.: A WAC Corporal
missile and base. This is a short-range ballistic missile, built by the Firestone
Tire & Rubber Co. and in current use by the U.S. Army. (NAM 1006.)

CESSNA ArRcRAFT Co., Wichita, Kans.: A scale model, 1:40 size, of the Cessna
T-87 2-place, twin-jet airplane now in service with the U.S. Air Force for
primary training. (NAM 1002.)

CHANCE VouGcHr AircraFT, Inc., Dallas, Tex.: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the
U.S. Navy carrier-based F8U-1 “Crusader.” This type of airplane, with a
speed of more than 1,000 m.p.h., was the subject for the Robert J. Collier
Trophy award in 1957 and earned for the Chance Vought corporation the
Navy Bureau of Aeronautics’ first Certificate of Merit. (NAM 1037.)

CiaaL, Aupo L., Southwick, Mass.: A 1:16 size model of the Pratt & Whitney
J57 jet engine (loan). (NAM 1025.)

Convair, Division of GENERAL DyNAMICS CorP., San Diego, Calif.: A scale model,
1:48 size, of the Consolidated-Vultee “‘Convair-liner’’ 240, the first post-World
War II commercial transport developed by this corporation, 1947. It is a
twin-engined, medium-range, 40-passenger transport. Also a 1:16 size model
of the Convair XFY-1 “Pogo Stick,” an experimental vertically rising delta-
wing fighter developed for the U.S. Navy. It made its first free vertical
takeoff and landing on August 2, 1954, and 3 months later made the conver-
sion from vertical to horizontal flight and back to vertical for a tail-first
landing. The original XFY-1 is being reserved for the National Air Museum
by the Department of the Navy. (NAM 1004.)

Davies, THE HONORABLE JOSEPH (deceased), Washington, D.C.: An autographed
photograph of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell as a captain in the U.S. Army, 1915.
(NAM 999.)

Dotan, Cou. Cart H., Greenwich, Conn.: A collection of objects associated with
the aeronautical interests and career of this member of the Early Birds and
the Lafayette Escadrille. Included are military maps, instruments, and me-
mentos of the renowned American ace Maj. Raoul Lufbery. (NAM 1027.)

Doo.itTLe, GEN. JAMES H., San Francisco, Calif.: A uniform worn during World
War II by the donor. (NAM 1044.)
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

GILpatTric, Mrs. M. S., New York, N.Y.: A trophy cup presented to her son, Guy
Gilpatric, in 1912 for establishing an American 2-man altitude record of 4,665
feet. This was made in a Deperdussin monoplane at Dominguez Field, Los
Angeles, when he was 16 years old. (NAM 1034.)

GoppARD, Mrs. Rosert H., Worcester, Mass.: A set of 20 volumes of typed tran-
scriptions and photographs recording the pioneer research in rocketry by Dr.
Robert H. Goddard for the period 1921-41. (NAM 1000.) A selection of per-
sonal memorabilia of Dr. Goddard, including his purse, two penknives, his
watch, fraternity pin, and the original manuscript of his work “Methods of
Reaching High Altitudes.” (NAM 1008.) A group of seven notebooks in
which Dr. Goddard entered results of his experiments. (NAM 1021.) The
academic hood received by Dr. Goddard with his degree of doctor of science
from Clark University, June 2, 1945. (NAM 1024.) Equipment used by Dr.
Goddard in his research, including laboratory apparatus and parts of his
liquid-fueled rockets. (NAM 1083.) An oil painting of Dr. Goddard pictured
at the moment when his 1926 rocket was fired. The artist, Robert Fawcett,
was commissioned for this painting by the John Hancock Mutual Life Insur-
ance Co. (NAM 1052.)

Grecory, Mrs. Louris Frankuin, Shelby, Miss.: Photograph of the Sikorsky
XR-4 helicopter with Orville Wright, Igor Sikorsky, and Gen. EF. Gregory,
autographed by these men. (NAM 1045.)

Hanson, RicHagp, Washington, D.C.: A German World War I airspeed indicator.
(NAM 1028.)

HUBBELL, CHARLES, Cleveland, Ohio: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the Wright
Co. “Baby Grand” Gordon Bennett Race airplane of 1910 (purchase). (NAM
1050.)

Ketity, Howarp A., Jr., Baltimore, Md.: Gloves worn by Hubert Latham while
flying over Baltimore in an Antoinette airplane, November 7, 1910, and a
note written by this famous French pilot. (NAM 1014.)

KELSEY, WALTER, Tarrytown, N.Y.: A clock and three instrument panel instruc-
tion plates from a SPAD XIII airplane of World War I. (NAM 1005.)

LAHM, GEN. FRANK P., USAF, Retired, Huron, Ohio: A medal honoring General
Lahm, sculptured by C. L. Schmitz for the Medal of the Month founded by
Miss Felicity Buranelli. (NAM 1001.)

Martin, Miss Detxia, Los Angeles, Calif.: The personal memorabilia of Glenn
L. Martin, consisting of scale models and paintings of Martin aircraft, trophies,
medals and awards, certificates of membership, photographs, and drawings.
(NAM 1046.)

MaytaG, Rozert E., Newton, Iowa: A Curtiss-Wright Junior airplane, a 2-place
high-wing monoplane, with a pusher engine, popular as a personal aircraft
during the 1930’s. (NAM 1042.)

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS, Langley Field, Va.: A super-
sonic high-speed propeller designed for use on the McDonnell F-88 aircraft.
(NAM 1010.) (See also NAM 1054.)

NAvY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: A catapult model, type XC-—57,
showing the mechanism, above and below deck, for operating the steam-
powered catapults currently used for launching airplanes from carriers.
(NAM 1007.) Scale models of a ZPN airship, HUP-2 helicopter, and HSL-1
helicopter. (NAM 1011.) A selection of aerodynamic models of aircraft
and missiles showing recent developments tested at the David Taylor Model
Basin. (NAM 1030.) A Sparrow-II guided missile. (NAM 1041.) A radio
removed from the wreck of the U.S. naval airship Shenandoah, 1925. (NAM
1047.) An interplane strut from the NC-4 flying boat which made the first
flight across the Atlantic Ocean, Rockaway, Long Island, to Plymouth, Eng-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 149

land, with intermediate stops, via the Azores, May 8-31, 1919. (NAM 1048.)
A wing rib of the type used in this aircraft. (NAM 1049.) Navan RESEARCH
LABORATORY (with the NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND Space AGENCY), Washing-
ton, D.C.: An operable replica of the Vanguard-I satellite embodying a light-
activated sound-producing mechanism. This was presented on March 17, 1959,
the first anniversary of the launching of this satellite, which, it is predicted,
will remain in orbit for 200 years or more. (NAM 1054.)

NEVIN, Rosert S., Denver, Colo.: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the Wright Co.
HS airplane, 1915 (purchase). (NAM 1053.)

NEwcomes, CHARLES, Trappe, Md.: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the Wright Co.
“D” airplanes, 1912 (purchase.) (NAM 1017.)

NortH AMERICAN AVIATION, INc., Columbus, Ohio: A scale model, 1:16 size,
of the U.S. Navy A3J Vigilante, in current use as a carrier-based fighter-recon-
naissance airplane. (NAM 1088.)

Sertron, THomas W., San Diego, Calif.: An aircraft radio antenna fairlead of
the type used with radio equipment in U.S. Navy aircraft during World
War II. (NAM 1018.)

SHipTon, Davin H., Delavan, Ill.: A scale model, 1:48 size, of the Curtiss-
Wright ‘Condor’ 18-passenger, twin-engined biplane transport of 1984.
(NAM 1026.)

Stumons, Mrs. O. G., and daughters, Arlington, Va.: A trophy cup commemo-
rating the first airmail flight in the State of New Jersey, made by O. G. Sim-
mons in a Wright type B twin-float seaplane flying between Amboy and
South Amboy, July 4,1912. (NAM 1039.)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL AIR MusEUM, Washington, D.C.: A plaster
copy of the original sculpture of the Aero Club of America gold medal. Cast
made in the Museum shop by Joseph A. Atchinson from original lent by
Robert L. Perry whose grandfather, A. Holland Forbes, was president in
1910 of that club, founded in 1905 (purchase). (NAM 10382.) U.S. Natrona
MuseuM, Division or Mitirary History, Washington, D.C.: Two aviator
helmets with inserted radio earphones, used in World War I. (NAM 1051.)

Tracy, DanteL, Lakewood, Ohio: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the Verville-
Sperry Racer, winner of the Pulitzer Trophy, 1024 (purchase). (NAM
1016.)

Unitep ArrcrRArFr Corp., Sikorsky Diviston, Stratford, Conn.: Scale models,
1:50 size, of the S-58 and H-387 helicopters. (NAM 1015.)

WHEELER, Lesiiz, Binghamton, N.Y.: A model airplane engine of the Rogers
type, 1932-33. (NAM 10386.)

Witson, THE HonorasLeE Rosert, San Diego, Calif.: The original holograph
manuscript of “Soaring Flight,” by John J. Montgomery, noted pioneer of
gliding in America; written about 1895 (loan). (NAM 1012.)

WINZEN RESEARCH, INc., Minneapolis, Minn.: A certificate awarded by the
Federation Aeronautique Internationale to Maj. David G. Simons for estab-
lishing a world altitude record of 30,942 meters (nearly 102,000 feet) with a
balloon made by the donors. The ascent was made over Minnesota in con-
nection with the U.S. Air Force Aero-Medical Field Laboratory’s high-altitude
research program, identified by code name ‘Manhigh-II.” The aeronaut was
aloft for 32 hours. (NAM 1022.)

Respectfully submitted.

Purr S. Horxtns, Director.
Dr. Leon arp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Zoological Park

Sir: [have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 380, 1959:

EXHIBITS

Following the plan announced last year, the National Zoological
Park made good progress this year toward its goal of emphasizing the
exhibition of North American animals and acquired several species
native to this continent that had not been seen in the collection for
many years.

The most publicized event of the year was the transportation of a
herd of 14 reindeer and 1 caribou from Kotzebue, north of the Arctic
Circle, to Washington, D.C. The animals, comprising a gift from the
new State of Alaska to President Eisenhower, arrived here in time to
take part in the annual “Pageant of Peace” held at Christmas on the
Mall. J. Lear Grimmer, Associate Director of the National Zoological
Park, and Charles Thomas, senior keeper of the large-mammal divi-
sion, flew to Alaska and took part in the actual capture of the reindeer,
which came from a herd that is under the management of the Bureau of
Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior. Without a single loss
the animals were flown to Anchorage, taken by the Alaska Railroad
to Seward, shipped by the Alaska Steamship Co.’s SS Jliamna (cap-
tained by “Blackie” Selig) to Seattle, and then brought across country
by Consolidated Freightways. They arrived in Washington on Decem-
ber 11 and were formally presented by Roger Ernst, Assistant Secre-
tary of the Department of the Interior, to Homer Gruenther, Presiden-
tial Assistant, representing the Chief Executive and the people of the
United States. The herd has been established in the Zoo with the
addition of four fawns.

Mr. Grimmer also undertook an expedition to British Guiana, under
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Geo-
graphic Society. His purpose was to observe hoatzins in their native
habitat. These strange birds, which somewhat resemble pheasants,
occur along the northern coast of South America and have never been
exhibited in any American zoo. His studies have convinced him that
under proper conditions these birds can be kept in captivity. A

150

SECRETARY’S REPORT 151

list of live animals collected by Mr. Grimmer in British Guiana
follows:

22 Cook’s tree boas 7 tawny-bellied seed-eaters
Vine snake 2 Swainson’s grackles

2 yellow tegus 2 rice grosbeaks

Ameiva lizard 3 shiny cowbirds
Anaconda 3 lesser yellow finches
British Guiana green lizard 5 red-breasted marshbirds
Whipsnake 7 ground doves

4 common jacanas 12 hoatzins

2 black-throated cardinals 2 agoutis

In addition, a small collection of museum specimens of animals
indigenous to the Abary River region was added to the accessions of
the U.S. National Museum.

GIFTS

The Rocky Mountain goat had not been represented in the Zoo for
many years, and therefore the gift from the Montana State Fish and
Game Commission of a trio of these spectacular animals was much
appreciated. From the same source came also a herd of five prong-
horn antelopes.

Ross E. Wilson, vice president and general manager of the Fire-
stone Rubber Co., presented a fine West African leopard from Harbel,
Liberia.

Dr. Hubert Fringes, of Pennsylvania State University, who has been
doing research on the care of albatrosses in captivity, presented a
group of two Laysan albatrosses and three of the black-footed vari-
ety. Thanks to the discovery of the need for salt in the diet of sea
birds, these birds, which usually do not do well in captivity, are thriv-
ing. Another Laysan albatross was added to the group asa gift from
Dr. W. J. Carr, of Bucknell University.

The Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior
continued to cooperate in the procurement of desirable species of
North American animals and birds. During the past year this agency
has secured for the Zoo a caribou from Alaska, a northern porcupine,
a white-fronted goose, 2 horned grebes, 10 greater scaups, 2 redheads,
and 2 wood ducks. In June the Service offered the Zoo a polar
bear cub that had been captured in Alaska. Owing to the fact that
the Zoo had had to absorb a Wage Board increase in salaries, funds
were embarrassingly low in the last quarter of the fiscal year, and
there was no money to pay the cub’s air transportation to Washington.
Station WMAI-TYV volunteered to have the little bear flown to the
Zoo, where it has already become a great favorite with the visiting
public.

536608—60—11
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

LEGEND For Mar or NAtrIonaL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

1. Hooved stock. 19. Camels.

2. Equines. 20. Small mammals.
3. Llamas. 21. Virginia deer.
4. Deer. 22. Wik.

5. Deer. 23. Deer.

6. Deer. 24, Wolves.

7. Flight cage. 25. Foxes.

8. Elephants. 26. Sea-lions.

9. Eagle cage. 27. Beavers.

10. Black swans. 28. Raccoons.

11. Flight cage. 29. Prairie dogs.
12. Condor cage. 30. Bears.

13. Birds. 31. Antelopes.

14. Crane yards. 32. Reptiles.

15. Great flightless birds. 33. Small cats.
16. Pheasants. 34. Monkeys.

17. Flight cage. 35. Lions.

18. Mountain goats and sheep. 36. Waterfowl.

A. Hay barn. G. Heating plant.
B. Service roads. H. Shop.

C. Parking areas. I. Restrooms, police, first aid.
D. Incinerators. J. Restaurant.

E. Clock. K. Bridle paths.
K. Garage.
(zst *d e0eq) 09 - O 8099ES
,

a a a

ant en cc a ey a imme poems:

—

——

~
=<
c
[<)
ws
=z
-
a)
oO

{sei .¢ s9s%) 05 += O Boddzz |.

\ \ =
. a
3 U Li BvA____=
— qin

SECRETARY’S REPORT £53

The Maryland State Game Commission gave the Zoo a pair of
wild turkeys, which have hatched four eggs.

The Maine State Game Department at Milo trapped a fisher for
the National Zoo. This is the rarest and most valuable of American
fur-bearing animals and had not been exhibited here for more than
50 years.

The Zoo is fortunate in having among its friends members of the
Armed Forces who, when stationed abroad, are always searching for
rare and interesting animals. Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, of the Navy
Medical Research Unit in Taipei, Taiwan, sent a number of speci-
mens, including a family of three pangolins—father, mother, and
baby. Lt. Col. Robert Traub, stationed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaya,
sent two species of squirrels as well as a number of particularly in-
teresting reptiles. Other animals collected by these men are included

in the following list of gifts of special interest:

Allen, George J., Salt Lake City,
Utah, 2 junglefowl.

Aquarium, Department of Commerce,
Washington, D.C., American egret.

Beatty, Charles, Washington, D.C.,
spiny-tailed iguana.

Carter, Dr. Hill, Washington, D.C.,
red-shouldered hawk.

Clark, W. B., Alexandria, Va., 2
sparrow hawks.

DePrato, Mario, Langley Park, Md., 4
five-lined skinks, 4 American toads,
2 mud turtles, snapping turtle.

Farrel, Mrs. D. M., Cabin John, Md.,
Philippine macaque, Javan ma-
caque and hybrid offspring.

Grayson, William C., Upperville, Va.,
12 wood ducks.

Greeson, L. E., Arlington, Va., 2 white-
tailed antelope squirrels.

Grimes, Mrs. HE. D., Washington, D.C.,
yellow and blue macaw.

Haack, Miss Mildred A., Washington,
D.C., African lovebird.

Hillman, Hric, Washington, D.C., dia-
mondback terrapin.

Housholder, Bob,
Texas red wolf.

Hubbard, Scott, Washington, D.C.,
kinkajou.

Jones, Mrs. Beatrice, Chevy Chase,
Md., sulphur-crested toucan.

Keeler, W., Falls Church, Va., 7 species
of local snakes.

Phoenix, Ariz.,

Kilham, Dr. Lawrence, Bethesda,
Md., African crocodile (hatched
from egg taken near Murchison
Falls, Uranda).

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E. Taipei, Taiwan,
4 pangolins, 5 Formosan civets of
2 species, 2 Formosan badgers, 2
Formosan flying squirrels, Malayan
fishing owl, 7 Formosan red-billed
pies, 6 many-banded kraits, 13 Tai-
wan cobras, 3 habus, 2 palm vipers,
2 Pope’s pit vipers, 11 greater In-
dian rat snakes, 3 Formosan rat
snakes, 10 water snakes, 11 pit
vipers.

Lichtenecker, Dr. Karl E., Austrian
Hmbassy, Washington, D.C., collec-
tion of 18 species of European
snakes and lizards.

Long Fence Co., Washington, D.C.,
peahen.

Long, Gerald, Falls Church, Va., Vir-
ginia deer.

McHale, J. P., Chicago, Ill., 7 Reeves’s
turtles.

Metzler, John, Arlington, Va., red-
tailed hawk.

Moorhead, Thornton, Washington,
D.C., Formosan macaque.

Newill, Dr. D. §S.; Connellsville, Pa.,
5 red junglefowl.

Nottingham, Mrs. F., Indian Head,
Md., golden pheasant.

Posey, Calvert, R., Nanjemoy, M4d.,
great horned owl.
154 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Sawyers, Mrs. Thomas R., Arlington,
Va., double yellow-headed Amazon
parrot.

Sicre, José Gomez, Washington, D.C.,
2 agoutis.

Styve, Mrs. Lauritz, Arlington, Va.,
short-eared owl.

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C.,
3 Reeves’s turtles.

Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala Lum-
pur, Malaya, small-clawed otter, 2
striped ground squirrels, 2 Dre-
momys_ squirrels, racket-tailed
drongo, rufous-collared kingfisher,

orange-throated barbet, pygmy
owlet, 2 monitor lizards, flying liz-
ard, skink lizard, mangrove snake,
fat-cheeked water snake, elephant
trunk snake, Wagler viper, flying
snake, 4 geckos of 2 species, 9 liz-
ards of 5 different species.

Woodward & Lothrop, Washington,
D.C., 7 Humboldt’s penguins, 2 fal-
low deer.

Young, Robert, Wheaton, Md., 3 dia-
mondback terrapins.

Xanten, William, Jr., Washington,
D.C., collection of Florida reptiles.

PURCHASES
The first Dall sheep ever to be exhibited in an American zoo were

added to the collection this past year.

The young animals are females,

and prospects are bright for the addition of a ram within the next

few months.

A great rarity purchased this year was a pair of Pallas’s cats which

had never before been exhibited in the collection.

of interest were:

2 serval cats

2 pig-tailed macaques
3 pygmy marmosets
Celebes crested ape

3 cottontop marmosets
Canada lynx

2 capybaras

2 mute swans

1 gray hornbill

Other purchases

Spectacled owl

Jackson’s hornbill
Bellbird

Scarlet cock-of-the-rock
2 black-and-white turacos
Andean condor

2 Bateleur eagles

4 species of sunbirds

1 green jay

EXCHANGES
By the judicious use of exchanges made with other zoos and with
individuals, the following animals were obtained:

Audubon Park Zoo, New Orleans, La.,
2 anhingas, 2 least bitterns.

Buffalo Zoo, Buffalo, N.Y., 2 milk
snakes, 2 African  soft-shelled
turtles.

Calcutta Zoo, Calcutta, India, 5 In-
dian squirrels, 3 lesser pandas.

Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, wol-
verine, Canada lynx, 2 golden
eagles, 2 pine martens.

Campbell, E., Detroit, Mich., 4 Ba-
hama boas.

Chicago Zoological Park, Brookfield,
Ill., ibex, 3 dingoes, 2 sitatungas.
Cleveland Zoo, Cleveland, Ohio, 2

mousebirds.

Freiheit, Clayton, Buffalo, N.Y., axo-
lotl, 8 rhinoceros vipers, 2 pre-
hensile-tailed vipers, 2 African
soft-shelled tortoises.

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., a collec-
tion of 9 species of southwestern
reptiles.

New York Zoological Park, New York,
N.Y., 5 rhinoceros vipers, 10 puff
adders (born in New York Zoo).

Riverside Park Zoo, Scottsbluff,
Nebr., American badger.

san Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex.,
Cape hunting dog, 6  boat-tailed
grackles, 2 Hildebrandt’s francolins,
7 Erckel’s francolins, 2 fulvous tree
ducks, 7 banded plovers.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 155

DEPOSITS

The Zoo accepts for deposit only those animals that will make
attractive additions to the collection, and even in such instances lack of
proper housing often makes it necessary to refuse animals offered
for temporary exhibition.

The offer of the National Aquarium Society of Washington to set up
and maintain an exhibition of tropical fishes in the aquarium section
of the reptile house was a welcome one. Members of the society have
contributed tanks, filters, aerators, and a collection of fishes. The fishes
belong to individual members of the Aquarium Society and will be
returned to them when a new exhibition of different species is installed.
This rotating or changing display should be a very attractive one
for visitors.

For many years the National Zoological Park has exhibited a female
Przewalski’s wild horse, a species extinct in the wild and represented
only by a few individuals in zoos in various parts of the world. Al-
though the animal was assumed to be beyond breeding age, she had
had foals in the past. She was mated with a stallion obtained on de-
posit from the Catskill Game Farm in New York, but without results,
and on June 6 the mare died at the ripe old age of 33.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

One of the signs that an animal is doing well in captivity is its
ability to reproduce its kind, and, as the following list shows, the num-
ber of mammals, birds, and reptiles born in the National Zoological
Park during the year is gratifying.

The outstanding birth of the year was that of a female wisent, which
has been duly registered with the Wisent Society of Europe. These
animals are now so scarce that careful records are kept of all that are
born or die. Unfortunately the mother died 6 weeks after the baby
was born; the young one, however, is thriving.

Other “firsts” for this Zoo included Cape hunting dogs, a striped
hyena, a galago, a squirrel monkey, and an owl monkey, all of which
are noteworthy by any zoo’s standards.

Because of their curious life history, the hatching of Surinam toads
in captivity is always of interest. For the second year one of the Zoo’s
females laid eggs; the male carefully embedded them in her back, and
35 little toads eventually emerged.

Zoo officials were gratified when the young pair of hippopotamuses
purchased in 1956 and 1957 produced their first young one. These
were bought as replacements for the old pair, Bongo and Pinky, which
had been here since 1914 and 1939, respectively. The old pair are
still here; Bongo sired seven young ones by his first mate, Mom, who
came to the Zoo in 1911 and died in 1930. Several young ones were
born to Pinky, but she raised none of them. The new female, Arusha,
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

seems to be a good mother, and it is hoped the baby will be the first
of a long line such as the Zoo had many years ago.

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number

TA OLIUS CULT OGUUR a = a eae eas ee Douroucouli monkey-.--_---=---_ 1
AGISIOSGRE He Dace Beet eon eee Axis deerssitistieeo tte ares: 2
Bisow bonasuss st toler ae ek Wisent or European bison -_----_-_- 1
Canisvantarchicusss=- e235 22 oe ST OF ne 0 ts Ree ee en ee if
CebusiGloUnOne. 2 8 os Capuchinimonkey = 22522255 e= 1
@ehts Spas oars ee eee Capuchin monkey2-.---- = —- it
Cercocebus fuliginosus__.------------ Sooty Mangabeye ssa eee 1
Cercopithecus neglectus_._ 2-220 Ds-_ == DeBrazza’s monkey____22_ 21-2: 1
Cereus canadensisscs ite ss 2.222 ke Amenicanve lisa ae eee 1
Cervus) ClGDRUs = ose et = SI RegmMeerie =. 625 -. ee ee eee 2
Cervus nippon == 2225) sae noe eee Bika eetenn se see ae ere 1
Choloenusdid achylais=25- = 232 ee oe diwo-boed slothy 2. =). eee 1
Cynomys ludovicianus_.------------- Prairiedog./- 2232 S222. 22eEe se 7
es, {Brown fallow deer__....-------- 5
LA 2G DES ate ¢ | Wihite-fallow deers... =222.- 3222 2

Equus burchellt boehmt__:_----.------ Grants zebra. oa. ns eee 1
Galagoxsencgalens7s= 522-52 Galego: ses oes Bee so oa ee 1
Genetta genetta neumantt__----------- Genet: 2-22. eee ree Cle ee 4
Hippopotamus amphibius-_----------- Hippopotamus 2264-72255 Es 1
Hycenanydend = 355 Se eee ee aes Siripeddhyenales: 324-0 Hee l
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus__--- Hy brid*pibbone 492-2242. sees 1
Hylobates lar” XH. vagilis2 KX “i. lar CHybridigibbon- 2222222. --= 2252 1

pileatus.
Hypsiprymnodon moschatus_ ~~ ------- Ratikangaroo-wey ai orwes ieee 7
Hosetria GaleGta@ stew ths Oe African porcupines: yas 25228 see 2
Jaculus, aeqyptius:-. 9 ft 22 ene Bey ptian gerbils) 2. 2-225 -eS 3
Lamagamarenss == Ae we eek e ee ee Vilainia 2°52 cee eee Sc 5 ee 4
TMOrPACOS soe ee eee cee eae Ainacat* Sur a ewe oe Ds eee 1
LEYCOOTN PICLUS Sone none aoe a ee ee Cape hunting dog. o_-_ 22-25. 22 5
Macaca *mailatial 20) ee oles Se SSee se Rhesusmonkey=s2 7! ere sees 1
Macaca philippensis X M. trus-_-.----- Eiybrid macaque =.2 42 +--+ =5 35 1
Macacotsylwanus <3 so<= bth foe Barbary ape= 0 ero eee 3
Meriones unguiculatus_-.------------ Mongolian gerbil]. == == eee 6
Niasua nartea 28ek ooo eee eae Coatimundins eee eee 3
Odocorleus virginanuss2 == soos =a Virginia deer +23 4o26 se. Sa 5
Pachyuromys duprasi.&. .-2£. 222 225. Ratetailed gerbil: «© oe 2 222 16
PaWeGhjrus. 255) See 5 oS eet Chimpanzees seo oe 1
Paniheraleo= tee. aoe See oe oe Talo nie sy fs, Phe dei ot ce orale 4
HANG? CTMATONGUS 82 Oot 2 Bee 5 eo Reindeers.= see ee.68 eee Uf
SOURITESCIUNCUS = seen te a ene ae Squirrersmonkey- 2222 =- 20s soo 1
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus midden- Hybrid bear (2d generation) - ---- 3
dorffi.

Unsusvhorniorles: tS e 2 ae eee ack Grizzly bearsn= eee 3
Vatiges fulta= tae ee oe ae RedtOxt «ae wees | cee eee 4
BIRDS
Ang sn0ns G = oe a eet eee = Wood ducks. 240. ee oe ee 22
Anas platyrhynchos= == = =e = —- -_- Miallarduduicks. sass eee ee 4
CRISOlODRUS DICE = ae ae aan = Golden phessant.— 2-2. 2s - == 1
Colimoa id= = cee Cee eee Homing pigeon.-2- 1225. 282_ 22-2 1
Cyqnuscygnusstt us Sere ese ae Whooper'swant2 2255 222s 2 ees 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT T57

Scientific name Common name Number
Dendrocygna autumnalis__----------- Black-bellied tree duck__________ 3
Dendronessa galericulata_.----------- Mandarin ducke = 225.2222 2 3
GGUUStOGILIS eae ee Red junglefowls.--+52-2.-e-..- 5
Gennaeus leucomelanus_-__----------- INepalspheasant= (22 2 =. 222 3
WOnUssCOMiRICANUS == 2-5 elm UNe ack ve eh ee Bae 2
Meleagris gallopavo = =n ae a Wild airkey 7.0 <2 l ose oe 10
Melopsittacus undulatus__------------ Grass*parakeet2 224.24 ee 6
Nycticorax nycticorax hoactli__-------- Black-crowned night heron_-_-__-_- 8
OU ONCTTRUALUS pr ne ee 1 EAST a i re NS 9

REPTILES :
Ancistrodonmokeson. - 22-6. ==- 5 == Copperhead*i2s2-4.. 42.4. 2e8hee 11
Chelydrarsernentina = s5 ae ees snapping turtle... i224. s2ieess 18
Chiyysemiusipiclamee es ee 2 oe Painted: turtlesiivs. . 2 scheme 4
Clemmysanscul pid sae 6 3a ee See Wooditurtleso22-< suse eee 2
COGS OAT OT 2 eres eal ye eye eel ohne Western diamond-backed rattle- 10
snake.
PE GOnMIGNWRILet <8 2 ete a SY pt ed on pe White's: skink#«:a-teaee bora cue! 2
Naimnuneilaruim == 2 eee d sitet icons Island water snake__.....------ 41
Natwauhombifera®=2= 22 2k 3 So Diamondback water snake____--_- 35
PD OCDUD OE 2 Sane Se een Ne Surinam toadeo.- =. - 22rd 5 35
IPseudemyaspemnee teen ee orient Red=linediturtle:22- 2s 25
ISTEIMUNUS COLCNOLUSS == = = ae a nee oe iMassasaugas 220s tore 9 Fa 10
SiStLUrUsimuiarie. = 2-55-25 eee Pygmy rattlesnake____..._.___- 8
WieTnO DERE CATGLUN C= = == see ee ae Box:turtleze..As 24282. SR 3
ERGUGNOPNIS Strialis=e sate SS ee Gartersnake_..- 2h: Tago if
ARTHROPODS

Pandinusamperator= = == =—- == 5-2 =) = Giant black African scorpion_-_-_-- 10

The importance of a zoological collection rests, to a large extent,
upon the diversity and scope of its taxonomic representation through-
out the whole of the Animal Kingdom. The National Zoological Park
has enjoyed some measure of success in efforts to add representative
species belonging to little-known or absent families.

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,286. This in-
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings.
Several minor species which are best displayed in large numbers do
not have an individual count, merely being listed as “many.”

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Class Orders Families Species or Individuals
subspecies
Miramar) se ae rear ee ee 13 49 234 628
Sir Gl sewers hone Ro ta) et 2 19 74 309 891
Reptiles = {sept LS. So a a 25 187 619
Amphibians. 2. meeets eee 2 12 23 135
TSS) oes oa a fe 4 ipl 20 86
AT CRROPOGS S213 525 = 4 5 6 Many
Mollusks = i.5o.¢e Seeeee selon 1 1 1 Many
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1959

MAMMALS
Family and common name Scientific name Number
MONOTREMATA
Tachyglossidae:
Kchidna, or spiny anteater____--_--_- Tachyglossus aculeatus_..-------- 1
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae:
Opossumiys fot se ea ee LE a) eDrdelphis marsupvalis= = - 22222 —= 1
Dasyuridae:
Tasmanian Gevil_- = Sv 3ue Sees Sarcophilus harrise Ss ee ease See 2
Phalangeridae:
Vulpine. opossum —..2. 8552 200¥ Trichosurus vulpecula__...------ 1
Lesser flying phalanger__----_--_-_-- Petaurus norfolcensis_--.-------- 3
Phascolomidae:
Hairy-nosed wombat___--.-------- Lastorhinus latufrons—... 22-22. 8s 2
Mainland wombat-_-_-__------------ Wombatus hirsutus.) = aan eee 1
Macropodidae:
Red kangarqone. == 5-—- eee seers IMC CRO DUS iL f1tS ea eee ee 1
Rat kangaroo... Sit Doe Lee Hypsiprymnodon moschatus - - ---- 9
INSECTIVORA
Erinaceidae:
European hedgehog_-___-_--------- Era naces) CULO DGCUS soe ae ee 1
Soricidae:
short-tailed ‘shrew.-55- 2-3-2 = Blanina Orevicaudgs 222 5 = se 1
PRIMATES
Lorisidae:
Slows lorigeer css ete ee ee ING CHICEDUS COUCEIG Sno ae J
Thick-tailed galago! 222222). =223 Galago crassicaudatus___.-------- 2
Cebidae:
INightanonkey=2)22 3s ane FAOLUSNURUN ING GUUS ae ee 6
Red wialkcartsee Sy ow eh aS Cacajao rubicindus. = Sas eee 1
Brown capuchin monkey -__-_-_------
White-throated capuchin ---------- Cebus cOpUucinuseann =a a 8
Capuchin’ monkey _ 2!) e2 foi) oe
Squirrelsmonkey # bite: yt pyre Saimiri sciureus__--..--.---+=4- 7
Colombian black spider monkey__-. Afeles fusciceps___-------------- 1
Spider: monkey-22. 22 eee Alleles: (CO pT Oyyee ae et ae 2
Woolly monkey 22> 22 eae eae Ogothric DUGMACd a= a= ae 1
Callithricidae:
Cottontop marmoset-_____--------- CONOR AN TLD = SESE 3
Golden lion ‘tamarin:_ #222222 22 eontoceuus rosalvass= a= = ae 1
Black-and-red tamarin __-_-_---_---- Saquinus nigricollis_....----=222 1
Cercopithecidae:
Toque, or bonnet monkey _ -_-_-_--- VICI OCORSUILUCO aaa ee 3
Pig-tailed monkey_=£ 2J2-..-....22 Macacanemesinina.__2-_- seaee 1
VavaneMacag esas — aa es oe MICCACOIIhIS = eae ee 1
Crab-eating macaque-_-_-_-__-------- MGCOC@ AT USeccs ae 1
Philippine macaque. 42222222228 - Macaca philippinensis._--------- 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT 159

Family and common name Scientific name Number

Cercopithecidae—Continued

Macaque, hybridz=-<=:2==2st22s2s's Macaca philippinensis X Macaca 2
trus.
Rhesus monkey. ---.---.2- 82208 = Macaca mulatae= 522s. 45225505 3
Chinese:imacaque = Sees See Macacarlastotis= een aan eee eee a il
Hormosan monkey <==-= eet 44s Macacavcycloprs= === == 2s Sewer: 6
Red-faced macaque-_-_-__-----_----- Macaca spectosass2nnns fewer ae 1
Barbarysape eu storys neon ee Moacaca'syivanius==—_ == tree Oey we
Moor Macaques asses Sere Macaca mauris aeenee 2 ae ae whey 2
Gray-cheeked mangabey---_------- Cercocebus albigena_____--_------ 1
Avilesmangabey=<= 22222 - -eie eee: Cercocebus galenitus. = Bas 2 5 hen 1
Golden-bellied mangabey---------- Cercocebus galeritus____---_____- 1
Red-crowned mangabey - --------_- Cercocebus torquatus_o_ 4-222 22 2
Sooty mangabeye:aaisus—== = sae Cercocebus fuliginosus_------___- 5
@rested mangabey-. 3-422 22 3544u2= Cercocebus aterrimus 22-22.) 2
Black-crested mangabey-_--_-_-_-_- Cercocebus aterrimuss 225252 288 3
Goldemibaboons2-- 2) sea. S4iae) Ramo cynocepnalis see e 4a 1
Hamadryas baboons y22ss. 2242222 Papo hamadryasurg Bane nee 1
Chacmatbaboon! 522 =s2e2= === san= ZO DrONCONLAL LS aren eens Peet aee 1
Mian Gril [Geo a= <p pe Mandrilliis sphing ae 955-72 oe 1
Geladathbaboone]- = sfss2222-_ 22h _s Theropithecus gelada_____---_-__- 1
Vervet-cucnon. estates syten ws Cercopithecus aethiops____------- 1
Green-guenone |. 2U sts aie ea Cercopithecus aethiops_____-____- 2
Guenon, hy brid) > eeten suede Cercopithecus aethiops xX C. a. 2
pygerythrus.

Moustached monkey_---------_--- Cercopithecus cephus_.---------- 2
Dranarmonkeye =. 2226.2 ee Cercopithecus diana... _.-------- 1
Roloway monkey=__.- 22. S225 Cercoprittecus diana= \-- 2 s= a. at 1
Preussis cuenon.- idan dered Cercopithecus V hoestt___________- 1
Debrazza)s cucnoneese-see sua | Cercopithecus neglectus__________- 2
White-nosed guenons2428-2222222- Cercopithecus nictitans_____-_- ~~~ 1
Lesser white-nosed guenon_______~_- Cercopithecus nictitans__._-.__- = 1
Allen?simonkey-ss5242 522 ae Allenopithecus nigroviridis___ ___- 2
Spectacledtlangura-2- ---_.--.--_-+ iPresbytis phayrevs —s==--- = eee 1

Pongidae:
Hoolock!<.5. 2th peat ht Hylobates hoolock.------- Geetetenne he 1
White-handed gibbon--_-____-_____- ialobates larss 2s. op ee 7
Wau-wau eibbonssetdsee. teste! Halobates;moloch.--_ A222 at 1
Gibbon -hybridi.. + -eesiwe s=dect Hylobates agilis X H.lars2.2 222: 1
Gibbon ny brides. 222... 5-2. . ‘Aylobates: lar He sp-: eebeionet 3
Sumatran orangutan___-_________- Pongo py gmadenseat Sats atin yen 2
Bornean orangutans ==_ 2-2 _2_-_- PONGO PyGmMaEusee ==. Se Seen 1
Chimpanzees = =)... 2elewee eel Ran satyrieee ere oe ee ei eee 4
Goria = ey ete he chats ay ae Gorilla gorilaes2- = 2. Seman 2

EDENTATA

Myrmecophagidae:
Giant antesters.. 2242 tate oh Myrmecophaga tridactyla_____--_-- 1

Bradypodidae:
‘Two-toedisloth== 2.2 2225 220s Choloepus didactylus.--..------- 5

LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:

Domestic rabbit_-_-----.---...---- Oryctolagus cuniculus___--------- 2
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

RODENTIA
Family and common name Scientific name Number

Sciuridae:

Gray squirrel (black)2.2_2- _ = 2 see Sciurus carolinensis, melanistic 1

phase.

Gray squirrel (albino) =222s2 22a 255 Sciurus carolinensis__......----- 2

Hox squirrel_22 2. 2. See R as eee 3 SCULTUS. Nien 2 = BAEC aa eee 1

Giant Indian squirrel_______--__-_- Ratufaandica. —2 Be ssaas Paes 4

Asiatic squimrel-— 52- Seeeees ened Callosciurus nigrovittatus________- if

Formosan tree squirrel. -_-__------ Callosciurus erythraeus___------- 5

Asiatic forest squirreloc c+ seleees - Callosciurus caniceps_----------- 4

Striped ground squirrel_.___------- ariscusansignis...~ vee 2

Long-nosed squirrel._--.---------- Dremomys rufigenis_-_---------- 1

Woodchuck, or groundhog_-------- Marnmota-monars 22228 ene 1

Prairie-dogucae Sasa ees tet eee eee Cynomys ludovicianus __------- Many

White-tailed squirrel_________---_- Citellus lewcurus: 2222252522222 2,

Hastern chipmunks-22es5. 26 =e nan Lamiasisiiiats aaa 1

Eastern chipmunk, albino. ____-_--- Tamiasistniatus. 22 eee. ee i

Red-and-white flying squirrel] _ _ _ __- Petaurisiajialbinijusse ss eee 1

Formosan flying squirrel__________- iPetaurustagnandis= ae 1

Eastern flying squirrel___.______-~_-- Glaucomyswolansan ==. — ane 15
Cricetidae:

Vesper rats... seae es jesse anes Nyctomys sumichrastt__--------- 2

Hamster. 2 = Meee oi eae Mesocricetus auratus.--.-------- 3

Lesser Egyptian gerbil___-_-------- Gerbillus gerbillus. >= See ee See 1

Hat-tailledigerbills= 35S PACK UnONtys! CUP astee see a= 19

Mainy-tailed jind 22a se sane eae Sekeetamys calurus__..---------- 1

Jirdeseee ee. RS Bae ahi cree Mertones-spisaet 2522 eaten ee 8
Muridae:

Egyptian spiny mouse_____-------- Acomys cahtminius. 223s ss ees 24

Egyptian spiny mouse._-._-------- Acomys dimidiatuss2ec25- 3232 Many

Slender-tailed cloud rat_____---__-- Phloeomys cumingit_------------ 3
Gliridae:

African ‘dormouses2ss2 eha5 aa 524~2 Graphiurus murinus__-.--------- 1
Dipodidae:

Lesser or desert jerboa_-_---------- Jaculus JaCculuUs o£ Sons 35 ee 1

Hour-toedijerboas == 45255 saeeieet Allactaga tetradactyla__---------- 6
Hystricidae:

Malay porcupine 2 2235222 sasesee® Acanthion brachyura_----------- 1

African pPorcupine= 3 =e 55 45e ane. Anstrinigaledigasss oo ee ee eee 4
Erethizontidae:

Prehensile-tailed porcupine - -_ _ _---_- Coendou prehensilis__----------- 1
Caviidae:

@uinea-pre-_ 23-5. 25.52. Se Cavia porcellus 225-2 = See seees 30
Hydrochoeridae:

apy barasees..- s+) ass oe ee wea Hydrochoerus hydrochoeris-_------- 2
Dinomyidae:

IRedragoutles 20s ae ae eee Dinomys branickit_.—--— === =---- 2
Dasyproctidae:

ZV SUL GLa me ery oe a ares er TS eee Dasyprocta prymnolopha--------- i

Speckled agouti: as oe ss = Dasyprocia punctala.2— === 1
Chinchillidae:

Peruvian ‘viscaccias=+222°5 222522222 Lagidium viscaccia_------------- 1

@hinchilla. 22. = sa) ea Chinchilla chinchilla__...-------- 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT 161

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Capromyidae:
Coypuns sees sas See eee Myocasior coypus-..------==22 2 1
CARNIVORA
Canidae:
Din v Ouse se. 22 Ss a ~ ane see eee Canis antarchicuss] 22 eee) Se 4
imper WwOlls ==. = sses lS) Sees Canisilupusss..- s=225225250 Re 2
Texasired: Wolfs = es See CORE es Canisnigens soo ee Ts SES 2
Redtioxs sie Au 2 RONG Sb Vulpes fulvgce sas a-s4enel 9s 2
Platinum fox. Se PO ea Vulpes fulvas= <> SUI De 2
WenneG sees eke 2 tae ee eRe eee Hennecus Ze, da 2s = sae ae Bi 2
GraysiOxs ess secre EUS ES Urocyon cinereoargenteus_—_____- 1
IRACCOON*OOL!s 22 3. 2 Sees Shs eee Nyctereutes procyonotdes_________ 1
Capevhunting dogs s-2) 9) 2) 22h s Egcaon pictuss co2225_ 2a eS 4
IBip-eaTrecdsomes==2asson ova eh eae Otocyon=megaloiis== 222-2422 ae 3
Ursidae:
Spectacled“bear 2-2-5572 et oe Tremarcios: ornaius-==— 2522202 Pas 1
Himalayantbears=s225-s22).24-2 22 Selenarctos thibetanus___._______~ 2
Japanese black bear_-....222.___2 Selenarctos thibetanus__-----_--_-- 1
Ioreans bears ao a= ae rea Shae Selenarctos thibetanus___________~ Z
Blackjbearte== tess 22 esse lel ees Euarctos amertcanus—._ = 22) 2S 2
Alaskan brown bear__.--.--------- Wrsustsp 225282 sees 2 ARP eEL 1
European brown bear__-_---------- Ursus-arcios=s==-2: == 252222225 3
Tranidn@ brown bear. =. 222222 s-- 2s Wysus ancloses = sess 2 ee ane 2
Alaskan Peninsula bear___________- Wrsusvgy ase s> a= essa 2
Grigzlyabear.. 22 252208 2 ee INSU Orsushorribiliss ==. re oe a 3
Sitkaeoro we Dealess === = eek mene ne Ursus sitkensis 2-222 8 = GEE oe 2
Polarsbears 2s] 2 25 re SE EE Thalarctos maritimus= = sss 22s! 2
Bearehybridsas sitet Sn eke Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus 6
middendor fii.
Malayssuntbearse.- 22 e2ee eee Helarctos malayanus=.— 222 3
Procyonidae:
UAC COO NM nee a a a= Henee yee = eet es ProcyonWotor: 22 2 san een SS 4
Nedicostimundize see 2 ee IN ESCEORTUCLS UC See eee eee 2
Congtimundis.s.< aaer eke ee 2 INGSUG NATICa so as oes ee ae 14
Konikay Oss ae ee aes Sa RNS Potos flavus Sat aes seas tS eY £
Olingoes Se sl ae oe eT PTI ees Bassaricyon gabvbr:= ==) 2 ae ess 2
Wesserspand ae. = 25.2552 2b 2 = ele’ Anlurusjulgenss<5- 0) 252 6 ae ee 3
Mustelidae:
Short-tailed) weasel-2-22s— 2555-452 Matstela ermine. -ts4- 2 oe 1
NABbernWesselo= == soca) fo ea=2 20 iMaistelatjrenatas <== aoe =e eee 1
Herre albino. s>s2e222 24 2.252 Mustela eversmannt.._---------- 1
Migr Coreen sete ae ae nei Bee oe Mares Gmertcand=—- == nate nee 1
Bishorpeen sega soe Stee eee ee ene WI GTEES PERO aa e ee ee 1
Rayrase See See eS eee ee Rayrovar vargas == a eee 1
(GrisOn See ore ee ee eA beens Galiciistuitiatale 20S ane cle 1
WOlverinet = 6e fe a= a2 Pe ok Nes Gulo*luscins Foe Te ke ae 1
American: bad gers = peas eres heer Taxideo toxus= 2 seee Ble wees 1
Golden-bellied badger_____________ Helictis*moschatass= sauias tak oe 2
Common/skunk= 42 <2 5.2 a ee! Mephitis mephitis= _< sass eee 8 3
California spotted skunk__________ Spilogale gracilis= == =» msins-- 2p 1
African small-clawed otter_________ iniratcineneG 22s = eae 1
South American flat-tailed otter_.___ Pteronura brasiliensis_________-- 1
Malayan small-clawed otter________ AIMDIONYT.CINChCG = =e aces if
162

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Viverridae:
Genet. os ee ae hehe ee a eee Genetia genelia2222- ==. = 5
Formosan spotted civet_-__--------- Vavenntcula indica = = eee 2
Groundicivet= os.) 42a hee ee Vaverra tangalinga= == ee 1
LUG a Y=: 0: cee Poe ee RRA a cy pc et Sa Prionodon linsang= =. =. 2 aes 1
Formosan masked civet__-___-_---_- AGUNG ONY CLO a eee 4.
Bintunongs eee see eee ee ee ee Ar CLUClS ULNTUTONG =) See 1
African gray mongoose--__------_- Herpesies ichneumon.- +). = 1
Water eiveto.- 225 0 hee eet AVAL DAMLAITOSUS = eee 3
White-tailed civet=~—* =. '-2 e265 Ichneumia albicauda____________ 2
Cryptoproctidae:
TOSSA cea a ag ah epee arm ag alee pg Cruptoprocta jerot.- 2-2) a ee 1
Hyaenidae:
Spotted hyena” =.= = he aoe Crocutascrocutaa. nt 2a eee 2
DURIPC@onyene sa. = —. ati ex ee pean t FIVGenashyGena==— === 2
Felidae:
MUM ple sCae 2 ae 2 epee i se teens Wels CRGUS = 2.2 = ee) ee 1
Palas SiCAte 2 cps ty tice a oes fe CLUS IUGTU =.=, ea 2
Denvalicats S255) eee eee whee eA ELS: SOTO a ee alg 3
Ocelotece soe = ewer cp oo eeiae Hels MArdqts = ess o>, a ae ee 2
MAT EAY: Cote. 2: pace iF pede RCS AD TCO Ye = ee ot) 2
Pampas Cates ee Sie ee Pielis: DAH CT0S oh atk ae ee Pe 1
E100 5: Re Se, DL CLUS CON COLOR. = apap potas 5
1 Sc I aN a DRO es ee Te TANTS CONAGCNSIS = = eke eee 2,
TBXO) Ger tet NORE Pie uh cay be Re TEN TUNE RUTUS So te ae op a 2
WeODETG! noe a eet POnTiherg. POvduse 2 228 eee 4
Black ileopard =. — 2. 5 ahs Jee ee ROniherG DOTGUS=. = == eee 2
ECan aR eet eh ray i at | IROnRendalCO ma aan = ae ee 3
Beni paletieener. = ee een ke Panthera tigris 2 - 3. hae 4
RGU kes er a eae IPanihergOncise eee oa ee i
Snow leopard... ye a. ee te! Panther: unci@._ = ee 3
neta e = ete eee es tee Se Ocinonys gubata= _-22—. 2
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
east OM aces Se. ie ene Pere ly Zalophus californianus-...------ 1
Patagonian sea-lion_________-_---- Oiarva flavescens soo. I... 2 eee ee 2
TUBULIDENTATA
Orycteropodidae:
Aardvark yor antbearse = 22> 5 ===) Orycteropus aferss-2 820 ae 1
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
Adrican clephant= 222. as BOLOCOntG QfTricangn 28 eee 1
Indian elephant) = 2-22. = 22. fo 2 FCDRAS MALU NUS = a= 25 a eee 3
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Mongolian wild horse_______--_--- quis przewalskit..-Saauee a eaee 1
Kiang, or Asiatic wild ass__._______ Bauus. kang... warmPat. teeta ah 1
Burro, or donkey: 22 a4 ssp ates Bquusvasinus.-20.. ae es 1
Crant{sizebrascoes. =e eee eee Equusiburchellsas ss 422 ee 5
Grevyis zebra 2. 1) Meme Ae Equas.gnevycet ee see nly ls se es 3
SECRETARY’S REPORT 163

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Tapiridae:
Brazen tapir. = 22s 5555s eee TO DITUSHETTESNTS sea ee 1
Rhinocerotidae:
White, or square-lipped, rhinoceros. Ceratotherium simum____-------- 2
ARTIODACTYLA
Tayassuidae:
Collared) peccary 22. Swe ee Pecaritajacus on ee eet 2
Hippopotamidae:
ip pOpOtaAMUs s= === see see = aaa Hippopotamus amphibius_______- 5
Pyemy hippopotamus: /2_= 2-222: Choeropsis liberiensis..__________- 3
Camelidae:
lama eee oe ee ee eee Bama glamae a. = ae 2 2a 9
(GRU ANAC Oe eee eres eee ne ee Damagquanico¢se 2 = 222 ee 3
IDA Cae. see ie a eee RETOSpACese see can eee ee 4
BaACtriamycamle laws = ee eee ee Camels bactrianus_-.- 2222 222 2
Cervidae:
Brown fallowideer.-..=--+.--5--< Damadamo te Jee ee ee vi
Wihitestallowsdeer=— = 222225254425 DOMG, COMaeee. 22 ee See a 6
AKI SIM CCRS = 3. = Soe eS Ee pee re peng AxIsagtisa2 === ed EAR Se ee 4
edsdeer ace ayy So ae Se Cernpusiclaphuse. 2 = 22222 ote Palen 7
Americ¢an: ele oe ney teers sates nhl Cervus canadensis.ee Us pt 4
Sika de@eric — 5 satiate Be ey Cervus mippon 2 <2 = seas ie eee 4
RéresDavid'sideet= 4552.92 25225- 2 Elaphurus davidianus___--_----- 1
Vareinia deers 2222.41. . eeee Odocoileus virginianus_---------- 5
Wosta, Rican deer... 22.252 -5252-= Odocoileus virginianus__________- 1
Reind cers. Set ee FL on ere NS Kangifenmtarandus=2. con gee ae 14
Horest.caribouls asa wr rela aia wo Rangifer caribous. =. sneer) ase 1
Giraffidae:
Okapits esas 19 See Se ee Okapia johnstont-2-- == = eae 1
Nubian giraffe... 31 GG cae Sarit ae Giraffa camelopardalis __________- 4
Antilocapridae:
Pronghorme.22. Poe aes Sa oO se es Antilocapra americana__-_-------- 5
Bovidae:
Sitatunga...... 2eeeue soe ve aks Tragelaphus spertis22 Suis vin 2
Plan Gees Se ee eee UGiUrOlragusiOryT= | 22. = ESE 2
INSING 9% payer ay hs Be A 4 Se Anoa,. depressicornnis_..-.222 282s 3
HAs) Oe, ek te ee a ee eee TS OSTEO UCU Se Ae wa te ee 1
NY oe Re ae Poephagus grunniens____-----__- 2
Cane red ey Re eee ee Bibos gaiiruse << htt eee ae 4
Africans putialos t=" 5 vs meees ene ISUILCENU SCA Cre yams mre nem eee Sree 1
AMET CanybisO nessa eee mat ah hire Bison bisoneete ne = NE ee 2
Wisent, or European bison_---- _-_- Bisombonasis* ss erers Gia Pe Vea 2
Black-fronted duiker_________-___- Cephalophus nigrifrons______-__- il
paigaantelopess ss uhee see ese. Satgaiiataricass see eee eon 1
Rocky mountain goat = =.=) _-422-2 Oreamnos americanus. --------- 2
Cahir St) nen ee een RUS CREATE: Hemitragus jemlahicus _-—-------- 2
Ti exe gett reine AI ey A OE TD Capra her ae Keren on INOUE a 1
Blueisheep sot no rane Paeudots. nayourss sas 1
NCGAOUG EKO Lee Se eat iN a a Ammeotragus lervia_.__---------- 3
Dallisheep as ey ee Oursidalizge ce Se ee ee 2
Niouilontemenra semen Se reece 2 Ovtsnnusrnon ee ee 1
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

BIRDS
SPHENISCIFORMES
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Spheniscidae:
King pencuin +2424. -2. ae Aptenodytes patagonica__-------- 4
Adeheypenguin= 5.252 ss aK Pygoscetisiadehiae._.. <= aha 5
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
OsGriGh : 9:2. o5 = 3 Se eee Ae ee Struthio camelige so) oe ee 1
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae
TERT Gs a eee ea een ee ee [GREG OMETACONG =a ee aa aa 1
CASUARIIFORMES
Dromiceiidae:
Nee eee een ees ees = Dromiceius novaehollandiae____-_-- 4
PROCELLARIIFORMES
Diomedeidae:
Black-footed albatross___---------- Diomedea nigripes.~ 52-32 Lea 2
Laysan:albatross2 ==. tose sake. Diomedea immutabilis__--------- 1
PELICANIFORMES
Phoenicopteridae:
Chileantflamingo=. s82 2 sae Phoenicopterus chilensis___------- 2
Cuban-flamingo. — 2° 3+ 4sen seees* Phoenicopterus ruber____-------- 2
Old. Worldfamingo- === 22-25-25 Phoenicopterus antiquorum_----~- 1
Pelecanidae:
Rose-colored pelican__------------ Pelecanus onocrotalus___.-------- 2
Wihwhemmelionn= 20 =. 2. ee oe Pelecanus erythrorhynchus_-_--_---- 3
Brown ‘pelican 1245 -4se= esata) Pelecanus occidentalts__- 2 i
Phalacrocoracidae:
Double-crested cormorant. __------ Phalacrocorax auritus._-_-------- 1
Anhingidae:
Snakebind js. sees ecee ah seek Anhinga.anhinga..-.---- 252-6 2
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
Great white heron] ==) ae ee Ardea occidentalisee = ane ee = 3
ouisiana herons 2 == == see Hydranassa tricolor. . 2---2_-_-_- 4
Armenican egret. 22. ow Casmerodius albus: 2s 2 a 4
Snowy erprebs 2) 5. ee ee Leucophoys thilas0 6 ~. 2
Black-crowned night heron_-___---- Nycticorax nycticorax__---------- 7
GAStDIGhCRN 5 ee Trobrychus €ttlts oe ee 2
American eget. <5 A ses EVCT OGG COTCHOs. = eee i
Muiger bivterns:-- a= sae Tigrisoma lineatum.__---.------ 4
Cochleariidae:
Boat-billed heron__.... -- --<..-..-==5 Cochlearius cochlearius__.._------ 1
Balaenicipitidae:
BHGGOH A. oot ee ee Balaeniceps ret Sone ee 1
Ciconiidae:
Marabou stotka-2 3-5 ose 5 eae Leptoptilos crumeniferus_-------- 1
Ihesser adjutant=.=-----.--3------ Leptoptilos javanicus...--------- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Threskiornithidae:
Glossynilbisa setae ee ee ae Plegadis faleinellus 2-2 5202 2
Hasterniclossyibisessere aoe ae Plegadis falewnellus2_22 2 Se 2
Black-headediibis=_...- 2 -=.-----=- Threskiornis melanocephala______- 1
Roseate spoonbill:=. =. +22 Ae PAGGTONO Uj OS eo ees a 2
WiiGO Misha. ete 2 oe el a Enidocimus albuse.2. 2. Seuss 2
carletpibises=24-s+s sau onus eins Endocemus ruber. 2-08 Eee 2
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
Crestedisereamer: 22 2222. 2 eS Chauna torquata-...-...- 222! 4
Anatidae:
IMUteIS Wallets -- soe seee hee se Cygqnusiolonse eo ae eee 2
\Wihooperswans22es=. 2s eee ee Olor ey gnu ss secs Ue OO ?
Wihistlineiswan=s=22- Seo Nie Se ene Olon:columbianiuel 22-2 OUSy OSE 4
‘Trumpeter-swans--sos 207 eee Olomiiccinatorss a2 4 OU EIE 2
Cape Barren goose! = oss) 2222 ees Cereopsis novaehollandiae______ ~~ 1
Australian pied goose__.---------- Anseranas semipalmata________-_- il
Blacks walt as eA sey ee ae Chenopis ainatas ee ees 3
Bluevcoosess s= =. se sain Se eae Chencaerulescens=.2 Vii. 2h 6
esser‘snow goose. 22 LU Yee Chenvhyperborea 2 ee _ aa 2
Greater snow goose: -2 Ele 22L oes ee Chenatlanivcasses cole he 6
ROSS Ble OOsO aa = = Coe OY Vays See Chenirossiet srs oe 4
Indian bar-headed goose_____------ Enulabera:tndiegs2 22 See et 5
White-fronted goose____._-------- Anser albifrons sess resssee 22 YS 3
Hmiperorsgoosesssso 22h lle Eel Skt Philacte canagiea 2240s 2 ee 2
Canadargooses {Senet Lk Sees
Thesser Caneds £00se a Branta canadensiss a. 3252-0 s ee 34
Cacklinescooses sn] sass eee eee
White-cheeked goose__.-_--------
Uplandssoqsesee aT e he Ine eee Chloephaga leucoptera_.--------- I
Canada goose X Blue goose, hybrid. Branta canadensis X Chen caeru- 2
lescens.
Black-bellied tree duck___--------- Dendrocygna autumnalis_-------- 8
Hulvousitreeiduckss 2. 2255-52 - es = Dendrocygnaibicolorsa2222 2222 e 2
Comb duick== 22224-2522 Sees Sarkidiornis melanota_---------- 1
Huropeanishelliducke:--_ —....-.- = Tadorna tadoerna_—- = 5-2 1
Matlard:duck albino 2222): Wie Anas platyrhynchos22—~ 2 ese 1
Mallardyduck 2-3 S22 -)- -=sa5s_255 Anas platyrhynchos____.-------- 26
Mallard duck X American pintail Anas platyrhynchos X Anas acuta_ 1
duck, hybrid.
Indian spotted-bill duck_----_----- Anas poecilorhynchas. 222220 eee 1
Blackiduckesaa2 32 S25 eee eee es ANGsinubni esse ee eae 2
Pintalkducke 29 seee ae ers ae VAN GSIACUEC = ae ee eee nae 1
IBA a hemes 92 aoe. Sa ee aes Morecatamericanas=) 25 = ea 13
WiOOdKdUCKS =o se eae eae ee VALLES DONS Cae ene ae ee eee 34
Wood duck X Red-headed duck, Aix sponsa K Aythya americana- 1
hybrid.
Migiyclarinciuic a= ae eee Nea Dendronessa galericulata__~------ 29
Rosy-billed pochard_-_______-___-- Metopiana peposaca.__._-------- 1
Red-crested pochard_~_--. 2222. 2. Netia rufing==2-=s2 38 SeebIe Snes 1
Canvasbackiduck=. 20032 re Aythya valisineria_.....-------- 9
Red-headedi duck: =: = <2 Eee St Aythya americana__..-.--------- 11
166

Family and common name
Anatidae—Continued

Greater scaup duck___-_____-
Lesser scaup duck_______---

Cathartidae:

Andeanicondor= 2. 2 eee 325
King vulture 2 2225222 222
Blacksvultures: 20.52 2252 =
Turkey vulture_-_____-_- ae

Sagittariidae:

Secretary bird) 24252522) 250%

Accipitridae:

Cayenne kites-2- 222 225 See
African yellow-billed kite_-___-
Brahminy kites eee
Buzzardiedplese ss. See
Red-tailed hawk__..-_.-----
Swainson’ s hawk. =. 2822. 2

Farpyiedgl esi): ene 222s
Golden.eagle-a_- - = ane:
Monkey-eating eagle_-_--__-_-
Baldiveagles <= 5.2 2 2 2 a ae
Ruppell’s vulture. ..-.-.=--
White-backed vulture____-__-
Bateleur eagle__._.......-.-

Falconidae:

ihlorestialcon@ sss =e
Chimango ee S2i5e Seat
South American caracara_-___
Audubon’s caracara____--_-_-
Sparrow hawikts 2-4) a3.

Megapodiidae:

Brushvturkey25 955 2=--=e=

Cracidae:

Nocturnal curassow________-
White-headed piping guan__-
Blue-cered curassow___----_-
Wattled curassow_________-_-
Panama curassow___-_------

Phasianidae:

Bobwihitels ea) sens
Hungarian partridge__-___-_-
Japanese quail sess ae
INepaliphessant. =. 2-2 - oo
Swinhoe’s pheasant________
Redijunglefowlesss5s.2225—

Scientifie name

FALCONIFORMES

GALLIFORMES

Ayithya marila__-_-----
Aythya affinis._.--_--

Vultur gryphus_-_-----
Sarcoramphus papa ---
Coragyps atratus__-_--
Cathartes aura___.----

Odontriorchis palliatus-
Milvus migrans___----
Haliastur indus. - —-
Buteo poecilochrous__--
Buteo jamaicensis_-_---
Buteo swainsoni-_-----
Leucopternis melanops-
Morphnus guianensis_-
Harpia harpyja__-_----
Aquila chrysaetos_ - _ --
Pithecophaga jefferyi - -
Haliaeetus leucocephalus
Gyps rueppellii___----
Pseudogyps africanus _-
Terathopius ecaudatus _

Micrastur semitorquatus
Milvago chimango-----
Polyborus plancus_-_-_--
Polyborus cheriway----
Falco sparverius __----

Alectura lathami_-_----

Nothocraz urumutum_ -
Pipile cumanensis____-
Graz alberiv= 22 ==
Craz globulosa__------
Crax panamensis _ _ - _ -

Francolinus erckeli_---
Francolinus hildebrandti____-_----
Colinus virginianus - - -
PeEndiG per dito
Coturniz coturnia___--
Gennaeus leucomelanus___-------
Gennaeus swinhoii_ _ --
Gallusigallus=2 "2-32 —

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Sagittarius serpentarius_..----_--

a

bo

[Os ee) ee oe

Orem wh bo

_

= oh =

OR Nr NRF eo
SECRETARY’S REPORT 167

Family and common name Scientific name Number

Phasianidae—Continued

Ring-necked pheasant____.-.--_-_- Phasianus colchicuss. 2. aula e- 4

Ring-necked pheasant, albino___-___ Phastanus colchicus.. 2255 222232 1

Reeves’s pheasant_.........___-_- SUrMattews reevesacnt. Lave 2th 2

Lady Amherst pheasant__________- Chrysolophus amherstiae--___---- 1

Golden pheasanti saan) oso ate 2 Chrysolophus pictus soa 2 2222. 5

Peafowles<4 em... Aipaeien aay ne POVOCTIUStOUUS a= en ee 13

Argusipheasant=ser ee abet aed ape ARGUSIENUSIGTOUS._.- _A=Ee Hees 2
Numididae:

Vulturine guineafowl_____________- Acryllium vulturinum___-------- 5
Meleagrididae:

Ocellated!turkey_..-......- =. 2- | Agriochams ocellata..- ..--..-..- 1

Wildvturkey = 2.22. 2-22. _eeeress Meleagris gallopavos._ - =. 2 22—- 11
Gruidae:

Siberian crane... __ _pristwian atee Gris leucogeranus....--- - - eee 1

Demoiselle crane... sheers. sasteectt Anthropoides virgo_-__---------- 1
Psophiidae:

Trumpeter..--=--.=-2. slp sate A Psophia crepitans._- eeeeigns att: 2
Rallidae:

Wairginiayrail. ... 4 Aviston 5olnd a Lallus limicelascoss-betees geet 1

Black-and-white crake____________ Laierallus leucopyrrhus_ ~~~ -- iL

South Pacific swamphen___----_-_-- Borphyrio poliocephalus____.---_- 1

American coot....atex4thss! satote 2 Fulica american@iedees sso3s2db2 1
Kurypygidae:

Sumbitterm: —.. -.. rarer ah Buropyga heltaesweks 54! fee See 2
Cariamidae:

Cariama or seriama___-__-=. +--+ Cartama*crisiaia 22285 ne s5:14-6 1

CHARADRIIFORMES

Jacanidae:

Commonjacanate tise. uen sosescek Jacana ¢pin08sa Sans e5 Bee eet 3
Haematopodidae:

Oystercatchers 2.4 2 yell. page net Haematopus ostralegus_-_--------- 2
Stercorariidae:

MacCormack’s skua=nee she sthe Catharacta maccormackt____--_- ~~ 4
Charadriidae:

Australian banded plover__-___-~-_-_- Zonifer tricolor saan ees 6

South American lapwing-____-_-___- Belonopterus cayennensis_________ 1

Killdeer= 2. = bagtine hs sen b Charadrius vociferus....------~--- 1
Recurvirostridae:

Black-necked stilt. 22.22 -=--12 Himantopus mezicanus - --------- 1
Burhinidae:

South American thick-knee________ TSUsRUIVUS UISITIO See = = ee 1
Laridae:

Ring=pilledvo ule eee wee es Larus delawarensis___ 2224-22: 2

Kelp cull... Senne auneyoy Larus dominicantses-} 23255. 23.

Daughine only ** ee auetey eh ee GGUS Qenicula: 2 eee ee ee 1

Silver sulle Baie hae, see paete th wen Larus novaehollandiae___-__--_-- 12

COLUMBIFORMES

Columbidae:

POMING piceon. 6.0 sso ee ColumBa:liniat eras 4. es oo oe 1

Band-tailed pigeon_..-* 2.2... Columba fasciata-2--- == 22-2 2

536608—60 12
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Columbidae—Continued

Black-billed pigeon___-_----------- Columba migrinostniseaas 2252 ae 1
Mourmineid ovet=2sseee es soe Zenaidura macroura_-_---------- 3
White-winged dove_____.___------ Lenaide, astatica. ane eee 1
Ring-necked.dovess 2 2 seneeee Streptopelia decaocto_.-.--------- 7
Blue-headed ring dove_____-_----- Streptopelia tranquebarica______ ~~ 2
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
Plain-breasted ground dove__------- Columbigallina minuta___---___~- il
Dinmondidovess2eo eso e eae ae Geopelia cuneatas 2 3522 a 1
Groundudoviels2s55542e eee Columbigallina passerina________- 5
