The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended
June 30, 1954

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
UnitTep States NatrionaL Museum,
Unper DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., October 15, 1954.
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1954.
Very respectfully,
REMINGTON KELLOGG,
Director, U. S. National Museum.
Dr. LEONARD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
wm
Annual Report of

the Director

United States National Museum
June 30, 1954

Scientific Staff

Director: Remington Kellogg

J. E. Anglim, exhibits specialist; T. G. Baker, R. W. S. Browne, R. O. Hower,
W. T. Marinetti, M. M. Pearson, exhibits workers.

Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator

A. J. Andrews, exhibits preparator

ARCHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, curator | PHysicaL ANTHROPOLOGY.: T. Dale
Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator Stewart, curator
G. S. Metealf, museum aide M. T. Newman, associate curator

HTHNOLoGy: H. W. Krieger, curator
J. C. Ewers, associate curator
C. M. Watkins, associate curator
R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator

Department of Zoology: Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator

W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator; C. R. Aschemeier, W. M. Perrygo, E. G.
Laybourne, C. S. Hast, J. D. Biggs, exhibits preparators; W. L. Goodloe, exhibits
worker; Mrs. Aime M. Awl, scientific illustrator

MAMMALS: Insects: O. L. Cartwright, acting
D. H. Johnson, acting curator curator
H. W. Setzer, associate curator R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator
Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate W.D. Field, associate curator
eurator Grace li. Glance, associate curator
Birps : Herbert Friedmann, curator Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist
H. G. Deignan, associate curator MARINE INVERTEBRATES: FE. A. Chace,
G. M. Bond, museum aide Jr., curator
REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator
Doris M. Cochran, associate curator Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum aide
Wisues: Leonard P. Schultz, curator Moniusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator
H. A. Lachner, associate curator Joseph P. H. Morrison, associate cu-
Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide rator

R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator
W. J. Byas, museum aide

Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator

PHANEROGAMS: A. C. Smith, curator GRASSES:
KE. C. Leonard, associate curator Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator
Hi. H. Walker, associate curator CryprogaMs: C. V. Morton, acting cu-
Lyman B. Smith, associate curator rator
Velva EK. Rudd, assistant curator Paul S. Conger, associate curator

Ferns: C. Y. Morton, curator
Department of Geology: W. F. Foshag, head curator

J. H. Benn, museum geologist ; Jessie G. Beach, museum aide

MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: W. I. | VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. L. Gazin,

Foshag, acting curator
EK. P. Henderson, associate curator
G. S. Switzer, associate curator
KF. E. Holden, physical science aide

curator
D. H. Dunkle, associate curator
EF. L. Pearce, exhibits preparator

INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND PALEO-
BOTANY: Gustav A. Cooper, curator
A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator
David Nicol, associate curator
R. J. Main, Jr., museum aide

Department of Engineering and Industries: Frank A. Taylor,
head curator

ENGINEERING: Frank A. Taylor, acting
curator; in charge of Sections of
Civil and Mechanical Engineering,
Marine Transportation, and Physi-
eal Sciences and Measurements

R. P. Multhauf, associate curator

K. M. Perry, associate curator, Sec-
tion of Electricity

S. H. Oliver, associate curator, Sec-
tion of Land Transportation

MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH :

George B. Griffenhagen, associate
curator
Alvin E. Goins, museum aide

CRAFTS AND INDUSTRIES: W. N. Watkins,
curator; in charge of Section of
Wood Technology

Edward C. Kendall, associate curator,
Sections of Manufactures and Agri-
cultural Industries

Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator,
Section of Textiles

HK. A. Avery, museum aide

William E. Bridges, museum aide

GRAPHIc ARTs: J. Kainen, curator

A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate cu-
rator ; Section of Photography

J. Harry Phillips, Jr., museum aide

Department of History: Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator

MILITrAary AND NAVAL HISTORY:
Mendel L. Peterson, associate curator
J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator
Craddock R. Goins, Jr., junior his-
torian
NUMISMATICS:
S. M. Mosuer, associate curator

vi

CiviL History:
Margaret W. Brown, associate curator
Benjamin Lawless, exhibits worker
Ff. EH. Klapthor, museum aide
PHILATELY :
Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate cu-
rator
Honorary Scientific Staff

Smithsonian collaborators, associates, custodians of collections,
and honorary curators

Anthropology

Neil M. Judd, Anthropology

Paul Bartsch, Mollusks

Arthur C. Bent, Birds

A. G. Boéving, Zoology

L. L. Buchanan, Coleoptera

M. A. Carriker, Insects

Austin H. Clark, Zoology

R. 8. Clark, Zoology

Robert A. Cushman, Hymenoptera
Max M. Ellis, Marine Invertebrates
D. C. Graham, Biology

Charles T. Greene, Diptera

A. Brazier Howell, Mammals
W.L. Jellison, Insects

Agnes Chase, Grasses
E. P. Killip, Phanerogams

R.S. Bassler, Paleontology
Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany

Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon-

tology

Frank L. Hess, Mineralogy and Pe-

trology

W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology

Zoology

W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera

W.B. Marshall, Zoology

Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., Mammals

J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates

Theodore S. Palmer, Zoology

Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology

Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Marine
Invertebrates

C. R. Shoemaker, Zoology

R. HE. Snodgrass, Insects

Alexander Wetmore, Birds

Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod
Crustacea

Botany

F. A. McClure, Grasses
John A. Stevenson, Fungi

Geology

J. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Pale-
ontology

J.P. Marble, Mineralogy

S. H. Perry, Mineralogy

J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Paleon-
tology

W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy

Engineering and Industries

F. L. Lewton, Crafts and Industries

VII
Contents

EN eR O DMC LION isin us i Se ie, SSA CR ERTNCN Det nO Ley arses ree arco Seared ice Pray tev SE pees 1
UGH LGR Mes sree rot ee AEN SEM etme too ce een Coy ob etou ne evan ee teh cat Gal wee Me 5
ING CGE SSTONSH: en Bethea nee Tani eae urn EMC II. Sith Sa RP ap ame avai MOL 1 Sah nea ot Rate 12
CaRE OF COLLECTIONS ... Ade sane hs Mien Sern ie hen eA Mee Ra oa 26
INVESTIGATION AND nee ane Bt ie uius thie Bie ai aL reNarm braecnisreciat ae | UN Rin 4 lec 32
Je\TOH HL OURO) OG] COYEA Ry Meter ING ety oes, «Sallis RMP UMD ROL TRMIAUA IRIE: hry HP 7m) My tie 32
OO OPV Aree LE CM Lee eS SIRE. Lone RAKE SY TEE OTCD Coane. rs 36
SOLAN GM ate anche an EA corer cance arnt ay ar ae Renee ten mmoarttene fu ates 41
Geology... . SAR AT NL Sen GOR Rau IR ALM a Make DEB 44
Engineering and innanes: AS AY Se Gey eek Re. ate fs es gre WA ST 4 at 48
ETS TOT ypeissieevuas) wath sh Veblen eae Saas hiss do pron. Gates, Wo st eevee meals: Relves ao 51
PUBLICATIONS ... Rion eS hae ra RGnesEie thorkod eta Rick ne 53
DONORS TO THE None Clomucyennone DPR ERG a beogem, AARNet 60
Sey

teas

Yr ah
si at

Introduction

During the closing days of the second session of the eighty-third
Congress, the Senate of the United States passed by unanimous con-
sent a bill (S. 3622) “to provide for the preparation of plans and speci-
fications for a museum building for the Smithsonian Institution.” A
similar measure in the House of Representatives did not come to a
vote. In this building, to be known as the Museum of History and
Technology, it is proposed to house the collections now displayed in
the Arts and Industries building of the U. S. National Museum.

Introduction of these bills in Congress has served to focus attention
on a need for building space that has grown increasingly and particu-
larly acute in recent years. Long a concern of the Museum staff, this
lack of space today places a heavy restriction on normal Museum
activities and reduces the efficiency of the curators, who must often
work under most onerous conditions. Two principal factors have
brought about this situation—normal growth of the collections in the
half-century since work started on the newest Museum building, and
increased interest in and use of these invaluable collections by both
scientists and the general public.

Growing Museum reflects national progress

Normal growth adds to the collections an average of about 450,000
items a year, nearly double the 250,000 a year added in the 1890's.
This stepped-up rate of annual growth is to be expected. Ours is a
growing country. Our economy is expanding continuously. Our
technology has exploded into fields undreamed of when the Museum
was founded almost a century ago. We are blessed with an active
scientific community unceasingly pushing outward the frontiers of
human knowledge. As a result, to our National Museum, by law
designated official custodian of the national collections of “rocks,
minerals, soils, fossils, and objects of natural history, archeology, and
ethnology,” has come a flood of materials recording our progress in
natural science, history, and technology. Such materials come as a
matter of course from all other government agencies. Public-spirited
individuals and organizations, recognizing the value of the Museum
as a national repository, likewise present or bequeath their private
collections of animals, plants, or other objects of scientific or historic

1
y U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

importance. These gifts often represent a lifetime of painstaking
research aimed at making the collection more useful to others.

Limitations of space have forced the Museum to accept only a small
portion of the valuable, often priceless, material offered the Nation—
only a few of the most significant landmarks in this onward march
of science and technology. Even so, in the past half-century these
public collections have grown so greatly in size and scientific impor-
tance that they have made the U. S. National Museum one of the
world’s principal museums, and they have become of such value to
science that specialists from all parts of the world visit Washington to
consult them. An idea of their magnitude and scope may be gained
from the tabulation on page 138, which shows the distribution of the
more than 85 million specimens that comprise them.

Responsibilities of the Museum

The Museum’s comprehensive collections of scientific and cultural
materials are fundamental to a knowledge of the natural history of our
globe—its physical resources, its inhabitants, and their works. This
knowledge is an essential part of the education we demand for our
young people. It is a weapon wielded daily in attacking and solving
the problems of science, agriculture, and industry. Upon the increase
and diffusion of this knowledge depend in no small measure
our civilization and the well-being of the world’s rapidly increasing
population.

It is the primary function of a museum to preserve and make avail-
able to the public the materials upon which this knowledge is based
and from which additional knowledge may be released through re-
search. It is the function of the National Museum to organize its
collections of materials representing the world of man and nature
into a useful reference library of objects and information for the bene-
fit of all.

As the collections have grown in size and usefulness, scientists and
the public alike have not failed to seize the opportunity to consult
them in increasing numbers. This has both increased the duties of the
staff and the need for space in which to carry on these added services.

Thus, on an average weekday the National Museum and its staff
are called upon to provide working space and other services to more
than a hundred scientists and specialists whose official duties entitle
them to fulltime use of the collections. On that same day another
hundred or more can be expected to make temporary use of the collec-
tions or to consult the curators about them. All these, of course, are
in addition to the thousands who daily study the exhibits in the public
halls, (‘The total for last year was 3,262,150.)
INTRODUCTION 3 3

Increasing collections and decreasing space

In modern museum practice only a relatively small number of items
are selected for display at any one time in the public halls, which may
occupy half or more of the total floor area of the museum. The re-
mainder of the materials are arranged in study collections so that
scientists, technologists, historians, can use them for reference, com-
parison, or research.

Before these study collections can be used effectively it is necessary
to have associated with them such essential facilities as offices and
research laboratories for the staff and visiting specialists, libraries,
workrooms for processing specimens, as well as shops for preparing
exhibits, halls for special displays, lecture and study rooms for visiting
groups (the National Museum is visited each year by school groups
totaling many hundreds of thousands of students), and such other
service facilities commonly found in any large public building.

For all these purposes of exhibition and study the National Museum
has less space than most of the comparable museums of the United
States and Kurope. For some of the functions mentioned the Museum
has no space or no facilities whatsoever, even though its growth has
spread it through three buildings of the Smithsonian group.

The most modern of these structures, the Natural History building,
was designed in 1902 when the electric light had just come into general
use—and when it was still the custom for a museum to place the greater
part of its collections shelf-on-shelf in glass cases set in rows on the
exhibition floor. The modest storage and working facilities thought
adequate by the designers were overloaded less than a dozen years
after the building was occupied in 1912. Through succeeding years
normal growth of the collections has caused them to preempt exhibit
halls, corridors, stair wells, office and laboratory rooms already too
few and too small for the staff, and even the upper colonnades of the
great rotunda, the attic, and the coalbin. At the same time several
large halls and a number of offices have been occupied by the National
Collection of Fine Arts—another bureau of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion—and the Smithsonian library.

The “old” National Museum, the second of the three buildings, is
now known as the Arts and Industries building. It was designed in
1876-79 and completed in 1881. Its construction was prompted by
the need to provide an inexpensive exhibit hall for materials pre-
sented to the United States at the close of the Philadelphia Centen-
nial. Its courts, with their narrow balconies, are open to the roof.
It has no basement, and the limited number of rooms scattered through
its towers and reached by narrow stairs must serve as offices, work-
rooms, and storage facilities. One gallery and most of the overhead
4 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

space are occupied by the collections and offices of the National Air
Museum, formerly a department of the National Museum but since
1945 a separate bureau of the Smithsonian.

The third of these structures is the Smithsonian building itself, in
which the National Museum began its life in the 1850’s as the Smith-
sonian Museum. A familiar landmark designed in 1846-49 and com-
pleted in 1855, it was once, after the Capitol itself, the most prominent
building in the downtown area of Washington. It now houses the
National Herbarium and some Museum exhibits, making it the second
oldest museum building in continuous use as a museum in this country.

— Progress being made

An examination of these conditions as they affect the responsibili-
ties of the Museum to science and to the public inescapable point to
what must be done.

The Congress has made possible a long forward step toward solving
the problem by providing funds for renovating and modernizing ex-
hibits that it has not been possible to change for 40 years and more.
From this the public will soon begin to reap the benetit. Replacement
of the outworn and inefficient Arts and Industries building will go
far toward providing appropriate housing for a large part of these
new exhibits. Modernization and expansion of the working parts of
the Natural History building will complete the program by which the
National Museum is in process of rehabilitating its physical plant.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal
year 1954, the sum of $1,092,724 was allotted to the United States
National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the
national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geo-
logical specimens, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, in-
dustry, graphic arts and history (this amount includes sums expended
for the new program of exhibits modernization).
Exhibits

Anthropology

The modernization of Hall 23, “Highlights of Latin American
Archeology,” was completed. This undertaking, begun in 1951, was
directed and planned by Associate Curator Clifford Evans, with
layout and design by Exhibits Specialist John E. Anglim.

This new exhibit hall, a significant improvement over the previous
arrangement, presents man’s cultural development from his earliest
known beginnings in Latin America to the high civilizations of the
Inca, Aztec, and Maya. The hall was officially opened with a special
ceremony in recognition of Pan-American Day, April 14, 1954,
attended by ambassadors and official delegates of the 21 American
Republics of the Organization of American States. It was dedicated
to the better understanding of nations through the dissemina-
tion of knowledge and an appreciation of the cultural heritage of
various countries. ‘This represents the first permanent exhibit hall of
the Natural History Building to be completely revised since the build-
ing was opened to the public in March 1910.

The 30 new exhibit cases are arranged in alcoves corresponding
to the following culture areas: Marginal, Tropical Forest, Circum-
Caribbean, Meso-American, and Andean. They show the advance
of various cultures from the simple hunting, fishing, and gathering
level of existence to the highly advanced societies practicing well-
developed agriculture with complex social and political organizations
and skilled technologies. The number of objects on display is limited.
In each case is clearly developed an idea or theme which fits into the
complete story of the history of past cultures of Latin America.
Labels and explanatory details are kept at a minimum and are non-
technical. A master color scheme throughout each alcove and ex-
plained on maps unifies the related exhibits. Floor models of
sculpture and architectural features are spotlighted.

The thematic approach may be illustrated by the titles of the various
exhibits in the alcove on Andean Culture Area, which include the
following: The Development of Culture on the North Coast of Peru;
Farming—the Foundation of Andean Culture; Inca Architecture;
Peruvian Textiles; Products of Andean Craftsmen; Pottery Art of

5
6 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Ancient Peru; and the Northern and Southern Extremes of Andean
Culture. ;

The modernization of ethnology exhibits in Hall 11 advanced from
the planning stage to actual construction of a series of ethnographical
displays that range geographically from Tierra del Fuego to the
American Southwest and interpret the native Indian cultures from
these areas. Under the supervision of Associate Curator John C.
Ewers construction began in May 1954, after the hall had been com-
pletely cleared of all the old exhibit materials and cases. Simultane-
ously previously planned new exhibit units were prepared and in-
stalled on panels by artists and special preparators under the super-
vision of John E. Anglim. Ten new wall-case exhibits interpreting
the cultures of the Indians of California, the Navaho, and the Apache
have been completed; others are in progress.

A diorama, “The Lucayan Indians Discover Columbus,” to be used
in Hall 11, was completed in the anthropological laboratory under
the direction of A. J. Andrews. Another diorama portraying a cere-
mony in the subterranean Antelope Kiva of the Hopi Indians is in
preparation by the museum laboratory of the National Park Service.
The ten previously exhibited life-size plaster lay figure groups will be
reconditioned and used in this new display. Plans call for the open-
ing of this hall to the public during the first half of 1955.

Plans have been approved for the construction of walls and exhibit
units for a new exhibition in Hall 26. The general theme, as developed
by Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins and John EK. Anglim, will
be life in colonial America. An important acquisition for use in
this hall was a paneled parlor from a tidewater Virginia house dating
about 1760.

The exhibits relating to physical anthropology were temporarily
retired from public exhibition because of the modernization program.
Some of the more important of these displays were added to those on
the office and laboratory floor.

In recognition of the continued public interest at home and abroad
in the American Indian, various art galleries and museums requested
and were provided with loan material for their special exhibitions on
the way of life of the American Indian and his arts and crafts.

Loans were made of paintings of Indian subjects by early nine-
teenth century American artists such as George Catlin, John Mix
Stanley, Charles Bird King, H. Stieffel, and Gustavus Sohon, as well
as the more recent painters, J. H. Sharp and Carl Moon. One signifi-
cant loan of 27 paintings by George Catlin, made to the Department
of State through the National Collection of Fine Arts, was exhibited
EXHIBITS i

in several museums and art galleries in Germany, France, and
England. Other organizations in this country which borrowed vari-
ous paintings were Ohio University, Joslyn Art Museum, Louisiana
State Museum, and the Detroit Institute of Arts.

The current practice of interpreting the material productions of
nonliterate peoples in terms of the fine arts has brought numerous
requests for the loan of selected ethnographical material for purpose
of special exhibition. Thus, the Municipality of Buenos Aires, the
Corcoran Gallery of Art, and the American University requested and
received the loan of a considerable number of face masks, headdresses,
and helmets.

Zoology

Considerable progress was made with the framing of the cases for
the mammal groups to be installed along the east side of the North
American mammal hall. Here are to be located four habitat groups:
Alaskan wolf, Virginia deer, pronghorn antelope, and puma. The
mounted animals for the first-named group are in preparation. For
the other three the taxidermy is complete with accessories in part, as
these sets are at present temporarily on display in another hall. All
that is needed for their permanent installation are some additional
groundwork, accessories, and painted backgrounds. Accessories for
the wolf group are meanwhile being actively worked on.

The first step toward modernization of the bird hall was taken with
the removal of the former exhibition series so that the framework for
the new cases could be put up. Materials and mounted specimens are
at hand for these in part. So far completed are the birds and most of
the accessories for the passenger pigeon group, the Carolina parakeet,
hornbill, bowerbird, hoatzin, and palm chat, and the ostrich and
honey-guide bird groups.

An “Insect of the Month” exhibit was inaugurated in May with a
case illustrating the life history of the clothes moth and its work of
destruction.

Geology

Modernization of the geological exhibit halls has progressed to the
preparation of plans and layouts of the proposed new displays of min-
erals, and of the fossil fish and amphibians. Steps to begin these in-
stallations, however, have been postponed pending a decision to con-
struct a new floor over the dinosaur hall, a project which, if approved,
would interfere with the new installations until the reconstruction is
completed. Tentative plans have been made and layouts prepared

317706—b4—_—_2
8 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

for a hall of Mesozoic reptiles and of Tertiary mammals; plans are
being considered for a hall or exhibit of Pleistocene mammals.

The laboratory preparation of the material of the giant sloth,
Megatherium, from Panama has been completed this year and will
prove a spectacular addition to the exhibition series. It is planned to
use this in the hall to be devoted to Pleistocene mammals.

No changes have been made in the exhibits of mineralogy other than
the replacement of specimens by finer material as it is received.

Engineering and Industries

Plans are complete cr in process for exhibits renovation in terms of
entire halls for the following: Hall of health, hall of textiles, power
hall, atomic energy, and graphic arts. These will be undertaken as
the Museum’s exhibits renovation program reaches the several divi-
sions. In the meantime much is being accomplished in all sections in
the creation of new exhibits and improvement of the old.

During the year, the first phase of the renovation of exhibits in the
photography gallery was completed. Twenty new exhibits tracing
the development of plate and film processes, the still camera, and the
motion picture camera and projector were completed, covering such
subjects as “Dry-Plate Photography,” “Milestones of Photography,”
“Stereo Photography,” “The Magic Lantern,” and “Two Kinds of
Sound.” In graphic arts, the history and technical principles of offset
lithography are explained in six vertical panel displays and three flat-
case exhibits which include scale models of offset printing presses.
The exhibit contains the earliest known example of offset lithography
and, by contrast, an explanation of modern six-color printing.

SPECIAL EXHIBITS—DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS

GrapHic ARTS

1958
American Wood Engrav- Printsfrom the permanent June 30—August 31
ings print collection
Frank Wallace 34 woodcuts September 1—October 4
Leona Pierce 21 woodcuts October 5—November 1
Eugene Higgins 30 etchings November 2—November 29
Rowland Lyon 36 block prints November 30—January 3
1954
Milton Goldstein 27 encaustic color etchings January 4—January 31
Irene Aronson 35 etchings February 1—-February 28
Mordechai Avniel 26 woodcuts March 1—March 28
Margaret Lowengrund 29 prints March 29—April 25
Nancy Twedt 14 prints April 26—May 23

John Muench 25 color lithographs May, 24—J une 20
EXHIBITS 8)

PHOTOGRAPHY
1953
Permanent Print Collec- 50 pictorial photographs July
tion
J oseph Costa 70 pictorial photographs August-September
Alfred Watson 45 pictorial photographs October-November
National Photographie 50 pictorial photographs December
Society and 70 color trans-
parencies
1954
J. Elwood Armstrong 57 pictorial photographs January—February
Hans Marx 56 pictorial photographs March—April

Seventh Annual Exhibi- 50 pictorial photographs May
tion of Marine Pho-
tography

American Society of Pho- 42 pictorial photographs June
tographic Art

In the division of medicine and public health, 20 exhibits were
either newly created or completely renovated. The titles are: “Devils,
Drugs and Doctors,” an exhibit of medical superstition and quackery ;
“The Body Becomes Transparent,” tracing the discovery and evolu-
tion of the use of the x-ray; “Let There Be No Pain,” describing the
development of the use of surgical anesthesia; “Pioneers of American
Medicine,” an exhibit of colored prints and portraits of American
pioneer physicians; “The Art of Phlebotomy,” devoted to the history
of blood-letting ; “Tools of the Surgeon,” an exhibit of surgical instru-
ments from Pompeii to the 19th century; “Spectacles,” tracing the
evolution of eye-wear; “Medicine Chests of the Physician, Traveler,
iixplorer, and Soldier”; “William C. Gorgas, Physician and Sani-
tarian Who Made Possible the Building of the Panama Canal”; “Early
Dentistry,” tracing the development of dentistry and dental instru-
ments; “The Apothecary Jar and the Medicine Bottle,” devoted to
the evolution of drug containers. All of these were prepared in the
division. Exhibits prepared by others include: “The Development
of the Stethoscope” and “The Evolution of the Microscope,” from the
Medical Museum of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology; “The
Story of the Hypodermic Syringe,” from Becton, Dickinson and Com-
pany ; “Do You Know Your Body 2” from the American Medical Asso-
ciation; “Medical Caricatures,” from the Army Medical Library;
“The History of Medicine on Postage Stamps,” from Dr. Maurice J.
Strauss; “The History of Pharmacy in Pictures,” from Parke, Davis
& Company; “Vitamin B-12,” from Merck & Company; “The Manu-
facture of Medicines,” from the Upjohn Company.

In the division of crafts and industries, the spotlighted display of
the Scholfield wool-carding machine and a small brightly illustrated
exhibit on wild silk are two of more than twelve cases revised or newly
10 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

created during the year. The John Deere plow of 1838 was re-ex-
hibited on a large panel with painted illustrations and text describing
the importance and development of the steel plow. One unit picturing
the increase in agricultural efficiency in terms of plow performance was
added to the agricultural series. A colorful display was made of plant
and insect specimens preserved in plastic by the Fessenden technique.
A 27-year-old exhibit showing the soft-wood steam distillation process
was brought up to date by the donor of the original display, the
Hercules Powder Co.

In the division of engineering a new exhibit of the air brake was
received from the Westinghouse Air Brake Company and a marked
improvement was made in the appearance of the old automobiles by
fitting them with new reproductions of old tires, presented by Harvey
S. Firestone, Jr.

History

The modernization of the exhibition of the collection of dresses of
the First Ladies of the White House, given high priority in the
Museum-wide modernization program, has started. Construction is
moving forward on the series of eight period rooms from the White
House in which the dresses will be displayed. Considerable work has
been done preparing the museum specimens for exhibition in the hall.
It has been necessary to refinish all the mannequins which display
the dresses. The dresses have been improved with minor changes in
installation, sewing repairs, cleaning, and pressing. Much of the
furniture and accessories is undergoing cleaning and repairing.

The dresses of the First Ladies were temporarily installed in the wall
case in the North Hall and the period costumes collection and the col-
lection of statuettes, “Living Hall of Washington, 1944,” were moved
to the West Hall. Plans have been prepared for renovation of the
exhibits in the West Hall, utilizing the cases and fixtures already in-
stalled. This plan, devised by Associate Curator Margaret Brown
and Benjamin Lawless, exhibits worker, will be put into effect follow-
ing the painting of the hall and the installation of new lighting
fixtures, now in progress.

During the year the case containing George Washington’s uniform
and other personal effects was redesigned and lighted with fluorescent
strips. ‘The United States Marine Corps is installing an important
collection of materials relating to the history of their organization,
among which is a series of arms noteworthy for its completeness and
rarity, some of the pieces being unique. Half of the old hand-lettered
labels in the Hall of Naval History were replaced by more legible
printed labels that are expected to be insect proof.

The interiors of the uniform cases of the West Gallery were altered
EXHIBITS 11

to receive the exhibition series which is being reorganized. The uni-
forms will be shown on free standing supports.

Much effort was devoted to the preparation of an exhibition, “His-
tory Under the Sea,” devoted to the underwater exploration program
of the division of naval history. This exhibition will receive a
special showing in the foyer of the Natural History Building July 20
to August 20, 1954, and later will form a permanent part of the ex-
hibits of the Department of History.

In the Coin Hall was installed a special exhibit case devoted to the
stamping press, engraving tools, and medals of Edward Stabler, an
early American die-sinker. These were a gift of Mrs. Maurice J.
Stabler, Ashton, Md.

During the year 25 additional display cases in the coin hall were
equipped with shatter proof glass and burglar alarms. Thus, with
the additional protection of 24 hours a day armed guard patrol, the
exhibits are afforded maximum protection.

In the philatelic exhibits four small cases were added to show
selected postal history models and objects.

End frames attached to the large stamp cabinets have been changed
frequently during the year. The Ralph Cole airmail crash covers, on
loan, were shown for several weeks, as was the Charles F. Bridgman
x-ray photography material. On other occasions material from the
division of philately was utilized, such as the Birth of Christ and the
Crucifixion stories on stamps, presented by Philip H. Platzker; the
Arthur F. Black collection of stamp printing types, received during
the year as a gift; the Ernst Lowenstein Bolivia and Brazil airmail
stamp donations, and outstanding large United States blocks from the
national collection.

The division of philately loaned portions of its stamp and postal
history material for display in conjunction with the American Stamp
Dealers’ Association exhibitions in New York and Chicago, and co-
operated with the New York City Tercentenary Committee for its dis-
play in Federal Hall there.
Accessions

During the Fiscal Year 1954

During the year 632,243 specimens (less than half the number re-
ceived last year) were added to the national collections and distributed
among the six departments as follows: Anthropology, 22,816 ; zoology,
307,361; botany, 137,609; geology, 54,399; engineering and industries,
1,947; and history, 108,111. As indicated in the report for 1953, the
unusual increase for that year in the number of specimens received
was attributed to the receipt of a large number of small fossils. This
year’s total represents more normally the number of specimens in-
corporated into the collections in a fiscal year. Most of the accessions
were received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Govern-
ment departments and agencies, and the most important of these are
summarized below. A full list of the donors is to be found on page 60.

Anthropology

An interesting accession of the past year was a charm necklace
worn by the Piegan Indian Stabs-by-Mistake while engaged in horse
stealing from neighboring tribes. Attached to this necklace was a
pouch of pungent prairie clover, which was regarded by the Piegans
as a potent talisman for obtaining horses. <A collection of ethno-
graphical materials transferred from the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy consisted of textiles, weaving paraphernalia, basketry, necklaces,
and musical instruments used by the sub-Andean Indians of southern
Colombia. <A rare ear pendant of green jade worn by a Maori chief
was presented by Lt. Comdr. P. J. Cox, Jr.. USN. Through Dr.
David Johnson was received a number of bamboo mammal traps
made by the Dusan natives of North Borneo.

Over 800 objects from archeological sites in Korea, heretofore not
represented in our collections, were presented by Maj. Howard A.
MacCord, USA. From an archeological site in Phillips County,
Kans., were received 8,751 specimens representing a Woodland hori-
zon ossuary. Charred wooden samples from this site yielded a radio-
carbon date of 1,343 +240 years before the present. This is the
earliest date yet assigned to a pottery-bearing site in the Central
Plains. An important series of diagnostic specimens dated around
2500 B. C., from the Huaca Prieta site along the north coast of Peri,

12
ACCESSIONS 13

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS
JUNE 30, 1954

Department of Anthropology .......... 787, 973
ATCHEOLOBY: Miss) dtieth celia oy hah etken nas 543, 008
Bs Ganolo py: hee ata IAT aah eM cs 187, 453
Ceramics: estik: fb ee eA 9, 896
Musicalinstruments. ... . 2, 446
Period art and textiles... . 7, 930
Physical Anthropology ...... 37, 240
Department of Botany 27). see 2, 625, 384
Phanerogamsy.) 20 1600 A A 1, 714, 463
Grassesiene ae Bishi Ps MOT AS. ss 350, 101
INerns Fate Fi.) Pipes | agit pa hdd Geren is 207, 089
Cryptogams .... Hey 353, 731
Department of Engineering sind mcinainies Sein ope sae 168, 696
Crafts and Industries. ...... 62, 301
FN GINCELINEG eh cst amy coh tie ees 33, 121
GraphicyArtsy.cesud abi prom rall: 50, 208
Medicine and Public Beaten sees 23, 066
iDepartmention Geology.) nit yak ts Ped Pe Medes 5, 261, 898
Mineralogy and Petrology .... 263, 882
Invertebrate Paleontology and
Paleobotany, 28 ee Rh 4, 959, 533
Vertebrate Baleonealaey Sah: Lietan 38, 483
Department Of MIstoryy.! yh. 4s.) A devl ov yeiven Seis ayelbe 774, 980
Civilulhistory oie We she Civ vas 37, 478
Military: Elistorys.0 <i), co uneiene 29, 233
INS VAlGEUIStOrYy sue vue etc. 4, 523
INIUIMISTAEICS At Pe) lethal ofl Stee wre 63, 216
Philately ¥23 dh ele ohees rasy, of way ethos tes 640, 530
Department).oh ZOOLOLY,,.) hay de bed lye, chkeuns 25, 683, 876
Miamumals: 2) re circle Sah Wal le 269, 216
SITES ey eas akive FSR ON ess liiair bbs \ lel esi 480, 909
Reptiles slate curein tie ea eee 142, 291
ISHESM ATEN E aanthQGe to ROUEN AE a EK. 1, 548, 980
IMsectsreesiaiee vie sb ee parr 12, 219, 890
Marine Invertebrates ..... . 1,301,930
INTOHUSESH Fei Poe hive Liipeud ists 9, 489, 487
Velimin ths iiss a yak) sh bes oath tomeh asi te 46, 396
Hichinoderm syne stein nee 184, 777
TotaL MusruM CoLLEcTIONS ....... 35, 302, 807

were received by an exchange with the American Museum of Natural
History in New York.

For the first time in 50 years the Museum received a skull with an
anomaly heretofore not represented in its collection of 18,000 human
skulls—an extra suture dividing one of the parietal bones into two
nearly equal parts. This skull was found on the surface of the
ground near Cleveland, Ohio, and was sent in for identification by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
14 U. §. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Zoology

Outstanding among the Museum’s accessions of mammals from the
Asiatic region are more than 1,500 small mammals collected in Korea
by units of the Army Medical services in connection with hemorrhagic
fever surveys; 625 mammals collected in Thailand by Robert K. Elbel;
about 300 mammals obtained in North Borneo jointly by the U. S.
Army Medical Research Unit and the British Colonial Office Medical
Research Unit with the further cooperation of R. K. Elbel; and several
lots of mammals from Formosa obtained by Dr. Donald J. Pletsch
and medical units of the U. S. Navy. A gift of 186 specimens from
the British Museum added several African and Asiatic species not
previously represented in the collections. Noteworthy accessions from
the continental United States include a fine series of New England
mammals presented by Dr. Harold B. Hitchcock; specimens from
Indiana presented by R. E. Mumford; and a collection of southwest-
ern mammals presented by the School of Tropical and Preventive
Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.

Mrs. Charles E. Ramsden’s gift of 1,773 skins, 75 skeletons, and 59
sets of eggs of birds from eastern Cuba, and the previous material
from that country in the national collections, give the National Mu-
seum the largest and most complete lot of Cuban birds in any museum.
The 1,802 skins, and other ornithological material collected for the
Museum by Associate Curator H. G. Deignan from areas in Thailand
not previously represented in the collections provide the data needed
for the completion of his distributional check-list of the birds of the
Indo-Chinese subregion. Donald W. Lamm made a notable addition
to the earlier donations received from him from Mozambique, a
further gift of 107 bird skins. In continuation of his survey of
Panamanian ornithology, Dr. A. Wetmore contributed, through the
Smithsonian, more than 1,200 bird skins and skeletons and 8 sets of
eggs from areas in which he had not previously collected.

With three transfers of material collected by Dr. Robert E. Kuntz
of Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3, the Museum has come into the
possession of probably the best representation of Egyptian reptiles
and amphibians (1,042 specimens) in any North American institu-
tion. Particularly valuable are 126 Brazilian frogs given by Dr.
C. F. Walker of the University of Michigan. An exchange with the
University of Illinois arranged by Dr. Hobart M. Smith added to the
national collections 56 specimens that included paratypes of 50 species
of reptiles and amphibians.

During the year the ichthyological collections were enhanced with
the accession of a number of types among other valuable specimens of
fish received as gifts, or by exchange, as follows: 4 holotypes and 2
ACCESSIONS 15

paratypes from Dr. Giles W. Mead of Stanford University ; 2 holo-
types and 2 paratypes from William C. Schroeder of the Museum of
Comparative Zoology; holotype and paratypes of a new Scarus from
the Galapagos Islands from Dr. Bruce W. Halstead, School of Tropi-
cal and Preventive Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.; paratype of a
Bermuda parrotfish from the Chicago Natural History Museum
through Loren P. Woods; 3 paratypes of North American catfishes
from Ralph Taylor, University of Michigan; 2 paratypes of Cory-
doras myersi from the University of Brazil, Rio de Janeiro, through
Dr. Paulo de Miranda Ribeiro; 2 paratypes of fresh-water fishes
from Dr. Frank B. Cross, University of Kansas; and the holotype of
a new paralepid from Drs. Oscar Sette and Robert Harry of the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service.

Several large and otherwise important collections also received dur-
ing the year include the entire collection of foreign fishes belonging to
the State University of Iowa, received through Dr. Walter Thietje,
comprising 3,694 specimens collected largely in the course of the sev-
eral university expeditions to various parts of the world by the late
Prof. C. C. Nutting, long a collaborator of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion; 1,155 fishes from the Gaudalupe River, Tex., presented by Robert
Kuehne of the State Fish Hatchery at San Marcos; 207 fishes from the
Gulf of Mexico, collected by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s
Oregon, received through Stewart Springer in charge of the explora-
tory work; and the largest single accession of the year, 3,662 fishes col-
lected in Egyptian waters by Dr. Robert E. Kuntz and members of the
U. S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3.

More than 100,000 mosquitoes collected in Thailand by the donors,
Mrs. Ernestine Thurman and her late husband, Lt. Comdr. Deed
Thurman, formed an extremely important accession, the largest of
many years. Dr. A. E. Emerson of the University of Chicago con-
tributed further valuable termite material consisting of 986 specimens.
From Dr. Annette Braun of Cincinnati, Ohio, was received an un-
usual and very valuable gift of 440 specimens of the work or “mines”
of identified leaf-mining insects mounted in 22 books.

Other notable gifts were 3,758 beautifully prepared specimens of
skippers and Microlepidoptera, received from Dr. Frank Morton Jones
of Wilmington, Del.; 2,257 specimens of Microlepidoptera, from the
late John L. Sperry, Riverside, Calif.; and a valuable series of 1,752
elaterid beetles selected from the J. A. Hyslop collection, from Helen
Sollers, Washington, D. C.

Not less than 310 type specimens of invertebrates, ranging from
protozoans and sponges to branchiobdellid worms and crustaceans, as
well as a species of tunicate, were received from the following donors:
Dr. David Causey, University of Arkansas; Drs. Wesley R. Coe and
16 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Edward Brinton, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Dr. M. W.
de Laubenfels, Oregon State College; Dr. Edward Ferguson, Jr.,
South Carolina State Agricultural and Mechanical College; Dr. Hor-
ton H. Hobbs, Jr., University of Virginia; Dr. Perry C. Holt, East
Tennessee State College; Dr. Arthur G. Humes, Boston University;
Dr. Eugene N. Kozloff, Lewis and Clark College; Dr. N. T. Mattox,
University of Southern California; Dr. George H. Penn, Tulane Uni-
versity; Dr. V. O. Sebastian, University of Madras; Dr. Willis L.
Tressler, U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office; and Mrs. Mildred S. Wil-
son, Arctic Health Research Center. Some of the larger of the recent
invertebrate accessions, which include a number of undescribed speci-
mens, are: approximately 5,700 specimens of miscellaneous inverte-
brates from Ifaluk Atoll, Caroline Islands, received from the Pacific
Science Board, National Research Council, through F. M. Bayer;
1,584 invertebrates, mostly crustaceans, from Arno Atoll, Marshall
Islands, and Yap Island, Caroline Islands, received from Dr. Robert
W. Hiatt, University of Hawaii; and more than 457 crustaceans and
other invertebrates collected by the survey vessel Oregon in the Gulf
of Mexico, received from the Fish and Wildlife Service through
Stewart Springer.

The Museum is indebted to the Pacific Science Board, through
F’. M. Bayer, for approximately 2,000 specimens of marine mollusks
from Ifaluk Atoll, Caroline Islands; to Dr. Robert W. Hiatt for 3,000
specimens from Yap Island, Caroline Islands, and Arno Atoll, Mar-
shall Islands; to Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke for about 500 specimens of
mollusks which he collected from Kusaie, Caroline Islands, and to
Maj. R. Raven-Hart for 210 specimens from Yasawa Islands, Fiji
Islands. Likewise, the Museum’s collection of Cuban shells is now
unsurpassed by that of any other institution, for this year Mrs.
Charles E. Ramsden, of Santiago de Cuba, turned over to the Smith-
sonian Institution her late husband’s collection totaling considerably
more than 23,000 land snails from Oriente Province, Cuba, the largest
collection of Cuban Jand shells to be added in the past 25 years.
Sefiora Blanca de la Torre de Rosales, of Havana, also donated from
the collection of land shells made by her husband, the late Dr. Carlos
de la Torre, a significant part containing nearly 9,000 specimens and 81
cotypes. Other accessions of mollusks worthy of note included 170
specimens, principally marine mollusks, from Portuguese East Africa,
an area hitherto unrepresented in the collection, donated by Frederico
Marques Borges; approximately 6,000 specimens, largely land and
fresh-water mollusks of Texas, a gift from C. D. Orchard; 111 Mexi-
can land mollusks including 69 paratypes of eight new species de-
scribed by H. A. Pilsbry, from the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia; 9 specimens including 3 paratype lots of new species,
ACCESSIONS 17

from 8. S. Berry; and the holotype of the new species and genus of
cephalopod, Pickfordiateuthis pulchella Voss, from Florida, from
Gilbert L. Voss.

As in past years the helminthological section of the division of mol-
lusks received much type material, particularly with the collection of
Acanthocephala and Trematoda gathered by the late Harley J. Van
Cleave and received frem his estate. This is one of the world’s out-
standing collections of these two groups. Other types of helminths
received were the holotype of a new species of trematode, Paurorhyn-
chus hiodontis, from Dr. E. KE. Dickerman; the holotype and allotype
of a new nematode, Camallanus carangis, from Dr. Leland S. Olsen;
and the holotypes of two parasitic worms, Gigantorhynchus ortizt
Sarmiento and Lynwrufonema wilsoni Stough, from the Virginia
Agricultural Experiment Station, through Dr. W. L. Threlkeld.

Botany

More than 30,000 specimens were collected for the Museum by staff
members: 24,161 obtained in Fiji by Dr. A. C. Smith under a grant
from the National Science Foundation; 1,143 from Tlaxcala and
Michoacan, México, by Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, including a number of
new or rare species; 2,/80 from southern Brazil by Dr. Lyman B.
Smith in connection with his studies of bromeliads under the auspices
of the Rockefeller Foundation, the Servigo Nacional de Malaria, and
other Brazilian institutions; 1,400 from the Isle of Pines, Cuba, and
1,090 from Big Pine Key, Fla., by E. P. Killip in his intensive floristic
studies; and 126 from the Ryukyu Islands by E. H. Walker.

An interesting collection of 65,327 miscellaneous plants was re-
ceived as a transfer from the herbarium of the National Arboretum.
Also transferred by the Department of Agriculture were 7,280 plants
collected by Richard Evans Schultes in the tropical forests of
Colombia.

An important collection of 893 plants of Iran, collected by Dr. K. H.
Rechinger, and 187 ferns of Malaya, chiefly from Selangor, were pur-
chased for the herbarium.

Gifts, with names requested, included 1,056 plants of Tonga from
Dr. T. H. Yuncker of DePauw University ; 433 plants of México from
Prof. Eizi Matuda, México, D. F.; and 1,122 Virginia and West Vir-
ginia plants from H. A. Allard. Kay H. Beach presented 471 plants
of southern Asia to the Museum.

Among the numerous collections received in exchange were 2,505
plants from the Universitetets Botaniske Museum, Copenhagen; 870
plants of Haiti from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm ; 688
plants of the Dominican Republic from the Arnold Arboretum; 548
plants of México from the University of Michigan; 391 plants of
18 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Australia from Cornell University; and 350 plants of Russia from
the V. L. Komarov Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences of the
U.S. S. R., Leningrad.

Geology

Accessions for the year in the division of mineralogy and petrology
contain an unusually large number of outstanding exhibition speci-
mens.

Added to the Roebling collection are two unusually rare and fine
groups of large aquamarine crystals upon a matrix of crystallized al-
bite, a fine flawless aquamarine crystal with many brilliant natural
facets, and a large, flawless crystal of pale yellowish-green spodumene,
the variety triphane, all from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. A
pendant of white opal with rich fire, weighing 155 carats, is an out-
standing example of the quality of stone from Coober Pedy, Aus-
tralia, and another, of black opal weighing 44 carats from Light-
ning Ridge, New South Wales, shows much of the red fire so desirable
in this stone. A synthetic emerald crystal, weighing 1,014 carats, made
in the laboratories of Carroll Chatham, San Francisco, is said to have
taken two years to produce and to be the finest synthetic emerald crys-
tal made. Also added to the Roebling gems is a 514-carat cut brown
sphene from a newly discovered occurrence in Baja California.

The Canfield collection was enriched by a suite of well-crystallized
minerals from the lead-zinc mines of Trepca, Yugoslavia, and includes
pyrrhotite, marmatite, arsenopyrite, and jamesonite. One of the finest
groups of brown barite crystals from the well-known occurrence at
Elk Creek, S. Dak., was also acquired. A thorianite crystal, about an
inch cube, is unusual for its size.

In accordance with the Museum’s aim to have examples of all min-
eral species, the following forms, previously unrepresented, were ac-
quired : chinoite and callaghanite (gift of Dr. Carl W. Beck), bazzite
and thoreaulite (gift of Dr. F. H. Pough), burbankite and calkinsite
(gift of Dr. W. T. Pecora), and kobelite (gift of F. A. Rapp) ; basal-
uminite, hydrobasaluminite, cattierite, gunnbjarnite, iron-sericite,
magnesium-sericite, metajarlite, osumilite, and weberite, received in
exchange; reedmergnerite, faustite, and hummerite, transferred from
the U. S. Geological Survey; and moraesite, tavorite, barbosalite, and
ordonezite, described from Museum material.

Many fine specimens were received as gifts. The finest crystal of
the very rare mineral genthelvite was received from J. W. Adams.
A rich mass of pitchblende from the famous Mi Vida mine was donated
by the owner, Charles Steen; and a fine exhibition specimen of preh-
nite from a new Virginia locality was presented by Mr. and Mrs.
John D. Atkins.
ACCESSIONS 19

A 5-carat brilliant-cut yellow sphene from Baja California and a
4514-carat morganite of unusual apricot color from Brazil were added
to the Isaac Lea collection, through the Chamberlain fund.

Dr. Stuart H. Perry continued his interest in the meteorite collec-
tions by a gift of three specimens of the Canyon Diablo, Ariz., iron,
and a specimen of the newly discovered Tambo Quemade, Pert, me-
teorite. A particularly important gift is his collection of 2,000 care-
fully prepared and selected negatives of photomicrographs of mete-
oric iron.

Desirable additions to the ore collections are gifts of selected suites
of typical ores from Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co. (Inspira-
tion, Ariz.), and Phelps Dodge Corp. (Bisbee District, Ariz.).

Of more than usual interest is a representative set of rocks from the
new Japanese voleano Syowa Sinzan, Hokkaido, received as an ex-
change from Prof. Kenzo Yagi of Tohoku University. Other impor-
tant additions to the petrological collections were a series of rocks
illustrating the petrology of the Hakone Mountains, Japan, as de-
scribed by Prof. Hisashi Kuno, Tokyo University, and another of the
Highwood Mountains, Mont., as described by Prof. Esper S. Larsen,
Jr., Harvard University.

Among the important accessions in invertebrate paleontology and
paleobotany were collections made by members of the staff operating
under the support of the Walcott fund. These collections include
Cretaceous mollusks from Texas, by David Nicol; Paleozoic inverte-
brates from the vicinity of Cumberland, Md., by Dr. G. A. Cooper,
Dr. Arthur Boucot, U. S. Geological Survey, and Roger Batten, Co-
lumbia University; Devonian invertebrate fossils obtained by Dr.
Cooper in Michigan, Ontario, and New York, and a large collection
of invertebrate fossils by Dr. Cooper and W. T. Allen in West Texas,
Oklahoma, and Kansas.

Additions to the Springer collection include 369 echinoderms from
the Pennsylvanian Francis shale of Oklahoma and 15 rare echino-
derms from Devonian rocks of Ontario, Canada.

Among important gifts from scientists and other private individ-
uals, particular mention should be made of 150 specimens of Triassic
fossils from Italy, received from Dr. Franco Rasetti; 400 Triassic fos-
sils from Nevada, from Dr. J. Lee Adams; 500 Lower Cretaceous
mollusks from Texas, from Carl R. Chelf; 150 late Miocene mollusks
from Washington, from S. E. Crumb; and 300 Devonian fossils from
New York, from Max J. Kopf.

Transfers from other government agencies include the holotype of
the rare trilobite Colpocoryphe exsul Whittington, and the rare trilo-
bite Hoekaspis from Bolivia, as well as collections of Eocene radio-
laria from Saipan, and of Cretaceous pelecypoda, received from the
20 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

U. S. Geological Survey; and a lot of brachiopods, from the Fish and
Wildlife Service.

An outstanding collection of over 600 specimens of rare Paleocene
and Eocene mammals was secured by Curator C. L. Gazin and Frank-
lin L. Pearce in central and southwestern Wyoming during the past
summer. Included in the collection are materials representing a
variety of Paleocene mammals from a recently discovered locality in
the Bison Basin of south-central Wyoming; special mention may be
made of the skull of a large pantodont mammal new to science. Small
collections were made from a number of other localities in the early
Tertiary rocks of Wyoming. A collection representing a surprising
variety of forms, and including in particular some beautifully pre-
served remains of Meniscotherium, was obtained from the Cathedral
Bluff tongue of fluviatile deposits in the lower part of the important
Green River oil shales.

Of considerable scientific importance also is a collection of undis-
torted fossil fish made by a party under Dr. J. B. Reeside, Jr., of the
U. S. Geological Survey, from the Cretaceous Mowry shale in Park
County, Wyo. This collection was included among the recent trans-
fers from the U. S. Geological Survey. The specimens were encoun-
tered in nodules and, being undistorted, lend themselves particularly
to acetic acid treatment, revealing much of the detailed skull structure
which it has not been possible to secure before.

A highly important gift from the Walcott fund, secured through a
purchase from Dr. J. Magruder Sullivan, formerly of Millsaps Col-
lege, includes the type of the titanothere NVotiotitanops mississip-
piensis, from the Eocene Lisbon formation of Mississippi, and a
described skull and jaws of the archaeocete whale Zygorhiza kochii,
from the Upper Eocene Jackson formation of Mississippi. These
were deposited on loan to the Nationai Museum for study several years
ago and are significant in that the titanothere, in addition to being a
type specimen, furnishes the only direct means of an age correlation
between the marine gulf coast Eocene with the continental Eocene
deposits of the Rocky Mountain region. The zeuglodont whale has
furnished the first conclusive evidence of the replacement sequence
of deciduous teeth by the permanent series in the order of whales.

An important exchange resulted in securing a series of 22 specimens
and casts of ostracoderms, or primitive jawless fish, from the Upper
Silurian of Norway and Spitzbergen, obtained from the Paleonto-
logisk Museum of Norway. This group was not previously repre-
sented in the collections of the U. S. National Museum.

The skull and partial skeleton of a rare enbolomerous amphibian
from the Pennsylvanian rocks of Ohio were recently given to the
National Museum by the Ohio Geological Survey through State Geol-
ACCESSIONS 21

ogist John H. Melvin. The specimen was collected by Russell J.
Lehman and others in Jefferson County. The embolomeres are im-
portant as representing structurally the connecting link between the
amphibians and cotylosaurs or stem reptiles. This is the first skull
of this group of amphibians to be added to the national collections.

A transfer of particular merit from the Smithsonian River Basin
Surveys includes some 57 specimens of Oligocene mammals, mostly
of rodents and other elements of the microfauna, secured by Dr. T. E.
White from the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Montana. These add
significantly to the growing collections made by the River Basin Sur-
veys in its explorations and salvaging of scientific materials in areas
to be flooded through dam construction.

Exploration of the cliffs of the Chesapeake Bay have resulted in the
finding of much material of scientific importance, representing for
the most part cetaceans from the upper Miocene Calvert formation.
Recent searches by Wallace L. Ashby of Springfield, Va., have resulted
in the discovery of a well-preserved skull and mandibles of a long-
beaked porpoise which he kindly presented to the Museum. A Ahab-
dosteus skull discovered by Roger L. Batten, of Columbia University,
was collected by a party in which he was accompanied by Wallace
Ashby, Dr. Remington Kellogg, and Dr. D. H. Dunkle.

Engineering and Industries

In 1793, at Newburyport, Mass., John and Arthur Scholfield, Eng-
lish mechanicians, constructed from memory a wool-carding machine
which was the first of its type in America. This machine was pre-
sented to the national collections by Davis and Furber Machine Co.
From William Young Patch, through Ruth Hawkes, was received the
oldest sampler now in the permanent collections. It was made about
1740. Three large pieces of needlepoint made in the 1850’s were lent
by Crystal Palmer. Scale models of a water-power grist mill, an ox-
power cane mill, and a windmill-driven water lift for a salt works
were presented by Daniel Thompson. These are operative models of
installations formerly in use in Puerto Rico. Important additions to
the wood collections included a group of 279 woods of Fiji collected
by Dr. A. C. Smith of the Department of Botany; 124 woods from
Japan, Thailand, Australia, and the Hong Kong market, presented
by Col. Harold B. Donaldson; 86 native United States woods from
the College of Forestry, State University of New York; 72 woods of
Yucatan, the Marshall Islands, and other regions, transferred from
the Forest Products Laboratory of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture; and 29 woods, mostly of Guatemala, from Orville A.
Oaks.
22 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

J. W. Jones, inventor, presented an early automobile speedometer of
his design. A schematic model of a gas-turbine, electric generating
plant was presented by the Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co. Dr. Walter
Cane presented a well-preserved example of the Mignon typewriter.
Ralph E. Cropley continued to add to the collection of scrapbook data
on watercraft history.

A series of 17 chiaroscuro woodcuts by John Baptist Jackson was
acquired as a purchase through the Dahlgreen fund. This set, pub-
lished in Venice in 1754, represents the first attempt to reproduce
paintings in the block print medium. Jackson was probably the most
important man to work with block prints in color since the early 16th
century.

Thirteen woodcuts by the contemporary Israeli artists Jacob Pins,
Mordechai Avniel, and Jakob Steinhardt were presented to the collec-
tions by local donors. Their subjects are views of Jerusalem and
environs, native types, and subjects from the Old Testament.

“Santa Clara Valley,” by Antonio Frasconi, was purchased through
the Dahlgreen fund. Ten woodcuts by J. J. Lankes, one of the best
known American engravers, were acquired as a gift from Harrison
Elliott.

“Tandscape,” an encaustic color etching by Milton Goldstein, was
purchased through the Dahlgreen fund. Mr. Goldstein makes use of
not colored waxes combined with glazes of transparent printing inks
to achieve extremely rich color effects.

Mrs. Thomas Armat presented a 17.5 mm. motion picture projector
designed by her late husband for amateur use and made about 1916.
‘his machine has an intermittent movement quite different from the
three previously attributed to Armat. The Eastman Kodak Co.,
through Keith Lewis, presented a Ciné Kodak Special IT 16 mm.
motion picture camera, a Signet 35 mm. camera, one Brownie Hawk-
eye Flash Model camera, a Kodalite Flasholder and three supplemen-
tary lenses for the motion picture camera. “Bacterial Luminescence,”
a photograph illustrating the use of photography in scientific investi-
gation, was presented by the maker, Dr. Frank H. Johnson of Prince-
ton University. This print won an honorable mention in the Color
Division of the Second Annual Photography-in-Science Competition
in 1948. Four pictorial photographic prints by Hans Marx were pur-
chased through the Kickemeyer fund.

Sir Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of penicillin, presented a
specimen of the mold Penicillimm notatum; and the Sir William Dunn
School of Pathology at the University of Oxford, through Dr. N. G.
Heatley, donated two of the original porcelain culture vessels from
which was prepared the first crystalline penicillin used in clinical
studies.
ACCESSIONS 23

Lederle Laboratories, through F. L. Murphy, contributed a test
tube of some of the original soil from which aureomycin was isolated
and five petri dishes prepared by Dr. Duggar, the discoverer of aureo-
mycin, showing Streptomyces aureofaciens tested against other micro-
organisms. Among the many other additions were three late nine-
teenth-century American nursing bottles from the Landmarks Society
of Alexandria through the Stabler-Leadbeater Apothecary Shop; a
nineteenth-century Whitall-Tatum “Three Star” nursing bottle from
Mrs. James E. Bowman; an 1880 tin nursing bottle with cork stopper
by John Sanner of Mount Blanchard, Ohio, the gift of Mrs. W. E.
Houck; and a silver nursing nipple of about 1850 presented by Ruth
L. Meehan.

A set of barber-dental-bloodletting instruments was donated by
Mrs. Frank J. Selinger, Jr., in memory of her husband, through Mrs.
Paul J. Selinger. The Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Medical
Museum, through Brig. Gen. Elbert Decoursey, lent nine replicas of
Pompeiian surgical instruments; Mary K. Curtin added a set of sur-
gical instruments used by Dr. George Taylor, of Baltimore, in the
1850's.

The Sanborn Co., through James L. Jenks, Jr., contributed the elec-
trocardiograph used for taking the first electrocardiogram of a white
Beluga whale, and Dr. Paul Dudley White added the harpoon elec-
trode which was used in these studies on the whale.

The F. J. Stokes Machine Co. was responsible for locating a “rapid-
fire” suppository machine at the Jenkins Laboratories and a Eureka
tablet machine at the Columbia University College of Pharmacy. The
Norwich Pharmacal Co. contributed a gelatin pill coater which was
used in 1885 and two early bottles of pills that were coated on this
machine. <A bottle of Garnier-Lamoureux and Co.’s sugar-coated
granules, the first sold in America, was donated by the State of Wis-
consin Historical Society. Sharp & Dohme, S. E. Massengill Co., and
Upjohn Co. contributed early pieces of equipment that were used
by the respective companies for the manufacture of pharmaceuticals
prior to 1900.

History

The civil history collections were enriched by the gift of Walter
Voigt of a one-horse open sleigh of the colonial period, with the
date “1769” carved in the center back panel under a painted pine tree
decoration. Tradition associates the sleigh with General George
Washington, who is said to have used it in the New Jersey campaign
of the Revolution.

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented her pink silk inaugural ball
gown to be placed in the collection of dresses of the First Ladies of

317706—b4 8
24 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

the White House. It is anticipated that the dress will be placed on
exhibition at the time of the opening of the new First Ladies Hall.
She also gave the Museum the ecru lace dress she wore when she mar-
ried Dwight D. Eisenhower on July 1, 1916. This wedding dress was
a gift to the collection of American period costumes and it is a very
good example of the styles being worn just before World War I.

Specimens of furniture and room accessories have been received for
use in the series of period rooms of the White House in which the
dresses of the First Ladies will be displayed. Among generous donors
of materials of this sort were Mr. Awbrey N. Shaw of Brooklyn, N. Y.,
and Mrs. W. Murray Crane of New York City.

From William A. Hambley, Jr., of Washington, D. C., was received
a large collection of German insignia of the period of World War II,
including two complete uniforms, one of an “SS” officer. Received
from H. W. Miller of the University of Michigan was a scale model
of the “Paris Gun,” one of the so-called “Big Berthas” which shelled
Paris during World War I. Mr. Miller is the author of an authorita-
tive work on the gun.

Two manuscript maps of the Civil War were received, one of Fort
Fisher and another of Fort Clay, Lexington, Ky. James Waldo Faw-
cett, local columnist, donated a Russian automatic pistol captured
from a North Korean during the hostilities there.

An engraved powder horn of 1762 was presented by Mrs. Stella
Crooks and Miss Ethel Crooks of Seattle, Wash. Engraved horns of
the period of the French and Indian War are rare and very desirable.

The numismatic accessions include an Indian peace medal of An-
drew Johnson, dated 1865, in silver 214 inches in diameter. One of
the few such pieces extant, it was presented by Miss Lucia K. Williams,
Washington, D. C.

From the Government of the British Empire was received a gift
of three different medals of the Order of the British Empire, seven
campaign stars, the Defense medal, and the War medal, all of World
War II period.

The Post Office Department continued to forward one specimen of
each new stamp distributed by the Universal Postal Union, a total of
2,341 stamps being received as transfers. The Post Office also for-
warded three specimens of each new United States stamp.

A major philatelic addition came through the cooperation of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, T. Coleman Andrews. In
March 57,955 U. S. revenue stamps, die proofs, and plate proofs were
transferred to the national postage stamp collection. This transfer
is of considerable importance and fills a large gap in the collection.

Through the cooperation of the Secret Service, Department of the
Treasury, an important accumulation of U. S. and foreign counter-
ACCESSIONS 25

feits has been deposited with the Division of Philately. This material,
comprising usually matched singles and blocks of four, was gathered
by the late George d’Utassy.

Gifts of major importance were also donated by John R. Boker,
Jr., Ralph A. Schoenfeld, Ernst Lowenstein, Philip Ward, Jr., and
Arthur F. Black.
Care of Collections

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1954

Trans-

Gifts to fad Loaned for

Submitted Erchanged  educa- to other study to in-

for with other tional Govern- vestigators
Received in identifi- Identified _institu- institu- ment and insti-
Department accessions cation On request tions tions agencies tutions

Anthropology.. 22,816 2,649 2,649 59 89 1 719

Zoology....... 307,361 64,086 57,934 20,887 11, 754 508 47, 022

Botany 137,609 15,429 13,738 3,025 1,894 ay lhe, ably

Geology....... 54, 399 6,396 6,265 2,688 1,279 121 2,363
Engineering and

Industries ... 1, 947 723 717 73 35 0 194

JEDKOIAS co b00c 108, 111 16,428 16, 420 2 1 5 = 8, 558

Toran... 632,243 105,711 97,723 26,734 15,052 638 76,268

Anthropology

Except for the Mexican and Panamanian materials, the reorgani-
zation of the Latin American study collections in the division of arche-
ology is now complete. It has been possible to find storage space for
the new accessions made during the fiscal year, but the saturation
point has been reached for certain areas. Owing to the moderniza-
tion of exhibits in Hall 23 and the need to store specimens removed
from this hall, little was accomplished on the long-term program of
reworking and condensing the study collections of the various states
in the North American archeological collections.

Even though accessions in archeology increased 91 percent over last
year, the collections in great measure have been accessioned and most
of the specimens have also been cataloged and marked. There is
need, however, for proper facilities for storage and preservation of
the prehistoric Chilean and Peruvian textiles, and, in fact, the whole
problem of storage is pressing, since it is no longer possible to keep
related materials reasonably close to one another. Scattered storage
increases custodial chores and complicates the task of finding specific
items.

Assistant Curator of Ethnology Robert A. Elder, Jr., has succeeded
in developing considerable data on hitherto inadequately described
specimens, many of which were received 50 to 75 years ago, and is

26
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 27

continuing his program of eliminating from the collections those
specimens of no further scientific or educational value.

In addition to constructing the diorama, “The Lucayan Indians
Discover Columbus,” Chief Preparator A. J. Andrews repaired and
restored numerous artifacts for the various divisions, as well as three
statues for the National Collection of Fine Arts. He also gave
numerous visitors instructions in the making of casts and preserva-
tion of perishable objects.

Loology

The merger of the mammal collection of the Fish and Wildlife
Service with that of the National Museum, initiated last year, is now
about 15 percent complete. The skin and skull collections of the mar-
supials, insectivores, flying lemurs, and bats are completed and a
beginning was made on the primates. Merging the collections of bird
skins of these two agencies, started eleven years ago, was concluded
this year.

A new type of bracket for holding skulls with spreading horns
and antlers has been designed to help solve the difficult problem
of protecting and storing these easily damaged and space-consuming
specimens. Also completed was the enlargement of the facilities for
storing large tanned skins and the installation of the refrigerating
equipment for their protection against various insect pests, but the
skins removed to an adjacent room during the remodeling are yet
to be replaced and the collection reorganized. A new system of label-
ing of trays and drawers in the mammal collection, obviating much
handling of specimens and facilitating reference to them, has been
installed in the merged portions of the collection and will be con-
tinued throughout. As time and opportunity allowed, the reidentify-
ing and relabeling of all specimens in the bird collection was con-
tinued.

For larger fish, and larger lots of fish, the 11 monel metal tanks
_ furnished during the year released shelf space formerly occupied by
22 earthenware crocks, which do not hold up for long-time storage.

In the insect collection, 50 drawers of Lepidoptera from the Smythe
collection and 80 Schmitt boxes of miscellaneous Lepidoptera were
incorporated in the National Museum collection. The neotropical
Lycaenidae were completely rearranged by Associate Curator W. D.
Field, while the staff otherwise fumigated and partly distributed
a very large number of miscellaneous insects, chiefly Coleoptera that
had accumulated over the years in the former curator’s office.

All type specimens of crustaceans and echinoderms and most of
the worm types were checked during the year. For more ready ref-
28 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

erence the collection of hydromedusae were rearranged in alphabeti-
cal order. The curatorial staff of the division of marine invertebrates
continues to maintain the alcoholic echinoderm collections, which have
been without an official curator since December 1950.

For the first time in the history of the division of mollusks, the
cephalopod collection of more than a thousand lots of specimens has
been overhauled, relabeled, reorganized, and brought together in one
place. Concomitantly, all unidentified cephalopod material was sorted
largely to suborders and thus made more readily available to workers
on this group. This praiseworthy task was accomplished last sum-
mer on a volunteer basis by Gilbert L. Voss, a member of the faculty
and research staff of the Marine Laboratory of the University of
Miami, assisted by W. J. Byas, museum aide.

The physical condition of the slide and alcoholic collection of hel-
minths housed and cared for by the Animal Disease and Parasite
Branch, Agricultural Research Service, Beltsville, Md., continues
good, but for want of the necessary assistance the greater part of two
outstanding American parasitological collections still remain uncata-
loged: the Henry B. Ward collection, accessioned in 1946, and the
George La Rue collection, accessioned in 1952.

To the vertebrate divisions of the department the exhibits prepara-
tors again rendered many necessary services: skinning, scraping, and
degreasing as required, and in part making up 10 mammal and 17
bird skins; mounting 2 birds, cleaning 170 skeletons and 1,537 skulls
of mammals and birds, 5 turtle skeletons, and 2 reptile skulls; and
blowing 12 crocodile eggs.

Botany

The completion of the new balcony over the east half of the herbar-
ium has provided much needed space for expansion of the overcrowded
collections. When additional cases are available, the herbarium can
be rearranged, resulting in proper preservation of materials and more
convenient working conditions.

The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the
processing of new material are summarized in the following table:

1952-58 1968-54

Specimens mounted) saiiepeehi era tal ag ile: a Wee 34,616 35, 124
SPeClMeNnsTepAILed as hceile oneal eA Se lcia CN esate 4, 935 2, 410
Specimens stamped and recorded. ........ 36,655 37,338
Specimens incorporated in herbarium ....... 30,831 22, 937
Photographs mounted) ..isyeee miei Mtl Oe bea ie 1, 810 99

The number of types segregated from incoming material and the
general herbarium was 463. The type herbarium now contains 54,393
types, including 38,357 phanerogams, 9,810 grasses, 3,197 ferns, and
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 29

3,029 cryptogams. Many cryptogam types remain in the general
collections.

Thirty-one publications were added to the Hitchcock and Chase
Library, making a total of 7,049. The grass species index contains
78,870 entries, an increase of 442 during the year. Through the gener-
osity of Mrs. Agnes Chase, a duplicate copy of the index is being
prepared.

Geology

With the completion of the giant ground sloth material from
Panama, the vertebrate paleontology laboratory was occupied with
the preparation of the early Tertiary mammal material collected dur-
ing the past field season, which is now completed, and the preparation
of a large Devonian armored fish, which still requires completion. The
new method of chemical etching of Jurassic fish and reptile material
from Cuba, and Middle Cretaceous fishes from Wyoming, has been
continued and is yielding good results.

In the division of paleontology and paleobotany Robert Main,
Museum aide, continued the organization, begun last year, of collec-
tions store in the attic, with the result that about one-quarter of the
several thousand drawers have been recorded. Mr. Main has further
taken over many of the tasks connected with the acid-etch laboratory
to recover silicified fossils from limestone blocks.

Associate Curator David Nicol sorted and prepared material col-
lected by him and by Curator G. A. Cooper from the Cretaceous lime-
stone near Whitney and Burnett, Tex., as well as Pennsylvanian
collections in the recently acquired Renfro collection of Texas fossils.

During most of the fiscal year Associate Curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr.,
was in Kurope. The month of June, after his return, was devoted to
the unpacking and organizing of the extensive collections of foramini-
feral material made during the year.

In connection with his studies Curator G. A. Cooper found it neces-
sary to make many intricate dissections and preparations of productid
brachiopods, thereby greatly enhancing the study value of these col-
lections. The revision of the brachiopod biological collections was
continued, resulting in the gain of some space and better organization
of the collection of punctate brachiopods.

The interest of Dr. Serge Mamay, of the U. S. Geological Survey,
in the organization of the Paleozoic plant collections has led to a
gain in space and storage units for other parts of the collection.

The division of mineraology and petrology began the use of poly-
ethylene plastic bags for such minerals as are unstable in Washington’s
humid climate.
30 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Engineering and Industries

In the section of textiles 918 specimens of textile materials previ-
ously cataloged only in an old unworkable system were brought into
the present series and cross-referenced. The entire reference col-
lection of woods was transferred from makeshift storage in exhibition
fixtures to standard quarter-units, permitting fumigation in place and
the generally more efficient preservation of the collections. During
the year, 850 uniform wood samples were cut and numbered. A large
number of objects of the manufactures and agriculture reference col-
lections were transferred to new equipment and permanent locations
in the storage court. In the section of electricity the cataloging and
organizing of the large collection of old electrical instruments is pro-
ceeding steadily. A major undertaking was completed in the clean-
ing and insect-proofing of the automobile and carriage collections.

In graphic arts about 600 reproductions and prints of slight value
were removed from the collections for condemnation and 150 prints
were matted for preservation. Several hundred woodcuts and wood
engravings were assembled from scattered locations and consolidated
into one reference group. A similar number of new catalog cards
were made. More than 1,000 photographic objects were removed from
storage bases in exhibition fixtures and placed in standard storage
cases in the storage court. Detailed plans for the improved storage
of the photographic print collection in modern reference cabinets were
drawn. Air conditioning equipment for the better preservation of
this collection was purchased.

In medicine and public health, students of the College of Pharmacy
of Howard University are organizing the materia medica collection
for efficient reference. Obsolete exhibition material from the old
health exhibits has been separated for condemnation.

History

The problem of storing all the specimens removed from exhibition
because of the work on the Costumes Hall has overshadowed other
work on the preservation of the collections in the division of civil
history. However, substantial work was done by Museum Aide Frank
Klapthor, who spent much of his time on the preservation of speci-
mens. He has cleaned, identified, and cataloged most of the silver
from both the storage and exhibition collections.

A new ventilating fan in the southwest tower storeroom of the
divisions of military and naval history has lowered the temperature
of the room in which specimens are stored. The patent office study
collection of firearms was installed in a new line-up readily accessible
to the office of military history. Segregation of the specialized col-
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 31

lections of the division was continued. Al heavy ordnance materials,
machine guns, small arms, and miscellaneous military equipment now
have distinctly separated storage areas.

New stockbooks have been set up for part of the philatelic collec-
tions, and stamps have been grouped together from the many known
sources. A definite start has been made in the equally important re-
mounting program—linked with the renovation work in the West
Hall, which necessitated temporarily closing off the stamp cabinets.
The United States section has been removed from the display frames,
checked for damage, and added to the newly set up United States
stockbooks. Specimens have been checked for accuracy of classifica-
tion, and have been rechecked by authorities such as Philip H. Ward,
Jr., Lester G. Brookman, and John A. Fox.

The entire United States section is in the process of being remounted
on Scott National sheets, which are printed and therefore eliminate
the time-consuming typing and adjusting of new pages. It is ex-
pected the sheets will make for greater compactness.

To properly care for the reference collections and specialized gift
collections, additional safe facilities have been secured. One small
safe was exchanged for a larger unit, and three additional safes have
been secured during the past year.
Investigation and Research

Anthropology

In collaboration with Frederick D. McCarthy, curator of anthro-
pology, Australian Museum, Sydney, the head curator, Frank M.
Setzler, completed a manuscript, “The Archeology of Arnhem Land.”
He also submitted for publication “Dermatoglyphics in Australian
Aborigines,” in which he participated with Prof. Harold Cummins,
Department of Anatomy, Tulane University. A third manuscript,
analyzing the hair samples which the head curator collected in Aus-
tralia, entitled “Hair of Australian Aborigines (Arnhem Land),”
was prepared in collaboration with Prof. Mildred Trotter and Oliver
H. Duggins, Department of Anatomy, Washington University, St.
Louis, Mo. These papers complete a portion of the work undertaken
by Mr. Setzler as a member of Australian-American Expedition to
Arnhem Land in 1948.

At the request of the National Park Service, the head curator
prepared an introduction to an archeological report analyzing the
results of explorations of Mound C, Ocmulgee National Monument,
at Macon, Ga., in which he described the archeological work under-
taken by various governmental relief agencies such as the CWA,
WPA and PWA.

Physical Anihropology.—The curator of physical anthropology, Dr.
T. Dale Stewart, spent most of September excavating part of a pre-
historic Indian ossuary discovered on the farm of Mr. Bernward
Juhle on Nanjemoy Creek, near Ironsides, Charles County, Md. Dr.
Newman, associate curator, assisted in this work, and toward the end
of the month, when Dr. Stewart was taken ill, finished removing
the exposed skeletons. Later in the year, when the bones were cleaned,
Dr. Stewart made a further sorting, looking for evidence of burial
customs and signs of pathology. Further research upon this material
must await the compiete excavation of the ossuary.

Karly in the year the Memorial Division, Office of the Quarter-
master General, requested Dr. Stewart’s services to study in Japan
the skeletal remains of soldiers to be removed from North Korea, with
the view of producing better information for the estimation of age
from the skeleton. Dr. Stewart decided it would be profitable to

32
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 33

examine the sternum for a sequence of age modifications. The results
of the search among skeletons in the National Museum were embodied
in a paper read at the annual meeting of the American Association of
Physical Anthropologists in Yellow Springs, Ohio, March 26-28.
Subsequently this paper was expanded and submitted for publication
in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology.

The publication of a report by Robert Hanna, graduate student at
the University of Chicago, who undertook a few years ago to sex some
of the Museum’s Eskimo skeletons by means of a metrical device, the
ischio-pubic index, stimulated Dr. Stewart to compare Hanna’s metri-
cal determinations of sex with determinations by a simple inspectional
method. His critique of these methods is to appear in a forthcoming
issue of the American Journal of Physical Anthropology.

As part of the study of the remains of two putatively ancient
Americans—the Confins man, from Brazil, and a newly discovered
skull from near Midland, Tex., found in association with Folsom
artifacts—Dr. Stewart arranged to have samples of the human bone
and associated animal bones tested for fluorine by Dr. F. J. McClure,
National Institute of Dental Research. In both cases the associated
animals are typical of the Pleistocene fauna, thereby a relative dating
is yielded by the comparative amounts of fluorine in the bones. At
the close of the year Dr. Stewart was in the process of interpreting the
data. In general it can be said that the chemical and geological
datings are in agreement.

Associate Curator M. T. Newman completed a manuscript de-
scribing and analyzing a small lot of Indian skulls from newly dis-
covered Archaic levels in Georgia. This work, which will be pub-
lished in the Anthropological Papers of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, is of importance primarily because it extends the range
of an early Indian variety. Dr. Newman furthered but did not com-
plete his research on the skeletal material recovered by the 1948
Arnhem Land expedition to Australia. He prepared a critical report
entitled “The Physical Similarities of American Indians and Poly-
nesians,” in which he appraises the morphological and blood group
evidence which Heyerdahl used in his “American Indians in the Pa-
cific.” The associate curator furthered the research leads developed
in his recent paper on ecology as it relates to the American Indian.
This work was summarized in a lecture, “The Application of Ecologi-
cal Principles to Human Evolution and to the Origin of Modern
Races,” given before the Paleontological Society of Washington.

Archeology.—Curator Waldo R. Wedel submitted for publication
his manuscript, “Observations on Some 19th Century Pottery Vessels
from the Upper Missouri.” ‘This study deals with ceramics of the
post-1800 period in North Dakota, a period from which almost noth-
34 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

ing has heretofore been recorded, since it lies between the better-known
archeological complexes pre-dating the year 1800 and the ethnological
records of reservation days following the Indian wars. Despite the
common view that there was no pottery worthy of the name at this
late date, some 25 specimens were traced down, in the national collec-
tions and in other institutions, that document the decline and final
disappearance of the native potter’s art on the Upper Missouri. Dr.
Wedel also added ethno-historic and other data to his manuscript on
Kansas archeology, based on field work done in 1937-40; and has
under way an intensive analysis of archeological materials from the
Horner site, a 7,000-year-old camp site near Cody, Wyo., at which a
joint Smithsonian Institution-Princeton University expedition exca-
vated in 1952.

Associate Curator Clifford Evans and his coworker, Dr. Betty J.
Meggers, submitted for publication a monograph, “Archeological In-
vestigations at the Mouth of the Amazon.” This large research re-
port deals with the development of culture in the Lower Amazon,
based upon field excavations undertaken in 1948-49, and is the first
seientific study of this sort on the Amazon.

Analysis of the archeological and ethnological collections obtained
by Dr. Evans and Dr. Meggers in British Guiana in 1952-53 is in its
preliminary stages. Examination of comparative materials from
British Guiana collected in the early 1900’s was completed at the
Peabody Museum, Harvard University, and the American Museum of
Natural History, and partially completed at the University Museum,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Museum Aide George Metcalf completed a study of small sites in
the Garrison Reservoir area in North Dakota, based on surveys and
excavations made while he was with the Missouri River Basin Survey.
This paper contributes detailed information on certain archeological
features of an area about which practically nothing has been written
by competent observers. Since the area involved is being flooded
by the reservoir in the summer of 1954, it is likely that this paper is
all that will appear in reference to the numerous Indian campsites,
tipi rings, cairns, and other features with which the area abounds.

Neil M. Judd, research associate, whose paper, “Material Culture
of Pueblo Bonito,” is scheduled for publication in the Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, made progress on his report of Pueblo del
Arroyo. Completion of this will be materially expedited by a grant
from the American Philosophical Society to cover certain technical
aspects of the task. In recognition of his professional achievements
in archeology, Mr. Judd was given the Franklin L. Burr award for
1954 by the National Geographic Society.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 35

Ethnology.—Curator H. W. Krieger continued his long-range study
of material culture from the Antillean and Indonesian areas.

Associate Curator John C. Ewers returned on July 11 from a 6-
weeks’ field investigation of the arts and crafts of the Assiniboin In-
dians of Fort Peck and Fort Belknap Reservations, Mont., where he
obtained from elderly Indian informants and from practicing crafts-
men and women information on the modification and disappearance
ef traditional Assiniboin crafts during the Reservation period.

During the year Mr. Ewers completed an illustrated manuscript,
“Hair Pipes in Plains Indian Adornment: A Study in Indian and
White Ingenuity,” the first of a series of projected studies of change
and stability in Plains Indian costume. He also wrote two shorter
papers, “The Indian Trade of the Upper Missouri before Lewis and
Clark: An Interpretation,” and “The Bear Cult of the Assiniboin and
Their Neighbors of the Northern Plains.” He cooperated with Karl
Viktor Prinz zu Wied and Dr. Joseph Roeder in preparing the pub-
lished catalog for the traveling exhibition of original drawings and
water colors by Carl Bodmer executed in the years 1833-34, when the
artist accompanied Prince Karl Viktor’s great granduncle, Maximilian
Prinz zu Wied, to the Indian country of the Upper Missouri.

In cooperation with Dr. Claude Schaeffer, Curator, Museum of the
Plains Indian, Browning, Mont., Mr. Ewers began the editing of the
Robert N. Wilson manuscript on the Blood Indians of Alberta, Can-
ada. This early manuscript, owned by the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police, comprises the field notes and observations of Mr. Wilson,
Blackfoot-speaking Indian trader among the Blood Indians in the
early 1890’s, and contains a wealth of new material on the history and
ethnology of that tribe. The publication will be enhanced by repro-
ductions of Wilson’s own photographs taken in the Blood Indian
camps. During the last half of the year Mr. Ewers served as senior
editor of the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences.

Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins advanced his study of ce-
ramics of the Virginia colony. Another week of field work was spent
at the National Park Service laboratory in Jamestown, where he con-
tinued to examine and record pottery types found among the several
thousand sherds stored there and to gather statistical information
according to sites.

Research by visiting investigators.—During the year 3,642 visitors
conferred with members of the staff on anthropological problems;
3,399 letters were written, and 8,429 telephonic inquiries were an-
swered. The study collections were used for research purposes by
scholars from Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, India, and
West Germany.
36 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Zoology

Mammals.—In continuation of his studies of the mammals of east-
ern Asia and the Australo-Pacific region, Dr. David H. Johnson, act-
ing curator, devoted particular attention to the faunas of Korea, Siam,
and North Borneo. He also issued a preliminary paper, dealing with
a new marsupial, which will form a part of his general report of the
mammals of Arnhem Land, northern Australia.

Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator, spent 6 weeks studying
types and other significant specimens at the British Museum in fur-
therance of his studies of the mammals of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan
for the U. S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3. Three preliminary
papers based on specimens collected in that area were published, and
the final report nearly completed. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate
curator, practically completed his revision of the big-eared bats (Cory-
norhinus and related genera) ; made preliminary studies of the mam-
mals of South-West Africa; and reviewed taxonomic and
distributional problems involving the Neotropical genera Caluromys,
Didelphis, Philander, and Cyclopes.

Birds.—The curator, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, revised his joint pa-
per with Foster D. Smith on the birds of northeastern Venezuela,
and contributed a revision of the classification of the honey-guides
to a volume being printed by the Musée du Congo Belge in honor of
Dr. Schouteden. Considerable work was also accomplished on the
second volume of the “Birds of Mexico,” and on the fifth edition of
the A. O. U. “Check List of North American Birds.” <A popular ac-
count of the honey-guides and a paper on the reduction of the clavicles
in the Madagascar bird family Mesoentatidae (with F. R. Glenny)
were published during the year. Under private research funds, re-
ceived from the Guggenheim Foundation, Dr. Friedmann initiated
a study of the role played by beeswax in the metabolism of the
honey-guides.

Since his return from Siam early in the fiscal year, Associate Cura-
tor H. G. Deignan has been engaged in studying the materials he col-
lected in that country. He also completed a critical review of the
type specimens of birds in the Museum and completed studies of sev-
eral of the genera of cuckoo-shrikes for Peters’ “Check List of Birds
of the World.”

Samuel A. Arny, museum aide, continued his studies of the fly-
catchers of the genus I/yzarchus until his resignation early in the fiscal
year. Hissuccessor, Gorman M. Bond, undertook a study of variations
of the Maryland yellowthroat, Geothlypis trichas, in Central America.

Dr. A. Wetmore, research associate, worked on the fifth edition of
the “Check List of North American Birds,” gave some time to
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 37

the extensive Panamanian and Colombian collections amassed during
the past 15 years, and published four short papers.

Reptiles.—Associate Curator Doris M. Cochran continued her re-
search on the frogs of southwestern Brazil and her work on a supple-
ment to “The Herpetology of Hispaniola.” Considerable progress
was made on her catalog of types of reptiles and amphibians in the
national collections. During the year she completed and submitted
for publication a paper describing a new species of frog from Kartabo,
British Guiana.

Fishes.—Drs. Leonard P. Schultz and Ernest A. Lachner continued
with the preparation of volume 2 of “The Fishes of the Marshall and
Marianas Islands.” ‘This extensive work, undertaken in conjunction
with the atom-bomb experiments, has occupied nearly all of the re-
search time of the curator since January 1946 and of the associate cura-
tor since February 1949. Volume 1 appeared in December 1958. The
second volume is 85 percent completed and involves 25 families, 103
genera, and 257 species. In addition, Dr. Schultz published three re-
search papers, and two semipopular ones on aquarium fishes, besides
completing a manuscript revising the parrotfishes (family Scaridae)
of the world, and, jointly with H. A. Axelrod, a “Handbook of Tropi-
cal Aquarium Fishes.” Dr. Lachner also published two research
papers and has in varying stages of completion three others, including
a revision of the shark-sucker fishes (family Echeneidae), “Popula-
tions of the Berycoid Family Polymixidae”, and “Inquilinism and a
New Record for Paramia bipunctata, a Cardinal Fish from the Red
Sea.”

Robert H. Kanazawa, biological aide, all but completed his revision
of the conger eels before the close of the year.

In mid-November Dr. Schultz addressed the Eighth Pacific Science
Congress in Manila on a new approach to the distribution of fishes in
the Indo-West Pacific area. Later that month he repeated in part the
same address at the Indian Museum, Calcutta, in connection with a
discussion of coral reef fishes of the tropical Indo-Pacific. Earlier
he had delivered a lecture, “Exploring the Oceans,” at the Deverau
Schools, Downing, Pa. Returning from Manila by way of Europe,
Dr. Schultz spent several days at the Muséum National d’Histoire
Naturelle, Paris, and the British Museum (Natural History), London,
to examine types of Pacific parrotfishes. Dr, Lachner, in February,
addressed the biology section of the Oceanographic Branch of the
U. S. Hydrographic Office.

Insects.—Acting Curator O. L. Cartwright devoted his research
time to a revision of the genus Onthophagus in the United States, and
of the genus Ataenius for the Western Hemisphere.

Dr. Richard A. Blackwelder, associate curator, completed work on
38 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

part 6 of Bulletin 185, “Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of Mex-
ico, Central America, the West Indies, and South America.”

Associate Curator William D. Field completed a redefinition of the
genera “TZ’atochila,” “Phulia,’ “Piercolias,” and “Baltia,” with the
description of some new and closely related genera and subgenera.
Mr. Field also completed a revision of the genera Theochila and Tato-
chila, and embarked upon a revision of the genera Constachila, Phulis,
Piercolias, and Baltia.

Miss Grace Glance, associate curator, continued study of the Collem-
bola and practically completed work on a very unusual isotomid.

Miss Sophy Parfin completed her revision of Western Hemisphere
spongilla-fiies (Neuroptera, Sisyridae) except for the addition of a
newly acquired species from South America.

Marine Invertebrates.—Curator F. A. Chace, Jr., completed the
final draft of the chapter on the Crustacea Malacostraca for the re-
vised edition of “Fresh-Water Biology” by Ward and Whipple, as
well as manuscripts on some shrimps from the Marshall Islands, col-
lected by expeditions sponsored by the U. S. Department of the Navy
in 1946 and 1947, and a revised key to the subterranean shrimps of the
Americas with descriptions of two new shrimps from subterranean
waters of Florida and Mona Island, Puerto Rico. His study of the
porcellanid crabs of West Africa is being continued. Associate Cura-
tor Il’. M. Bayer completed during the year three papers, one on the
evolution and zoogeography of the octocorallian family Gorgoniidae;
another on the alcyonarians and black corals of Rumphius’ “Herbar-
ium Ambionense,” for a Rumphius memorial volume soon to be pub-
lished in 'The Netherlands; and the third on the comparative anatomy
of some gorgonaceans. He also nearly finished the section on the
Octocorallia for the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.”

On September 1, 1953, Mr. Bayer departed from Washington to
participate in a general ecological survey of Ifaluk Atoll in the Caro-
line Islands sponsored by the Pacific Science Board of the National
Research Council. In addition to making extensive collections of
marine invertebrates, which are indispensable to a thorough analysis
of biological zonation patterns and the determination of zoogeograph-
ical relationships, Mr. Bayer compiled considerable information on
biological associations at all levels from commensalism to parasitism.
The role played by alcyonarian corals in reef formation was also
investigated in order to compare it with corresponding conditions
elsewhere. Of possibly more immediate practical importance was a
survey of the utilization of invertebrate resources by the native popu-
lation. The field aspects of the survey were completed on November
13, 1953, after a period of approximately 2 months spent on the
atoll. Following the survey, Mr. Bayer spent about 7 weeks in Japan
39

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH

visiting museums, universities, and marine laboratories to study octo-
corallian material in those institutions and to survey the status of
Japanese research in this field. During this visit, Mr. Bayer was
granted an interview with the Emperor and arranged to work up some
of the collections in the Biological Laboratory of the Imperial House-
hold.

C. R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, virtually completed three
studies: Notes on amphipods from the North Pacific and Arctic
Oceans; the amphipods of Chesapeake Bay; and an extensive report
on the amphipods of Point Barrow, Alaska.

Mrs. M. 8. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea, nearly
finished her manuscript on the calanoid copepods for the revised edi-
tion of “Fresh-Water Biology” and started an intensive study of the
fresh-water harpacticoid copepods of western North America. With
Dr. P. L. lg, she completed a manuscript on the family Clausiidae,
an inadequately known and misinterpreted group of cyclopoid cope-
pod parasites of annelids. Mrs. Wilson also found time to deliver two
lectures, one on problems encountered in a zoogeographic study of
fresh-water copepods, before the Fourth Alaskan Science Conference,
October 1953, and the other on the taxonomy and distribution of
fresh-water copepods, before the University of Washington School of
Fisheries, February 1954.

Austin H. Clark, associate in zoology, continued his studies, under-
taken at the request of the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie,
Leyden, on the Ophiuroidea collected by the Snellius Expedition. His
review of the echinoderm fauna of the Pacific Islands has also pro-
gressed.

During the year 32 specialists in other institutions undertook to
identify material of the various groups of invertebrates for which
the Museum is financially unable to support specialists. Of the 61
shipments, involving more than 1,840 specimens, sent to these unofficial
collaborators during the year, 28, covering more than 574 specimens,
have already been returned. The specialists rendering this gratuitous
service and the groups upon which they work are:

Dr. Albert H. Banner: Snapping; Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann: Holothuri-
shrimps. ans.
Dr. A. Weir Bell: Oligochaete worms.}| Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: Branchiopod
Mrs. Norman G. Benson: Fresh-water crustaceans.
sponges. Dr. Walter K. Fisher: Sipunculid

Dr. Thomas E. Bowman: Amphipod
crustaceans.

Dr. T. H. Bullock: Enteropneust worms.

Mrs. G. C. Carl: Cumacean crustaceans.

Dr. David Causey: Oligochaete worms.

Dr. Wesley R. Coe: Nemertean worms.

Mr. I. E. Cornwall: Barnacles.

317706—54——_4

worms and hydrocorals.
Dr. G. E. Gates: Earthworms.
Dr. Clarence J. Goodnight: Oligochaete
worms.
Dr. Olga Hartman: Polychaete worms.
Dr. Williard D. Hartman: Sponges.
Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles.
40

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: Crayfishes.

Dr. L. B. Holthuis: Decapod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.

Dr. Paul L. Illg: Copepod crustaceans.

Dr. J. G. Mackin: Isopod crustaceans.

Dr. N. T. Mattox: Branchiopod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. Robert J. Menzies: Isopod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Dr. Milton A. Miller: Isopod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. Raymond C. Osburn: Bryozoans.

Dr. Marian H. Pettibone: Polychaete
Worms.

Dr. Mary D. Rogick: Bryozoans.

Dr. Mary Sears: Siphonophores.

Dr. Willis L. Tressler: Ostracod crus-
taceans.

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson: Copepod crus-
taceans.

Mollusks.—Dr. Warald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, made fur-
ther progress with his revision of the superfamily Pyramidellacea for
the “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology” and a study of the rare
deepwater genus Turcicula.

Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate curator, continued his studies
cn the families Hydrobiidae, Ellobiidae, Cyclophoridae, and Am-
phicyclotidae of America, and on the Conidae of Bikini.

R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator, continued his studies on certain
pelagic snails of the Gulf of Mexico, and on the Synceridae of the
western Pacific. His “American Seashells” was published during the
year in the Van Nostrand New Illustrated Naturalist series.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, associate in mollusks, completed his report on
the Pyramidellidae of the Pliocene of North St. Petersburg, Fla., and
submitted the manuscript for publication.

Research by visiting investigators.—In addition to investigations
from government agencies located in the Washington area, more than
273 professional biologists and students with an interest in systematic
biology paid one or more visits to the offices and laboratories of the
department, some staying for a considerable time. Among the for-
eign visitors were the following:

Salim Ali, Bombay, India: Indian birds.

Miss Helen Rost, Tromsg Museum, Troms¢, Norway: Marine fishes (family
Gempylidae).

Miss Mary Samuel, Central Fisheries Research Station, India: Elasmobranch
fishes.

Dr. R. G. Fennah, Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture of Trinidad: Fulgo-
roidea.

Miss Ailsa M. Clark, British Museum (Natural History), London, England:
Asteroidea.

Dr. T. Soot-Ryen, Troms¢ Museum, Troms¢, Norway: Marine mollusks of Chile,
and various pelecypod groups.

Dr. Jay G. Marks, Creole Petroleum Corporation, Caracas, Venezuela: Marine

, mollusks of Venezuela.

Donald F. McMichael, Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales; Fresh-
_water mussels (Mutelidae) of Australia,
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Al

Botany

Phanerogams.—Dr. A. C. Smith, curator, pursued field studies in
Fiji, with the aid of a grant from the National Science Foundation.
Arriving in Suva on March 29, 1953, Dr. Smith carried out his plans
by visiting various parts of the islands of Viti Levu, Ovalau, Ngau,
and Taveuni. Historic type localities were visited, but most areas
explored had not been previously botanized. The total number of
herbarium specimens obtained was 24,158, representing 2,700 different
numbers. In addition, many photographs were taken, samples for
morphological and genetic study were prepared in liquid, 279 support-
ing wood samples were taken, and zoological material representing
mammals, insects, fresh-water snails, and prawns was collected. The
major geographical objectives were reached, and it is expected that
the botanical material, which is now in the Museum, when added to
that of Dr. Smith’s two earlier Fijian trips will permit him to proceed
with the preparation of a definitive Flora. He left Suva on January
7, 1954, and returned to Washington on January 30, stopping en route
at various institutions.

Dr. Lyman B. Smith, associate curator, continued work on separate
accounts of the Bromeliaceae of Colombia and Bolivia. He completed
his study of the 570 species representing this family in Brazil, under-
taken in collaboration with the Rockefeller Foundation and the
Servico Nacional de Malaria. He also collaborated with Dr. Bernice
G. Schubert in the location, collection, and identification of plant
material for analysis by the National Heart Institute.

Associate Curator E. H. Walker submitted for publication several
papers dealing with the vegetation, botanical literature, and the Myr-
sinaceae of the Ryukyu Islands. He is continuing his studies of
Ryukyu plants as new material is received. Progress was made in his
studies of the Myrsinaceae of the Philippine Islands, and in his re-
vision of the genus Corylopsis. He attended the Eighth Pacific
Science Congress in Manila, making collections of herbarium ma-
terial on Luzon Island in the Philippines, and in Hawaii, Johnston
Island, Guam, and Okinawa en route. Collections made on Okinawa
will supplement those obtained by him in 1951.

Associate Curator E. C. Leonard is concluding his work on Part
III of the Colombian Acanthaceae. Study of 126 species of this part
has been completed and comparatively few remain. In addition, he
has made progress on his study of the Acanthaceae of Argentina by
work on the genus Ruellia, has worked on Cyperus for his proposed
Hispaniola Flora, and has collaborated with Dr. H. A. Allard in a
continuing study of the plants of the Potomac-Virginia Triassic
region.
42 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Dr. Velva E. Rudd, assistant curator, completed and submitted for
publication a review of the leguminous genus Centrolobiwm, and
progressed with her revision of the subtribe Aeschynomeninae, of the
same family. An invitation paper on the contribution of Lewis and
Clark to botany is being prepared at the request of the Washington
Academy of Sciences. In June 1953 she made a small but general
collection of plants in the northwestern portion of New York State,
while participating in the field meetings of the Northeastern Section
of the Botanical Society of America.

Mr. E. P. Killip, research associate, continued his collecting in
Florida and Cuba on behalf of the Museum, devoting particular at-
tention to phanerogams.

Grasses.—Curator Jason R. Swallen continued his research on the
grasses of southern Brazil. The work accomplished consisted pri-
marily of the identification of his collections made several years ago.

Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator, published two papers, one
on the monotypic genus Chaboissaea of México and the other on the
floral morphology of four species of Setaria. He spent four weeks
in the States of Tlaxcala and Michoacan, México, studying and col-
lecting grasses in connection with his long-term project on the grasses
of México. Nearly 1,200 specimens were collected, including many ex-
tending the known ranges, several rare species, and some new to
science.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, began the important task of
editing and verifying the entries in the grass species index prior to
having a duplicate index prepared. This index, started over 60 years
ago and containing approximately 80,000 entries, is the only one of
its kind in the world. In addition, she continued her bibliographic
work on the grass genera of the world, as well as her studies on the
genus Paspalum of Brazil.

Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, spent several weeks in Latin
America in connection with his experimental work on the cultivation
of bamboos. He attended the Eighth Pacific Science Congress in Ma-
nila, and assisted in starting a bamboo garden there. He also visited
Hong Kong, Indochina, and Pakistan. In the latter countries he
acted as consultant in connection with bamboos used in the manufac-
ture of paper.

Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton continued his work on the ferns of
Central America, and on other manuscripts, in preparation for a trip
to Europe. He spent the last three months of the year in Europe, as
a fellow of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, study-
ing fern specimens and photographing fern types in various herbaria.
This work will materially advance the preparation of the contem-
plated fern floras of Honduras and Guatemala and render them more
accurate and definitive.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 43

As a member of the International Committee for the Nomenclature
of Phanerogamae and Pteridophyta, he spent some time in work on
conserved names. A number of short papers were written for publi-
cation in the American Fern Journal, and a general acvount of ferns
and fern-allies was written for the Encyclopedia Americana. He
also completed a treatment of the family Gesnerlaceae of Trinidad
and Tobago for publication in a flora of this area.

In August and September, Mr. Morton participated in the summer
field trips of the American Fern Society in New York, Quebec, and
Michigan, and attended the annual meetings of the American Institute
of Biological Sciences at Madison, Wis.

Cry ptogams.—Paul Conger, associate curator, completed his studies
on a new genus and species of plankton diatom from the Florida
Straits. The manuscript is in the course of publication in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections. He continued his research on the
diatom flora and ecology of Chincoteague Bay, Md., and began work
on a revision of the genus Grammatophora. He presented three papers
at the meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences:
“Unique Features of the Diatom Ecology of Chincoteague Bay, Mary-
land,” before the American Society of Limnology and Oceanography ;
and “Diatoms as Tracer Material in Criminological Technique: An
Instance of Applied Phycology,” and “Representative Types of Dia-
tom Teratology, and their Interpretation,” before the Phycological
Society of America. Two manuscripts on diatoms were critically
reviewed, and the article on diatoms in the Encyclopedia Americana
was completely revised and rewritten on request of the editor.

Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. Alicia Lourteig, of the
Fundacién Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina, after spending several
months studying the phanerogam collections, completed her work and
left at the end of July 1953. Dr. Kittie F. Parker, formerly of the
Dniversity of Arizona and now resident in the Washington area, is
actively engaged in research based on the Museum’s collections of
Compositae. Mr. George Black, of the Instituto Agronémico do
Norte, Belém, Brazil, continued his research work on the revision of
the genus Avonopus. He left for Brazil in May, expecting to return
in the fall of 1955 to complete his studies. Ali al-Rawi, Ministry of
Agriculture, Iraq, and Rama Rao Panjee, Sugarcane Breeding Insti-
tute, Coimbatore, India, Point-IV trainees, spent short periods at the
herbarium as part of their training program in grass taxonomy.
About 600 persons visited the department, including a number from
foreign countries. The collections continue to be consulted by staff
members of other Government agencies, including the Department of
Agriculture, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Geological Sur-
vey. Sixteen informal loans totaling 642 specimens were made to the
Department of Agriculture and the National Geographic Society.
44 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Geology

Mineralogy and peirology.—A study of the mineralogical nature of
Meso-American archeological jades by the curator, W. F. Foshag,
undertaken in cooperation with the Instituto de Antropologia e His-
toria of Guatemala was completed and the report prepared for publi-
cation. It was found that three types of jade minerals were used ex-
tensively by the indigenous cultures of Guatemala—jadeite, diopside-
jadeite, and chloromelanite, and that the use of jade reaches back into
the earliest known cultures of the region. The first discovery of a
natural occurrence of jadeite in Guatemala led to further investiga-
tions of this interesting subject. The occurrence of jadeite in Meso-
America is of great interest to the archeologist.

With the completion of the history and development of Paricutin
Volcano, attention is now being given to the petrology and chemistry
of its lavas. Results of the chemical studies show a remarkable change
in the composition of the lavas.

Dr. Foshag received the Roebling Medal of the Mineralogical So-
ciety of America. He continued, during the year, as president of the
Section of Volcanology of the American Geophysical Union.

Associate Curator E. P. Henderson, in collaboration with Associate
in Mineralogy S. H. Perry, completed a study of the relationship of the
density of meteoric irons to chemical composition; the study showed
that it is possible to calculate density from chemical composition, and
by this means evaluate the reliability of old analyses. During the year
Mr. Henderson acted as councilor of the Meteoritical Society and as a
member of the advisory committee for the Bibliography on Meteor-
ites, a monumental work published by the University of Chicago.

Associate Curator George Switzer prepared his annual review of
the diamond industry and the gem stone chapter of the Minerals
Yearbook of the U. S. Bureau of Mines. These annual reviews are
considered authoritative summaries that prove useful to various gov-
ernment agencies and the trade. He also completed studies on ordofie-
zite, a new zinc antimonate from México; on mosesite, a new type of
mineral compound, also from México; and on two rare and imper-
fectly known beryllium minerals, bavenite and bityite. In connec-
tion with a report or uranium minerals, in preparation for the U. S.
Geological Survey, he undertook a short field trip to Colorado and
Utah to observe certain features of the Colorado Plateau uranium
province. During the year he continued as consultant mineralogist
for the U. S. Bureau of Mines.

Dr. John P. Marble, associate in mineralogy, continued his investi-
gations on the absolute measurement of geologic time. As chairman
of the Committee on the Measurement of Geologic Time, of the Na-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 45

tional Research Council, he prepared the annual report of the com-
mittee. This valuable annual summary on the advances in geochronol-
ogy also contains a comprehensive annotated bibliography.

Dr. Marble acted as general secretary, as well as chairman of the
editorial and publication committee, of the American Geophysical
Union.

Vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. L. Gazin has been engaged
in the study of the upper Eocene artiodactyls, or even-toed ungulates,
of North America. During upper Hocene time several of the more
modern families of artiodactyls became differentiated from earlier,
more primitive stock. This investigation will include a review and
revision involving all known forms. Much of this study will be based
on the excellent collections secured by the curator in 1938.

Collections from a newly discovered locality for middle and early
upper Paleocene mammals in the Bison Basin in south-central Wyo-
ming are also under study. A number of new species are included in
the collection.

Dr. Gazin, assisted by Mr. Franklin L. Pearce, carried on field work
in various known Paleocene and Eocene localities in central and south-
western Wyoming. Particular success was achieved in the Paleocene
beds in the Bison Basin, in the late Wasatchian and lower Eocene of
the Washakie Basin, and in the Green River Basin. The discovery of
Paleocene mammals in the Fossil Basin, near Fossil Station, Wyo.,
jends impetus to further collecting in this area during the coming
field season.

Prior to the close of the fiscal year, the curator, again accompanied
by Mr. Pearce, left for a short field season of collecting in Paleocene
and lower Eocene occurrences in Wyoming.

At the close of the past field season, the curator attended a field con-
ference of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology, held in the Uinta
Basin of northeastern Utah, after which he conducted an excursion
to the Dragon Paleocene exposures in the Wasatch Plateau of central
Utah.

In connection with his studies on upper Eocene artiodactyls, Dr.
Gazin visited the collections at Princeton, Yale, and Harvard Uni-
versities, and the American Museum of Natural History. He acted
as chairman of the Eocene subcommittee of the committee preparing
a new “Nomenclature and Correlation of the North American Ter-
tiary.”

The research program of Associate Curator David Dunkle includes
a study of the fossil fish fauna of the Green River formation under-
taken in collaboration with Dr. Bobb Schaeffer, of the American Mu-
seum of Natural History. Because of the large series of complete and
beautifully preserved specimens available, this fauna is well suited not

46 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

only for morphological studies but ecological analyses as well. Per-
haps the greatest gap in the entire field of vertebrate paleontology is
the late Mesozoic development of holostean ray-finned fishes into the
descendent Tertiary Teleostei. This is the second long-range project
to engage Dr. Dunkle’s attention.

A study of a unique paleoniscoid fish from Lower Permian strata
of Sad Paulo, Brazil, was completed, and new occurrences of Permo-
Carboniferous fishes from various occurrences in the same country
were recorded. The study of an embolomerous amphibian skull re-
ceived from the Ohio Geological Survey is also under way.

Two visits to the American Museum of Natural History were made
by Dr. Dunkle in connection with his studies on late Paleozoic fishes,
and he represented the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology in the Divi-
sion of Geology and Geography of the National Research Council.

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Curator G. A. Cooper
submitted for publication his monographic study on Chazyan and re-
lated brachiopods, in which are described 150 genera and 925 species
of these animals. A new work, carried forward in collaboration with
Dr. H. M. Muir-Wood of the British Museum, is a generic revision of
the productid brachiopods, in which descriptions of about 150 genera
and 127 plates were prepared. In addition, 2 new genera and 6 species
of brachiopods from Cuba, and 9 new genera and 6 new species of
other brachiopods were described.

Dr. Cooper engaged in several field explorations during the year.
Early in the fiscal year, accompanied by William Allen, aide, and F. G.
Stehli, California Institute of Technology, he collected silicified Per-
mian fossils in West Texas, as well as other material at Carlsbad,
N. Mex., and in Oklahoma. In October, with Dr. Muir-Wood, he
visited rich collecting grounds at Alpena, Mich., Thedford, Ontario,
and other localities.

Associate Curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr., working in collaboration with
Helen Tappan Loeblich, continued his studies on a revision of the
genera of Foraminifera, basing his examinations upon types in Euro-
pean museums. Four months were spent at the British Museum and
two at the Bureau des Recherches Géologiques et Géophysiques, Paris.

During his sojourn in Europe, Dr. Loeblich collected topotypes of
Foraminifera at classic localities in England, Scotland, France, Italy,
Spain, Belgium, Germany and Austria. About 12 tons of forami-
niferal samples were collected during these explorations.

Various pelecypod genera occupied the interest of Associate Curator
David Nicol. He has completed morphological and ecological studies
on the genera Astartella and Conocardium.

In October Dr. Nicol was detailed to collect Cretaceous fossils ex-
posed in excavations for the Lake Whitney Dam, Tex., where many
fine specimens, especially of the smaller pelecypods, were obtained.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH AT

The generic revision of the Bryozoa, both fossil and Recent, pre-
pared by Research Associate R. S. Bassler, was published during the
year as a part of the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.” Several
thousand genera are characterized and illustrated.

Dr. Bassler is now bringing to completion his monograph on Ordo-
vician cystids, a complicated group of echinoderms, based largely upon
the Springer collection, of the U. S. National Museum.

Research Associate J. Brookes Knight, assisted by Ellis Yochelson,
U.S. Geological Survey, and Roger Batten, Columbia University, de-
voted his time to a compilation and characterization of the genera of
Paleozoic gastropods for the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.”

Research by outside investigators.—Materials for research pur-
poses were furnished by the division of mineralogy and petrology to
Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation, Army Engineers, Columbia
University, General Electric Company, Geophysical Laboratory, Gulf
Research and Development Company, Harvard University (2), Insti-
tute for Nuclear Physics, Johns Hopkins University, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (3), Museu Nacional Quinta da Boa Vista
(Brazil), Naval Gun Factory, New York University (2), Outokumpu
Oy (Finland), Pennsylvania State College (4), Portland Cement
Association, Shell Development Company (2), U. S. Geological Sur-
vey (22), Université de Montpellier (France), University of Chicago
(8), University of Helsinki (Finland), University of Illinois, Uni-
versity of Paris (France), and Yale University.

Nine papers in mineralogical literature, published by outside in-
vestigators, were based wholly or in part on materials furnished by
the U. S. National Museum.

As in the past, investigators outside the government have assisted
the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany with de-
scriptions of fossils, and have themselves received much help from
the staff and collections. Some of these investigators have been work-
ing with the division for several years, including: Dr. T. W. Amsden,
Johns Hopkins University, is studying a collection of Silurian
(St. Clair) brachiopods from Arkansas; Dr. Franco Rasetti of the
same university continued his studies of Cambrian fossils and is a
frequent visitor to the laboratories; Dr. Norman D. Newell, American
Museum of Natural History, is monographing a large collection of
silicified Permian pelecypods from West Texas belonging to the Na-
tional Museum; Dr. Harry B. Whittington, Harvard University,
completed (with Dr. William Evitt of Rochester University) a study
of Virginia silicified trilobites and is now busy with studies of other
family groups represented in the same materials; Drs. John Hoskins
of Cincinnati University and Auriel T. Cross of the West Virginia
Geological Survey completed their studies of a large collection of
48 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Lower Mississippian plants from Kentucky ; Mr. Roger Batten, grad-
uate student of Columbia University, is collaborating with Dr. Knight
on Permian gastropod studies. Dr. Francis G. Stehli, California In-
stitute of Technology, is collaborating with Dr. Cooper on some Per-
mian brachiopod studies.

Dr. G. E. Lewis of the Denver office of the U. S. Geological Survey
examined and made comparisons with materials in the Miocene and
Pliocene collections of the division of vertebrate paleontofogy as they
applied to his studies of middle and later Tertiary mammals of the
Mohave Desert region in California. He was also particularly inter-
ested in Coconino footprints from the Grand Canyon region. Dr. J.
R. Macdonald of the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology
made a detailed study of leptochoerid and bothriodont artiodactyls
from the White River Oligocene as part of a study of all the known
anthracotheres. Dr. M. Maldonado-Koerdell of Petréleos Mexicanos
came to Washington twice during the year to study Mexican fossil
fish and also Pleistocene antilocaprid materials. Mr. S. B. McDowell
of the American Museum of Natural History examined Paleocene
insectivore specimens in connection with a study he is making of the
genus Myrmecoboides. Mr. J. H. Quinn of the University of Texas
reviewed the various equid materials in the Museum’s Miocene and
Pliocene collections. Mr. Quinn is making a detailed revision of the
middle and later Tertiary horses. Dr. Fuiji Takai of the University
of Tokyo visited the National Museum for the purpose of studying
fossil marine sirenians, particularly the genus Desmostylus which is
so well represented in the Miocene of Japan. Mr. H. H. Winters of
the Florida Geological Survey made two trips to Washington to study
Florida fossil mammal materials and to review certain Pleistocene
forms. Part of his studies pertain to the fauna of the Pleistocene
Manix beds in California.

Engineering and Industries

Crafis and industries.—Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator, sub-
mitted the manuscript of her history of the sewing machine. Miss
Rogers completed her examination of all published material on the
Scholfield wool-carding machine, and is searching, through living
descendents of the Scholfield brothers, for original records of the
machine. Miss Rogers made 102 short studies on the textile collections
to answer requests from outside investigators.

Edward C. Kendall’s investigation of the European origins of
seventeenth- and eighteenth-century American plow types was fur-
thered by a grant from Deere and Company which enabled him to
attend the International Conference for Research of Ploughing Im-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 49

plements at Copenhagen and to visit institutions with agricultural,
industrial, and technical collections in various European countries.
One objective of his trip is information that will assist in reconstruct-
ing the types of plows in use at Mount Vernon in Washington’s time.
Mr. Kendall’s examination of the 1938 John Deere steel plow showed
that the drawings and reconstruction of the original Deere steel plow
based on this specimen were incorect. Sketches were made showing
its probable original appearance.

Upon request of The Henry Francis Du Pont Winterthur Museum,
W. N. Watkins conducted a one-day seminar there for a group study-
ing the woods used in old American furniture. The identification of
woods is of great importance in this study. Practical use of the
microscope in wood anatomy was demonstrated, and a grounding in
the use of dichotomous and other keys for separation of genera and
species was given. Mr. Watkins continued his assistance to Colonial
Williamsburg, the Charleston Museum, Mount Vernon, and others
with similar problems of wood identification.

Engineering.—Smith H. Oliver, associate curator of land transpor-
tation, conducted research on early locomotives in America for the
preparation of a bulletin tentatively titled, “The Remaining Relics of
the First Quarter-Century of Steam Locomotives in America.”

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator of electricity, continued re-
search towards the preparation of a catalog of electrical measuring
instruments. This project has been complicated by the acquisition
of a large addition to the collection of instruments. The identifica-
tion and cataloging of this material has been a major activity this
year.

Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, associate curator of engineering, is en-
gaged in the preparation of a descriptive account of the history of the
development of power machinery, to be used in connection with a pro-
posed reconstruction of the power exhibits along historical lines.

Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen continued research on the
origins and development of photomechanical halftone processes in-
cluding letterpress, halftone, photogravure, photolithography, collo-
type, and others. This work will establish a basis for dating early
published halftones and will provide a single reference work for the
diverse and complicated history of halftone printing. It will also
extend the usefulness of the Museum’s collection of early halftones,
probably the best extant. Preliminary studies tracing the history of
the halftone screen and sketching the history of letterpress halftone
printing were completed.

He completed a long article, “The Development of Four-Color
Printing,” to be published as an illustrated brochure by Rous and
Mann Press, Ltd., Toronto, Canada.

50 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

His study of the color prints of John Baptist Jackson, begun sev-
eral years ago, will trace the origins of color printing in the eighteenth
century and will emphasize Jackson’s importance as an artist and
pioneer color printer.

Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator, continued his “History
of the Camera.” When completed, this history will be a source of
reference for students, patent attorneys, inventors, and others in-
terested in tracing the development of the camera.

Medicine and public health.—Research has been carried on by
George Griffenhagen, associate curator of medicine and public health,
on the history and evolution of pharmaceutical equipment such as
the pill machine, mortar and pestle, pharmaceutical balance, and drug
container. The results of these studies will form part of a descriptive
catalog of the collections.

Additional work was done on the compilation of a catalog of
apothecary shop restorations which are on exhibition in the United
States. Parts of this catalog have appeared monthly for the past 15
rionths in the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association,
Practical Pharmacy Edition, of which Mr. Griffenhagen was appoint-
ed editorial staff associate. A Smithsonian Information Leaflet list-
ing those restorations reported to June 1, 1953, was prepared and over
150 copies were distributed upon request.

Mr. Griffenhagen was elected chairman of the section on historical
pharmacy of the American Pharmaceutical Association. During the
year he delivered addresses on the history of antibiotics, on early
pharmacy in America, and on the work of the division of medicine
and public health.

Research by outside investigators.—The variety of the interests of
the hundreds of inquirers who were aided in their studies is indicated
by the following examples:

Dr. Salahuddin Ahmad, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Punjab,
Pakistan, obtained aid in ie investigation of the use of sulphuric acid
in the treatment of pines in naval stores operations.

Harold L. Peterson, National Park Service, was assisted in his
study of the stocks of firearms used in America during the colonial
and Revolutionary War periods.

R. E. Cottrell was aided in his study of the coloration of woods under
ultraviolet light.

Thomas Morley, University of Minnesota, received eight authentic
wood samples of two genera of the Melastomaceae to further his study
of that family.

Gordon K. Saltar, The Henry Francis Du Pont Winterthur Mu-
suem, received eight authentic wood samples for his investigation of
the specific identification of the southern yellow pines.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 51

Mildred Davison, Associate Curator of Textiles, Art Institute of
Chicago, spent three days in the Museum studying fabrics, quilts, and
coverlets. Four sample books from the Hamilton Print Works were
lent to her for further study.

Cis Fink, Danish weaver and textile expert, spent two days study-
ing the textile collections.

Irene Lagorio, Curator of the Aschenbach Foundation of the Palace
of the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, made an extensive study of our
exhibits and collections. The Aschenbach Foundation is a newly es-
tablished institution devoted to the graphic arts.

Harold 8S. Anderson, Curator of the Thomas A. Edison Foundation,
West Orange, N. J., studied the Edison material in the motion picture
collection and Josephine Cobb, National Archives, studied the collec-
tion of Brady photographs.

The Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Medical Museum was
aided in the preparation of an exhibit on the history of tuberculosis,
and the Army Medical Library received aid on an exhibit on medicine
in the time of Queen Elizabeth I.

Dr. George R. Thompson, Office of the Chief Signal Officer, exam-
ined and borrowed the Beardslee military telegraph instrument.
Dr. A. E. Douglass inquired for records of a sequoia trunk hut. Ralph
Lewis, National Park Service, sought references to vessels engaged in
the Battle of Lake Erie. The American Society of Refrigeration Engi-
neers requested help in preparing an historical exhibit. Jacob Vaage,
curator of Skimuseet, Oslo, Norway, examined skiis in the collection.
Howard I. Chapelle, marine historian, consulted the collections and
files. George W. Bailey, Executive Secretary, The Institute of Radio
Engineers, sought advice on a working arrangement for preserving
significant relics of the radio pioneers. Sixteen catalogs of the His-
toric American Merchant Marine Survey were furnished to inquirers
and 150 blueprints were ordered from the Survey, bringing the total
of prints distributed to 6,532.

History

Acting Head Curator Mendel L. Peterson completed a manuscript
on the history of the frigate Looe; and he continued the project on
the study of ornamentation and marking of muzzle-loading cannon,
photographing specimens at West Point, Charleston, S. C., Yorktown,
Va., and the Mariners Museum, Newport News, Va. A booklet, “His-
tory Under the Sea,” was prepared in connection with the special ex-
hibition of marine archeology.

Associate Curator of Civil History Margaret W. Brown continued
research on the collection of Washington relics in the U. S. National
52 U. §. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Museum. Her work resulted in publication of an article on the
“Washington Gold Funeral Medal” in the February 1954 issue of
The Numismatist.

Associate Curator of Numismatics Stuart Mosher continued his re-
search on a biographical dictionary of American medalists and on the
life and works of Edward Stabler, early American die engraver. He
also worked on a catalog of the Hugh Miller collection of Korean
charms and amulets, and on a catalog of multiple thalers in the Paul
A. Straub collection.

Associate Curator of Philately Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., continued his
research on a number of projects, among which were: original sub-
jects as used for postage stamps; the philatelic directory, a reference
work; the postal history and postage stamps of Germany; Liberian
postal history and postage stamps; Nicaraguan stamp plates; United
States commemoratives, 1945-1955, a companion volume to the com-
pleted guide to the 1900-1945 issues.

Research by outside investigators.—Outside investigators used the
collections and libraries and were given assistance during the year.

Miss Elizabeth Andersch, Ohio University School of Dramatic Art,
studied the costumes collection, gathering information on early nine-
teenth-century dress for a sesquicentennial play to be produced by the
University this year.

Members of the staff of Colonial Williamsburg making extensive
studies of various collections were Miss Katherine Shawer, of the Craft
Shops, who studied eighteenth-century hats and bonnets; Mrs.
Eleanor L. Duncan, assistant curator, who was especially interested in
costumes and antiques; and Miss Margaret C. McMahon, library as-
sistant, who examined pictorial material in the collections.

Mr. Harold L. Peterson made an extensive study of the United
States military swords in preparing his book, “American Military
Swords,” just published.

Mr. Walter B. Jones, Director of the Alabama Museum of Natural
History, was assisted in the attribution and cataloging of a large
number of Greek and Roman coins from the collections of that
museum.
Publications

In addition to an Annual Report, the National Museum issued 14
publications based on research in the national collections. Of these,
1 was in the Bulletin series, 11 were in the Proceedings series, and 2
were Contributions from the National Herbarium. The titles of these
publications are listed below.

At the close of the year one Proceedings paper and the following
three Bulletins were in press: “List of North American Recent Mam-
mals” by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., and Remington Kellogg; “Frogs of
Southeastern Brazil” by Doris M. Cochran; and “American Moths of
the Subfamily Phycitinae” by Carl Heinrich.

Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 136.
These publications, listed on pages 55 to 59, were distributed as
follows:

Department Publications Department Publications
ANCHTOpPOlOS yee ee eee 1G.) Eistonyje son eee 2
Otani year tt he Tee SOY ZOOLOLY, a es oh ek 62
Engineering and Industries_______ 7 —-
Geolo ayer. see 19 poe Hatin ure ace De ti ee Sy 136

Publications of the United States National
Museum

July 1953 through June 1954

REPORTS

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1958. 8vo, vii + 97 pp. January 12, 1954.

BULLETINS

Bulletin 202. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, by Leonard P.
Schultz and collaborators. 8vo, xxxii + 685 pp., 90 figs., 74 pls. December
15, 19538.

53
54 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM

From VOLUME 29, CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM

Part 11. Studies in the Bromeliaceae, XVII, by Lyman B. Smith, 8vo, pp. i-vi-+-
521-543, figs. 77-94. February 19, 1954.

From VOLUME 31, CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STates NATIONAL HERBARIUM

Part 2. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, II, by Emery C. Leonard, 8yvo, i—viii--
119-322 pp., figs. 41-118. November 10, 1953.

FWRomM VOLUME 100 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i—viii, 553-584.
March 23, 1954.

FRoM VOLUME 101 oF THE PROCEEDINGS

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-ix, 611-639.
March 23, 1954.

From VoLumME 103 of THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3323. Review of the Indo-Pacific anemone fishes, genus Amphiprion, with
descriptions of two new species, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 187-201, pls. 9,
10. July 3, 1953.

No. 3324. Marine polychaete worms from Point Barrow, Alaska, with addi-
tional records from the North Atlantic and North Pacific, by Marian H.
Pettibone. Pp. 203-356, figs. 26-39. May 21, 1954.

No. 3325. The relationships of Old and New World melanians, by J. P. EH.
Morrison. Pp. 357-394, pl. 11. April 20, 1954.

No. 3326. Preliminary analysis of the fossil vertebrates of the Canyon Ferry
Reservoir area, by Theodore EH. White. Pp. 395-488, figs. 40-51. May 28,
1954.

No. 3327. A review of the labrid fish genus Wetmorella with descriptions of
new forms from the tropical Indo-Pacific, by Leonard P. Schultz and N. B.
Marshall. Pp. 489-447, figs. 52-54, pl. 12. April 21, 1954.

No. 3328. Review of the Atlantic periwinkles, Nodilittorina, Echininus, and
Tectarius, by R. Tucker Abbott. Pp. 449-464, figs. 55-57. March 23, 1954.

No. 3329. Mammals of northern Colombia, preliminary report No. 7: Tapirs
(genus Tapirus), with a systematic review of American species, by Philip
Hershkovitz. Pp. 465-496, figs. 58-62. May 18, 1954.

No. 3830. A revision of the goatfish genus Upeneus with descriptions of two new
species, by Ernest A. Lachner. Pp. 497-582, pls. 18, 14. May 18, 1954.

No. 3331. Studies in neotropical Mallophaga, XI: Bird lice of the suborder
Amblycera, genus Dennyus Neumann, by M. A. Carriker, Jr. Pp. 533-549,
figs. 63, 64. May 21, 1954.

No. 3332. Nearctic flies of the family Periscelidae (Diptera) and certain An-
thomyzidae referred to the family, by A. H. Sturtevant. Pp. 551-562. June
16, 1954.

No. 8838. North American triclad Turbellaria, XIII: Three new cave planari-
ans, by Libbie H. Hyman. Pp. 563-573, figs. 65-68. June 14, 1954.
Publications by Members of the Staff
of the
United States National Museum

July 1953 through June 1954

Abbott, R. Tucker. How to collect
shells. Nat. Hist. (New York), vol.
63, No. 1, pp. 32-37, illus., January
1954.

——. Medically important molluscs.
In Mackie, Hunter, and Worth, A
manual of tropical medicine, pp. 625-
640, figs. 278-282, January 1954.

——. The habits and occurrence of the
nudibranch Armina tigrina, in the
southeast United States. Nautilus,
vol. 67, No. 3, pp. 88-86, February
1954.

Review of the Atlantic peri

winkles, Nodilittorina, Hchininus, and

Tectarius. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.

103, pp. 449-464, figs. 55-57, 1954.

American seashells, xiv-+-541 pp.,

100 figs., 40 pls., 1954.

(See also under Warmke, Ger-
maine L.)

Allen, William T.
David)

Bartsch, Paul. A new Niso from Amer-
ican waters. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 2,
pp. 38-40, pl. 5, fig. 4, October 1953.

A new rissoid mollusk from
Maryland. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 2,
pp. 40-41, pl. 5, fig. 5, October 1953.

Bassler, R.S. Treatise of invertebrate
paleontology, pt. G  (Bryozoa),
xiii+253 pp., 1953.

Bayer, Frederick M. Zoogeography
and evolution in the octocorallian
family Gorgoniidae. Bull. Mar. Sci.
Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 3, pp. 100—
119, figs. 1-5, 19538.

Brown, Margaret W. Washington gold
funeral medal in the collections of
the U. S. National Museum. Numis-
matist, vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 114-122,
8 figs., February 1954.

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr.
commemorative
1954.

Carriker, M. A., Jr. Studies in Neo-
tropical Mallophaga. XII. Pt. 1,
Lice of the tinamous. Rev. Brasi-
leira Biol., vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 209-224,
illus., October 1953.

317706—54——_5,

(See under Nicol,

United States
notes, 1900-1945.

Carriker, M. A., Jr. Studies in Neo-
tropical Mallophaga. XII. Pt. 2,
Lice of the tinamous. Rev. Brasil-
eira Biol., vol. 13, No. 4, pp. 325-346,
illus., December 1953.

Neotropical miscellany. VI.

New genus and species of Mallophaga.

Florida Ent., vol. 36, No. 4, pp. 151-

160, illus., December 1953.

. The Menoponidae of the Cracidae

and the genus Odontophorus (Neo-

tropical Mallophaga miscellany,

VIII). Novedades Colombianas, No.

1, pp. 19-81, illus., May 3, 1954.

Studies in Neotropical Mal-
lophaga, XI: Bird lice of the suborder
Amblycera, genus Dennyus Neumann.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 103, No.
3331, pp. 5383-549, figs. 63, 64, 1954.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. Zoological re-
sults of a fifth expedition to East
Africa. VI. Decapod Crustacea.
Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol. 110, pp.
427-443, figs. 1-4, 1953.

Clark, Austin H. The ecology, evolu-
tion, and distribution of the verte-
brates. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst.,
1952, pp. 288-303, 1953.

—. Fauna of North America. In
Encyclopaedia Hebraica, vol. 4,
columns 238-244, illus., 1953. (In
Hebrew.)

Fauna of Central America. In
Eneyclopaedia Hebraica, vol. 4,
columns 258-256, illus., 1953. (In
Hebrew. )

Fauna of South America. En-

cyclopaedia Hebraica, vol. 4, columns
276-281, illus., 1953. (In Hebrew.)
For and against the doctrine of
prescription as applied to taxonomy;
a historical retrospect. Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, pp. 13-18,
1954.

(See also under Clark, Ailsa M.)

Clark, Ailsa M., and Clark, Austin H.
A revision of the sea-stars of the genus
Tethyaster. Smithsonian Mise. Coll.,
vol. 122, pp. 1-27, pls. 1-12, 1954.

55
56

Cooper, G. Arthur. Unusual Devonian
brachiopods. Journ. Paleont., vol. 28,
No. 3, pp. 325-8382, pls. 36, 37, 1954.

Deignan, H. G. Five new races of
bulbuls (Pycnonotidae) from south-
ern Asia. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 44, pp. 123-125, April 1954.

Dunkle, David H. Vertebrate paleon-
tology. Jn Britannica Book of the
Year, pp. 347-348, 1953.

and Maldonado-Koerdell, M.

Notes on some Mesozoic fish remains

from Mexico. Journ. Washington

Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 10, pp. 311-317;

1953.

Evans, Clifford, Jr.
gers, Betty J.)
Ewers, John C. Literate fur trader,
Edwin Thompson Denig. Montana
Mag. Hist., vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 1-12,

Spring 1954.

Fisher, Walter K. A new genus of
bonelliid worms (Hehiuroidea).
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 43,
pp. 258-259, 1 fig., 1953.

Foshag, W. F.; Murata, K. J.; and
Fahey, J. J. Reexamination of mose-
site. Amer. Mineral., vol. 38, pp.
1225-1234, 1952.

—. and Switzer George. The dia-
mond industry in 1952. Jewelers’
Circular Keystone, vol. 123, 11 pp.,
19583.

Friedmann, Herbert. Review of Ban-
nerman’s “Birds of West and Equa-
torial Africa.” Auk, vol. 71, No. 1,
pp.. 93-95, January 1954.

—. Review of Chapin’s “Birds of the
Belgian Congo, pt. 3.” Auk, vol. 71,
No. 2, p. 214, April 1954.

Review of Salomonsen’s “Fugle-
traekket og dets gader.” Auk, vol.
71, No. 2, pp. 214-215, April 1954.

—. Honey-guide: The bird that eats
wax. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 105, No.
4, pp. 551-560, 8 pls., April 1954.

——. A revision of the classification of
the honey-guides. Ann. Mus. Congo
Turvuren Zool., vol. 50, pp. 21-27,
1954.

(See under Meg-

(See also under Wetmore, Alex-
ander )

——. and Glenny, F. R. Reduction ot
the clavicles in the Mesoenatidae,
with some remarks concerning the
relationship of the clavicles to flight-
function in birds. Ohio Journ. Sci.
vol. 54, No. 2, pp. 111-113, March 195:

Gazin, C. Lewis. Activities of the Di-
vision of Vertebrate Paleontology of
the U. 8. National Museum. Soc. Vert.
Paleont. News Bull., No. 39, pp. 10-11,
1953; No. 40, pp. 12-18, 1954; No. 41,
pp. 11-12, 1954.

Greene, Charles T. Larva and pupa of
Thrypticus fraterculus (Wheeler)
with new original notes on the habits

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

of the family Dolichopodidae (Dip-
tera). Ent. News, vol. 65, No. 4, pp.
89-92, illus., April 1954.

Griffenhagen, George B. The scientific
section of the American Pharmaceu-
tical Association. Amer. Journ.
Fee Education, vol. 17, pp. 342-350,

Da.

Early American pharmacies.

Journ. Amer. Pharm. Assoc. (Practi-

cal ed.), vol. 14, pp. 388, 454, 468, 660,

732, 752, figs. 1-12, June-August, Oc-

tober—December 1953; vol. 15, pp. 12,

124, 172, 245, 306, figs. 1-10, January—

May 1954.

The West’s first journal of medi-
cine and pharmacy. Prescriber and
Prescriptionist, vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 12-15,
1 fig., April 1954.

Handley, Charles O., Jr. Review of
“Possums” by C. G. Hartman. At-
lantie Naturalist, vol. 8, No. 5, p. 262,
19538.

A new flying squirrel from the

southern Appalachian Mountains.

Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 66,

pp. 191-194, Dec. 2, 1953.

Phenacomys in Minnesota.
Journ. Mamm., vol. 35, No. 2, p. 260,
1954.

——. Review of Rosevear’s “Checklist
and Atlas of Nigerian Mammals.”
Journ. Mamm., vol. 35, No. 2, pp. 269—
270, 1954.

—. Review of “Southern African
Mammals 1758-1951” by Ellerman,
Morrison-Scott, and Hayman. Science,
vol. 119, No. 3101, p. 802, 1954.

Henderson, Edward P., and Perry,
Stuart H. The Mayodan meteorite,
Rockingham County, North Carolina.
Amer. Mineral., vol. 38, pp. 1025—
1039, 1953.

Johnson, David H. A new marsupial
of the genus Antechinus from north-
ern Australia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 67, pp. 77-80, Mar. 22,
1954.

Lachner, Ernest A. Family Apogon-
idae. In Schultz, Leonard P., and
Collaborators, The fishes of the Mar-
shall and Marianas Islands. U. S.
Nat. Mus. Bull. 202, vol. 1, pp. 412—
498, figs. 69-84, pls. 33B—438, 1953.

A revision of the goatfish genus
Upeneus with descriptions of two
new species. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 103, pp. 497-532, pls. 13, 14, 1954.

Leapley, William T. First record of
the ribbonfish, Trachipterus trachy-
urus, from the mainland of North
America. Copeia, No. 4, p. 236, pl. 1,
1953.

Leonard, Emery C. Acanthaceae. In
Schultes, Plantae Austro-Americanae,
VIII. Bot. Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ.,
vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 92-95, 1953.
PUBLICATIONS

Leonard, Emery C. The Acanthaceae
of Colombia, II. Contr. U. S. Nat.
Herb., vol. 31, pt. 2, pp. 119-822, figs.
41-118, 1953.

—  Acanthaceae. Jn Steyermark,
Contributions to the flora of Vene-
zuela. Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No. 3,
pp. 553-565, 1953.

Marble, John Putnam. Report on the
Committee on the Measurement of
Geologic Time, 1951-1952. National
Research Council, 1953.

Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford,
Jr. Uma interpretacaio das culturas
da Ilha de Marajé. Publicagio n. 7,
1954, Instituto de Antropologia e Et-
nologia do Pard, Museum Goeldi,
Belém, Para, Brasil, pp. 1-22.

Moore, J. Percy. Three undescribed
North American leeches (Hirudinea).
Notulae Naturae, No. 250, pp. 1-13,
figs. 1, 2, pl. 1, 1958.

Morrison, Joseph P. E. Two new Amer-
ican species of Strobilops. Nautilus,
vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 53-55, figs. 1-6, pl.
6, October 1953.

Viviparus multilineatus (Say)
1829, from Florida. Nautilus, vol.
67, No. 2, pp. 56-58, October 19538.

——. Hydrobia totteni, new name for
Turbo minuta Totten, 1884 (Gastro-
poda: Hydrobiidae). Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 1, p.
26, January 1954.

Zoogeography, subfamilies and

families. Ann. Rep. Amer. Malacol.

Union, 1953, pp. 12-14, 1954.

Demonstration of the egg-masses

and eggs of Detracia floridana

(Pfeiffer ). Ann. Rep. Malacol.

Union, 1953, pp. 15-16, 1954.

. The relationships of Old and
New World Melanians. Proc. U. S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 103, pp. 357-394, pl.
11, 1954.

Morton, C. VY. A range extension in
Cystopteris. Amer. Fern Journ., vol.
43, No. 3, pp. 125, 126, 1953.

The eastern United States varie-
ties of Hquisetum hyemale. Amer.
Fern Journ., vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 170--
173, 1954.

—. Anew Thelypteris from Ecuador.
Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 43, No. 4,
pp. 173-174, 1954.

A proposal to remove the name
Nothoscordum from the list of Nom-
ina Conservanda. Taxon, vol. 3, No.
1, pp. 21, 22, 1954.

——. Proposed amendment to Article
24 of the International Code of Bo-
tanical Nomenclature. Taxon, vol.
3, No. 1, pp. 22, 23, 1954.

Two misinterpreted tropical

American ferns. Amer. Fern Journ.,

vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 174, 175, 1954.

Gesneriaceae. In Steyermark,

Contributions to the flora of Vene-

57

zuela. Wieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No.
3, pp. 520-534, 1953.

— and Neidorf, Charles. Dryop-
teris austriaca var. intermedia.

Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 44, No. 1, pp.
16-18, 1954.

Multhauf, Robert P. Medical chemis-
try and “The Paracelsians.” Bull.
Hist. Med., vol. 28, No. 2, pp. 101-126,
March-April 1954.

Newman, Marshall T. The Addicks
Dam site. II. Indian skeletal re-
mains from the Doering and Kobs
sites, Addicks Reservoir, Texas.
River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 4,
in Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 154, pp.
253-266, figs. 24-28, 1953.

The human physical type and

cranial deformation. In Willey and

Corbett, Early Ancén and Early Supe

culture, pp. 143-144, 1954.

The application of ecological
rules to the racial anthropology of the
aboriginal New World. Amer. Anthr.,
vol. 55, No. 3, pp. 311-827, August
1953.

Nicol, David. Systematic position of
the pelecypod Pliocardia. Journ.
Paleont., vol. 27, No. 5, pp. 703-705,
7 figs., 1953.

Period of existence of some late

Cenozoic pelecypods. Journ.

Paleont., vol. 27, No. 5, pp. 706-707,

1953.

Review of the living species of
Echinochama. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 11, pp. 386-
388, 5 figs., 1953.

The scientific role of the ama-
teur malacologist. Nautilus, vol. 67,
No. 2, pp. 41-44, 1953.

Trends and problems in pelecy-
pod classification (the supergeneric
categories). Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 1, pp. 27-82,
1954.

Growth and decline of popula-
tions and the distribution of marine
pelecypods. Journ. Paleont., vol. 28,
No. 1, pp. 22-25, 2 figs., 1954.

——. Nomenclatural review of genera
and subgenera of Cucullaeidae.
Journ. Paleont., vol. 28, No. 1, pp.
96-101, 1954.

—— and Allen, William T. A new
pelecypod genus from Upper Triassic
strata in Peru. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 11, pp. 344-346,
4 figs., 1953.

Oliver, Smith Hempstone. The world’s
best known Simplex. Motor Trend,
vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 30-31, January 1954.

. The billion-dollar patent. Cars,
vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 54-56, 78, March 1954.

Perry, Stuart H. (See under Hender-
son, Edward P.)
58

Schultz, Leonard P. Know your angel-
fishes. Tropical Fish Hobbyist, vol.
2, No. 4, pp. 4-5, fig., 1954.

and Axelrod, H.R. A comprehen-
sive chart of the occurrence and treat-
ment of diseases of tropical fishes.
Tropical Fish Hobbyist, vol. 2, No. 3,
pp. 22-25, 1954.

— and Collaborators: Herald, Earl
S.; Lachner, Ernest A.; Welander,
Arthur D.; and Woods, Loren P.
Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas
Islands. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 202,
vol. 1, xxxii-+685 pp., 90 figs., 74 pls.,
1953.

— and Marshall, N. B. A review of
the labrid fish genus Wetmorella with
descriptions of new forms from the
tropical Indo-Pacific. Proc. U. S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 103, pp. 489-447, figs.
52-54, pl. 12, 1954.

Setzer, Henry W. A new hedgehog
from Africa. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 7, pp. 237-238,
July 23, 1953.

Four new mammals from the
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 43, No. 10,
pp. 333-335, Oct. 22, 1953.

——. A new squirrel from the Anglo-
Egyptian Sudan. Proc. Biol. Soe.
Washington, vol. 67, pp. 87-88, Mar.
22, 1954.

Smith, A. C. Proposals for nomina
generica conservanda. Taxon, vol. 2,
No. 2, pp. 22-28, 1953.

Informe sobre el Séptimo Con-

greso Internacional de _ Botanica.

Rev. Argentina Agron., vol. 20, No. 1,

pp. 33-37, 1953.

Studies of South American

plants, XIII. Journ. Washington

Acad. Sci., vol. 48, pp. 203-212, 1953.

Studies of South American

plants, XIV. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol.

40, pp. 469-475, 1953.

Ericaceae. In Steyermark, Bo-
tanical exploration in Venezuela, III.
Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No. 3, pp.
449-454, 1958.

Smith, Lyman B. Notes on Bromelia-
ceae, I. Phytologia, vol. 4, No. 4, pp.
213-221, pls. 1, 2, 1953.

The subfamilies and genera of

Bromeliaceae. In Foster, Brome-

liads, a cultural handbook, pp. 9-11,

1953.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, II. Phy-
tologia, vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 355-868, pls.
1-4, 1953.

Bromeliad malaria. Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Inst., 1952, pp. 385-398,
pls. 1, 2, 1953.

——,. A new Aechmea from Venezuela.
Bromeliad Soe. Bull., vol. 3, No. 5,
p. 48, 1953.

U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Smith, Lyman B. Notes on Brome-
liaceae, III. Phytologia, vol. 4, No. 6,
pp. 378-384, pls. 1-3, 1953.

. New name for old error. Brome-

liad Soc. Bull., vol. 4, No. 1, p. 6, 1954.

Studies in the Bromeliaceae,

XVII. Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb., vol.

aad 11, pp. 521-542, figs. 77--94,

Bromeliaceae. In Schultes,
Plantae Austro-Americanae, IX. Bot.
Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ., vol. 16,
No. 8, pp. 192-198, pls. 25-28, 1954.

—— and Pittendrigh, Colin S. Realign-
ments in the Bromeliaceae subfamily
Tillandsioideae. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, pp. 401-404, 1953.

Snodgrass, R. E. The metamorphosis
of a fly’s head. Smithsonian Misc.
Col., vol. 122, No. 3, 25 pp., illus-
1953.

Insect metamorphosis. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 122, No. 9, 124
pp., illus., 1954.

Sohns, Ernest R. Chaboissaea ligulata
Fourn.: A Mexican grass. Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 438, pp.
405-407, figs. 1-16, 1953.

Setaria: Fascicle organization in
four species. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 44, pp. 116-122, figs.
1-40, 1954.

Stewart, T. Dale. Research in human
identification. Science, vol. 118, No.
3061, p. 3, Aug. 28, 1953.

——. The age incidence of neural arch
defects in Alaskan natives considered
from the standpoint of etiology.
Journ. Bone Joint Surg., vol. 35—A,
No. 4, pp. 937-950, October 1953.

——. An anthropologist looks at Lin-
coln. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst.,
1952, pp. 419-437, 1953.

Skeletal remains from Zaculeu,
Guatemala. In The Ruins of Zacu-
leu, Guatemala, edited by R. B. Wood-
bury and A. S. Trik, vol. 1, pp. 295-
811, 1953.

——. Physical anthropology. In Hand-
book of Latin American Studies No.
16, pp. 41-46 (1950), Univ. Florida,
1953.

[Fossil man in the ] Amériques.
In Catalogue des Hommes Fossiles,
H. V. Vallois and H. L. Movius (eds.).
Congrés Géologique International,
XIX Sess., Comp.-Rendus, fase. 5,
1958.

——. Evaluation of evidence from the
skeleton. In Legal medicine, R. B. H.
Gradwohl (ed.), pp. 407-450, 1954.

Swallen, Jason R. New grasses from
Guatemala. Phytologia, vol. 4, pp.
423-427, 1953.

PUBLICATIONS

(See also under

Michael. The
Mineral.,

Switzer, George.
Foshag, W. F.)

— and Fleischer,
bavenite problem. Amer.
vol. 38, pp. 988-993, 1953.

— and Thompson, R. D. Gem stones.
U. S. Bureau Mines Minerals Year-
book, 10 pp., 1952.

Walker, Egbert H. Botanizing with the
Okinawans. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian
Inst., 1952, pp. 359-883, pls. 1-10, fig.
1, 1953.

Warmke, Germaine L., and Abbott, R.
Tucker. The gross anatomy and 0c-
currence in Puerto Rico of the
pelecypod Yoldia perprotracta.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol.
43, No. 8, pp. 260-261, 2 figs., August
1958.

Wedderburn, Alexander J. A criticism
of the Baltimore International Salon.
Journ. Amer. Soe. Photogr. Art, vol.
5, No. 1, pp. 7-12, January 1954.

Wedel, Waldo R. Prehistory and the
Missouri Valley development pro-
gram; Summary report on the Mis-
souri River Basin archeological sur-
vey in 1948. River Basin Surveys
Papers, No. 1, Bur. Amer. Ethnol.
Bull. 154, pp. 1-59, 1953.

Prehistory and the Missouri Val-

ley development program; summary

report on the Missouri River Basin
archeological survey in 1949. River

Basin Surveys Papers, No. 2, Bur.

Amer. Hthnol. Bull. 154, pp. 61-100,

1953.

Some aspects of human ecology
in the Central Plains. Amer. Anthr.,
vol. 55, No. 4, pp. 499-514, October
1953.

59

Wedel, Waldo R. Earthernware and
steatite vessels from northwestern
Wyoming. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 19,
No. 4, pp. 408-409, April 1954.

Wetmore, Alexander. The application
of the name Hmberiza leucophrys
Forster. Auk, vol. 70, pp. 372-378,
July 1953.

Further additions to the birds

of Panama and Colombia. Smith-

sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 122, No. 8,

pp. 1-12, 19538.

——, Friedmann, Herbert, et al.
Twenty-eighth supplement to the
American Ornithologists’ Union

Check-list of North American birds.

Auk, vol. 70, pp. 359-361, July 1953.

and Parkes, K. C. Notes on the
generic affiliations of the great grebe
of South America. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 44, pp. 126-128,
April 1954.

Wilson, Mildred Stratton. Some sig-
nificant points in the distribution of
Alaskan fresh-water copepod Crus-
tacea. Proc. Second Alaskan Sci.
Conf. (1951), pp. 315-318, 1953.

New and inadequately known
North American species of the
copepod genus Diaptomus. Smith-

sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 122, No. 2,

pp. 1-30, figs. 1-58, 1953.

New Alaskan records of Huryte-
mora (Crustacea, Copepoda). Pa-
cifie Sci., vol. 7, pp. 504-512, figs. 1-7,
1953.

—— and Moore, Walter G. Diagnosis
of a new species of diaptomid
copepod from Louisiana. Trans.
Amer. Microsc. Soc., vol. 72, pp. 292—
295, figs. 1-12, 1953.
Donors to the National Collections

(Hxzcept when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual
donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance

with law)

Abbott, R. Tucker, Washington, D. C.:
5 marine and land shells from Bermuda
(200972).

Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago,
Tll.: 1 bottle Fumidil (198927).

Academy of Natural Sciences of Phil-
adelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through
Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry) 111 land mol-
lusks, including 69 paratypes from
México (2007438, exchange).

Acosta-Solis, Dr. M., Quito, Ecuador:
388 plants from Heuador (189843).

Adachi, Marion, and Hardy, Dr. D.
Elme, Honolulu, T. H.: 24 type long-
legged flies from Hawaii (202176).

Adams, Dr. C. D., Achimota, Gold
Coast, Africa: 30 ferns from Africa
(201223, exchange).

Adams, Mrs. Charles H., Portland,
Maine: Sholes and Glidden typewriter
with foot treadle stand (199977).

Adams, Dr. J. Lee, Reno, Nev.: 410
Triassic invertebrate fossils from Ne-
vada and California (199312).

Adams, John W., Denver, Colo.: A
erystal of genthelvite described by
Jewel J. Glass and donor (199962).

Agricultural and Mechanical College
of Texas, College Station, Tex.:
(Through Prof. Omer E. Sperry) 3
plants from Texas (200080).

Agriculture, U. S. Department of,
Washington, D. C.: AGRICULTURAL RE-
SEARCH SERVICE, Hntomology Research
Branch: 15 land snails from California,
Georgia, Heuador, El Salvador, México,
and Panamaé, and 6 land planarians
(198647, 199889, 200642, 201665,
202442) ; 107 land mollusks from Brit-
ish Honduras, Colombia, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Ireland, Jamaica,
Pert, Spain, Liberia, Midway Island,
United States, and Venezuela (198740,
199469, 199675, 200181, 200372, 200506,
201313, 201470, 202084, 202348) ; 17 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Okla-
homa, Panama, and Tunisia (198991) ;
(through C. F. W. Muesebeck) 3 copepod
crustaceans (199188) ; (through Curtis
W. Sabrosky) 3,000 miscellaneous in-
sects collected in Norway and Sweden
during summer of 1953 by Mr. Sabrosky
(200141) ; (through Dr. Paul W. Oman)

60

21 land snails from Ecuador (200934) ;
58,247 miscellaneous insects from all
over the world (202477). Horticulturai
Crops Research Branch: 21 Costa Rican
ferns (198686) ; 7,280 plants collected
in Colombia by Dr. R. E. Schultes
(198809, 201890, 202325) ; 64,587 plants
(199529, 199956, 202826); 163 plants
from Costa Rica, collected by Dr. John
Carpenter (200216); 223 plants from
United States, Brazil, and Argentina
(201051) ; 49 grasses collected in North
Carolina by W. A. Silveus (201873) ; 26
grasses collected in Iraq by Walter
Koelz (201874) ; 8 grasses from Puerto
Rico (202229) ; (through James I. Ham-
bleton) colony (5 frames) of hybrid
bees (198810) ; (through Dr. W. Andrew
Archer) 20 mounted unicates of the
Cinchona Mission (200131). Field
Crops Research Branch: 6 phanerogams
from Colombia (199753). Forrest SErv-
IcE: (Through Doris Hayes) 8 ferns
from Alaska, collected by H. J. Lutz
(198798) ; 56 specimens of woods col-
lected in Yucatan, México (202080) ; 16
wood specimens from Alabama, Cali-
fornia, Guatemala, Marshall Islands.
New Guinea, and Liberia (202497).
Sort CoNSERVATION SERVICE: 54 plants
from New Mexico, collected by Dr. J. L.
Gardner (199659) ; 112 plants from New
Mexico, Oregon, and Georgia (200021,
201812, 201988).

Aichi Gakugei University, Okazaki
City, Japan: (Through Hitoo Ohira)
60 beetles from Japan (201508, ex-
change).

Alabama Department of Conserva-
tion, Montgomery, Ala.: (Through
Joseph §. Jones) 10 caterpillars from
Alabama (198778).

Alabama Geological Survey, Univer-
sity, Ala.: (Through Dr. Winnie Mc-
Glamery) 3  Hocene brachiopods
(202219, exchange).

Alba, Dr. Aurelio Malaga, México, D.
I.: 5 big-eared bats from México and
California (201069).

Albanese, John S., Union, N. J.: 4
minerals: ilmenite, Uganda; cassiter-
ite, Tanganyika ; nepheline, Kenya ; and
grunerite, France (201240).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Allanson, Henry, Scientists Cliffs,
Md.: 1 female purple finch (201387).

Allard, H. A., Arlington, Va.: 1,122
plants collected in Virginia and West
Virginia (198756, 201058).

Allard, Howard F., Arlington, Va.: 2
hummingbirds from Perti (200630).

Allen, Robert P., Tavernier, Fla.: 10
brackish-water mollusks from Cama-
guey Province, Cuba (198895).

Allen, William T., Dallas, Tex.: 2
specimens of volcanic ash from 1944
eruption of Mount Vesuvius (201236).
(See also Weeks, C. A.)

Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co.,
Milwaukee, Wis.: (Through John Gam-
mell) Schematic model of an industrial
gas turbine generator set (199755).

American Air Mail Society, Norfolk,
Va.: (Through Adm. Jesse M. Johnson)
American Air Mail Society medal
(198920).

American Medical Association, Chi-
eago, Ill.: (Through Dr. Thomas G.
Hull) Exhibit which displays in true-
to-life manikins the location, size, and
appearance of all organs of the human
body, exclusive of the extremities
(200640, loan).

American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York, N. Y.: 1 Galapagos
finch (199471, exchange) ; (through Dr.
Junius B. Bird) 36 textile and stone
artifacts, Peru, and 2 pieces of pottery,
Brazil (201885, exchange).

American Numismatic Association,
New York, N. Y.: (Through Vernon
L. Brown) 75 coins for A. N. A. Moritz
Wormser Memorial collection (199292,
loan).

American Society of Photographic
Art, Brecksville, Ohio: (Through C. L.
Chafee) 145 prints by the Society’s
members for special exhibition June
1954 (202499, loan).

Ames, W. P., Montross, Va. : 1 hognose
snake and 2 water snakes collected near
Montross (202021).

Ananthakrishnan, T. N., Madras,
India: 10 thrips from India (199294,
exchange).

Andersen, Svend, Washington, D. C.:
1 star-nosed mole (200773).

Anderson, A. Benton, Hazardville,
Conn.: 3 chlorites and 1 babingtonite
from Lane quarry, Westfield, Mass.
(199702, exchange).

Anduze, Dr. Pablo, Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 5 fishes and 34 marine inverte-
brates from Rio Orinoco, 3 km. above
La Esmeralda, Venezuela (195564) ; 1
short-tailed opossum from Venezuela
(199612).

Ankeney, C. G., Clear Spring, Md.:
(Through F. H. Ankeney) Pseudomorph
specimen from north of Clear Spring
(199156).

61

Ankeney, F. H. (See Ankeney, C. G.)

Anonymous: 1 Carolina chickadee
(200128) ; 2 Persian polychrome tiles
(201840) ; tubular wooden drum from
Hast Africa (201342).

Appel, Dr. Bernard, Lynn, Mass.:
Statue bust of Hippocrates sculptured
by Doris Appel, in memory of Dr. Wil-
liam P. Boardman (201047).

Archer, Dr. W. Andrew. (See Agri-
culture, U. S. Department of, Horticul-
tural Crops Research Branch)

Arctic Institute of North America,
Washington, D. C.: 43 plants collected
in Alaska by Dr. Lyman Benson
(202227).

Ardé, Paul, Lund, Sweden: 10 flies
from Sweden (200084, exchange).

Aristéguieta, Dr. Leandro. (See In-
stuto Botanico)

Arizona, University of, Tucson, Ariz. :
295 plants of Arizona, mostly collected
by Dr. K. Parker (199924, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Charles H. Lowe, Jr.)
paratype salamander collected by Dr.
Lowe in Santa Cruz County, Ariz.
(200479).

Armat, Mrs. Thomas, Washington,
D. C.: 17.5-millimeter motion picture
projector made by Thomas Armat about
1916-17 (202351).

Armstrong, J. Elwood, Detroit, Mich. :
57 pictorial photographs by Mr. Arm-
strong for special exhibition January
and February 1954 (200687, loan).

Arnaud, Pau! H., Stanford University,
Calif.: 1 fungus gnat from California
(199667).

Arnett, Dr. Ross H., Jr., Washington,
D. C.: 750 miscellaneous beetles from
all over the world (198817).

Arnold, Mrs. J. M., Hast Orange, N. J.:
Booklet 626 of embroidery patterns by
Heinrich Kuehn, Berlin (201667).

Arnold, John R., Stockton, Calif.: 10
beetles from California (199541); 3
fresh-water medusae from Mormon
Slough, near Linden, Calif. (199718).

Aronson, Irene, Long Island, N. Y.:
85 etchings by Miss Aronson for special
exhibition February 1954 (200966,
loan).

Arpad, Michael, Washington, D. C.:
Unglazed globular white pottery bottle-
vase made by Louis Comfort Tiffany of
New York in 1890’s (2010382).

Artia, Ltd. (See Czechoslovakia,
Government of)

Arvey, Dr. M. Dale, Long Beach,
Calif.: 1 mammal and 1 bird from
Tokyo, Japan (198926).

Aschemeier, Charles R., Washington,
D. C.: 1 Carolina wren skeleton
(202458).

Ashby, Wallace L., Springfield, Va.:
Bones and teeth of long-beaked porpoise,
62

collected in Calvert formation by donor
July 1953 near Parkers Creek, Calvert
County, Md. (201653).

Aslakson, Comdr. Carl I., Patrick Air
Force Base, Fla.: Approximately 150
marine mollusks from Florida and the
West Indies (199932).

Aslakson, Comdr. and Mrs. Carl I.,
Cocoa Beach, Fla.: 3 marine mollusks
from Banana River, Cocoa Beach
(198704).

Atkins, Mr. and Mrs. John D., Arling-
ton, Va.: Prehnite specimen from Bull
Run quarry, between Centreville and
Gainesville, Fairfax County, Va.
(198914).

Australia, Commonwealth Govern-
ment of, Department of Agriculture,
Sydney: 12 plants from Australia
(199201, gift-exchange); 187 plants
from Australia (200214, 202169, ex-
change). Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organization, Can-
berra: 145 Australian plants (199586,
exchange). Melbourne Botanic Gar-
dens and National Herbarium, Victoria:
1 fungus from Australia (199052).

Avery, Phyllis, Washington, D. C.: 1
small wooden chest brought from Scot-
land in 1860 (198619).

Avniel, Mordechai, Haifa, Israel: 26
woodcuts for special exhibition March
1954 (201357, loan).

Babbitt, Lewis T., Petersham, Mass.:
2 turtles and 6 frogs from Connecticut,
collected by donor in 1953 (201544).

Bailey, Prof. Stanley F. (See Cali-
fornia, University of)

Baisas, Dr. F. E. (See Philippines,
Republic of, Department of Health)

Bakelite Co., New York, N. Y.: 3 pan-
els containing a small diorama repre-
senting the manufacture and use of
Polystyrene, Vinyl, Polyethylene, and
Phenolic plastics (201497).

Baker, Dr. Rollin H. (See Kansas,
University of)

Baker, Seth N. (See Sharp & Dohme)

Baldwin, Lee, Charles City, Iowa: 12
brachiopods from Hackberry formation,
Rockford, Iowa (201284).

Banco de Fomento Agricola & Indus-
trial de Cuba, Centro de Investigaciones
Pesqueras, Playa Habana, Bauta, Cuba:
(Through Dr. Isabel Pérez Farfante)
43 shrimps and 2 crabs (200845, ex-
change).

Banco Nacional de Cuba, Habana,
Cuba: 4 commemorative coins of cen-
tennial years of José Marti (200608).

Bandy, Dr. Mark C., Sinoia, Southern
Rhodesia: 1 cornetite from Rhodesia
Copper Ventures mine, Sinoia (200455).

Banks, Mrs. Edgar J., Eustis, Fla.:
4 pieces antique laces and embroideries
(202196).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Banner, Dr. Albert H., Honolulu,
T. H.: 271 marine invertebrates from
Saipan, collected by donor (198655).

Barbosa, Dr. Frederico Simoes. (See
Instituto Aggeu Magalhaes)

Barneby, Rupert C., Wappingers
Falls, N. Y.: 8 plants (199695).

Barnhard, Lt. Clyde S. (See Defense,
U. S. Department of, Department of
the Army)

Barron, Col. E. M.
Gem Mining Co.)

Barros, Dr. Manuel, Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 1 phanerogam (198871).

Barthelmes, Heinz, Altmorschen,
Germany: Approximately 1,000 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Ger-
many (201425, exchange).

Bartley, D. C., Seattle, Wash.: 6 U. S.
Washington Territory first-day covers
(202428).

Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 78
plants from Ohio, West Virginia, and
Idaho (200751).

Barton, Prof. A. J., Stony Brook, L. I.,

(See Southern

N. Y.: 1 Mullenburg’s turtle from
Brickerville, Lancaster County, Pa.
(202506).

Bartram, M. Thomas. (See Health,
Edueation, and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of)

Bartsch, Dr. Paul, Lorton, Va.: Mole
snake, salamander, lizard, and snake
from Lorton, collected by donor (198651,
199433); 6 birds (201604, 201807) ; 2
snakes and 3 land snails from “Leba-
non,” Lorton, Va., collected by donor
(202359, 202505). (See also Hall, Hve-
lyn H.) ;

Basel Museum of Natural History,
Basel, Switzerland: (Through Dr. E.
Handsehin) 162 insects (197105, ex-
change).

Bastos Tigre, Carlos. (See Minis-
terio da Viacio e Obras Publicas)

Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., Roches-
ter, N. Y.: (Through M. C. Williamson)
5 pairs of contemporary eyeglasses
(201246).

Bayer, Frederick M., Washington,
D. C.: 1 sea-urchin and 71 mollusks
from Japan (200682, 200775) ; trumpet,
tawi, made from shell, and a painted
model of outrigger canoe, collected by
donor on Ifaluk, Caroline Islands
(201488). (See also National Research
Council, Pacific Science Board)

Beach, Kay H., Edwardsville, Kans.:
471 plants from southern Asia (198748).

Beal, Dr. R. S., Jr., Denver, Colo.: 1
beetle from Arizona (199283, exchange).

Bears Bluff Laboratories, Wadma-
law Island, S. C.: (Through G. Robert
Lunz) 8 erabs from the vicinity of Wad-
malaw Island (198262).

Beck, Dr. Carl W., Albuquerque, N.
Mex.: 2 minerals: chinoit from Chino
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

mine, Santa Rita, N. Mex, and callag-
hanite from Gabbs, Nev. (200962).

Beck, William M., Jr., Jacksonville,
Fla.: (Through Dr. Horton H. Hobbs,
Jr.) 108 shrimps and 8 crayfishes from
streams in western Florida (199556).

Beckner, John, St. Petersburg, Fla.:
2 ferns from Florida (200959).

Becton, Dickinson & Co., Rutherford,
N. J.: Exhibit entitled “Story of Hypo-
dermie Syringes” (201362).

Beecher, Mrs. Sarah C., Silver Spring,
Md.: U. S. Marine Corps officer’s full-
dress uniform and accessories, owned
by Maj. Richard S. Collum, 1861-1897
(200762).

Belkin, Dr. John, Los Angeles, Calif. :
15 horseflies from North America
(200038).

Benedict, James E., Jr., Silver Spring,
Md.: Approximately 300 marine mol-
lusks from St. Mary’s County, Md.
(202338).

Bender, George A.
& Co.)

Benedict, Dr. Ralph C., Brooklyn,
N. Y.; 8 cultivated ferns (200305).

Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn. : 42
beetles from United States (199626,
201066).

Benham, Willard M., Nacozari,
México: 5 antimony and allemontite
specimens from northern Sonora, Méx-
ico (199501).

Benjamin, Ruth Avery, Cambridge,
Mass.: Series of 7 letters written from
Washington, D. C., in 1876 by mother
of donor (200210).

Bennett, Susan A., Charleston, S. C.:
3 marine pelecypod mollusks from South
Carolina (201760).

Bentinck, William C., San Francisco,
Calif.: 35 flies from Japan (200466).
(See also Defense, Department of, De-
partment of the Army)

Bequaert, Dr. Joseph.
University,
Zoology)

Berg, Dr. C. O., Ithaca, N. Y.: 7 type
flies from Alaska (200469).

(See Parke, Davis

(See Harvard
Museum of Comparative

Bergseng, Mrs. Margaret. (See Wis-
consin, University of)
Berlioz, Prof. M. Jacques. (See Mu-

séum National d’Histoire Naturelle)

Bernard, Dr. F. See Université
d’ Alger)

Berry, Dr. Elmer G. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of, Public Health Service)

Berry, Dr. S. Stillman, Redlands,
Calif. : 9 marine and land mollusks from
California, including 5 paratypes of new
species (199228, exchange).

Beyer, C. B., Albuquerque, N. Mex.:
Case of drafting instruments (199264).

Bhandari, Vidya, Simla, Punjab, In-
dia: Representation of Buddha, seated

63

in preaching position, recently carved
in alabaster at Agra, India (201602).

Bird, Dr. Junius B. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-
lulu, T. H.: (Through J. L. Gressitt)
1 fish from Kusaie, Caroline Islands
(201542).

Biswas, Buddhadeb, Calcutta, India :
15 samples of beach sands containing
Foraminifera from India (202191, ex-
change).

Black, Arthur F., Charlotte, N. C.:
320 philatelic specimens (200416).

Black, Colin. (See Rhodesia and
Nyasaland, Federation of)

Black, George A., Bélem, Para, Brazil:
2 plants from Brazil (200402).

Black, Mrs. Hanson Briscoe, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 9 ethnological specimens
from Crow, Apache, and Alaskan tribes
collected 1887-1907 (199467).

Blackmer, Mrs. Ania (deceased) :
(Through John C. Hubbard) Colt army
revolver with leather holster, carried
during Civil War by Martin W. Wescott
(201899, bequest).

Blandford, Ned, McLean, Va.: 4 min-
erals: 2 bornites from Fairfax quarry,
between Centreville and Gainesville,
Va.; bavenite and bertrandite in albite
from Rutherford mine, Amelia, Va.;
and vivianite from Cobalt, Idaho
(199516, 199701).

Blanton, Lt. Col. F. S.
Department of, Department of
Army)

Blume, Prof. Dr. Werner, Goettingen,
Germany: 568 mollusks, mainly land
and fresh-water, from Burope, Asia, and
Africa (202252, exchange).

Bohart, Dr. R. M., Davis, Calif.: 3
slides of type mosquitoes from Cali-
fornia and Okinawa (200143).

Boker, John R., New York, N. Y.:
5,049 philatelic specimens: pre-Presi-
dential Bureau Precancels in blocks,
strips, and pairs (199504); 13,934
United States Bureau Print Precancels
known as W. Berton Hoover Memorial
Collection (2023383).

Boliek, Dr. Irene.
University )

Bond, P. A., Washington, D. C.: 150
skins of North American birds (201491).

Bonet, Dr. F., México, D. F.: 60 har-
vestmen spiders, including types, from
México (199279).

Bonetto, Dr. Argentino A. (See Di-
reecién General de Investigacién y
Fomento Agricola-Ganadero)

Borden, Granville S. (See Treasury,
U. S. Department of the)

Boshell M., Dr. J., Guatemala City,
Guatemala: 18 opossums from Nica-
ragua (200646).

(See Defense,
the

(See Florida State
64

Botanischer Garten und Museum,
Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 200 Samoan
plants, Vaupel collection (199658, ex-
change) ; 200 plants collected in Hast
Africa by Dr. Albert Peter (200753,
exchange).

Botaniske Museum, Copenhagen, Den-
mark : 273 miscellaneous ferns (179936).

Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Arlington,
Va.: 20 erystals of datolite from Lane
quarry, Westfield, Mass. (200634, ex-
change); 4 thaumasites from Centre-
ville, Va. (202241).

Boudreaux, Prof. H. Bruce, Baton
Rouge, La.: 6 type slides of mites
(200647).

Bougis, Dr. P., Paris, France: 1 fish
from off coast of Algeria (197431).

Boursot, John Basile, San Salvador,
El Salvador: (Through Dr. R. M. Dar-
nell) 66 sea anemones, 6 crabs, and 3
mollusks (200570).

Bovers, Fritz, Goslar, Germany: 18
ores from the Rammelsberg district,
Goslar, Germany (199309, exchange).

Bowie, Lucy Leigh, Baltimore, Md.:
1 loom-beaded belt, probably Chippewa,
made before 1861 (199950).

Bowman, Mrs. James E, Philadelphia,
Pa.: 1 Whitall-Tatum “Three Star”
nursing bottle (200424).

Bradford, Faith, Chevy Chase, Md.:
Mid-Victorian vase (200765).

Bradley, Dr. G. A., Saskatchewan,
Canada, and Hottes, Dr. F. C., Grand
Junction, Colo.: 3 paratypes of aphids
(199875).

Bradley, Dr. W. H. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the, Geological Sur-
vey)

Brady, Maurice K., Washington,
D. C.: 2 worms from Virginia (199520).

Brady, Peter, Washington, D. C.: 4
salamanders from Elk Mountain, Nel-
son County, Va., collected by donor
August 1953 (200145).

Branham, Mrs. Hugh, Fort Myers
Beach, Fla.: 1 marine mollusk from
Indian Ocean (201552).

Bratter, Mrs. Herbert M., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Chinese scholar’s hood,
Manchu period; 2 bracelets from India;
dipper of coconut shell and wood; In-
dian drum from southeast Alaska
(202493).

Braun, Dr. Annette F., Cincinnati,
Ohio: 2 Microlepidoptera from Michi-
gan (199776); 440 “mines” of identi-
fied leaf mining insect of Hurope
(200539).

Brazil, University of, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: (Through Dr. Paulo de Miranda
Ribeiro) 2 fishes (199053, exchange).

Breitung, August J., Glendale, Calif. :
212 grasses from Waterton Lakes Na-
tional Park, Canada (200213) ; 32 ferns
from Canada (200251, 201458).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Bresser, Mrs. Esther Fritch.
Vargo, Mrs. Kathryn Fritch)

Brinton, Dr. Edward. (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Britton, Dr. E. B. (See Great Brit-
ain, Government of)

Broad, Carter, Beaufort, N. C.: 8
shrimps from Beaufort (199394).

Brock, Dr. Vernon E., Honolulu, T.
H.: 18 parrot fishes from Hawaiian
Islands (198990). (See also Hawaii,
Territory of)

Brookhaven National Laboratory,
Upton, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Aubrey
Gorbman) Approximately 40 fresh-
water mollusks from Long Island, N. Y.
(199389).

Brookings, Mrs. Walter Dubois,
Alexandria, Va.: 95 needlepoint and
bobbin-made laces and embroideries
made by members of New England fam-
ilies early in the 1800’s (202455).

Brother Daniel, Medellin, Colombia:
75 plants from Colombia (199366,
200162).

Brother Ginés. (See Sociedad de
Ciencias Naturales la Salle)

Brouwer, Prof. Dr. H. A. (See
Geologisch Instituut der Universiteit)

Brower, Dr. A. E. (See Maine State
Forest Service)

Brown, Charles S., Estate of, Syra-
euse, N. Y.: Flintlock double barrel
shotgun of about 1840 (166461, be-
quest).

Brown, Dr. Harley P., Norman, Okla. :
66 spongilla flies from United States
(200468).

Brown, Vernon L. (See American
Numismatic Association)

Brown, Dr. W. L., Jr., Cambridge,
Mass.: 45 miscellaneous flies from Vic-
toria, Australia (201733) ; 58 ants from
United States and Australia (201927,

(See

exchange). (See also Harvard Uni-
versity, Museum of Comparative
Zoology)

Brucker, Bradley, Arlington, Va.: 2
lizards from Utah and California, col-
lected by donor in 1953 (200488).

Brunel, Dr. Jules. (See Institut
Botanique)

Bruner, Dr. S. C., Santiago de las
Vegas, Cuba: 2 beetles from Cuba
(179878).

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., Washington,
D. C.: 1 “Commodore Perry’’ first-day
cover autographed by Ambassador
Hikichi Araki of Japan and Postmaster
General A. E. Summerfield, and 1
Netherlands cover (199241); 1 mint
sheet 3-cent Baltimore and Ohio U. S.
commemorative (200139); 121 foreign
and domestic philatelic specimens
(200731) ; 12 Liberian philatelie speci-
mens (200732, loan) ; 67 stamps from
Liberia and Monaco (200769); 6,710
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

philatelic specimens: assorted souvenir
booklets, stamps, envelopes, and post-
eards from United States, Nicaragua,
Serbia, El Salvador, Ecuador, Hon-
duras, Liberia (202381).

Bruns, Hattie H., New York, N. Y.:
TVirst-day cover of United Nations 3-
cent embossed envelope (199663).

Brunton, Frank, Washington, D. C.:
2 cacheted first-day covers (200767).

Buckley, Dr. J. L. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)

Bueso Arias, Jorge, Santa Rosa de
Copan, Honduras: 1 10-centavo coin
of Honduras (202312).

Bullock, Eugene F., Barrington, R. I.:
Inseribed colonial American powder
horn (202089).

Bullock, Dr. Theodore H., Los An-
geles, Calif.: 2 land mollusks from
Perti (201484).

Bundesminister fur das Post-und-
Fernmeldewesen, Bonn, Germany: 4
German commemorative stamps
(202467).

Burbanck, Dr. W D., Emory Univer-
sity, Ga.: 8 crayfishes from Smallens
Cave, Mo. (178686).

Burch, John Bayard, Richmond, Va.:
82 fresh-water mollusks from Hanover
and Henrico Counties, Va. (198696).

Burch, Prof. Paul R., Radford, Va.:
Potsherds, stone and bone artifacts re-
covered from Radford Ordnance Works
campsite, north of Radford (202417).

Burdick, William N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 6 butterflies from United States
(200034).

Buren, Dr. William F., Savannah,
Ga.: 78 named ants from United States
(200788).

Burger, Dr. W. Leslie, Urbana, Ill.: 2
racerunner lizards, one a type, from
Santa Cruz County, Ariz. (198653).

Burkenroad, Martin D., Port Aransas,
Tex. : 2 shrimps collected in 30 fathoms
from between Challenger and Argue
Banks, Bermuda (201614).

Burns, Douglas M., Portland, Oreg.:
2 salamanders, type and paratype, new
subspecies of salamander from Multno-
mah County, Oreg. (201093).

Burr, C. Fred, Phoenix, Ariz.: 3 min-
erals from Arizona (200961, exchange).

Burrill, A. C., Ringgold, Ga.: 61 snails
from Ringgold (198788).

Burton, Dr. E. Milby.
ton Museum)

Buten, Henry M., Philadelphia, Pa.:
1 postcard picturing Smithsonian Insti-
tution (200768).

Butler, Dr. Philip A. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)

Caillere, Mile. S. (See Muséum Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle)

(See Charles-

65

Calef, Morris, Bronx, N. Y.: Japa-
nese Nambu automatic pistol and
leather scabbard, and Japanese flag,
World War II (199968).

California, University of, Berkeley,

Calif.: 3 grasses from EH] Salvador
(198780) ; 306 miscellaneous plants
(199049, exchange); 1 phanerogam

from México (199135) ; 2 grasses from
California (201000) ; 1 grass from Do-
minican Republic (201055) ; 209 plants
collected in Fiji and Tonga by H. E.
Parks (202075) ; (through Prof. Stan-
ley EF. Bailey) 1 thrips from California
(198923) ; (through Dr. Boyd W. Walk-
er) 445 fishes, mostly from Gulf of
California, México (201205, exchange).

California Academy of Sciences, San
Francisco, Calif.: 38 plants (198750,
exchange); 1 grass from California,
collected by John Thomas Howell
(202077) ; (through Dr. Hugh B. Leech)
5 beetles from Galapagos Islands
(199220).

California Research Corp., San Fran-
cisco, Calif. ; Holotypes of 2 fossil plants
(201983).

Cambridge, Philip, Cardiff, South
Wales, Great Britain: Approximately
1,750 mollusks, and 7 caddis fly cases
from Great Britain and Italy (200599,
exchange).

Campbell, Robert S.
Ralph)

Campex: (Through H. D. Mitchell)
1 Campex souvenir china plate featur-
ing Pan-American Union (200420).

Campos, Luciano. (See Colecion Na-
cional de Insectos de Chile)

Canadian Government, Department
of Agriculture, Ottawa, Ontario: 49
grasses from Canada, mostly collected

(See Taylor,

by William G. Dore (190361); 461
plants from Canada (201389, ex-
change).

Cane, Dr. Walter, Hempstead, L. I.,
N. Y.: Mignon typewriter, purchased
about 1905 (201857).

Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Barite specimen from Smith
ranch, Elk Creek, Meade County, S.
Dak. (200023) ; 5 minerals from Trepea,
Jugoslavia (2010638) ; 1 thorianite crys-
tal from Madagascar (2022389).

Cape Town, University of, Ronde-
bosch, Union of South Africa:
(Through Dr. HE. A. Schelpe) 2 plants
from South Africa (201004).

Carl, Dr. G. Clifford. (See Provin-
cial Museum)

Carpenter, Capt. Walter N., Arling-
ton, Va.: 71 miscellaneous mollusks
(198689, exchange).

Carrera, Dr. Messias, Sao Paulo,
Brazil: 42 flies, including 5 paratypes,
from Brazil (199314).
66

Carrington, Kent, Chevy Chase, Md.:
Approximately 500 fresh-water mollusks
from New York (200425).

Casey, R., London, England: 8 plaster
easts of Cretaceous ammonites from
Europe (200964).

Causey, Dr. David, Fayetteville,
Ark.: 3 type slides of coccidian protozoa
from Los Angeles, Calif. (200174) ; 15
parasitic copepods from Pascagoula,

Miss. (200384); 1 parasitic barnacle
(201960).
Cawthra, Elizabeth M., Glasgow,

Scotland: 9 weevil larvae from Scot-
land (201504).

Celanese Corporation of America,
New York, N. Y.: 15 acetate fabrics
(199175).

Chace, E. P., Lomita, Calif.: 50 ma-
rine invertebrates, and echinoderms,
collected from intertidal zone one-half
mile south of Point Pinos, Monterey,
Calif., in kelp holdfasts (201547).

Chace, Dr. F. M., Arlington, Va.: 1
specimen gold-silver ore, Golden Queen
mine, Mojave, Calif. (202174).

Chafee, C. L. (See American So-
ciety of Photographic Art)

Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea,
Smithsonian Institution: 1 faceted
tourmaline from Mozambique (199157) ;
1 salmon colored morganite from Brazil
(201071) ; sphene from Ojos Negros,
Baja California, 5.18 carats (201814).

Chambers, Mrs. Dorris C., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Pen-and-ink drawing of Fort
Clay, Lexington, Ky., made by Samuel
Coss, October 4, 1863 (202511).

Chapin, Dr. Edward A., West Med-
way, Mass.: Wooden sword-club of re-
cent Easter Island provenience, pre-
sented to donor in 1946 by Sefior
Olalguiaga Fauré (201278).

Charleanneau, F. E., Washington,
D. C.: Remington type rifle with Euro-
pean modifications, 1896 (202247, ex-
change).

Charleston Museum, Charleston,
S. C.: (Through Dr. E. Milby Burton)
4 marine mollusks from South Carolina
(201761).

Chase, V. H., Peoria, Ill.: 181 grasses
(201049); (through Dr. Egbert H.
Walker) 41 fossil plants and approxi-
mately 200 invertebrate fossils from the

Pennsylvanian, vicinity of VPeoria
(199517).

Chatterton, R. Wayne, Caldwell,
Idaho: 2 butterflies from Idaho

(198656).
Cheatum, Dr. E. P.
Methodist University)
Chelf, Carl R., Austin, Tex.: 500
gastropods and pelecypods from lower
Cretaceous of Texas (201351).
Chicago Natural History Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: 1 Osgood’s tinamou

(See Southern

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

(200330, exchange) ; 1 paratype croco-.
dilian skull from Colombia, collected
by Dr. Fred Medem (202279, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. Francis Drouet)
124 algae (199625, exchange) ;
(through Loren P. Woods) 22 parrot
fishes, including 1 paratype, from Ber-
muda (201845, exchange); (through
Robert F. Inger) 4 frogs and 1 lizard,
paratypes (202012, exchange).

Clark, Austin H. (See Spence,
David)

Clark, John H.
Association )

Clark, John J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 4
cacheted covers from Hire (199802,
202398).

Clark University, Worcester, Mass. :
20 grasses, mostly from Alaska
(197852) ; 6 plants collected in Massa-
chusetts (199480, 201492).

Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Washington,
D. C.: 2 birds, 16 lizards, 1 crustacea,
500 mollusks, 1 lot corals, 3 mammals,
29 plants, and 3 fishes, from Kusai,
Caroline Islands, collected by donor in
1953 (198473) ; 382 Microlepidoptera
from Japan (199203, 199378, 200140,
201887) ; pane of 25 Allied Military Oc-
cupation of Germany stamps (202390).

Clay-Adams Co., Ine. New York,
N. Y.: (Through Henry Gumpert) Set
of Series MF History of Medicine Medi-
chrome Slides (199423).

Clench, Dr. William J.
University,
Zoology)

Cloud, Dr. Preston E., Jr. (See Dun-
lap, John C., and Interior, U. S. De-
partment of the, Geological Survey)

Coachella Valley County Water Dis-
trict, Coachella, Calif.: (Through Dr.
M. O. Nolan) 50 fresh-water clams from
Coachella Valley (200341).

Coe, Dr. Wesley R., La Jolla, Calif.:
35 marine invertebrates, on 175 slides,
including 16 types, collected in various
parts of the Pacific Ocean (200071).

Cohen, N. M., Washington, D. C.: 1
woodcut, “The Falcon,” by Jacob Pins
(200718).

Cole, Dr. A. C., Knoxville, Tenn. : 460
ants from New Mexico (201244, ex-
change) ; 50 ants from North America
(201361).

Cole, Donald P., Arlington, Va.: Mis-
cellaneous material relating to Fall
River Line and Steamboat Common-
wealth (198724).

Cole, Ralph, Washington, D. C.: 20
philatelie specimens: 2-volume collec-
tion of airmail crash-covers, clippings,
photostats and certificates of award
(199508, loan).

Coleccién Nacional de Insectos de
Chile, Santiago, Chile: (Through Luci-

(See Hire Philatelic

(See Harvard
Museum of Comparative
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

ano Campos) 1 fly allotype from Chile
(199362).

Colegio Anchieta, Porto Alegre, Bra-
zil: (Through Dr. B. Rambo) 115
grasses from Brazil (200234) ; 1 plant
from Brazil (200252).

Coleman, Richard W., Berkeley,
Calif.: 28 insects from United States
(200538).

College of Agriculture, Glen, Orange
Free State, South Africa: (Through Dr.
BE. K. Hartwig) 82 thrips, including 31
paratypes, all from South Africa
(202194, exchange).

College of Forestry, Laguna, P. I.:
188 plants collected in Philippine Is-
lands (202421).

Colton, John B., Jr. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)

Columbia Aquarium, Inc., New York,
N. Y.: (Through Guenther L. Schott)
9 aquarium fishes (201442).

Columbia University, New York, N.
Y.: Sherd samples of the Viru Valley,
Perti pottery types (200017) ; (through
F. J. Stokes Machine Co.) Eureka tab-
let machine (201247).

Compagnia Sammarinese, Rome,
Italy: 4 Italian first - day covers
(199082, 199278, 199508, 200733).

Comstock, Dr. John A., Del Mar,
Calif.: 300 Mexican microlepidoptera
(199888).

Conkin, James E., Beeville, Tex.: 6
type Foraminifera from Keokuk forma-
tion in Jefferson County, Ky. (201992).

Converse, Mrs. Olivia, Valle de Bravo,
México: Photograph of a phanerogam
(198176).

Cook, Dr. Edwin F.
University of)

Cook, John O. (See Interior, U. 8.
Department of the, National Park Serv-
ice)

Cooley, George R., Albany, N. Y.: 63
plants from Florida (201054, 201282,
201875, 202168).

Cooper, Dr. K. W., Rensselaerville,
N. Y: 125 miscellaneous insects from
Cordoba Province, Argentina (199221).

Corbett, William P., Sanibel, Fla.: 2
marine mollusks from Japan and Flor-
ida (201365, exchange)

Cornelius, George H., Seattle, Wash. :
6 blocks, 2 large concretions containing
Tertiary fossils from Alaska (200528).

Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.:
391 plants collected in Australia by
Arthur J. Eames (201811, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Edward C. Raney) 335
fishes from North Atlantic, mostly by
Albatross IIT, also from South America,
collected by C. S. Hartt and J. Chester
Bradley (202139). Bailey Hortorium:
3 phanerogams (201658, exchange).

(See Minnesota,

67

Coronado A., Pedro S., Lima, Pert:
14 Peruvian ferns (199468).

Costa, Joseph, New York, N. Y.: 70
monochrome prints and 9 color prints
for special exhibition August and Sep-
tember 1953 (199079, loan).

Cottle, Robert E., Stockdale, Tex.:
2 Texas ground snakes from near Stock-
dale (201302).

Coursen, Blair. (See General Bio-
logical Supply House)

Cousen, Thomas W., Querétaro, Méx-
ico: 2 opals from Querétaro (199202).

Cox, Lt. Comdr. P. J., Jr., Vienna, Va.:
Har pendant of jade, Maori, New Zea-
land (200327).

Cox, Dr. William, Seminole, Tex.: 5
branchiopods collected 10 miles west of
Seminole (200506).

Cram, Dr. Eloise B. (See Health,
Education and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of, Public Health Service)

Crane, Mrs. W. Murray, New York,
N. Y.: 26 costumes and accessories,
early 20th century, from estate of Mrs.
Frederick Keep, sister of donor
(202244) ; pair candelabra and match-
ing clock, Louis XVI style; Paris por-
celain tea set; ornamental jade bird;
pair Meissen porcelain candelabra;
French candelabrum stand; miscellane-
ous ornamental figurines ; 2 Russian sil-
ver-gilt cups ; Chinese lacquered folding
desk; and 2 French fans (52 speci-
mens) (202470).

Creighton, Dr. W. S., New York, N. Y.:
15 ants from America (201818, ex-
change).

Crenshaw, John W., Jr., Gainesville,
Fla.: 22 soft-shelled turtles from Geor-
gia (201278).

Crickmay, Dr. C. H.
Oil, Ltd.)

Croasdale, Dr. Hannah.
mouth College)

Cromwell, Betty (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Robert L. Morris) Em-
broidered undersleeve and collar, origi-
nally property of Elizabeth E. Crom-
well, Kentucky, about 1853 (199460).

Crooks, Mrs. Stella, and Crooks,
Ethel, Seattle, Wash.: Hand-carved
powder horn made by Samuel Davis at
Fort Ontario in 1762 (199158).

Cross, Dr. Frank B. (See Kansas,
University of)

Croston, John.
Administration )

Crouse, Mrs. Newell S., Santa Ana,
Calif.: U. S. Army nurse’s uniform worn
by donor in France, World War I
(198918).

Crown Agents for the Colonies,
Washington, D. C.: (Through A. J. E.
Davis) 228 philatelic specimens (199062,
199162, 199274, 199502, 199871, 200415,
200725, 202377).

(See Imperial
(See Dart-

(See General Services
68

Crowson, Roy A.
versity of)

Crumb, S. E., Puyallup, Wash.: 150
late Miocene pelecypods and gastropods
from 2 miles upstream from junction
of Bogachiel and Sol Duc Rivers, Clal-
lam County, Wash. (199855).

Cumming, Robert B., Gainesville,
Fla.: 40 shrimps from Dominican Re-
public, and 2 paratypes of new species
of damsel fly from Florida (201299) ;
2 erayfishes (201955); (through Dr.

(See Glasgow, Uni-

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.) 1 blind shrimp

and 1 eave crayfish from Squirrel Chim-
ney, Alachua County, Fla. (199555).

Curtin, Mrs. Mary K., Washington,
D. C.: English watch, probably 1796,
made by Hardley Norton of London
(2022385) ; 8 surgical instruments manu-
factured by C. C. Reinhardt & Co., and
used by Dr. George Taylor in the 1850’s
(2028385).

Curtis, Karl, Gamboa, C. Z.: Knitted
carrying bag from Guaymi Indians,
Veraguas, western Panama; 2 Lind-
bergh commemorative stamps (201785).

Czechoslovakia, Government of:
(Through Artia, Ltd.) 81 philatelic
specimens (199080, 199506, 199874,
200418, 200723, 200736, 202383).

da Costa Lima, Prof. Dr. A., Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil: 7 insects from Brazil
including 5 types (199668). (See also
Hscola Nacional de Agronomia)

Dahlgreen Fund, Smithsonian Insti-
tution: “Santa Clara Valley,” color
woodcut by Antonio Frasconi (199927) ;
encaustie color etching, ‘Landscape,’
by Milton Goldstein (201285); 24
chiaroscuro wood cuts by John Baptist
Jackson reproducing 17 paintings by
Venetian masters (202373).

Daiber, Dr. Franklin C.
ware, University of)

Darling, Cyrus, Brattleboro, Vt.: 1
plant from Vermont (198684).

Darling, Thomas, Jr., Washington,
D. C.: 2 ferns from Alaska and Oregon
(200129).

Darnell, Dr. R. M.
John Basil)

Dart, Mrs. W. L., West Palm Beach,
Fla.: An applique quilt of about 1870
(201463).

Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.:
(Through Dr. Hannah Croasdale) 18
algae from Alaska (200527).

Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents
for the Colonies)

Davis, Dr. David E., Baltimore, Md.:
3 small mammals and 25 plants from
Korea (200756, 201515).

Davis & Furber Machine Co., North
Andover, Mass.: Original Scholfield
wool-carding machine, 1798 (187285).

Dawson, Edwin P. (See Seamless
Rubber Co.)

(See Dela-

(See Boursot,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Dayioglou, Mrs. Katina Bodossaki,
Silver Spring, Md.: Doily of Tenerife
needlepoint and jabot of needlepoint
and embroidery (199148).

Dayton Public Library and Museum.
(See Goldsmith, E. N.)

Dean, Mrs. Russell J. N., Arlington,
Va.: 3 examples of 19th century velvet
(2022383).

de Beaumont, Dr. J.
Zoologique)

de Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas,
Brazil: Approximately 800 miscellane-

(See Musee

ous insects from Brazil (198976,
202400).

Decker, W. M. (See Hygeia Nursing
Bottle Co.)

Decoursey, Brig. Gen. Elbert. (See
Defense, U. S. Department of, Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology)

Defense, U. S. Department of, ARMED
HORCES INSTITUTE OF PATHOLOGY, Wash-
ington, D. C.: (Through Brig. Gen.
Elbert Decoursey) 2 panels of an ex-
hibit entitled “The Development of the
Stethoscope” for exhibition November—
December 1953 (199966, loan) ; replicas
of 9 Pompeii surgical instruments
(201517, loan) ; 2-panel exhibit of 11
early microscopes (201928, loan);
(through Col. Frank B. Rogers) 12 col-
ored prints of 18th and 19th century
medical caricatures for exhibition May,
June, and July 1954 (202114, loan).
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY, Army Medi-
cal Service Graduate School: (Through
Phyilis T. Johnson) 938 fleas (198924) ;
(through Capt. Bryce C. Walton) 1
weasel, 1 red bat, and 1 shrew from
Maryland (198925) ; 65 marine inverte-
brates, 2 scorpions, 4 millepedes, 47
mollusks, and 1 fish collected in Borneo
in Joint U. S. Army-British Colonial
Office project (201546); (through Dr.
Donald MacMullen) 128 fresh-water
mollusks from Alabama (199598) ;
(through Robert HE. Elbel) mammals,
48 birds, 4 bird alcoholics, reptiles, 339
miscellaneous insects from British
North Borneo (200629); (through Lt.
Col. Robert Traub) 4 small mammals
from Great Smoky Mountains National
Park, Tenn. (200971) ; mammals, birds,
and reptiles and amphibians from
Korea (201044) ; 1,185 ticks (202441).
(Through Dr. Willard V. King and Dr.
Harry Hoogstraal, 19th Medical Gen-
eral Laboratory) 2,405 miscellaneous
mosquitoes from Pacific region
(198816) ; (through William C. Ben-
tinck, U.S. Army Hospital 8164th A. U.)
156 midges from Japan (199879) ;
(through Lt. Col. F. S. Blanton, 25th
Preventive Medicine Survey Det.) 117
birds from Panama (200183, 202226) ;
(through Dr. Willard V. King, 19th
Medical General Laboratory) 405
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

mosquitoes from New Guinea, includ-
ing types and slides (200639) ; (through
Lt. Clyde S. Barnhart, 207th Preventive
Medicine Survey) 145 mammals from
Korea (201516). Office of Chief of Mili-
tary History: 2 coins from ancient
Greece and Byzantium (200459). Dr
PARTMENT OF THE Navy: U.S. naval cut-
lass, Model 1917, with leather scabbard
(201065) ; (through Lt. Comdr. Robert
W. Kuntz, Naval Medical Research Unit
No. 3) large collection of reptiles and
amphibians; approximately 608 mol-
lusks; 3,662 fishes; 334 mammals; 54
insects; 4 scorpions; 6 echinoderms;
456 marine invertebrates; 174 birds
from Hgypt (198427, 199125, 199403,
201427, 202225, 202813). (Through
Capt. J. L. Enyart, Naval Medical
School) 51 mammals from Pescadores
Islands, Formosa (195311); (through
Comdr. W. J. Dougherty, Fleet Epi-
demic Disease Control Unit No. 2) 42
mammals from Pescadores Islands,
Formosa (199042); (through Comdr.
Kenneth L. Knight, Preventive Medi-
cine Unit No. 1) 2 leaf-nosed bats from
Cuba (200254) ; 1 land mollusk from
Trinidad (200604) ; (through Dr. Harry
Hoogstraal, Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 3) 65 land and fresh-water
mollusks from Anglo-Egyptian Sudan
(202254).

de Fez, Dr. Siro, Valencia, Spain:
Approximately 600 marine, land, and
fresh-water mollusks from Spain and
West Africa (198693, exchange).

DeFriece, Frank W., Jr. (See Mas-
sengill Co., S. E.)

Deichmann, Dr. Elisabeth. (See
Harvard University, Museum of Com-
parative Zoology)

de la Torre R. Senora Blanca,
Habana, Cuba: 8,930 Cuban land snails,
including types of new species and
varieties of Polymita, from collection of
the late Dr. Carlos de la Torre (198705).

de Laubenfels, David J., Athens, Ga.:
2 Tasmanian ferns (201226).

de Laubenfels, Dr. M. W., Corvallis,
Oreg.: 2 type sponges from the Hon-
olulu Public Aquarium (198670).

Delaware, University of, Newark,
Del.: (Through Dr. Franklin C.
Daiber) 1 berycoid fish collected at 110
fathoms 70 miles east-southeast of
Atlantic City, N. J. (201481).

Delta State Teachers College, Cleve-
land, Miss.: 36 grasses from Mississippi
(199190).

Demaree, Dr. Delzie, Bauxite, Ark.:
179 grasses from Mississippi and Ar-
kansas (197986, 201227); 202 plants
collected in southern United States
(201349, 201495).

Dendy, Dr. J. S. Auburn, Ala.: 15
oysters from Philippines (196175).

69

Denmark, H. A. (See Florida State
Plant Board)

Dennis, Jay. (See Seamen’s Church
Institute of New York)

DePauw University, Greencastle,
Ind.: 582 plants collected in Tonga by
T. G. Yuneker (199847, 201057, 201810) ;
474 plants collected in Tonga by T. G.
Yuncker (201986, exchange) ; (through
Prof. Winona Welch) 188 plants col-
lected primarily in Indiana (201876,
exchange).

de Souza Lopes, Dr. H., Rio de Ja-
neiro Brazil: 2 rare marine mollusks
from Brazil (200975, exchange).

Dickerman, Dr. E. E., Put-in-Bay,
Ohio: Holotype of new species, in new
genus, of trematode (198902).

Dickinson, Martha. (See Weyhe Gal-
lery )

Diem, José, Neuquén, Argentina: 6
ferns from Argentina (198908, 200673).

Dietrich, Dr. Henry, Ithaca, N. Y.:
12 insects from United States (201860).

Di Maggio, Andrea, Washington,
D. C.: 1 shoulder blade of blackfish
from Virginia (199674).

Dion, Frederick H., Weston, Mass.:
(Through Mrs. William V. Smith) An
1890 flag and an 1896-1908 garrison
flag (199462).

Direccién General de Investigacion y
Fomento Agricola—Ganadero. Santa
Fe, Argentina: (Through Dr. Argentino
A. Bonetto) 291 fresh-water mollusks
and approximately 20 marine inverte-
brates from Argentina (196065).

Dix, George P., Jr.. Moab, Utah: 1
uraninite, Utex mine, Moab, Utah
(199857) ; (through Frank L. Hess) 2
zeunerites and 1 specimen of radium-
bearing silicified wood from Indian
Creek about 30 miles southwest of Moab,
Utah (199376, 199593).

Dodek, Dr. and Mrs. Samuel, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Woodcut, “Man in a
Lane,” by Jacob Pins (201654).

Dominican Republic, Government of:
(Through Luis F. Thomen) 1 souvenir
folder with sheet of Dominican Repub-
lic Columbus Memorial Beacon postage
and airmail stamps (199355).

Donaldson, Col. Harold B., Alexan-
dria, Va.: 124 woods from Japan, Thai-
land, Australia, and Hong Kong mar-
ket (201991).

Doty, Dr. Maxwell S., Honolulu, T. H.:
12 bryophytes from Marshall Islands,
collected by Leonard Horwitz under
auspices of Pacific Science Board
(2010538).

Dougherty, Comdr. W. J. (See De-
fense, Department of, Depariment of
the Navy)

Douse, Mrs. Dorothy E., Washington,
D. C.: 1 sapsucker (201033).
70

Downes, Dr. J. Antony, Ottawa, On-
tario: 12 biting midges from Britain
(201891).

Drake, Dr. C. J., Ames, Iowa: 3
paratype bugs from South America and
India (201737, exchange).

Drake, Robert J., Tucson, Ariz.: 13
land mollusks from Baja California,
México (201376).

Drouet, Dr. Francis. (See Chicago
Natural History Museum)

Duhovnik, Dr. Joze. (See Smejkal,
Mr.)

Duke University, Durham, N. C.:
(Through Dr. G. W. Wharton) 10 sala-
manders from Duke Forest, Orange
County, N. C., collected by A. A. Barber
(198110).

Dundee, Miss Dee, Ann Arbor, Mich. :
46 land shells from Oklahoma (199252).

Dunlap, John C., Dallas, Tex.:
(Through Dr. Preston HB. Cloud, Jr.)
9 marine mollusks from Red Sea, Saudi
Arabia (201366).

Dunn School of Pathology, Sir Wil-
liam, Oxford, England: (Through Dr.
N. G. Heatley) 5 specimens pertaining
to the early manufacture and assay of
penicillin (199422).

Duvall, Allen J. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Easterbrook, Col. Ernest F., Wash-
ington, D. C.: 2 Moro spears and a kris,
brass helmet, coat of brass plate, and
chain armor worn by Moro datto during
Philippine Insurrection, collected by
Chaplain Edmund Easterbrook, father
of donor (202416).

Earel, Raleigh, Quincy, Ill: 1 pharma-
ceutical syrup dispensing bottle
(200598).

Eastman, Col. Clyde L., St. Peters-
burg, Fla.: 18 Alaskan Eskimo culture
objects collected by donor in 1912; pair
Blackfoot Indian moosehide leggings;
cowboy’s leather belt; wooden egg
beater from México; and Chinese ivory
fan (202367).

Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N. Y.:
(Through Keith Lewis) 3 cameras,
flashholder, and 3 lenses (201995).

Easton, Dr. William H., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 75 Permian brachiopods from
the Confusion Range in western Utah
(200137, exchange).

Eaton, M. C. (See Norwich Pharma-
cal Co.)

Ecole d’Agriculture, Rimouski, Que-
bec: 40 grasses from Canada (200130) ;
250 plants and 1 sponge from Canada
(201281, exchange).

Edgar, Dr. S. A., Auburn, Ala.: 300
adult mosquitoes from Tahiti, the Mar-
quesas, and other Pacific islands
(201513).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Edmondson, Dr. C. H., Honolulu,
T. H.: 6 crabs from Pearl Harbor
(201333).

Eickemeyer Fund, Smithsonian Insti-
tution: 4 pictorial photographie prints
by. Hans Marx, “Leaving the Anchor-
age,” “Faces at the Station,” “At the
Races,” and “Rendezvous at Chinco-
teague”’ (202242).

Hire Philatelic Association, Brooklyn,
N. Y.: (Through John J. Clark) 2 Hire
first-day covers and 1 cacheted cover
franked with 3-cent 4H Club stamp
(199061).

Eisenhower, Mrs. Dwight D., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Renoir pink peau-de-soie
dress and crinoline skirt worn by donor
at Inaugural Ball, January 20, 1953
(197397) ; lace wedding dress worn by
Mamie Doud when she married Dwight
D. Hisenhower July 1, 1916 (200764).

Elbel, Robert E., Bangkok, Thailand:
304 birds, 2 bird alcoholics, and 625
mammals (198018). (See also Defense,
U.S. Department of, Department of the
Army)

Elliott, Harrison, Arlington, Va.: 10
block prints by J. J. Lankes (201242).

Ellis, Mrs. Marion Durbin, Los
Angeles, Calif: 170 crayfishes collected
in Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Oregon,
and Utah by Dr. and Mrs. Max M. Bilis
(200070).

Embick, Lt. Gen. Stanley D., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Approximately 1,050 ma-
rine and land mollusks from Philippines
(201367).

Emerson, Dr. A. E., Chicago, Ill. : 986
termites, including types, from all over
the world (200028).

Emerson, Lt. Col. K. C., New York,
N. Y.: 12 type lice from various parts
of the world (200470).

Enyart, Capt. J. L.
Department of,
Navy)

Epstein, Leonard, New York, N. Y.:
16 Liberian United Nations stamps
(202391).

Escola de Agricultura a Medicina
Veterinaria, Cruz das Almas, Bahia,
Brazil: 64 plants from Brazil (193989).

Escola Nacional de Agronomia, Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr. A. da
Costa Lima) 2 paratype wasps and 5
beetles from Brazil (199774, 200821, ex-
change).

Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Te-
gucigalpa, Honduras: 5 ferns from Hon-
duras (198706).

Estacion Experimental Agricola, Rio
Piedras, P. R.: 4 plants collected in
Puerto Rico (201482).

Estacién Experimental Agrondémica,
Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: 2 plants
collected in Cuba (201195).

(See Defense,
Department of the
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Etcheverry C., Prof. Maria, Santiago,
Chile: 5 moths from South America
(200142, exchange).

Evans, Dr. H. E., Ithaca, N. Y.: 5
North American wasps (200462, ex-
change).

Ewers, John C., Washington, D. C.:
1 pattern of old-style, soft-soled mocca-
sin cut from skin by Holy Pipe Woman,
Assiniboin informant for donor, June
1953 (199921).

Fairchild, Dr. Graham B., Panama,
Panamé: 44 moth flies and 3 horseflies
from Neotropical and Australasian
areas (199666).

Farfante, Dr. Isabel Pérez. (See
Banco de Fomento Agricola & Industrial
de Cuba)

Fawcett, James Waldo, Washington,
D. C.: Automatic pistol taken from
body of enemy company commander by
the South Koreans in 1952 (198813).

Fergus, W. Lee, Glen Ellyn, Ill: 1
eacheted envelope (200728).

Ferguson, Douglas C., Halifax, Nova
Scotia: 20 moths from Canada
(201659).

Ferguson, Dr. Edward, Jr., Orange-
burg, S. C.: 4 type specimens of fresh-
water ostracods from Orangeburg
County, S. C. (198946).

Ferreyra, Dr. Ramon. (See Museo de
Historia Natural “Javier Prado’’)

Fessenden, Dr. G. R., Baltimore, Md.:
78 botanical and zoological specimens
preserved in plastic by a process devel-
oped by donor (198812) ; 18 plants col-
lected in Maryland (202105).

Field, Dr. Henry, Coconut Grove,
Fla.: 50 plants and 2 crabs from Flor-
ida (199585, 199719); 83 plants col-
lected in Florida by Arthur Kirk
(201607, 202330).

Field, Dr. and Mrs. Henry, Coconut
Grove, Fla.: 400 marine mollusks, in-
sects, and 11 marine invertebrates from
Florida (200471) ; 87 fresh-water mol-
lusks from Maine (200541).

Fiji Department of Agriculture,
Suva: 3 plants collected in Fiji (202422,
' exchange).

Fleetwood, Raymond J., Socorro, N.
Mex.: 2 bats from New Mexico
(197720). (See also Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Fleischer, Dr. M. (See Kirchheimer,
Dr. Franz, and Interior, U. S. Depart-
ment of the, Geological Survey)

Fleming, Sir Alexander, London,
England: Specimen of the mold from
which penicillin was originally made
(198819).

Fleming, Dr. C. A., Wellington, New
Zealand: 5 Tertiary pelecypods from
New Zealand (201072, exchange).

317706—54——6

71

Florida, University of, Gainesville,
Fla.: Grass from Florida (198852) ; 1
cultivated fern (201731) ; (through Dr.
A. N. Tissot) 2 thrips, including 1 para-
type, from Florida (198876) ; (through
Dr. Erdman West) 1 plant from Florida
(200703).

Florida State Plant Board, Gaines-
Ville, Fla.: (Through H. A. Denmark)
2 land snails from Florida (202346).

Florida State University, Tallahas-
see, Fla.: 4 nudibranch mollusks from
Florida (200846) ; (through Dr. Irene
Boliek) 6 mysid crustaceans from
Wakulla River, Fla. (200653).

Fondiller, Dr. and Mrs. William,
Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut, “King
Saul,” by Jacob Pins (200712).

Forbes, Dr. William T. M., Ithaca,
N. Y.: 17 moths from the West Indies
(199380).

Ford, Everett J.. Wahiawa, Oahu, T.
H.: 34 beetles, including 1 paratype,
from Hawaii (201888).

Ford, T., London, England: 8
Microlepidoptera from Hngland
(199280).

Foreman, Russeil R., Viti Levu, Fiji:
81 butterflies and moths from Fiji

(202476).
Forster, Dr. Walter. (See Zoolo-
gische Sammlung des. bayerischen

Staates)

Fosberg, Dr. F. R., Washington, D. C.:
4 plants from Virginia and West Vir-
ginia (199698).

Foshag, Dr. William F., Washington,
D. C.: “Milagro” votive painting from
church of Santo Cristo de los Milagros,
San Juan Paragaricultiro, Michoacan,
México, collected by donor in 1944
(201019).

Foster, H. Lincoln, Falls Village,
Conn.: 1 type fern (199588).

Foster, Mulford B., Orlando, Fla.: 7
plants collected in Panama and Brazil
(200752, 201868).

Fowler, Verna A., Salina, Kans. : 215
land mollusks from Salina (198793).

Fox, John A., Floral Park, L.1., N. Y.:
1 stampless cover with special mark-
ings, and 1 Cuneiform ca. 2,200 B. C.,
and 1 Cuneiform signet (202474).

Fox, Lt. Col. John R., Washington,
D. C.: 2 ammonites and 1 pelecypod
from Cretaceous of Japan (201356).

Franclemont, Dr. J. G., Ithaca, N. Y.:
38 moths from United States (200638).

Freeman, Oliver M., Tryon, N. C.: 42
grasses from North Carolina (198913,
200408) ; 1 fern (199051).

Freeman, Dr. T. N., Ottawa, Ontario:
28  microlepidoptera from Canada
(201795).

Freund, F. R., Richmond, Va.: 3
lizards, 4 wormsnakes, 6 diplopods, and
1 scorpion from San Joaquin, Leyte,
72

Philippine Islands, collected in Decem-
ber 1944 by donor (199919).

Freytag, George F., México, D. F.: 67
land and fresh-water mollusks from
México and Wyoming (201295).

Friedrich, Dr. Hans, Mtinchen, Ba-
varia, Germany: 233 land and fresh-
water mollusks from Bavaria (201381,
exchange).

Frimerkjasalan.
ernment of)

Frost, Dr. S. W., State College, Pa.:
1 beetle from United States (200422).

Fujii, Dr. T. (See Tokyo Imperial
University)

Fuller, Mrs. Orrin. (See Gibson, Mrs.
Nellie Fuller)

Fundacién Miguel Lillo, Tucum4n,
Argentina: 246 grasses from Argentina
(198912) ; 700 plants from Argentina
(199149, 202419, exchange) ; (through
Dr. Nicolas Kusnezov) 742 ants, includ-
ing types, from Argentina (199282) ; 145
ants from Argentina, including 22 types
(201505).

Furman, Prof. Deane P., Berkeley,
Calif.: 2 type mites from California
(199088) .

Galindo, Dr. Pedro.
morial Laboratory)

Gamerdinger, Henry, Monaco:
philatelic specimens (199276).

Gammell, John. (See Allis-Chalmers
Manufacturing Co.)

Garcia, Dr. Miguel. (See Instituto
de Entomologia Sanitaria)

General Biological Supply House,
Chicago, Ill.: (Through Blair Coursen)
5 fishes collected in Nigeria (198659).

(See Iceland, Goy-

(See Gorgas Me-
42

General Electric Co, Richland,
Wash.: 2 samples of diatoms (201600).
General Services Administration,

Washington, D. C.: 15 assorted, used,
foreign stamps (2023875); (through
John Croston) nickel ore from Pin Pin
mine, New Caledonia (199078).

Geologian Laitos, Helsinki, Finland:
(Through Prof. Martti Saksela) 19
rocks from the Orijarvi region, Finland
(201902, exchange).

Geologisch Instituut der Universiteit,
Amsterdam, Netherlands: (Through
Prof. Dr. H. A. Brouwer) 1 type ferro-
carpholite from a cobble, west of
Tomate, eastern central Celebes
(200335, exchange).

Geologische Landesamt, Baden-Wur-
temberg, Germany: (Through Dr.
Franz Kirchheimer) 7 minerals from
Germany (201528, exchange).

Geophysical Laboratory, Washington,
D. C.: 2 rhyolites from Novarupta,
Alaska; iron knebelite from Japan;
jadeite from China (199705).

Germany, Government of, Post-und
Fernmeldewesen, Bonn: 4 ‘Freie Wohl-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

fahrt’”’ semipostal stamps overprinted
“Muster” 1953 (200421).

Getz, Dorothy, San Diego, Calif.: Ap-
proximately 518 land, fresh-water, and
marine mollusks from Mauritius, Bast
Africa, France, Australia, and the Indo-
Pacifie (195764, 198892, 199171).

Gibson, Mrs. Nellie Fuller, and Ful-
ler, Mrs. Orrin, Arlington, Va.: Needle
painting embroidery work by Mrs. Gib-
son, 1900 (201850).

Gilbert, Bernard H., Tegucigalpa,
Honduras: 50 insects, scorpions, taran-
tula, 1 snake and 1 lizard from Hon-
duras (198654).

Gilbert, Edward E., Freeport, N. Y.:
47 beetles, including weevil larvae from
California (198922, exchange).

Ginsburg, Isaac. (See Gordon, Mal-
colm §.; and Interior, U. S. Department
of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)

Given, Bruce B., Nelson, New Zea-
land: 140 miscellaneous Australian in-
sects (202113).

Glaser, Ezra, Falls Church, Va.: 1
sparrow hawk (201279).

Glaser, John. (See Levey, Harold,
and Roebling Collection)

Glasgow, University of, Glasgow,
Scotland: (Through Roy A. Crowson)
9 beetle larvae from Scotland (201648,
exchange).

Glenn, Murray O., Henry, Ill.: 4 moths
from Illinois (200540).

Gloyd, Mrs. Leonora K. (See Illinois
State Natural History Survey)

Goldman, Hyman, Washington, D. C.:
1 woodcut, ‘Jerusalem Landscape,” by
Jacob Pins (200711).

Goldsmith, E. N., Dayton, Ohio:
(Through Dayton Public Library and
Museum) 2 fountain pens, late 19th
century (199544).

Gookin, Elmer Leroy, Chariton, Iowa:
Powder horn of Samuel Gookin, 1767—

1828, great grandfather of donor
(201694).
Gorbman, Dr. Aubrey. (See Brook-

haven National Laboratory)

Gordon, Malcolm S., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
(Through Isaac Ginsburg) 85 fishes
and 4 shrimps from México, collected by
donor (202460).

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Pana-
md, Panama: (Through Dr. Pedro
Galindo) 297 mosquitoes, including
types, from Panama (202478).

Graham, Judge and Mrs. Samuel Jor-
dan, Takoma Park, Md.: Collection of
125 pieces of antique and modern hand-
made laces, embroideries, cutwork and
drawn work, and small jewel box
(202257).

Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S., St. Charles,
Ill.: Black silk, lace-covered parasol
with a black wooden handle, ca. 1880
(201906).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Grant, William C.
Grace E.)

Graves, Maj. and Mrs. James S., Dub-
lin, Ga.: 1 brass mortar and pestle from
Tripoli, North Africa (201046, deposit).

Gray, Dr. I. E., Durham, N. C.: 9
shrimps from Beaufort, N. C. (1991386).

Great Britain, Government of:
(Through Sir Roger Makins) Collec-
tion of 13 British decorations, medals,
and campaign stars (201663). British
Museum (Natural History), London:
60 ferns from Mount Kenya, Africa,
collected by BE. Schelpe and F. White in
1949 (199769, exchange) ; (through Dr.
BE. B. Britton) 1 paratype beetle
(199070) ; (through Dr. N. B. Mar-
shall) 1 fish from St. Helena (201201,
exchange) ; (through G. J. Kerrich) 2
paratypes of parasitic wasps from Eu-
rope (210394) ; (through Dr. T. C. S.
Morrison-Scott) 186 mammals (202512).

Greenfield, Ray, Honolulu, T. H.: Ap-
proximately 228 marine invertebrates
(201959).

Greenwood, William, Sydney, New
South Wales: 127 plants collected in
Fiji (201494).

Gregg, Dr. Robert E., Boulder, Colo. :
76 ants from North America (201512) ;
6 ants from North America (201734,
exchange).

Gregg, Dr. Wendell O., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 3 land mollusk paratypes from
Arizona (200474).

Grenier, Dr. P., Paris, France: 46
miscellaneous blackflies from Europe,
North Africa, and Cameroon (200771,
exchange).

Gressitt, J. L.
Bernice P.)

Grey, Dr. John H., Jr., Williamsburg,
Va.: 1 grackle and 1 bluejay (200526).

Griffith, Dr. Francis P., Washington,
D. C.: 1 pair of split bifocal spectacles
of type first introduced by Benjamin
Franklin in 1784 (200339).

Grimes, Virginia Lee, Washington,
D. C.: 2 small, turned and lidded,
painted, wooden containers of Hungar-
ian provenience, long in possession of
family of donor (199045).

Gross, Paul J., Okmulgee, Okla.: 9
U. S. commemorative ‘‘Velvetone” cards
(199163, 199272).

Guibé, Dr. Jean. (See Museum Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle)

Guild, William, St. Petersburg, Fla.:
1 cultivated plant (200749).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory,
Ocean Springs, Miss.: 1 plant (199217).

Gumpert, Henry. (See Clay-Adams
Co., Ine.)

Hacke, Dr. and Mrs. Maurice A.,
Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut, ‘““Demon-
stration,” by Jacob Pins (200710).

(See Pickford, Dr.

(See Bishop Museum,

(6)

Hall, Dr. E. Raymond. (See Kansas,
University of)

Hall, Evelyn H., Arlington, Va.:
(Through Dr. Paul Bartsch) Knitted
lace cap of the type worn by elderly
women in late 18th century in America
(200209).

Hall, Mrs. Linus H., Wallingford,
Conn.: Sword carried during War of
Revolution by Eliakim Hall of Conti-
nental Army (200138).

Halstead, Dr. Bruce W. (See School
of Tropical and Preventive Medicine.)

Hambleton, James I. (See Agricul-
ture, U. 8. Department of, Horticultural
Crops Research Branch)

Hambley, William A., Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 180 uniforms, accessories,
and assorted medals and decorations
of German army, navy, air force, and
Hitler Arbeiters (202500).

Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 26
philatelic specimens (199160, 199804,
200722, 200734, 2024386).

Hand, Dr. Cadet, Berkeley, Calif.: 6
marine invertebrates (199320).

Handley, Charles O., Jr., Falls
Church, Va. : 2 big-eared bats from West
Virginia (201043).

Handschin, Dr. E. (See Basel Mu-
seum of Natural History)

Hanes, Clarence R., Schoolcraft,
Mich.: 11 grasses from Michigan
(200407).

Hankins, J. Haden, Richmond, Va.:
1 sample of diatom from Virginia
(199582).

Haque, Mohsenul.
Geological Survey of)

Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu, T. H.:
1 fly from North America (201017) ; 5
flies, including 2 paratypes, from Aus-
tralia and Oahu (201507). (See also
Adachi, Marion)

Hardy, Jerry David, Baltimore, Md.:
Miscellaneous reptiles and amphibians,
collected in Cuba by donor (202360).

Harmer, Bernard, New York, N. Y.:
2 first-day covers of Queen Elizabeth II
Coronation issue (198919).

Harper, Dr. Francis, Mount Holly,
N. J.: 100 plants collected in Ungava
(202459).

Harry, Robert R. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Hartmann, Ratibor, Panama, Pan-
ama: Short-tailed shrew from Volcdin
de Chiriqui, Panama (198723).

Hartwig, Dr. E. K. (See College of
Agriculture)

Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.: Arnold Arboretum: 688 plants
collected in Dominican Republic by R.
A. Howard (201498, exchange). Gray
Herbarium: 1 fern (198685) ; 791 mis-
cellaneous plants (199046, exchange) ;

(See Pakistan,
74

(through Dr. R. A. Howard) 21 plants
from Dominican Republic (199500) ; 3
West Indian phanerogams collected by
Dr. R. A. Howard (199697). Museum
of Comparative Zoology: 1 Hainan night
heron (201608, exchange); 18 fresh-
water mollusks from Alabama (202083,
exchange) ; approximately 2,500 marine
and fresh-water mollusks from New
England (202177) ; (through Dr. W. L.
Brown) 82 ants from Australia and
China (199222, exchange); 31 ants
from Nearctic and West Indian regions
(201245) ; (through William C.
Schroeder) 6 fishes including 4 types
(199661, exchange) ; (through Dr. Wil-
liam J. Clench) 1,000 miscellaneous
mollusks, including types (200587, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. Joseph
Bequaert) 5 land mollusks from Co-
lombia and Pertti (200976, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann) 2
marine _ invertebrates (201782) ;
(through Dr. Harry B. Whittington)
15 brachiopods from Europe and the
United States (201816, exchange) ; 14
brachiopods from Germany and Bel-
gium (201817, exchange).

Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba,
Paranda, Brazil: 78 plants from Brazil
(198800, 199754).

Hattori, Dr. Sinske, Nichinan, Japan:
60 Japanese cryptogams (200632, ex-
change).

Hawaii, Territory of, Board of Com-
nussioners of Agriculture and Forestry,

Honolulu: (Through Dr. Vernon UW.
Brock) 1 gorgonian collected in 25
fathoms off Keahole Point, Hawaii
(1987386).

Hawkes, Ruth. (See Patch, William
Young)

Hawley, Mrs. C. H.
Theodore J.)
Haworth, Edwin P., Kansas City, Mo.:
31 philatelic specimens (200720).
Hayes, Doris. (See Agriculture,
U. S. Department of, Forest Service)
Hayvanat Enstitiist, Istanbul, Tur-
key: (Through Dr. Curt Kosswig) 1
fish from the Red Sea (201084).
Health, Education and Welfare, U.S.
Department of, Washington, D. C.:
Public Health Service: 107 birds from
northern Alaska, collected by Dr.
Laurence Irving (200829); (through
Dr. Eloise B. Cram) 2 fresh-water
mollusks from Brazil (195095) ;
(through Dr. William L. Jellison) 18
fresh-water mollusks from Montana
(198994); (through Dr. Harry D.
Pratt) 3 type mites from United States
(199069) ; (through Dr. Glen M. Kohls)
4 paratypes of ticks from South Amer-
ica (199165); (through John Krog) 7
crustaceans from Goose Lake near
Anchorage, Alaska (199472) ; (through

(See Wint, Gen.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Helen L. Trembley) 187 mosquitoes
reared in lab colony (199672) ; (through
Dr. Elmer G. Berry) 2 fresh-water
mollusks from Portugal (199809) ;
(through Dr. Carl O. Mohr) 4 nema-
todes collected from rats in Sansapor,
New Guinea (200007) ; (through W. H.
W. Komp) 2 mosquito larvae from
North America (2000381) ; (through Dr.
Everett L. Schiller) 6 crustaceans col-
lected on Kodiak Island, Alaska, 1953
(200047) ; (through Douglas i. Hil-
liard) 480 fresh-water mollusks from
Chena . River, Alaska (200485) ;
(through M. Thomas Bartram) 2 pom-
fret fishes from southern Japan
(201233) ; (through Dr. Robert Rausch)
12 mammals from Alaska (2023853).

Heatley, Dr. N.G. (See Dunn School
of Pathology, Sir William)

Hedgpeth, Joel W., La Jolla, Calif:
7 marine nudibranch mollusks from
Texas (198786).

Heinmuller, John P. V., New York, N.
Y.: Official certification and stamps of
Philippine Government presented to
Comdr. Francesco de Pinedo on his
around-the-world flight, 1925 (199865).

Heintz, Prof. Anatol. (See Paleonto-
logisk Museum)

Helfert Family, Howard W., Kensing-
ton, Md.: French court suit, ca. 1815-
1840, consisting of black velvet coat,
silk waistcoat, plush trousers, and a
black felt bicorne hat trimmed with
white ostrich (199068).

Henbest, Lloyd G., Washington, D. C.:
1 rare trilobite from Lecompton forma-
tion of Kansas (202868).

Henderson, Mrs. Marie.
Johann G. and Christine.)

Henry, Dr. J. M., Nokomis, Fla.: 1
phanerogam from Florida (200161).

Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,”
Itajai, Brazil: 52 plants from Brazil
(199416) ; 154 Brazilian grasses, col-
lected by Rev. P. Raulino Reitz
(201348) ; (through Rev. P. Raulino
Reitz) 520 plants from Brazil (199591,
200403).

Herbert, Rev. Dr. Arthur, Newark,
N. J.: 20 Clara Maas Memorial Lu-
theran Hospital 1953 Christmas seals
(199870).

Hercules Powder Co., Wilmington,
Del.: 81 specimens and 35 photographs
showing production of naval stores
chemical products by solvent extrac-
tion from yellow pine wood (202078).

Hermanoff, Irvin. (See Winokur, Dr.
William. )

Herzog, Johann G. and Christine (de-
ceased): (Through Mrs. Marie Hen-
derson) Danish gold locket, engagement
present from Mrs. Marie Henderson’s
father, Johann G. Herzog, to her
mother; also gold-filled brooch, pre-

(See Herzog,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

sented to Mrs. Henderson’s mother by
her parents (201693).

Hess, Frank L., Bethesda, Md. : 3 min-
erals from Utex mine, near Moab, Utah
(199310). (See also Dix, George P.,
Jr.)

Heuberg, Alfred. (See Inter-Ocean
Trading Co.)

Hiatt, Dr. Robert W., Honolulu, T. H.:
1,584 marine invertebrates, 4 lots tuni-
cates, echinoderms, mollusks, and turtles
collected on Arno Atoll, Marshall Is-
lands, and Yap Island, Caroline Islands
(195038).

Hibbard, Dr. Claude W.
igan, University of)

Highbarger, Robert, Arlington, Va.:
1 prehnite and 1 apophyllite on prehnite
from near Centreville, Va (199375,
199770, exchange) ; 2 specimens fluorite
ore, Victory mine, Cave-in-Rock, Ill.
(202171).

Highlands Biological Station, High-
lands, N. C.: (Through Thelma How-
ell) 6 fresh-water mussels from Cha-
tooga River, Ga. (198794).

Hildebrand, Henry. (See Texas, Uni-
versity of)

Hilliard, Douglas K. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Depart-
ment of, Public Health Service)

Hinton, George, Saltillo, México: 1
lot grossularite crystals from near Lake
Jaco, Coahuila, México (199860, ex-
change).

Hitchcock, Dr. Harold B., Middlebury,
Vt.: 73 small mammals (197528); 7
bats and 1 mouse from Ontario (199524,
200473).

Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Char-
lottesville, Va. : 534 crustaceans, includ-
ing 6 types (198671, 199558). (See
also Beck, William M., Jr.; Cumming,
Robert B.; and Virginia, University of)

Hodges, Ronald, Lansing, Mich.: 2
butterflies from United States (199709).

Hodziewich, Stanley J., Radiant
Valley, Md.: 17 philatelic specimens
(199806, 200727).

Hoffman, Dr. Glenn L., Grand Forks,
N. Dak.: 142 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from Minnesota and North Dakota
(1985838, 200602).

Hoffman, Richard L., Blacksburg, Va.:
18 insects and 226 fresh-water mollusks
from Virginia (199284, 200474, 201732).

Holland, Dr. C. G., Fresno, Calif.:
Potsherds, stone, shell, and metal arti-
facts from site Au-35-M, East Mound,
Augusta County, Virginia, excavated
May-June 1952 by Drs. Holland, Clifford
Evans, and Betty J. Meggers (199955).

Hollander, Lawrence. (See Winokur,
Dr. William)

Hollowell, Dr. E. A., Washington,
D.C.: Voleanic dust from July 10, 1953,

(See Mich-

75

eruption Alaska
(201354).

Holme, Dr. N. A., Plymouth, England :
7 marine mollusks from Europe (199112,
exchange).

Holt, Dr. Perry C., Johnson City,
Tenn.: 1 type worm from Sinking
Creek, Giles County, Va. (200606) ; 1
holotype of branchiobdellid worm
(200832).

Holthuis, Dr. L. B., Leiden, Nether-
lands: 35 fresh-water isopods and 26
mollusks (196269).

Honda, Dr. Masaji.
versity of)

Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry, Cairo, Egypt:
45 ticks, including 32 types, from Mad-
agasear (199164). (See also Defense,
U. S. Department of, Department of the
Army)

Hoover, Donald B., Cleveland Heights,
Ohio: Calcite specimen from Pugh
quarry, Bowling Green, Ohio (201925).

Hopkins, George K., Hammond, Ind. :
5 bank cheeks bearing U. S. documen-
tary revenue Stamps (199509) ; 3 U.S.
documentary revenue stamps and affida-
vit bearing 2-dollar American Consular
Service fee stamp (202469).

Horlbeck, Mrs. F. H., Charleston,
S. C.: 1 spider and egg sac from South
Carolina (200010).

Heshizaki, Mrs. Barbara Joe, Fort
Hood, Tex.: 45 cultivated ferns
(200265).

Hotchkiss, Neil. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service.)

Hottes, Dr. F. C., Grand Junction
Colo.: 13 slides of type aphids from
United States (200027, 201287, 201644).
(See also Bradley, Dr. G. A.)

Houck, Mrs. W. E., Findlay, Ohio: 1
nursing bottle, tin with cork stopper and
long sucking tube, made by John San-
ner at Mount Blanchard, Ohio, 1880
(199537).

Houregq, Victor Pierre, Paris, France:
16 Cretaceous cephalopods from Mada-
gasear (201635).

Houston, Mrs. William, Arlington,
Va.: 1 British infant nursing bottle
(201796).

Howard, M. J., Eagle Pass, Tex.: 12
ferns from Texas (200601).

Howard, Dr. R. A. (See Harvard
University, Gray Herbarium)

Howden, Dr. Henry F., Raleigh, N. C.:
6 beetles from United States (199071).

Howell, Thelma. (See Highlands Bio-
logical Station)

Hubbard, John C. (See Blackmer,
Mrs. Ania)

Hubbs, Dr. Clark.
versity of)

of Mount Spur,

(See Tokyo, Uni-

(See Texas, Uni-
76

Hubert, Dr. Alexander A., Hamilton,
Mont.: 31 flies from United States
(201514).

Hubricht, Leslie, Danville, Va.: 3
type mollusks from Haywood County,
N. C. (200303) ; approximately 23 ma-
rine invertebrates (200369).

Hull, Dr. Thomas G. (See American
Medical Association)

Humes, Dr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass. :
142 copepods, including 62 types
(199341) ; 177 type copepods from St.
Andrews, New Brunswick (201549).

Hungarian People’s Republic, Lega-
tion of, Washington, D. C.: 8 values of
“Native Dress” postage issue (202386).

Hungerford, Dr. H. B., Lawrence,
Kans.: 11 spongilla flies from United
States (201884). (See also Kansas,
University of)

Hurson, J. V.
ward N.)

Hussey, Dr. R. F., Gainesville, Fla.: 6
bugs (199670) ; 1 bug from United States
(201736, exchange); 2 paratypes of
bugs from South America (202249), ex-
change).

Hutton, Mary A., and Hutton, Rose,
Gaithersburg, Md.: Dotted swiss dress
and separate sleeves, embroidered lawn
cape, and 2 matron’s caps, woman’s
corset, boots, beaver bonnet, and brown
silk calash, early and middle of 19th
century (1995384).

Hutton, Rose.
A.)

Hygeia Nursing Bottle Co., Buffalo,
N. Y.: (Through W. M. Decker) 4
nursing bottles, 1900, 1916, 1941 and
1949 (198722).

Iceland, Government of, Reykjavik:
(Through Frimerkjasalan) 55 phila-
telic specimens (199864, 202426).

Idrobo, Dr. Jesis M. (See Instituto
de Ciencias Naturales)

Illinois, University of, Urbana, IIl1.:
7 grasses from Illinois (200331); 104
miscellaneous United States plants
(201870), exchange); (through Dr.
Hobart M. Smith) 56 type North Amer-
ican amphibians and reptiles (2013877.
exchange).

Iilinois State Natural History Sur-
vey, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. Lewis
J. Stannard) 12 thrips from Illinois
(201286, exchange) ; (through Dr. H. H.
Ross) 37 spongilla flies from United
States (201509); (through Mrs. Leo-
nora K. Gloyd) 3 spongilla flies from
United States (202334).

Imperial College of Tropical Agricul-
ture, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 1 phanerogam
(1995380).

Imperial Oil, Ltd., Calgary, Alberta:
(Through Dr. C. H. Crickmay) 10
Upper Devonian brachiopods from

(See Wentworth, Ed-

(See Hutton, Mary

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Northwest Territories, Canada (200233,
exchange).

India, Government of, Calcutta:
Geological Survey: 16 brachiopods from
Cambrian, Devonian, Permian, and
surassie rocks of India and Pakistan
(201289, exchange). Zoological Sur-
vey: (Through Dr. H. C. Ray) 4 fresh-
water mollusks from Inlé Lake, Burma
(201066, exchange).

Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden:
34 Swedish philatelic specimens
(199067, 199867, 200716); 15 special
Swedish cancellations (202468).

Inger, Robert F. (See Chicago Nat-
ural History Museum)

Ingley, James M., Washington, D. C.:
1 albino crab from off Smith’s Island,
Chesapeake Bay (199237).

Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co.,
Inspiration, Ariz.: 24 specimens of cop-
per ore (198916).

Institut Betanique, Montreal, Que-
bee: (Through Dr. Jules Brunel) 2
bryozoans. from Cuba (197517).

Institute Francais d’Afrique Noire,
Dakar, French West Africa: (Through
Dr. Théodore Monod) 86 West African
crabs (198434, exchange).

Institute of Jamaica, Science Museum,
Kingston, Jamaica: 86 plants from Ja-
maica (198755, 198761, 198762) ; 2 Ja-
maican ferns (198806, exchange).

Institute of Systematic Botany, Upp-
sala, Sweden: (Through Dr. Rolf San-
tesson) 18 lichens from Hurope (200450,
exchange).

Instituto Aggeu Magalhaes, Recife,
Brazil: (Through Dr. Frederico Simoes
Barbosa) 9 fresh-water mollusks from
Brazil (200978).

Instituto Agronémico, Campinas, Sao
Paulo, Brazil: 24 grasses from Brazil
(198784).

Instituto Agronoémico do Sul, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil: 20 grasses from
Brazil (202190).

Instituto Agronémico do Norte,
Belém, Pard, Brazil: 74 plants from
Brazil (198759, 200448).

Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Vene-
zuela: (Through Dr. Leandro Aristé-
guieta) 31 Venezuelan ferns (199601).

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion,
San Isidor, Argentina: 185 plants from
Argentina (199580, exchange).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bo-
gota, Colombia: 40 plants (198753) ;
(through Dr. Jestis M. Idrobo) 1 culti-
vated legume (200406); 4 plants
(200750).

Instituto de Entomologia Sanitaria,
Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr.
Miguel Garcia) 2 paratype Argentine
flies (199772).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Instituto de Sanidad Vegetal, Labor-
atorio Central de Acridologia, Manuel de
Pinazo, Argentina: (Through Dr. José
Liebermann) 14 grasshoppers from
South America (198803).

Instituto Geobiologico “La Salle” de
Candas, Pérto Alegra, Rio Grande do
Sul, Brazil: 16 plants (200815, ex-
change).

Instituto Nacional de Higiene, Ca-
racas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Ig-
nacio Ortiz) Helminths from Venezuela
(198903).

Interior, U. S. Department of the,
Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington,
D. C.: 8 plants from New Mexico
(199032, 199254) ; nest of spotted oriole
and 2 trunk skeletons of whooping crane
(199075) ; 1 Bewick’s wren (201386) ;
1,864 bird skins from various parts of
North America (202457) ; 75 mammals
(202479) ; (through Raymond J. Fleet-
wood) harvest mouse from Colorado
(198699) ; (through Stewart Springer)
approximately 457 marine inverte-
brates, and 10 mollusks collected in Gulf
of Mexico (198858) ; 7 chub mackerel
from east coast of Florida (199253) ; 207
fishes collected by the Oregon in the
Gulf of Mexico (199475) ; (through Al-
len J. Duvall) 91 land, fresh-water, and
marine mollusks from crops of mourn-
ing doves, Florida and Louisiana
(198948) ; (through Joseph H. King) a
bird from Hawaii (198972) ; (through
Isaac Ginsburg) 35 fishes from Japan
(199054) ; (through Oscar Sette and
Robert R. Harry) 2 fishes, 1 holotype,
of the family Paralepidae, from Central
Pacific (199289) ; (through Roland L.
Wigley) 1380 crustaceans, 1 lot brachio-
pods, 7 echinoderms, and 22 mollusks,
from New England waters (199557) ;
“mouth parts” of a holothurian from
Halifax Bay, Nova Scotia (199876) ;
(through Dr. J. L. Buckley) 4 marine
invertebrates from walrus stomach, and
echinoderms (1997387); (through Neil
Hotchkiss) 2 phanerogams from Chesa-
peake and Ohio Canal (200158);
(through Dr. Philip A. Butler) 51 land
and marine mollusks from near Pensa-
cola, Fla. (200318, 200256) ; 1 marine
mollusk in an oyster shell from Pensa-
cola, Fla. (201193); (through Isaac
Ginsburg and John B., Colton, Jr.) 2
fishes from 140 fathoms off Massachu-
setts, September 9, 1953, by Albatross
III (200633); (through Gustaf Sund-
strom) 7 fishes from 50-100 miles off the
eoast of Rhode Island (201611). Geo-
logical Survey: 83 fresh-water and ma-
rine mollusks from St. Lawrence Island,
Alaska (198022) ; 3 minerals from Pe-
taea district, Rio Arriba County, N. Mex.
(198316) ; 10 slides, approximately 5,000
Hocene radiolaria from Saipan, Mari-

77

anas Islands (200087) ; 3 pascoites from
Bitter Creek mine, Paradox Valley,
Colo. (201541) ; 4 fossil trilobites from
Ordovician of Bolivia (201636) ; holo-
type of rare Ordovician trilobite from
a deep well in Florida (201881); 11
Cretaceous pelecypods and 2 Cretaceous
ammonites (201894, 201924) ; 5 ulexites
and 9 howlites from Wentworth, Nova
Scotia, collected by Dr. Waldemar T.
Schaller (202107); 219 Pliocene land
and fresh-water mollusks from Ne-
braska (202274) ; 1 type faustite from
Copper King mine, Maggie Creek dis-
trict, Eureka County, Nev. (202285) ; 1
metatorbernite from Castle Dome, Ariz.
(202498); (through Ruth Todd) 6
valves of an Upper Triassic pelecypod
from Pasco, Pert, collected by R. F.
Johnson in 1952 (199290); (through
Robert H. Stewart) 6 gorgonians from
near Sarasota, Fla. (199333) ; (through
Dr. W. P. Woodring) 15 fresh-water
mollusks from Colombia (199424) ;
toothed fossil bone of unknown osteich-
thyian fish from Upper Oligocene San
Sebastian formation near San Sebas-
tian, Puerto Rico, collected by Dr. W. P.
Woodring and C. A. Kay, 1954 (201907) ;
(through Dr. Preston H. Cloud, Jr.) 3
fossil fish from Triassic Shublik forma-
tion, Colville Valley of northern Alaska,
collected by W. W. Patton, Jr. (200220) ;
4 fossil fish specimens, collected in Au-
gust 1950 by Fred S. Honkala from
Phosphoria formation on east side of
Taylor Creek, Clark County, Idaho
(200520); 19 land and fresh-water
snails from Washington (201620) ;
complete fossil fish skeleton in concre-
tion from Upper Cretaceous sediments
in State of Ceara, Brazil, collected by
Emerson I. Brown, December 1953
(202371) ; (through Dr. John B. Ree-
side, Jr.) approximately 25 fish and rep-
tile specimens collected by Dr. John B.
Reeside, Jr., and party in August 1953
from Cretaceous Mowry formation in
Park County, Wyo. (200222) ; (through
Sherman K. Neuschel) 1 Japanese twin
crystal of quartz from Otome mine, Ya-
manashi prefecture, Japan (200225) ;
(through Dr. W. H. Bradley) 15 potash
ores from France and New Mexico, 11
various saline minerals from Germany
and New Mexico (200589) ; 8 mineral
specimens, including 2 types, from
Utah, California, Oregon, and North
Carolina (202197) ; (through F. Stearns
MacNeil) 56 marine mollusks from
Sagami Wan, Japan (200825) ; (through
D. B. Krinsley) 6 marine mollusks from
Pleistocene of northern Greenland
(201018) ; (through Dr. M. Fleischer)
14 rocks from Magnet Cove, Ark.
(202461). National Park Service: 10
plants collected in Virginia by Paul G.
78

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Favour, Jr. (202230) ; (through John O. | 1 No. 11 “Rapid-Fire”’ suppository ma-

Cook) 47 biting midges from Camp
Verde, Ariz. (199673) ; (through Arthur
Stupka) 11 big-eared bats from Tennes-
see (200789).

International Harvester Co., Chicago,
Tll.: Patent model of early mowing ma-
ehine (201061).

Inter-Ocean Trading Co., New York,
N. Y.: (Through Alfred Heuberg) 5
minerals from Brazil (201040).

Iowa, State University of, Iowa City,
Iowa: (Through Dr. Walter Thietje)
3,694 fishes (199539, deposit).

Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa: 68
plants, mostly from Iowa (199050, ex-
change); 220 plants from Alaska
(201059) ; (through Herbert G. Pulsi-
fer) 2 plants (200818).

Irwin, H. S., Atkinson Field, British
Guiana: 101 plants collected in British
Guiana (200018, 201207, 201224).

Isbell, V. D., Saigon, Indo-China: 1
blindsnake from Saigon, Indo-China
(199340).

Israel Philatelic Agency in America,
Inc, New York, N. Y.: (Through
Jacques Minkus) First-day cover of
Israel Rabbi Moshe Ben Maimon com-
memorative envelope and stamp
(199273).

Ives, Ronald L., Williamsville, N. Y.:
117 salt marsh snails from Sonora,
México (200848).

Jackson, Ralph W., Cambridge, Md.:
20 marine mollusk paratypes from Mary-
land (197899).

Jacobs, Burleigh, Wauwatosa, Wis.:
Autographed American Philatelic So-
ciety convention cacheted cover with
convention cancellation (199866).

Jacobson, Morris K., Rockaway
Beach, N. Y.: Approximately 3,000
land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks
from the United States and Cuba
(200542, exchange) ; 37 land snails from
Cuba (202255, exchange).

James, Dr. M. T. (See Washington
State College)

Jardim Botanico, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 38 plants from Brazil (199417) ;
43 plants collected in Brazil (201036,
exchange).

Le Jardin Botanique de Montréal,
Montréal, Quebec: 120 Canadian plants
(199048, exchange).

Jardin Botanico de Madrid, Madrid,
Spain: 45 plants from Spain (201060,
exchange).

Jeffries, Frank L., Bladensburg Md.:
37 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Georgia and Maryland (200865).

Jellison, Dr. William L. (See Health,
Hducation, and Welfare, U. 8S. Depart-
ment of)

Jenkins Laboratories, Auburn, N. Y.:
(Through F. J. Stokes Machine Co.)

chine (199421).

Jenks, James L., Jr.
Co.)

Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de
los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 56
plants from the Dominican Republic
(199189, 200159, 200218, 201231).

Johns Hopkins University, Medical
School, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Dr.
Leon Rosen) 1 Philippine macaque
(200035) .

Johnson, Dr. Frank H., Princeton,
N. J.: “‘Bacterial Luminescence,” hon-
orable mention in 2d Annual Photog-
raphy-in-Science Competition of 1948
(201996).

(See Sanborn

Johnson, Adm. Jesse M. (See Amer-
ican Air Mail Society)
Johnson, Mrs. Lucile Maughan,

American Fork, Utah: 8 type bee flies
from Utah (201649, exchange).

Johnson, Phyllis T. (See Defense,
Department of, Department of the
Army)

Johnstone, Mrs. Harry Inge, Mobile,
Ala.: 22 marine mollusks from Gulf of
Mexico (200340).

Jokelson, Paul, New York, N. Y.: Sul-
phide paperweight made by Christal-
leries de Baccarat, France, December
1953—January 1954 (201359).

Jones, Dr. Frank Morton, Wilming-
ton, Del.: 2,940 miscellaneous insects
from Martha’s Vineyard, Mass.
(199708) ; 818 skippers from North
America (201500).

Jones, Joseph S. (See Alabama De-
partment of Conservation)

Jones, Joseph W., New York, N. Y.:
Speedometer, taximeter, live-map meter,
hub odometer, and 3 record matrices
(200834).

Jones, Warren R., Erongaricuaro,
México: 2 specimens of sal ammoniac

from voleano of Paricutin, México
(202468).

Kaader, Roy G. (See Wellons Gal-
lery )

Kahn, Mrs. Elizabeth L., Washington,
D. C.: Woodcut, “Head,” by Jacob Pins
(201655).

Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Ja-
pan: (Through Prof. Genkei Musa-
mune) 88 Japanese grasses (201228,
exchange).

Kannowski, P. B. (See Michigan, Uni-
versity of)

Kano, Dr. Rokuro, Tokyo, Japan: 4
paratype flies from Japan (199887).

Kansas, University of, Lawrence,
Kans.: 120 Kansas plants (199076, ex-
change) ; 63 fishes collected mostly in
México (202424, exchange); (through
Dr. Frank B. Cross) 14 fresh-water
fishes, including 2 paratypes, from
Kansas (1991538, exchange); through
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Dr. Rufus Thompson) 1 sample diatom
material from Kansas (199589);
(through Dr. Rollin H. Baker) 1 plant
from México (200217); (through Dr.
H. B. Hungerford) 3 spongilla flies with
cocoons from United States (202112) ;
(through Dr. KE. Raymond Hall) 9 small
mammals from Kansas (202504, ex-
change).

Kass, Mr. and Mrs. Garfield I., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Woodcut, “Trees in Sun-
rise,” by Jacob Pins (201657).

Kassing, Mrs. David O., Tulsa, Okla. :
Miscellaneous collection of reptiles and
amphibians from Oklahoma and Michi-
gan (202314).

Katsaras, Nick, Bergenfield, N. J.: 2
marine mollusks from Panama (199209,

exchange).
Kausel, Dr. Eberhard, Santiago,
Chile: 20 Chilean phanerogams
(199413).

Kay, Dr. Marshall, New York, N. Y.:
3 brachiopods from Permian of Russia
(200707).

Kenda, Joze, Slovenia, Yugoslavia:
(Through D. G. Wyant) 1 cinnabar
mineral from Idria mine, Slovenia,
Yugoslavia (200760).

Kenny, Finbar, New York, N. Y.: 3-
cent embossed United Nations envelope
(199805). (See also Stolow, J. & H.)

Kephart, John E., Wheaton, Ill.: 2
Australian florins, 1927 and 1935, and 2
New Hebrides 5-franc notes (198917).

Kerrich, G. J. (See British Govern-
ment, British Museum (Natural His-
tory) )

Kiener, Dr. Walter, Lincoln, Nebr.:
92 eryptogams (199532).

Killiany, Mrs. Anne, Millington, N. J.:
Model of Ga cargo boat from delta of
Volta River, Gold Coast, Africa, and
8 poisoned arrows (200016).

King, Charles, Brisbane, Australia: 8
butterflies from Australia (200824, ex-
change).

King, Joseph E. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

King, Mr. and Mrs. Milton W., Wash-
ington, D. C.: 1 woodcut entitled ‘‘One-
Legged Beggar,” by Jacob Pins
(200411).

King, Dr. Willard V. (See Defense,
U. 8. Department of, Department of the
Army)

Kirchheimer, Dr. Franz, Baden-
Wurtemberg, Germany: (Through Dr.
M. Fleischer) 1 specimen of uraninite in
granite from Sophia mine, Wittichen,
Baden, Germany (199766, exchange).
(See also Geologische Landesamt)

Kirk, Dr. Edwin, Washington, D. C.:
16 glass beads collected from Haida
village of Howkan, on Long Island,
Prince of Wales Group, southeast

79

Alaska, in 1917 (199182); redware
pottery money-box in shape of bell,
made in Thomaston, Maine (201048).

Kirk, Russell. (See Moul, David)

Kissinger, D. J.. Washington, D. C.:
67 beetles from México (200535).

Knight, Comdr. Kenneth L. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Navy De-
pariment )

Knipscheer, Dr. H. C. G., Munich,
Germany: 5 Foraminifera from Eocene
of Bavaria (199594, exchange).

Koch, Alice E., Long Island, N. Y.:
First-day cover of Yugoslavian Esper-
anto stamp (199461).

Koch, H. J., Johannesburg, Union of
South Africa: 28 marine mollusks from
Portuguese Hast Africa (201459).

Kohls, Dr. Glen M., Hamilton, Mont. :
96 miscellaneous bugs from New Guinea
(201152). (See also Health, Education,
and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Pub-
lic Health Service)

Komarov Botanical Institute of the
Academy of Sciences of the U. S.S. R.,,
Leningrad: 350 plants, issues 71-76 of
the “Herbarium of the Flora of the
USSR” (201872, exchange).

Komp, W. H. W. (See Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, U. S. Department
of, Public Health Service)

Kopf, Max J., Buffalo, N. Y.: 300 in-
vertebrate fossils from the Wanakah
shale of New York (200965).

Kouvo, Dr. Olavi, Outokumpu, Fin-
land: 1 kyanite from Koli, eastern Fin-
land (201131, exchange).

Kozioff, Dr. Eugene N., Portland,
Oreg.: 8 type ostracods from Harney
County, Oreg. (198857); 3 slides con-
taining 22 type oligochaete worms from
Washington, California, and British
Columbia (201089).

Kosswig, Dr. Curt.
Enstitiisti)

Krause, Mr. and Mrs. Paul H., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Color woodeut, “Joshua
Bidding the Sun Stand Still,” by Jakob
Steinhardt (200967).

Krauss, N. L. H. Honolulu, T. H.:
Approximately 406 miscellaneous in-
sects and 2 Crustacea from Florida,
Puerto Rico, Trinidad, Cuba, and Haiti
(198673) ; approximately 1,055 miscel-
laneous insects from Panama (198947) ;
2 Mexican plants (199218).

Krinsky, Ben. (See Krinsky, Wil-
liam H.)

Krinsky, William H., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
(Through Ben Krinsky) 8 philatelic
specimens (202022).

Krinsley, D. B. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Geological Survey)

Krog, John. (See Health, Education,
and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Pub-
lic Health Service)

(See Hayvanat
80

Krombein, Karl K., Arlington, Va.:
163 wasps, representing 48 species, from
Westmoreland State Park, Va.
(199087) ; 118 wasps collected in Lost
River State Park, W. Va., in 1953
(201885) .

Kuehne, Robert, San Marcos, Tex.:
1,155 fishes, 103 shrimps, 1 crayfish,
and approximately 500 copepods from
Guadalupe River, Tex. (195503).

Kummel, Dr. Bernhard, Cambridge,
Mass.: 9 Silurian brachiopods from

Cornwallis Island, Arctic Canada
(201880).
Kuno, Dr. Hisashi. (See Tokyo, Uni-

versity of)

Kuns, Capt. Merle L., Frederick, Md.:
4 lots of reptiles and amphibians, 2 bats,
111 marine invertebrates, and 106 mol-
lusks from Mona Island, West Indies
(198969, 200146).

Kuntz, Lt. Comdr. Robert E., Be-
thesda, Md.: 2 bats from New Hebrides
(202480). (See also Defense, U.S. De-
partment of, Department of the Navy)

Kusnezoy, Dr. Nicolas, Tucumdén,
Argentina: 110 Argentine ants, includ-
ing types (200534, exchange). (See
Fundacion Miguel Lillo)

Kutter, Dr. H., Bern, Switzerland:
72 ants from all over the world, includ-
ing 10 types (199778, exchange).

Kuzell, C. R. (See Phelps Dodge
Corp.)

Kyoto Imperial University, Shira-
hama, Japan: (Through Dr. Huzio
Utinomi) 4 alcyonarian corals from

Seto Marine Biological Laboratory
(200676).
Lacey, Mrs. Trammell C., Nacog-

doches, Tex.: 1 plant (199958).

Laird, Dr. Marshall. (See Royal
New Zealand Air Force Station)

Lambremont, Edward N. (See Tu-
lane University)

Lame, Prof. C.C. (See Stewart, Mel-
vin)

Lamm, Donald W., Mozambique,
Africa : 107 bird skins from Mozambique
(201788) .

Lamore, D., Greenbelt, Md.: 2 wasps
and 2 hornets from France (199420).

Landmarks Society of Alexandria,
Inc., Alexandria, Va.: (Through
Stabler-Leadbeater Apothecary Shop)
38 early American nursing bottles
(200774).

Lang, Walter B., Washington, D. C.:
1 lot altered pieces of meteoritic mate-
rial from Odessa, Ector County, Tex.
(202369).

Larrabee, Ted.
vin)

Lascoff, Dr. Frederick D., New York,
N. Y¥.: 1 wooden mortar and pestle said
to have been used by Maj. Gen. Henry

(See Stewart, Mel-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Knox during American Revolution
(201820); 1 19th century leech jar
(201821, loan).

Latham, Roy, Orient, N. Y.: 90 land
mollusks from Long Island, N. Y.
(200911).

Latham, Dr. V. A., Chicago, Ill.: 12
samples of diatoms (198757, exchange).

Lawrence, Mrs. Frederick P., East
Liverpool, Ohio: Woman’s purse made
by Chinese, acculturated (200584).

Lawton, Sarah R., Washington, D. C.:
Brown silk dress, ca. 1846, which be-
longed to Jane T. Bradley, of Washing-
ton, D. C. (199665).

Lederle Laboratories Division of
American Cyanamide Co., New York,
N. Y.: (Through F. L. Murphy) Package
of Aureomycin capsules, test tube of
original soil from which Aureomyecin
was isolated, 5 petri dishes of Strepto-
myces aureofaciens vs. 5 micro-organ-
isms (198821).

Lee, Donald E., Stanford, Calif.: 1
pyrophanite from Fujikawa Kuga-gun,
Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan (198792).

Leech, Dr. Hugh B. (See California
Academy of Sciences)

Lekagul, Dr. Boonsong, Bangkok,
Thailand: 7 mammals, fishes, 4 reptiles
and amphibians, 16 crabs, and i leech,
from Thailand (196446).

Leonhardt, Dr. Brigitte G., Manila,
P. I: 5 beetles from Philippine Islands
and Europe (198889, exchange).

Lepigre, Dr. A., Alger, Algiers: 6
ladybugs from North Africa (199511).

Leslie, Robert, Chalet Tejano, Guate-
mala: 1 jade from near Manzanal,
Motagua River Valley, Guatemala
(201238).

Letkemann, Herkus W. V., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 1 Azores chaffinch (201014).

Levey, Harold. (See Roebling Col-
lection)

Levey, Harold, and Glaser, John, Bal-
timore, Md.: 1 apophyllite from the
Fairfax quarry, near Centreville, Va.
(199704).

Levin, Benjamin, Boston, Mass.: 1
block print, “Mt. Carmel,” by Mordechai
Ayniel (199707).

Lewin, Dr. Ralph A. (See National
Research Council of Canada)

Lewis, Keith. (See Eastman Kodak
Co.)

Lewis, Richard W., Jr.
ford, Harvey D.)

Liberian Philatelic Agency, New
York, N. Y.: 54 Liberian philatelic spec-
imens (2024838).

Liebermann, Dr. José.
tuto de Sanidad Vegetal)

Lieftinck, Dr. M. A., Bogor, Indo-
nesia: 16 wasps from Indonesia
(199964, exchange).

(See Wille-

(See Insti-
DONORS TC THE

Lilly Research Laboratories, Indian-
apolis, Ind.: Bottle of antibiotic Eryth-
romycin (198963).

Limbaugh, Conrad, La Jolla, Calif.:
108 marine invertebrates collected from
kelp beds off La Jolla (201781).

Link, Edwin A., Binghamton, N. Y.:
Pewter teapot recovered from wreck of
British frigate Looe lost on Florida
Keys, February 5, 1744, and bronze
ship’s bell from wreck of unidentified
ship on Florida Keys (199596).

Livingston, Col. J. J., Alexandria,
Va.: 12 miscellaneous minerals, rocks,
and ores from Korea and Japan
(202175).

Locklin, C., St. Petersburg, Fla.:
Brass chandelier, 1 wooden fuse block
and 18 Thomson-Houston base lamps
(199959) ; kerosene lamp with vapor-
izer (200208).

Locklin, Charles R., Pontiac, Mich.:
2 mollusks, and 1 bird skin from Gulf
of Mexico, off Florida (202481).

Logan, Hugh B., Inverness, Calif.: 2
cultivated ferns (200836).

Long Island Girl Scout Stamp Club,
New York, N. Y.: (Through Mrs. Leona
Pecha) 3,927 assorted stamps for spe-
cial exhibit April 14 to May 15, 1954
(202341, loan).

Lorenz, Charles. (See National Tu-
berculosis Association )

Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, La.: 1 fern from Louisiana
(201730).

Lowe, Dr. Charles H., Jr.
zona, University of)

Lowengrund, Margaret, New York,
N. Y.: 29 prints for special exhibition
April 1954 (201638, loan).

Lowenstein, Ernst, New York, N. Y.:
2,443 Bolivian airmail stamps and
covers (199885).

Lowerre, F. G., St. Petersburg, Fla.:
1 marine mollusk from Venezuela
(199829).

Lowery, Dr. George H., Jr., Baton
Rouge, La.: 13 mammals from San Luis
Potosi, México (199342).

Luff, Moe, New York, N. Y.: 1 first-
day new meter slogan (202472).

Lunz, G. Robert. (See Bears Bluff
Laboratories)

Lutz, John C., Philadelphia, Pa.: 107
bugs from South America (201647, ex-
change).

Lyon, Rowland, Washington, D. C.: 36
block prints for special exhibition dur-
ing December 1954 (200458, loan); 3
block prints, “Provincetown Roofs,”
“Georgetown Factories,’ and “Sand
Dunes” (201241).

Lyon, William J., Rizal, P. I.: 6 Phil-
ippine philatelic specimens (202501).

Maas, Alberto E., Alamos, Sonora,
México: 3 aboriginal artifacts

(See Ari-

NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

81

(199954) ; 1 anatase and brookite from
near Alamos (200454) ; wood specimens
of Palo Dulce from Sonora (201990).

MacCord, Maj. Howard A., A. P. O.,
San Francisco, Calif. : 819 archeological
specimens consisting of potsherds and
a few stone artifacts from Able Site,
Kapyong, Korea (2023819).

MacDougall, T., Tehuantepec, Oaxaca,
México: 6 plants collected in México
(201391, 201922).

MacGinitie, Mrs. G. E., Corona del
Mar, Calif.: 9 flatworms, and 3 shrimps
(198971).

MacLellan, Maj. Robert W., San
Francisco, Calif.: 2 Japanese swords
and scabbards (1997380).

MacMullen, Dr. Donald. (See De-
fense, Department of, Department of
the Army)

MacNeil, F. Stearns. (See Interior,
U. 8. Department of the, Geological
Survey)

Maguire, Dr. Bassett, New York, N.
Y.: 67 shrimps (202282). (See also
McGuire, Dr. Edward, and New York
Botanical Garden)

Maher, Dr. Stuart W., Knoxville,
Tenn.: Head and anterior body part of
shark, embedded in phosphatic nodule
and showing preserved muscle fibers,
collected by donor in 1953 from Chatta-
nooga formation at Lick Run, Dale
Hollow Reservoir, Clay County, Tenn.
(201867).

Maine State Forest Service, Augusta,
Maine: (Through Dr. A. BE. Brower) 22
spongilla flies from Maine (202193)

Makins, Sir Roger. (See Great Brit-
ain, Government of)

Malaga Alba, Dr. Aurelio.
American Sanitary Bureau)

Malkin, Borys, Seattle, Wash.: 58
beetles from United States and México
(200823, 201067).

Mangor, Elovius.
ernment of)

Mann, Dr. William M. (See Smith-
sonian Institution, National Zoological
Park)

Marcel, Raymond.
tanical Garden)

Marie, Robert, Fort Wayne, Ind.: 4
crayfish gastroliths from bottom of a
flooded rock quarry in Markle, Ind.
(198785).

Mariners Museum, Newport News,
Va.: (Through Harold S. Sniffen) 50
prints for exhibition May 1954 (202192,
loan).

Marques Borgas, Frederico, Porto
Amélia, Portuguese East Africa: 170
marine and land shells, 1 marine in-
vertebrate, and 2 echinoderms from
near Porto Amélia (201157, exchange) ;
1 marine mollusk from Portuguese East
Africa (202195).

(See Pan

(See Norway, Gov-

(See Montreal Bo-
82

Marsh, J. A., Atherton, Queensland,
Australia : 3 land mollusks from north-
ern Queensland (199542, exchange) ; 23

land mollusks from Queensland
(200978).
Marshall, Elizabeth, Cambridge,

Mass. : 1 mammal, 8 reptiles and amphi-
bians, 93 insects, 3 centipedes, and other
arthropods (199965).

Marshall, Ernest B., Laurel, Md.: 25
mammals from Laurel (201045).

Marshall, Dr. Joe T., Jr., Tucson,
Ariz.: 3 skins and 11 skeletons of birds
from the South Pacific (201615).

Marshall, Dr. N. B. (See Great Brit-
ain, Government of, British Museum
(Natural History) )

Martin, Dr. W. E., Los Angeles, Calif. :
9 marine mollusks from Hgypt (200257).

Martinez, Dr. Antonio, Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 6 beetles, including 2 types,
from South America (199773, ex-
change).

Mary Immaculate, Convent of, Key
West, Fla.: (Through Sister Marie
Caroline) 2 marine mollusks from
Florida (198579).

Maryland Department of Research
and Education, Solomons, Md.:
(Through Rudolf 8. Scheltema) 13 crab
larvae taken near mouth of Chesapeake
Bay, Md. (199174).

Marx, Hans, Baltimore, Md.: 56 pic-
torial photographs for special exhibi-
tion March-April 1954 (201858, loan).

Masamune, Prof. Genkei. (See Kan-
azawa University)

Massengill Co., S. E., Bristol, Tenn.:
(Through Frank W. DeFriece, Jr.) 2
tablet counting boards used by donor
around 1900 (202336).

Mattox, Dr. N. T., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 3 conchostracans, including the
neotype (199207) ; 6 type crustaceans
from Stuttgart, Ark. (200280).

Matuda, Prof. Eizi, México, D. F.: 433
plants from México (200404).

Maxon, C. R. (See New Jersey Zine

0.)

Maxwell, Brig. Gen. Alfred R., Arl-
ington, Va.: Gray silk dress and white
embroidered net dress, ca. 1900; petti-
coat, late 19th century; and pair black
satin boots (199664).

Mayer, Dr. Fritz, Hamburg,
many: 7 fishes (199925).

Mayne, Dr. Wolf, Caracas, Venezuela:
10 slides and 6 specimens of Tertiary
and Cretaceous Foraminifera for the
Cushman Collection (199533).

Mazzotti, Dr. Luis, México, D. F.: 1
gray fox and 1 rock squirrel from Méx-
ico (2005738, 200997).

McClatchie, Maj. Samuel, Fort Bragg,
N. C.: 47 plants collected in Texas
(201923).

Ger-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

McConnell, Dr. Duncan, Columbus,
Ohio: 1 Sschallerite from Franklin, N. J.
(2005380).

McCormick-Gocdhart, Leander, Alex-
andria, WVa.:1 olive-backed thrush
(202350).

McDowell, Dr. Samson, Towson, Md. :
56 marine diatoms (201652).

McElvare, Rowland R., Southern
Pines, N. C.: 180 miscellaneous moths
from North Carolina (202489).

McGinn, Lt. Col. John L., Victorville,
Calif.: Bow stave and 5 arrows pur-
chased in 1950 by donor from Negritos
outside Clark Field, Luzon, Philippine
Islands (199074).

McGlamery, Dr. Winnie.
bama Geological Survey )

McGuire, Dr. Edward, and Maguire,
Dr. Bassett, New York, N. Y¥.: 5 fishes
from Venezuela, collected by Wetherby
Venezuelan Expedition 1952-1953
(200580).

Mcintosh, Mrs. Jeanne G., Alexan-
dria, Va.: Flute, clarinet, and band mu-
sie seores, used by father of donor,
Francois Guaragno, in French Army
Band, ca. 1895 (202495).

McKnew, Dr. Thomas M., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 1 nighthawk from Bethesda,
Md. (199412).

McLaren, Dr. Digby, Ottawa, On-
tario: 16 Lower Ordovician brachiopods
from Rocky Mountains in British Co-
lumbia (199706).

McVaugh, Dr. Rogers.
gan, University of)

Mead, Dr. Giles W., Stanford, Calif. :
137 fishes collected in Japan and Gulf
of Mexico (195731); 1 scyllarid col-
lected off Isabella Island in the Gala-
pagos (199393).

Mead, Hilda, Springfield, Mo.: 12 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Missouri
(201650).

Meehan, Ruth L., Washington, D. C.:
Silver nipple and shield used by grand-
mother, ca. 1850 (198820) ; tortoise shell
comb, ca. middle 19th century (202246).

Meen, Dr. V. Ben. (See Royal On-
tario Museum of Geology and Mineral-
ogy)

Mehta, Dhrirubhai, Ghatkopar, In-
dia: 2 commemorative covers, 1 Sample
cover, and 1 envelope bearing special
postal marking (199277) ; 1 set of 2 In-
dian Mount Everest stamps on first-day
cover (199801); 2 first-day covers
(200717).

Melson, Robert, Shields, Va.: 3 late
Miocene corals from Shields, Accomack
County, Va. (199858).

Melvin, Mrs. Elna Smith, College
Park, Md.: Restored vessel, pottery
heads, and pottery object, given to
donor by caretakers of Baron Iwosaki’s
(Itwasati?) Museum, Tokyo, Japan,

(See Ala-

(See Michi-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

after bombing during World War II
(199952).

Melvin, John H.
cal Survey)

Menzies, Dr. Robert J., La Jolla,
Calif. : 110 isopod crustaceans (199624).

Meredith, Donald T. (See Upjohn
Co.)

Mergenthaler Linotype Co., Brook-
lyn, N. Y.: 1 cacheted first-day cover
(202380).

Metal & Thermit Corp. New York,
N. Y.: (Through Carl R. Schroeder) 2
ore specimens from Bowe Farm, near
Gouldin, Hanover County, Va. (200758).

Metlon Corp., New York, N. Y.: 23
specimens illustrating the production
of nontarnishable yarn Metlon
(202232).

Meurer, J. J., Hellengom, Nether-
lands: 88 bugs (201819, exchange).

Meyersburg, Robert, Silver Spring,
Md.: 1 Guatemalan philatelic specimen
(200735).

Miami, University of, Marine Labora-
tory, Coral Gables, Fla.: 890 marine
algae from Walter T. Swingle herbar-
ium (198911)

Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich. : 10 Mexican grasses, collected by
James H. Maysilles (195197) ; 2 plants
from Utah (199215); 19 lichens from
Rocky Mountains (200958, exchange) ;
149 Mexican grasses, mostly collected
by Dr. Rogers McVaugh (201002) ; 543
plants, mostly from México (201987, ex-
change) ; 876 bryophytes (202166, ex-
change); (through Dr. Charles F.
Walker) 126 Brazilian frogs collected
by Dr. Joseph R. Bailey in 1941
(198738) ; (through P. B. Kannowski)
12 cotype workers of ants from North
America (199086) ; (through Dr. Rob-
ert R. Miller) 40 type fishes from Mis-
sissippi (199154, exchange) ; 54 fishes
from México (202428, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Rogers MeVaugh) 4 ferns
from Texas (200906); (through Alan
Solem) 28 land snails, including 4 para-
types, from México (201158, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Claude W. Hibbard) 10
specimens: fossil jaw and tooth mate-
rial from Rexroad fauna (201634, ex-
change).

Mickle, Leslie E.
Corp. )

Milera, José Fernandez, Cardenas,
Cuba: 31 Cuban decapod crustaceans
(201548).

Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington, D.
C.: 1 redware kitchen pot from Roop’s
Mill, Md., and 1 fragment of blue-dec-
orated stoneware crock marked “P.
Herrmann” (202491).

Miles, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Handwoven, white cotton

(See Ohio Geologi-

(See Nursmatic

83

spencer, early 19th century; probably
worn originally by Barbara Uhler
Adams of Howard County, Maryland
(199519) .

Milford, Mrs. W. R., Baltimore, Md.:
Miscellaneous glass fragments found by
donor at site of John Frederick
Amelung’s New Bremen Glass Works,
Frederick County, Md. (1785-1795)
(200207).

Miller, H. W., Ann Arbor, Mich.:
Model of the German “Paris Gun,”
World War I; relief map of area in
which first 3 of these guns were lo-
eated; wooden reproduction of shell
used in gun, and 8’’ steel ball, one of
96 on which rotating and elevating
mechanism was mounted (196623).

Miller, H. W., Santa Clara, Cuba:
Approximately 260 land, fresh-water,
and marine mollusks from United
States, Cuba, and Central America
(1987083).

Miller, Mary Harriett, Alexandria,
Va.: 1 decorated leather flat pouch,
Haussa, Africa (199949).

Miller, Michael, Baltimore, Md.: 6
Baltimore Philatelic Society exhibition
seals (202387).

Miller, Dr. Robert R.
University of)

Milliron, Dr. H. E., Newark, Del.: 1
wasp from Australia (199669).

Milton, Charles, Washington, D. C.:
A chloroapatite from Atacama, Chile
(199055).

Minato, Prof. Hideo, Tokyo, Japan:
3 iron sericites and 1 magnesium seri-
cite from Shimane Prefecture, Japan
(199820, exchange).

Miner, H. E., Silver Spring, Md.: 2
18th-century German krugs mounted
with pewter (199044).

Ministério da Educacao e Saude, San-
ta Catarina, Brazil: (Through Dr. H.
P. Veloso) 150 plants from Brazil
(199374).

Ministério da Viacao e Obras Publi-
cas, Fortaleza, Brazil: (Through Carlos
Bastos Tigre) 12 fishes from Brazil
(198985).

Ministério de Agricultura y Cria,
Caracas, Venezuela : 62 plants collected
in Venezuela (199150, 201038, 201610,
201792).

Minkus, Jacques. (See Israel Phila-
telic Agency in America, Inc.)

Minnesota, University of, Minneap-
olis, Minn.: (Through Dr. Gerald B.
Ownbey) 31 Mexican ferns (200498) ;
(through Dr. Edwin F. Cock) 16 spon-
gilla flies from United States (200970).

Misaki Marine Biological Station,
Aburatsubo, Japan: (Through Dr.
Ichiro Tomiyama) 38 samples of gor-
gonian corals (200677).

(See Michigan,
84

Mississippi State College, State Col-
lege, Miss.: 1 grass from Mississippi
(198805).

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis,
Mo.: 332 plants (200215, exchange).

Mitchell, Mrs. Eva Jemison, San An-
tonio, Tex.: Horse stealing charm neck-
lace, and photograph of Stabs By Mis-
take, Piegan Indian, in memory of Col.
Charles Leslie Mitchell (199884).

Mitchell, H. D. (See Campex)

Mizushima, Masami, Tokyo, Japan: 7
Japanese plants (200816, exchange).

Mohr, Dr. Carl O. (See Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, U. S. Department
of, Public Health Service)

Mollenkopf, Mrs. William G., Prince-
ton, N. J.: Japanese kimono of painted
silk, with obi and sash, acquired by
donor in 1939 (200525).

Monaco, Government of: (Through
Office des Emissions de Timbres-Post)
42 stamps and 1 first-day cover from
Monaco (202434).

Monod, Dr. Théodore.
Franeais d’Afrique Noire)

Montana State College, Bozeman,
Mont.: (Through Clyde M. Senger) 143
land and fresh-water mollusks from
Montana and Oregon (200662).

Montreal Botanical Garden, Mon-
treal, Quebec: 4 plants (199479);
(through Raymond Marcel) 3 grasses
from Canada (196484); (through Dr.
Ernest Rouleau) 483 plants from New-
foundland (200960, exchange).

Moore, Ian M., El Cajon, Calif. : 2 par-
atype beetles from Baja California
(201640).

Morales Agacino, Dr. E., Madrid,
Spain: 48 grasshoppers (2005386).

Moravian Museum, Preslova, Brno,
Czechoslovakia : 50 plants from Czecho-
slovakia (201344, exchange).

Morey, P.S. (See Myers, Donald A.)
Morrison, Phillip, New York, N. Y.: 1
block print, “Jerusalem, Old City,” by
Mordechai Ayniel (199729).
Morrison-Scott, Dr. T. C. S. (See
Great Britain, Government of, British
Museum (Natural History) )

Mostow, Elmer, Washington, D. C.: 1
Aztec plaster smoother (199953).

Moul, David, and Kirk, Russell, Alex-
andria, Va.: Specimen of apophyllite
crystals on prehnite, and one of thauma-
site, from Fairfax quarry, near Centre-
ville, Va. (199172, exchange).

Moul, Dr. Edwin T., Woods Hole,
Mass.: 5 fresh-water mollusks from
Onotoa Atoll, Gilbert Islands (198695).

Mozley, Dr. Alan, London, England:
346 fresh-water mollusks from Canada,
Italy, Nyasaland, and Anatolia (199168,
199425).

Muesebeck, C. F. W. (See Agricul-
ture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural

(See Institut

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Research Service, Entomology Research
Branch)

Mumford, Russell E., Cortland, Ind.:
64 small mammals from Indiana and
New Mexico (198645) ; 3 bats from Eliza
Island, Wash. (199841); 2 bats from
Indiana (201068).

Murie, Claus J., Moose, Wyo.: 1 bird
from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska
(201220).

Murphy, F. L. (See Lederle Labora-
tories Division of American Cyanamide
Co.)

Murray, Dr. J. J., Lexington, Va.: 3
birds (200127).

Musée Zoologique, Lausanne, Switz-
erland: (Through Dr. J. de Beaumont)
117 wasps from Europe represented by
70 species (199214, exchange) ; 200 soli-
tary wasps from Palaearctic region
(200510, exchange).

Museo de Historia Natural “Javier
Prado,” Lima, Peri: 77 plants from
Perti (199216, 200704); (through Dr.
Ramon Ferreyra) 40 grasses collected
in Perti by Oscar Tovar (200754).

Museo Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Bra-
zil: 7 plants from Brazil (199418, ex-
change).

Muséum National d’Histoire Natu-
relle, Paris, France: (Through Dr. Jean
Guibé) 4 snakes from Santa Rosalia,
Baja California (199306, exchange) ;
(through Mlle. S. Caillere) 5 minerals
from Algeria and Madagascar (200794,
exchange) ; (through Prof. M. Jacques
Berlioz) 1 Hmperor penguin egg and 1
downy chick, 1 West African spotted
honey-guide skin (202324, exchange).

Myers, Alfred H., Chevy Chase, Md.:
1 print, “Azrael” (200714).

Myers, Donald A., and Morey, P. S.,
Austin, Tex.: 500 pelecypods and gas-
tropods from Lower Cretaceous Glen-
rose formation, west of Burnet, Tex.
(202372).

Myklebost, Tor.
ernment of)

National Cotton Council of America,
New York, N. Y.: 24 cotton fabrics il-
lustrating finishes, textures, colors, and
trends of 1953 (198933).

National Federation of Stamp Clubs,
New York, N. Y.: 1 cacheted envelope
with special cancellation marking ist
National Convention (202396).

National First Day Cover Club, Ar-
lington, Wa.: 1 Columbia University
first-day cover (202395).

National Geographic Society, Wash-
ington, D. C.: (Through Ken Weaver)
§ fishes collected in Straits of Messina,
Italy, by Paul A. Zahl, 1953 (198581).

National Museum, Manila, P. I.: 207
Philippine plants (199583, exchange).

National Photographic Society,
Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry B.

(See Norway, Gov-
DONORS TG THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Shaw) 50 pictorial prints and 70 trans-
parencies by members of the Society for
exhibition December 1953 (200635,
loan).

National Research Council, Pacific
Science Board, Washington, D. C.: 199
plants from Tuamotus (200219) ;
(through Donald W. Strasburg) 927
fishes from Southern Marshall Islands
(199700); (through Frederick M.
Bayer) Approximately 5,760 marine
invertebrates, Foraminifera, 88 echino-
derms, birds, fishes, 36 insects, 3 mam-
mals, approximately 2,110 mollusks,
and 65 lizards, collected by 4th Pacific
Atoll Research team at Ifaluk Atoll,
Caroline Islands, 1953 (200652).

National Research Council of Can-
ada, Halifax, Nova Scotia: (Through
Dr. Ralph A. Lewin) 32 samples of
diatoms (201052, 201601).

National Science Museum, Tokyo,
Japan: 200 Japanese plants (199047,
exchange); 6 plants from Ryukyu
Islands (201222, exchange).

National Tuberculosis Association,
New York, N. Y.: (Through Charles
Lorenz) 29 progressive color proofs and
a single die proof of 1953 Christmas
seals (199313; 172 specimens showing
processes used to produce 1953 Christ-
mas seals (202394).

Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna,
Austria: 1,055 plants (201347, ex-
change).

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, Sweden: 870 plants from Haiti
(198751, exchange) ; 31 South Ameri-
ean plants (199373, 202073).

Nebraska, State of, Department of
Health, Lincoln, Nebr.: (Through Wil-
liam F. Rapp, Jr.) 8 land and fresh-

water mollusks from Nebraska
(199788).
Needham, Richard M., Lancaster,

Ohio: 3 first-day covers (199803, 200729,
202397).

Neidorf, Charles, New York, N. Y.:
10 ferns, chiefly from New York State
(199188).

Netherlands, Government of, Direc-
tion General des Postes, Telegraphes et
Telephones, The Hague: 16 stamps from
Netherlands (199083, 199873, 200737) ;
17 philatelie specimens from Nether-
lands (200726, 202332).

Neuerburg, Dr. George J., North
Hollywood, Calif.: Specimen of ura-
nothorite from Pacoima Canyon, Los
Angeles County, Calif. (198915).

Neuschel, Sherman K. (See Inte-
rior, U. S. Department of the, Geologi-
cal Survey)

New Jersey Zinc Co., New York,
WN. Y.: (Through C. R. Maxon) 8 trans-
parencies on production and use of zinc
(198811).

85

Newman, Walter B., Hyattsville, Md.:
1 type salamander from Montgomery
County, Md. (202278).

New York, State University of,
Syracuse, N. Y.: 115 plants (200956,
exchange) ; 86 wood specimens native
to the United States (202081, ex-
change).

New York Botanical Garden, New
York, N. Y.: 324 plants of Ecuador,
México, and the United States (198749,
exchange) ; 1 plant from Guadeloupe
(198752) ; 57 plants collected in Vene-
zuela by Dr. Bassett Maguire (199579,
199581) ; 39 South American phanero-
gams (199592) ; 252 plants, mostly from
Venezuela, collected by Dr. Bassett
Maguire (199922, exchange) ; 5 plants
(201035) ; 149 plants collected mostly
in British Guiana (201809, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Bassett Maguire) 90
Venezuelan plants collected by Dr.
Bassett Maguire and J. J. Wurdock
(199577).

New York City Department of Parks,
Staten Island, N. Y.: (Through Edwin
Rundlett) 10 moth caterpillars from
Mariners Harbor, Staten Island
(200272).

Nicaragua, Government of: (Through
Agustin P. Vanegas) 18 Presidential
postage and airmail stamps, and 3 first-
day covers (198874) ; (through Oficina
de Control de Especies Postales y Fila-
telia) 15 Nicaraguan stamps and first-
day covers (202435).

Nishida, Makoto, Chiba, Japan: 108
ferns from Ryukyu Islands (201280,
201662).

Noguchi, Prof. A., Oita, Japan: 55
mosses from Japan (199587, exchange).

Nolan, Dr. M. O. (See Coachella
Valley County Water District)

Norfolk Museum, Norfolk, Va.:
(Through Roger Rageot) 34 land and
fresh-water mollusks from Dismal
Swamp area of Virginia (200304).

North Carolina, University of, Chapel
Hill, N. C.: 45 plants collected in North
Carolina (201346, exchange) ; (through
Dr. A. E. Radford) 1 fern from North
Carolina (198687, exchange).

North Carolina State College, Ra-
leigh, N. C.: 207 plants from southeast-
ern United States (199414, 202329, ex-
change).

Norway, Government of: (Through
Tor Myklebost) 3 Norwegian “North
Cape” semi-postals (198873); 2 Nor-

wegian stamps (199081, 199298) ;
(through Elovius Mangor) 3 Centenary
of Norwegian Railways stamps
(202187).

Norwich Pharmacal Company, Nor-
wich, N. Y.: (Through M. C. Eaton) 1
gelatin pill coater used by donor in 1885,
86

and 2 bottles gelatin coated pills
(202251).

Nursmatic Corp. Chicago, Ill:
(Through Leslie BH. Mickle) 1 8-ounce
No. 201 bottle with an insta-valve
(199187).

Oaks, O. A., Wilmette, Ill.: 29 wood
specimens from Guatemala, New Zea-
land, Tasmania, New Britain, and Texas
(201089).

Ober, Lewis D., Melbourne, Fla.: 2
land snails from Melbourne (200387).

Ochoa, Dr. C., Huancayo, Perti: 95
phanerogams from Pert (199696).

Odum, Prof. Howard T., Gainesville,
Fla.: 307 fresh-water mollusks from
Florida springs (197678).

Office des Emissions de Timbres-
Post. (See Monaco, Government of)

Oficina de Control de Especies Pos-
tales y Filatelia. (See Nicaragua, Gov-
ernment of)

Ohio Geological Survey, Columbus,
Ohio: (Through John H. Melvin) Par-
tial skeleton of fossil amphibian, and
20 brachiopods from Wayne Township,
Jefferson County, Ohio, collected by
Russell J. Lehmann and others during
summer (199731).

Ohira, Hitoo.
University )

Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechani-
cal College, Stillwater, Okla. : 27 grasses
from Oklahoma (201221, exchange).

Old, William E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.:
Approximately 352 marine mollusks
from Virginia (199127).

Olsen, Dr. Leland S., Lincoln, Nebr. :
2 type nematode worms from Fiji Is-
lands (200776).

Oman, Dr. Paul W. (See Agricul-
ture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural
Research Service, Entomology Research
Branch)

Omwake, H. G., Greenwood, Del.:
Collection of pottery from 8 sites near
Lewes, Sussex County, Del. (199680).

Orchard, C. D., San Antonio, Tex.:
6,000 miscellaneous mollusks, mainly
land and fresh-water, from Texas
(180900).

Orena, Mrs. Maria Antonia, San
H'raneisco, Calif.: United States flag
said to have been flown on San Juan
Hill during the Spanish-American War
(185645).

Ortigas, Francisco, Jr., Manila, P. L.:
25 Philippine stamps (198514).

Ortiz, Dr. Ignacio. (See Instituto
Nacional de Higiene)

Osborn Botanical Laboratory, New
Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. John R.
Reeder) 48 Mexican ferns (200631).

Osborne, Dr. F. F., Quebec, Quebec: 5
Devonian brachiopods from Famine
formation, Quebec (2006838).

(See Aichi Gakugei

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Otis, Mrs. Helen P., Tarpon Springs,
Fla.: (Through Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry)
1 coral from Fiji (199073).

Otis, K. C., Washington, D. C.: 1 red-
tailed hawk (199731).

Owens, Mrs. Frances W., Silver
Spring, Md.: 1 black-widow spider and
egg sae (201042).

Ownbey, Dr. Gerald B.
sota, University of)

Oxford University, Druce Herbarium,
Oxford, England: (Through Dr. E. F.
Warburg) 1 phanerogam from Great
Britain (199590).

Page, Hollis, Pomona, Calif.: 1 ada-
mite from Mapami, México (200451, ex-
change).

Paige, Mr. and Mrs. P. Paul, Ather-
ton, Calif.: 2 marine mollusks from off
Mazatlin, México (201852).

Pakistan, Geological Survey of:
(Through Mohsenul Haque) 15 Paleo-
cene Foraminifera from the Salt Range
of Pakistan (201194).

Paleontologisk Museum, Oslo, Nor-
way: (Through Prof. Anatol Heintz)
22 specimens and casts of fossil ostraco-
derm fishes from Upper Silurian forma-
tion of Norway and Spitsbergen
(197815, exchange).

Palmer, Crystal, Daytona Beach,
Fla.: 3 needlepoint tapestries, bronze
medal, and letter (201877, loan).

Pan-American Sanitary Bureau, Méx-
ico, D. F.: (Through Dr. Aurelio Ma-
laga Alba) 19 big-eared bats from Chi-
huahua, México, and Big Bend, Tex.
(202017).

Panko, Maj. Albert Robert, Garfield,
N. J.: Silver hunting-case watch with
Silver chain and key winder, ca. 1850
(200761).

Papua and New Guinea, Territory of,
Department of Forests, Lae, New
Guinea: 73 plants collected in New
Guinea (201869, exchange).

Parke, Davis & Co., Detroit, Mich.:
(Through George A. Bender) 12 mount-
ed prints, ‘“History of Pharmacy in Pic-
tures” (202440).

Parker, Robert H., La Jolla, Calif. :
18 marine invertebrates (201091).

Parkhurst, Joseph L., Jr., Colonia,
N. J.: 196 fresh-water, and 15 brackish-
water mollusks from New Jersey
(199339, 201538) ; 10 sea horses from
Atlantie coast of France (201623) ; 26
marine mollusks from Massachusetts,
New Jersey, England, and Japan
(200912, 201306).

Patch, William Young (deceased) :
(Through Ruth Hawkes) Old sampler
made by Esther Tincom (200253).

Paterson, W. C., Denver, Colo. : 1 beta-
uranophane and uranophane in gneiss
from Slavonia District, Routt County,
Colo. (200382).

(See Minne-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Patterson, Dr. Paul, Hollins College,
Va.: 1 moss from Virginia (198763).

Payne, Lewis E., Washington, D. C.:1
horseshoe crab collected at Kiptopeke
Beach near Cape Charles, Va. (199473).

Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., Arlington,
Va.: 1 red-tailed hawk (202168).

Pecha, Mrs. Leona. (See
Island Girl Scout Stamp Club)

Pechuman, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N. Y.:
2 type horseflies from United States
(201648, exchange).

Pecora, Dr. William T., Washington,
D. C.: 10 minerals from Bear Paw
Mountains, Mont. (200456) ; 4 morae-
sites, 1 tavorite and barbosalite from
Brazil; 2 burbankite and calkinsite
from Montana, all types (202178).

Peelle & Nichols. (See Sands, Mrs.
Muriel FE.)

Penn, Dr. George H., New Orleans,
La.: 8 types of new species of crayfish

Long

from Louisiana and Mississippi
(198700). (See also Tulane Univers-
ity)

Pennington, W. E., Tallahassee, Fla. :
2 fossil horse teeth collected on beach,
Hillsboro Bay, Davis Islands, near
Tampa, and 1 tooth collected on beach,
Clearwater, Pinellas County, Fla., by
donor August 1953 (199497).

Pennsylvania, University of, Univer-
sity Museum, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Dr. F. G. Rainey) Replica of
Sumerian tablet on medicine recently
translated by Dr. Samuel N. Kramer
(200740).

Penson, J. Hubert, Washington, D. C.:
24 plants collected in Virginia (202328).

Perry, Kenneth M., Washington,
D. C.: Cave concretion from Hicklin
Cave near Millboro, Va. (199184); 1
blind cave erayfish (201464).

Perry, Dr. Stuart H., Adrian, Mich.:
Approximately 2,000 glass negatives of
Photo Micrographs of Meteoric Irons,
vols. 1 to 9, by donor (158582) ; 3 Can-
yon Diablo, Arizona, meteorites
(200709); a few grams of Tambo
Quemado meteorite, from District of
Ayacucho, Pert: (202466).

Peters, Prof. Dr. Hans M., Tiibingen,
Germany: 2 grasses from Hl Salvador
(202167). (See also Zoologisches In-
stitut)

Petters, Dr. V., Bogota, Colombia : 12
specimens of Upper Cretaceous, Eocene,
and Oligocene Foraminifera from Co-
lombia, including 8 types (200529).

Pfizer and Co., Inc., Charles, Brook-
lyn, N. Y.: (Through W. C. Walker) 2
packages of antibiotic Terramycin, a
package of Magnamycin, and sample of
original soil from which S. rimosus was
obtained (198822).

Phelps, William H., Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 2 birds (199514, exchange).

817706—54—_7

87

Phelps Dodge Corp., Douglas, Ariz.:
(Through C. R. Kuzell) 27 copper ores
from Bisbee, Ariz. (198592, exchange).

Philip, Dr. Cornelius B., Hamilton,
Mont.: 1 horsefly paratype from United
States (201735, exchange).

Philip, Mrs. Hoffman, Washington,
D. C.: 2 Greek statuettes (200126).

Philippines, Republic of the, Manila,
P. 1.: Department of Health: (Through
Dr. F. EH. Baisas) 27 mosquitoes includ-
ing types from Philippines (201291)
National Museum: (through Dr. EHd-
uardo Quisumbing) 204 land, fresh-
water, and marine mollusks from the
Philippines (195452).

Philippines, University of the, Iloilo
College, Tloilo City, P. I.: 5 grasses
from Philippine Islands (201056).

Pickford, Dr. Grace E., New Haven,
Conn.: (Through William C. Grant)
Approximately 928 specimens of an
earthworm (198970).

Pilsbry, Dr. Henry A. (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,
and Otis, Mrs. Helen P.)

Pimper, Mrs. James Lambie, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 13 specimens of military
uniforms and accessories, and 2 vests,
ea. 1800 (200025).

Platzker, Philip H., New York, N. Y.:
30 stamps featuring the Apostle’s Creed
and “Christmas Story” (200414).

Pletsch, Dr. Donald J., San Francisco,
Calif.: Collection of reptiles and am-
phibians, 2 fishes, 16 mammals, 60 mol-
lusks, 41 insects, and 3 canes covered
with snakeskin, collected by donor in
Taiwan and adjoining islands (199123,
201127).

Plowes, Darrel C. H., Nyamandhlovu,
Southern Rhodesia : 2 sets of birds’ eggs
(202165).

Pojan, Dr. José M. (See Sociedad de
Ciencias Naturales La Salle)

Poland, Government of: (Through
Varimex) 62 £philatelic specimens
(199060, 199275, 199459, 199863, 200412,
200721, 202393) ; (through Prasa i Ksi-
azka) 11 Polish philatelic specimens
(202892).

Poling, James W., New York, N. Y.:
37 fresh-water mollusks (199969, ex-
change) ; 37 land mollusks from Den-
mark, collected by H. Schlesch (201395).

Pollock, Herman, Tropic, Utah: 1 Up-
per Cretaceous ammonite, and 1 fossil
oyster (201598).

Polonus Philatelic Society, Chicago,
Tll.: 2 “Polpex 1954” philatelic exhibi-
tion souvenir label sheets (2023888).

Post Office Department, Washington,
D. C.: 647 postage stamps: 1 each is-
sued in foreign countries and described
in Universal Postal Union Bulletin No.
11-IV, April 28, 1953, No. 15-IV, June
12, 1958, and No. 16-IV, July 7, 1953
&8

(199204) ; 3 copies each of following
stamps: Louisiana Purchase, Fiftieth
Anniversary of Aviation, Commodore
Perry, American Bar Association, Sag-
amore Hill (199690); 549 postage
stamps: 1 each issued in foreign coun-
tries and described in Universal Postal
Union Bulletin No. 19-IV, August 4,
1953, and No. 22-IV, September 25, 1953
(200190) ; 300 foreign postage Stamps:
1 each issued in foreign countries and
described in Bulletin No. 24-IV issued
by International Bureau of Universal
Postal Union, October 27, 1953
(200430) ; 3 copies each of 6 commemo-
rative stamps (201200); 845 foreign
philatelic specimens, described in Uni-
versal Postal Union Bulletin No. 26,
December 11, 1953, and No. 28, Decem-
ber 29, 1953 (201744).

Pou, Alejandro, Jr., Montevideo, Uru-
guay: 7 coins and 11 stamps of Uruguay
(199645).

Pough, Dr. Frederick H., New York,
N. Y¥.: 2 minerals: bazzite, Etzle Tal,
Uri, Italy; thoreaulite, Belgian Congo
(201062).

Prasa i Ksiazka.
ernment of)

Pratt, Dr. Harry D. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of, Public Health Service)

Pretoria, University of, Pretoria,
Union of South Africa: 83 plants from
Africa (199660, exchange).

Price, Dr. Homer F., Payne, Ohio: 6
dragonflies and 4 butterflies from
United States (200442).

Prince, B. Earl, Baton Rouge, La.: 44
fresh-water mollusks from Louisiana
(197811).

Prince, Robert, Coral Hills, Md.: 1
wasp from Maryland (199886).

Provincial Museum, Victoria, British
Columbia: (Through Dr. G. Clifford
Carl) 246 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from British Columbia (200483).

Puerto Rico, University of, Maya-
giiez, P. R.: (Through J. A. Rivero) 32
fishes, 2 shrimps, 2 crabs, and 1 frog
from the Upper Orinoco Region, Vene-
guela (198928).

Pulsifer, Herbert G.
State College)

Purchon, Dr. R. Denison, Singapore:
8 mollusks from Malaya (200848); 1
marine mollusk from Singapore
(202253).

Quate, Dr. Larry W., Lincoln, Nebr.:
30 slides of type Hawaiian flies
(201794).

Quisumbing, Dr. Eduardo. (See Phil-
ippines, Republic of, National Museum)

Radalj, M. (See Yugoslavia, Gov-
ernment of)

Radford, Dr. A. KE.
lina, University of)

(See Poland, Gov-

(See Iowa

(See North Caro-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Raemaekers, Roland H., Bozene, Bel-
gian Congo: 127 land and fresh-water
mollusks from Belgian Congo (200657,
exchange).

Rageot, Roger.
seum)

Rainey, Dr. F. G.
University of)

Raj, Mrs. Hilda, Washington, D. C.:
Tamil game-board from South India
(200282).

Rambo, Dr. B.
chieta )

Ramdohr, Prof. Paul, Heidelberg,
Germany: 6 minerals from Baden, Ger-
many (200457, exchange).

Ramsden, Mrs. Charles T., Santiago
de Cuba, Cuba: 1,773 skins, 75 skele-
tons, and 243 eggs of birds; 23,200 mol-
lusks ; 619 insects from Cuba, constitut-
ing the Dr. Charles T. Ramsden collec-
tion (196701).

Randall, Mrs. Nancy Twedt, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 14 prints for special ex-
hibition April 26—May 23, 1954 (201993,
loan).

Raney, Dr. Edward C.
University )

Rapp, Floyd A., Brandywine, Md.;
4 rare Japanese minerals, 2 cut ame-
thysts, and 2 cut apatites (199856) ; 2
orthoclase minerals from Japan; 1 soda-
orthoclase from Korea; and 1 helio-
trope from Sakhalien (202172).

Rapp, William F., Jr. (See Nebraska,
State of, Department of Health)

Rasetti, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.:
150 Triassic invertebrate fossils from
Italy (199457).

Raup, Omer B., Washington, D. C.:
1 wollastonite from Willsboro, N. Y.
(202462).

Rausch, Dr. Robert. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of, Public Health Service).

Raven-Hart, Maj. R., Colombo, Cey-
lon: 210 marine mollusks from Yasawa
Islands, Fiji (201868).

Ray, Dr. H. C. (See India, Govern-
ment of, Zoological Survey)

Raybestos-Manhattan Inc., Manheim,
Pa.: 9- woven asbestos products
(202079).

Redman, John H., Alexandria, Va.:
1 chinchilla (200338).

Reed, Dr. Clyde F., Baltimore, Md.:
46 plants from Maryland (201050).

Reed, Dr. Edwyn P., Valparaiso,
Chile: 2 bryozoans on algae from Chile
(198251) ; 2 spiny lobsters from Haster
Island, and 15 shrimps from off coast
of Chile (201092).

Reed, Fred S. C., Christchurch, New
Zealand: 3 samples of diatoms (199800).

Reed, Martin M., New York, N. Y.: 1
first-day cover of German commemora-
tive stamp (202879).

(See Norfolk Mu-

(See Pennsylvania,

(See Colegio An-

(See Cornell
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Reeder, Dr. John R.
tanical Laboratory)

Reese, Albert, New York, N. Y.: 25
color lithographs by John Muench for
exhibition May 24—June 20, 1954
(202109, loan).

Reeside, Dr. John B., Jr. (See In-
terior, U. S. Department of the, Geo-
logical Survey)

Rehn, J. A. G., Philadelphia, Pa.:
2 Mexican grasshoppers (200533).

Reid, J. A., Kuala Lumpur, Federated
Malay States: 10 mosquitoes from Ma-
laya (201501).

Reilly, Col. John R., Winnetka, IIl.:
2 Spanish sword blades made in 1786
and 1791 (200968).

Reinhard, Prof. H. J., College Sta-
tion, Tex.: 6 sarcophagid flies from
Texas (201889, exchange).

Reitz, Rev. P. Raulino.
bario “Barbosa Rodrigues’’)

Reparticao Técnica de Agricultura,
Lourenco Marques, Mozambique, Portu-
guese East Africa: 4 grasses from
Africa collected by Mario Myre, et al
(201392) ; 4 grasses from Mozambique
(202218).

Reyer, Emil, South Bend, Ind.: Speci-
men of surgical agarie (201070).

Ribaut, Dr. H., Toulouse, France: 4
paratypes of wasps (201290, exchange).

Ribeiro, Dr. Paulo de Miranda. (See
Brazil, University of)

Richards, Dr. O. W., London, Eng-
land: 11 European wasps, including 2
paratypes (201510, exchange).

Riebe, Henry F., Philadelphia, Pa.: 1
plant from Jerusalem (198909).

Risso, Dr. Francisco J. J., Ciudad Eva
Peron, Argentina: 165 fishes, and 1
erustacean from Argentina (199155,
199699).

Rivero, J. A. (See Puerto Rico, Uni-
versity of)

Rhodesia and Nyasaland, Federation
of, London, England: (Through Colin
Black) 15 Rhodesia and Nyasaland
postage stamps (202471).

Rietschel, Ernest, Sheldon, Conn. : 39
Russian Zone of Germany stamps
(202480); 12 4philatelic specimens
(199869).

Ritcher, Dr. Paul O., Corvallis, Oreg. :
32 beetles from Oregon (202401).

Robert, Rear Adm. William P., Wash-
ington, D. C.: 7 uniforms and acces-
sories of U. S. naval officer (202248).

Roberts, Dr. F. H. H., Jr. (See
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of
American Hthnology)

Roberts, W. L., Rapid City, 8. Dak.:
3 South Dakota minerals: scorzalite
from Victory pegmatite; stannite from
Etta pegmatite; and barite from Meade
County (199662, 201016, exchange).

(See Osborn Bo-

(See Her-

89

Robertson, G. Alexander. (See
Stone, Mrs. Mary A.)
Robinson, Mrs. Dwight P. (de

ceased): (Through Dwight P. Robin-
son) Turquoise pendant from ancient
Zuni Indian shrine, subsequently
mounted in gold filigree by Matilda
Coxe Stevenson as wedding gift to
donor (201129).

Robinson, Mark, Springfield, Pa.: 1
beetle from United States (199808, ex-
change).

Roca-Garcia, Mrs. Manuel, Mahwah,
N. J.: 53 plants from Colombia
(198799).

Roebling Collection, Smithsonian In-
stitution: (Through Harold Levey,
John Glaser, and Joel Shappirio) i
apophyllite on prehnite from Fairfax
quarry, near Centreville, Va. (199861,
exchange).

Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Instiiu-
tion: Specimen of cheleutite from
Saxony, Germany (199056); 7 lots of
“bomb” fragments from Meteor Crater,
Ariz. (199057); 1 synthetic emerald
erystal, 1014 carats (199185) ; 1 speci-
men of uraninite replacing wood and
altering to schroeckingerite from Seven
Mile mines, Moab, Utah (199269) ; 2 cut
gems: black opal from Lightning Ridge,
New South Wales, and white opal from
Coober Pedy, South Australia (199458) ;
22, miscellaneous minerals from Ireland,
Italy, South America, United States,
México, and Russia (200022, 200133,
200820) ; 350 rockbridgeites from the
Fletcher mine, North Groton, N. H.
(200163) ; 8 uncut diamond crystals
from French Equatorial Africa
(200326) ; 1 lot of allemontite from Rio
Moctezuma, Sonora, México (200509) ;
6 minerals: pyrrhotite and jamesonite
from Trepca, Yugoslavia; uraninite
from Morogoro district, Tanganyika,
East Africa (200532) ; 3 meteorites from
Brisco and Lubbock, Tex., and Panter,
P. I. (201064) ; 2 aquamarine crystals
on albite matrix from Palmital, Minas
Gerais, Brazil (201393); 1 bismutite,
Transvaal, South Africa; 1 erythrite,
Franklin, N. J. (201352) ; 17 uranium
minerals from Germany, Czechoslovakia
and Australia (201813); 8 minerals
from Italy: cotunnite, hydroromeite,
and spherocobaltite (201878) ; 8 phos-
phate minerals from Hagendorf, Ba-
varia, Germany, and 1 freislebenite
from Nevada (201888) ; minerals from
Brazil: spodumene, beryl, blue tour-
maline, black tourmaline, topaz, and
quartz (202287); 10 rough Australian
diamonds (202238) ; 3 xenotimes from
Madagascar, and 3 ellestadites, Crest-
more, Calif. (202510).
90

Roger, Dr. Jean, Paris, France: 2
brachiopods from Devonian of France
(202236, exchange).

Rogers, Mrs. Ames P., Abilene, Kans. :
Wedding outfit, ca. 1920, consisting of
dress, train, veil, gloves, shoes, and
lingerie (198901).

Rogers, Col. Frank B. (See Defense,
U. S. Department of, Armed Forces
Medical Library)

Rohrer, Josephine Arthur, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Brooch and eardrops of
malachite mounted in gold, acquired
1877-1878 in St. Petersburg, Russia, by
Mrs. Joshua Weaver, great aunt of
donor; pair antique Florentine mosaic
enamel cuff buttons (198906).

Roots, Robert D., Denver, Colo.: 2
pseudomorphs of quartz after selenite,
from Sioux County, Kans. (199961).

Rosen, Dr. Leon, Bethesda, Md.: 37
mosquitoes from Pacific Islands
(199167). (See also Johns Hopkins
Medical School)

Ross, Dr. Edward S., San Francisco,
Calif.: 2 paratype insects (194518) ; 62
marine invertebrates collected in Chile
(199554).

Ross, Dr. H. H. (See Illinois State
Natural History Survey)

Ross, Mrs. Helen M., Millburn, N. J.:
26 philatelic specimens (199063, 200413,
200719, 202389).

Ross, Mrs. Nancy Angeline, Mars,
Pa.: Applique quilt made by Jane Barr,
aunt of donor, 1849 (201232).

Rouleau, Dr. Ernest. (See Montreal,
University of)

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey,
England: 54 plants from Malaysia
(200748, exchange) ; 26 plants collected
in South America (202327, exchange).

Royal New Zealand Air Force Sta-
tion, Lauthala Bay, Fiji: (Through
Dr. Marshall Laird) 157 immature
midges from Southwest Pacific
(201502).

Royal Ontario Museum of Geology
and Mineralogy, Toronto, Ontario:
(Through Dr. V. Ben Meen) 2 crystals
of sphene from Monmouth Township,
Ontario (201237, exchange) ; 2 miner-
als: basaluminite from Ilchester, North-
ampton, England, and aikenite from Sil-
ver Miller mine, Cobalt, Ontario, Can-
ada (200410, exchange).

Royal Ontario Museum of Zoology,
Toronto, Ontario: 1 Hudson Bay eider
(198747, exchange).

Rubly, Grant A., Malvern, Ark.:
Smith & Wesson revolver, Model 114
(202086).

Rullmann, Myron, Sr. Washington,
D. C.: 5 autographed United States
covers (199064).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1954

Rummell, R. M., Chicago, Ill.: 1 first
Nonstop Flight cover, San Francisco to
New York (202482).

Rundlett, Edwin. (See New York
City Department of Parks)

Runhag, Henry, Enkoping, Sweden:
1 cacheted cover (200718).

Runyon, Robert, Brownsville, Tex.:
3 plants from Texas (198707).

Russell, George P., Washington, D. C.:
1 horseshoe crab (202281).

Ryckman, Dr. Raymond E., Loma
Linda, Calif.: 182 miscellaneous insects
from México (201661). (See also
School of Tropical and Preventive
Medicine)

Sabrosky, Curtis W., Washington,
D. C.: 100 flies, including 5 types, from
Brazil, Europe, and United States
(199597, 199777); 518 miscellaneous
midges, including 15 paratypes, from
Michigan (200080). (See also Agricul-
ture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural
Research Service, Hntomology Research
Branch)

Saksela, Prof. Martti. (See Geologian
Laitos)

Salter, William E., Washington, D. C.:
1 horseshoe crab from beach in Calvert
County, Md. (199838).

Sanborn Co. Cambridge, Mass.:
(Through James L. Jenks, Jr.) Sanborn
Instomatie Cardiette #6364 used by
James L. Jenks, Jr., and Dr. Paul Dud-
ley White for taking electrocardiogram
of whale (199559).

Sanders, Ottys, Dallas, Tex.: 4 type
toads (201827).

Sands, Mrs. Muriel E., New York,
N. Y.: (Through Peelle & Nichols,
Attorneys) 5 historical specimens re-
lating to Gen. George B. McClellan and
Union generals (200641).

Santesson, Dr. Rolf.
of Systematic Botany)

Sargent, F. H., Falls Church, Va.: 1
phanerogam from Alabama (200449).

Sarles, E. H., Norwood, Ohio: 9 min-
erals from Bon Azzer, French Morocco,
and Hopewell, N. J. (200135).

Sauvan, Dr. P. A. (See Nancy, Uni-
versité de)

Saxon, R. N., Stafford, Va.: 1 wood-
cock (200328).

Sbarbaro, Dr. Camillo, Spotorno,
Savona, Italy: 22 lichens from Europe
(199581, exchange) ; 119 plants chiefly
from Africa (201791).

Schaffner, Gerta, Washington, D. C.:
2 phanerogams (200160).

Schallert, Paul O., Altamonte Springs,
Fla.: 2 plants from Florida (198754).

Schelpe, Dr. E. A. (See Cape Town,
University of)

(See Institute

Scheltema, Rudolf S. (See Maryland
Department of Research and HEduca-
tion)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Schiller, Dr. Everett L. (See Health,
Education and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of, Public Health Service)

Schneck, Louis, Washington, D. C.:
Carrying yoke of hand-carved pine, and
wrought-iron hand rake from home of
Martin Van Buren (202456).

Schmidt, Jack, Lake Worth, Fla.: Ap-
proximately 300 land mollusks from
Cuba (199538, exchange).

Schmitz, John, Chicago, Ill.: 1 moth
parasite and parasitized larva collected
in Chicago (2021388).

Schoenfeld, Ralph A. Tacoma,
Wash.: 2,570 Mississippi precancels,
composite of Mississippi collections of
Judge J. W. Ford, Prof. A. F. Gamber,
C. W. Sachs, Roger Wilson, Al Zinker,
H. A. Pipper, W. H. Field, and R. BH.
Blaylock, plus other material secured
by donor (199161).

Scholer, Ronald M., Arlington, Va.:
Starr percussion revolver, ca. Civil War
(198571, exchange).

School of Tropical and Preventive
Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.:
(Through Dr. Bruce W. Halstead) 29
fishes from Johnston, Marianas, Pal-
myra, and Phoenix Islands (192882, ex-
change); 4 type parrotfishes from
Tower Island, Galapagos Islands, col-
lected by Dr. Bruce Halstead and Mr.
Bunker, December 30, 1952 (201204,
exchange) ; (through Dr. Raymond HE.
Rykman) 28 mammals from western
United States (200663).

Schott, Guenther L.
Aquarium, Inc.)

Schreeder, Carl R.
Thermit Corp.)

Schroeder, William C. (See Harvard
University, Museum of Comparative
Zoology)

Schubert, Dr. Bernice G., Beltsville,
Md.: 4 plants (198760) ; 12 photographs
of African legumes (199584).

Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S., Scarsdale,
N. Y.: Approximately 350 land and
fresh-water mollusks (198694); 281
miscellaneous mollusks (199128).

Scripps Institution of Oceanography,
La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr. Edward
Brinton) 5 crustaceans, including type
of a new species (198734).

Sealander, Dr. Jchn A., Jr., Fayette-
ville, Ark.: 2 type specimens of big-
eared bats from Arkansas (198941, ex-
change).

Seamen’s Church Institute of New
York, New York, N. Y.: (Through Jay
Dennis) 1 maiden voyage cacheted
cover, S. 8. Nieww Amsterdam (202885).

Seamless Rubber Co., New Haven,
Conn.: (Through Edwin P. Dawson)
An Eveready nurser (199173).

(See Columbia

(See Metal &

91

Sebastian, Dr. V. O., Madras, India:
5 type tunicates (199470).

Secretaria da Agricultura, Porto
Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 17
grasses from Brazil (197482).

Segeler, Curt G., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
1 diopside crystal from Blackburn
mine, Cantley, Quebec, and 1 korneru-
pine from Hinck’s Bridge, Gatineau
River, near Kazebazna, Quebec
(200452).

Selinger, Mrs. Frank J., Jr., Rockville
Center, L. I., N. Y.: (Through Mrs. Paul
J. Selinger) 1 complete case of barber-
dental-bloodletting instruments, in
memory of husband (199536).

Selinger, Mrs. Paul J. (See Selinger,
Mrs. Frank J., Jr.)

Senger, Clyde M.
State College)

Seshadri, Dr. A. R., Bapatla, India:
27 slides of thrips from India (198383,
exchange) ; 26 named thrips from In-
dia (200224, exchange).

Sette, Oscar. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the, Fish and Wildlife
Service)

Shappirio, Joel, Washington, D. C.:
1 apophyllite from Fairfax quarry be-
tween Centreville and Gainesville, Va.
(199291, loan). (See also Roebling
Collection)

Sharp & Dohme, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Seth N. Baker) 4 pieces of
early pharmaceutical manufacturing
equipment used by donor and Mulford
Laboratories prior to 1900 (202250).

Shaw, Awbrey N. (See Shaw, Mrs.
Lucena Nash)

Shaw, Harry B.
tographic Society)

Shaw, Mrs. Lucena Nash (deceased) :
(Through Awbrey N. Shaw) 1 opales-
cent glass mug, English Bristol, ca. 1790,
6 English wine glasses, pair of French
glass vases, ca. 1860, pair French bisque
figurines, ca. 1860, Gothic bookcase and
satinwood sofa of French Empire period
(201041).

Shepherd, Mrs. Elmer R., Washington,
D. C.: 2 Quaker bonnets, 3 gauze under-
caps, and 1 band box, all of period 1825—
1860 (202248).

Sheppard, Lt. Col. Harvey E., Shef-
field, Ala.: 2 Burmese manuscript books
on rice paper (201341).

Shulman, Dr. Emanuel V., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Cylindrical white pottery
vase made by Louis Comfort Tiffany,
New York City, 1890’s (201031).

Sievers, Walter R., Johnstown, Pa.:
1 United Nations first-day cover
(202384).

Simmons, Frank E., Oglesby, Tex.:
99 land and fresh-water mollusks and
25 insects from Texas (199787).

(See Montana

(See National Pho-
92

Simon, James H., Washington, D. C.:
1 woodcut, “Kurdic in Jerusalem,” by
Jacob Pins (200715).

Simpson, Mrs. Walter L., Hurry, Md.:
Wedding garments and accessories
worn by Adolph L. Scheiblich and Ida
Thankful Holycross, February 8, 1894,
in Union County, Ohio (200969).

Sinkankas, Comdr. John, Arlington,
Va.: 26 cut gems from various world
localities (199270).

Sister Marie Caroline.
Immaculate, Convent of)

Skotzke, Sigmund C., Milwaukee,
Wis.: 34 philatelic specimens (201898).

Slater, Dr. James A., Ames, Iowa: 30
bugs, including 13 paratypes, from
Africa and North and South America
(201292).

Sleeper, Dr. Elbert L., Columbus,
Ohio: 45 beetles from Japan and India
(200166) ; 84 beetles, including 7 types,
from North and South America, Domin-
ican Republic, India, Africa, and Japan
(202352).

Smejkal, Mr., Ljubljana, Jugoslavia :
(Through Duhovnik, Dr. Joze) 16 min-
erals from Stari Trg Mine, Trepca, Ju-
goslavia (202082), exchange).

Smith, Allyn G., Berkeley, Calif.: 4
rare land mollusks from California
(200974) .

Smith, Foster D., Jr., Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 1 phanerogam and 2 birds from
Venezuela (199599).

Smith, Dr. Harry M., Whiting, Ind.:
Birds, 7 mammals, reptiles, fishes, 528
miscellaneous insects, 3 mollusks, and
4 marine invertebrates from southern
Asia (200702).

Smith, Dr. Hobart M. (See Illinois,
University of)

Smith, Dr. Lyman B., Washington,
D. C.: 653 plants of Maryland and Vir-
ginia collected by donor and associates
(199200); 99 plants from Santa
Catarina, Brazil (200508) ; 477 plants
from Brazil, mostly collected by Rev.
Raulino Reitz (201605, 202104).

Smith, Dr. Marion E., Amherst,
Mass.: 2 marine midges from New
Jersey (200467).

Smith, Dr. Roger C., Manhattan,
Kans.: 11 spongilla flies from Europe
and Nearctie (201646).

Smith, William R., Falls Church, Va.:
3 minerals from Fairfax quarry, near
Centreville, Va. (199771, exchange).

(See Mary

Smith, Mrs. William V. (See Dion,
Frederick H.)
Smithsonian Institution, Washing-

ton, D. C.: Engraving by Giovanni
Baptista Peranese entitled “Veduta
della Dogana di Terra a Piazza de
Pietra” found in collections (201926) ;
2 photographs, “Portrait of Charles
Darwin,” and “Portrait of J. F. W.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Herschel,” by Julia Margaret Cameron,
found in collections (201994) ; 14 etch-
ings, engravings and mezzotints by
various artists (202108) (deposits).
(See also following Funds: Canfield,
Chamberlain, Dahlgreen, Hickemeyer,

Roebling, Springer, Walcott.) From
the Photographie Laboratory: 1,964
photographs of plants (202496).

BUREAU OF AMERICAN HWTHNOLOGY:
Casts of archeological material Gol-
lected at Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz,
México, in 1941 (194273); excavated
archeological material from La Venta,
Tabasco, México (194274) ; 25 pottery
vessels from Veraguas, Panama, col-
lected by Dr. Matthew W. Stirling
(195872) ; 2 bird bones (199267); 11
stone beads from Panama and 1 effigy
bird from México (200850); 9 gold,
copper, and pottery objects from Pan-
ama, and 2 archaic pottery figurines
from México (201080); pottery vessel
from Panam4 (201671) ; 26 ethnograph-
ical specimens from a _ sub-Andean
Indian tribe of Colombia (202489) ;
(through A. J. Waring) miscellaneous
bones of 7 species of mammals from
Sapeloe Island, Ga., carbon-14 deter-
mined age about 3,800 years (196412) ;
(through Dr. Matthew W. Stirling) 1
snake, 1 gecko, 3 grasshoppers, and 6
marine mollusks from Tobago Island,
Panama Bay, collected in 1953 (199026,
201160). River Basin Surveys: 18
archeological specimens from 4 sites
in Albeni Falls Reservoir area, Pend
Oreille River, Bonner County, Idaho
(199182) ; 90 archeological specimens
from 2 sites in Cachuma Reservoir area
on Santa Ynez River, Santa Barbara
County, Calif. (199133); 650 archeo-
logical specimens from Site 45 BN 3,
McNary Reservoir, Columbia River,
Benton County, Wash. (199134) ; pot-
tery, stone, bone, and shell artifacts,
and human skeletal material from the
Woodruff Ossuary, Phillips County,
Kans., 1946 (200125); (through Dr.
Robert L. Stephenson) 30 fresh-water
mussels from archeological sites in the
Missouri Basin (199210, 200877) ;
(through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.) 57
Oligocene fossil mammal specimens
from Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in
Montana, collected by Dr. Theodore E.
White, June 19538 (199480). Natrona
Museum: Collected: 1,802 skins, 4
skeletons, 2 alcoholics, and 1 set of eggs
of birds from Thailand and Laos, by
Herbert G. Deignan (199510) ; 4 plants
from Louisiana, by Herbert G. Deignan
(202074) ; 50 marine mollusks from
British Guiana, by Dr. Clifford Evans,
Jr. (200255) ; 3 specimens of fossil por-
poise from Calvert formation, Camp
Roosevelt, Calvert County, Md., by Dr.
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Remington Kellogg, Roger L. Batten,
Dr. David H. Dunkle, and Wallace L.
Ashby, May 1954 (202370) ; 2,612 plants
from the Isle of Pines, Cuba, Florida
Keys, Maryland, and Texas, by E. P.
Killip (198807, 199923, 200332); 1,193
plants from Michigan, New York, Vir-
ginia, and Wisconsin, by Conrad V.
Morton (199151, 201651); 116 plants
from New York by Dr. Velva BE. Rudd
(198910) ;
tional Science Foundation) 24,161
plants, 29 mammals, 279 wood speci-
mens, 528 mollusks, 363 marine inverte-
brates, 2 fishes, and 1,420 insects from
Fiji by Dr. A. C. Smith, and in part by
Katherine and Michael A. Smith
(201527) ; 2,780 plants from Brazil by
Dr. Lyman B. Smith (199415); 13
phanerogams by Dr. Lyman B. Smith
(200755) ; 1,148 plants from México by
Dr. Ernest R. Sohns (200333) ; 28 mis-
cellaneous minerals from Colorado and
Utah, by Dr. George Switzer (202425) ;
23 plants from Maryland and Pennsyl-
vania, by Dr. Egbert H. Walker
(201087) ; 126 plants from Ryukyu
Islands by Dr. Egbert H. Walker
(202076) ; 745 skins, 8 alcoholic skins,
10 skeletons, and 7 eggs of birds, 1 frog,
2 snails, from Panama, by Dr. A. Wet-
more and Watson M. Perrygo (199183) ;
161 bird skins, 18 bird skeletons, and
2 sets bird eggs from Venezuela, by Dr.
A. Wetmore (202164) ; 512 bird skins,
7 bird skeletons, 2 mammals, and 6 in-
sects from Panama, by Dr. A. Wetmore
(202328). Purchased: 2 Formosan
macaques (195230); 893 plants col-
lected in Iran, Persia, and Afghanistan
by Dr. Karl H. Rechinger (199853,
201388) ; 187 ferns from Kuala Lumpur
(199854) ; lithograph, ‘‘View of Wash-
ington,” by Robert P. Smith, 1850
(201248) ; 31 casts made from R. F.
Damon molds of fossil primates and
men (201489); reproductions of stone
earving from Pert and gold plaque
from Panama (202320). Made in
Anthropological Laboratory: Casts of
Mexican pottery figurines in American
Museum of Natural History (201490).
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL ParK: 25 birds
(199694); 380 mammals (202503) ;
(through Dr. William M. Mann) 61
fishes from aquaria (201900).

Sniffen, Harold S. (See Mariners
Museum)

Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La
Salle, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through
Dr. José M. Pojan) 15 shrimps and 4
crabs from Orinoco Delta region, Vene-

guela (197865); (through Brother
Gines) 748 plants from Venezuela
(200020).

Solem, Alan.
versity of)

(See Michigan, Uni-

(in cooperation with Na-

93

Sollers, Helen, Washington, D. C.:
1,752 beetles, mostly North American,
from J. A. Hyslop collection (201639).

Ségrensen, Henning. (See Universi-
tetets, Mineralogisk-Geologiske Insti-
tut)

Soukup, Dr. J., Lima, Pert: 170 plants
collected in Pere (199152, 201345,
202420).

South African Institute for Medical
Research, Johannesburg, South Africa:
(Through Dr. EF. Zumpt) 15 flies from
Africa and Japan (201642, exchange).

Southern California, University of,
Allan Hancock Foundation, Los Angeles,
Calif. : 302 marine algae from Viet Nam
(199957, exchange).

Southern Gem Mining Co., El Paso,
Tex.; (Through Col. EH. M. Barron) 1
wulfenite, and 1 vanadinite from Los
Lamentos, Chihuahua, México (201815,
exchange).

Southern Methedist University, Dal-
las, Tex.: 1 grass from Texas (199429) ;
(through Dr. E. P. Cheatum) 9 bran-
chiuran crustaceans from eye of catfish,
collected at Dallas Aquarium (197387).

Southern Rhodesia, Government of:
Mint set of Queen Elizabeth II pictorial
postage series (199505).

Southworth, Charles, Thedford, On-
tario: 35 fragmentary Devonian fossil
fish bones from Arkona formation of
Ontario, collected by donor (200221).

Spangler, Dr. Paul J., Columbia, Mo. :
54 miscellaneous insects from United
States (200772) ; 9 beetles and 1 collem-
bola from. United States (201641).

Spanton, H. G., Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina: First-day cover marking fourth
eentenary of founding of Santiago del
Estero (199507) ; 1 first-day cover, and
1 descriptive folder, “La Uruguay”
Stamps (199868) ; 6 philatelic specimens
from Argentina (202378).

Spence, Dr. David, Pacific Grove,
Calif.: (Through Austin H. Clark)
Whip for flogging, from household of
Russian Grand Duke Michael Alexan-
drovitech (200524).

Spencer, K. A., London, England: 20
leaf miners from England (201660).

Sperry, John L., Riverside, Calif.:
2,257 miscellaneous insects from North
and South America (199281, 200464,
201288).

Sperry, Prof. Omer E. (See Agricul-
tural and Mechanical College of Texas)

Springer Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 15 echinoderms from Devonian of
Ontario (200134); 3869 echinoderms
from the Pennsylvanian Francis shale
of Ada, Okla. (201882).

Springer, Stewart. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)
94

Squance, D. R., Royal Oak, Vancouver
Island: 1 plant from Canada (200019).

Srivastava, Dr. H. D., Izatnagar, In-
dia: 7 fresh-water mollusks from India
(198680).

Stabler-Leadbeater Apothecary Shop.
(See Landmarks Society of Alexandria,
Inc.)

Stannard, Dr. Lewis J. (See Illinois
State Natural History Survey)

Stearns, R. E., Baltimore, Md.: 1,627
archeological specimens consisting of
ceramie remains, stone, and metal, in-
cluding items of aboriginal and white
origin from sites along Patuxent River
(200211).

Steater, Mrs. Emma Hostetter, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 1 piece “old copperas”
linen check, about 1800 (202234).

Steele, Paul H., Sacramento, Calif. : 2
marine mollusks from BHaster Island
(198894).

Steen, Charles, Moab, Utah: 1 pitch-
blende from Mi Vida mine, 30 miles
south of Moab (202464).

Steger, Dan, Tampa, Fla.: 4 marine
mollusks from Gulf of Mexico (198789).

Steger, Mrs. Dan, Tampa, Fla.: 14
marine mollusks from Gulf of Mexico
(199640).

Steiger, Robert F., Greenville, 8. C.:
1 sand dollar from Tertiary of South
Carolina (199911).

Stein, Hilda A., Carbondale, Ill.: 4
salamanders from Dlinois (202134).

Steiner, Mrs. Mona Lisa, Pasay City,
Rizal, P. I.: 253 plants collected in
Philippine Islands (201609).

Stephen, Dr. W. P., Corvallis, Oreg.:
19 paratypes of bees from Canada

(198804).

Stephenson, Dr. Robert L. (See
Smithsonian Institution, Bureaw of
American Ethnology, River Basin Sur-
veys)

Stevens, Dr. Edward H., Rapid City,
S. Dak.: 1 augelite from Bob Ingersoll
pegmatite, Keystone, S. Dak. (200453).

Stevens, William T., Charlottesville,
Va.: 1 cut pink tourmaline from Mozam-
bique (200705, loan).

Steward, Robert H., Balboa Heights,
C. Z.: Approximately 300 marine mol-
lusks from Limon Bay, Colon, Panama
(199463).

Stewart, Melvin, and Lame, Prof.
C. C., Lewiston, Idaho: (Through Ted
Larrabee) 2 garnets and a 7.2 carat
eut stone of star garnet from Em-
erald Creek, Benewah County, Idaho
(199219).

Stewart, Robert H. (See Interior,
U. 8S. Department of the, Geological
Survey )

Steyskal, George C., Grosse Ile,
Mich.: 18 flies from United States
(200465).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Stirling, Dr. Matthew W.
Smithsonian Institution,
American Ethnology)

Stockdale, Robert E., Ravenna, Ohio:
Human skull, lacking lower jaw, from
near Ravenna (200123).

Stockmar, Mrs. Sadie E., Chillum,
Md.: Japanese smoking outfit and Chi-
nese brass brazier (199499).

Stockvis, Aubrey Philip, Arlington,
Va.: 12 “Corfu” overprints on Greek
stamps, all faked overprints (203399).

Stekes Machine Co. F. J. (See Co-
lumbia University, and Jenkins Labora-
tories)

Stolow, J. & H., New York, N. Y.:
(Through Finbar Kenny) 3 United
States commemorative stamps, and 4
Mongolian stamps (202475).

Stone, Mrs. Mary A., Richmond, Va.:
(Through G. Alexander Robertson) 2
gastroliths from Richmond (199036).

Strasburg, Donald W. (See National
Research Council, Pacific Science
Board)

Strauss, Dr. Maurice J., New Haven,
Conn. : 72-page postage stamp collection
depicting history of medicine (200741,
loan).

Strelak, Joseph S., Waukegan, IIl.:
American Air Mail Society “Jet” flight
cover and folder, and New York “Air
Mail Field” folder and air letter sheet
(199065); 43 philatelic specimens
(200417, 200730, 202374).

Strohecker, Dr. H. F., Coral Gables,
Wla.: 31 crickets, grasshoppers, man-
tids, and katydids, including 138 types
(199332); 5 beetles from TFlorida
(201645).

Struhall, L. J., Austin, Tex.: 1 lab-
radorite from Byrd ranch, Alpine,
Brewster County, Tex. (199859).

Stumm, Dr. Erwin C., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 4 Mississippian brachiopods
from Michigan (199703).

Stupka, Arthur. (See Interior, U. 8S.
Department of the, National Park Serv-
ice)

Suarez, Dr. Ernesto Aliaga, La Paz,
Bolivia: 16 plants from Bolivia
(193026).

Sul Ress State College, Alpine, Tex. :
(Through Prof. Barton H. Warnock)
1 grass from Texas (201348).

Sundstrom, Gustaf. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)

Sussex County Archaeological As-
sociation, Lewes, Del.: 13 lots of Euro-
pean artifacts from Derrickson Site,
north of Lewes (202492).

Swan, Dr. Emery F., Durham, N. H.:
3 isopods from Cape Neddick, Maine
(198856).

(See
Bureau of
DONORS

Swann, David H., Urbana, Ill.: 9
brachiopods from the Devonian, deep
well in Coles County, Ili. (200052).

Sweeney, Mrs. Edward C., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 59 plants collected in French
West Africa and Nigeria (201225).

Swoboda, Edward R., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 2 gems: sphene from Ojos
Negros, Baja California; amethyst
from Four Peaks, Ariz. (201353, ex-
change) ; 1 beryl from Banaval, Itopore,
Minas Gerais, Brazil, and 1 sphene
from Ojos Negros, Baja California

(201855).
Taipei City Zoological Garden,
Taipei, Taiwan, Formosa: (Through

Wu Kueng-yu) 2 Formosan macaques
(200337).

Takewaki, Dr. Kiyoshi.
Imperial University)

Tateoka, Dr. Tsuguo, Shizuoka, Ja-
pan: 50 Japanese grasses (201230, ex-
change).

Taylor, Augustus C. (deceased) :
(Through Elizabeth J. Taylor) 1 single
hanging type show globe complete with
fixture (201898).

Taylor, Ralph, Ann Arbor, Mich.:
(Through Robert S. Campbell) 3 para-
types of North American catfishes
(202331).

Templin, Dr. Lucinda de Leftwich,
Hl Paso, Tex.: Collection of antique
and period jewelry presented as a me-
morial to donor’s mother, Ella Rice
Templin (200122).

Tennessee, University of, Knoxville,
Tenn.: 32 Mexican ferns (198954); 2
plants collected in Tennessee (202418,
exchange).

Terrell, Edward E., Cincinnati, Ohio:
11 grasses from Ohio (200628).

Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.:
(Through Dr. Marshall R. Wheeler)
138 biting midges from Arizona
(199671) ; (through J. C. Walter, Jr.)
4 Permian Rustler fossils from Culber-
son County, Tex. (200186); (through
Dr. Clark Hubbs) 21 fishes from Texas
(200376, exchange); (through Henry
Hildebrand) 40 marine mollusks and
1 coral from western part of Gulf of
Mexico (201276).

Texas A. and M. College System, Col-
lege Station, Tex.: 1 grass from Texas
(198783) .

Texas Game, Fish & Oyster Commis-
sion, Corpus Christi, Tex.: 3 diatoms
from Texas (199028).

Thaanum, D. D., Honolulu, T. H.: 33
marine mollusks from Japan (199716).

Thalmann, Dr. Hans E., Stanford,
Calif. : 4 Recent type Foraminifera from
off Baracoa, Cuba (201499).

Thatcher, Dr. T. O., Fort Collins,
Colo. : 1 beetle holotype from Guatemala
(201890).

(See Tokyo

TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

95

Thietje, Dr. Walter. (See Iowa, State
University of)

Thomen, Luis F. (See Dominican Re-
public, Government of)

Thompson, Daniel, Ensenada, P. R.:
3 scale models representing older-type
mills of Puerto Rico (200380).

Thompson, Dr. Howard K., Boston,
Mass.: 3 Liberian philatelic specimens
(202427).

Thompson, Dr. Rufus.
University of)

Thoreau, Prof. J., Louvain, Belgium:
7 minerals from Belgian Congo (200819,
201687, exchange).

Thorn, Mrs. Marvin D., McLean, Va.:
Girl’s blue dress and pair of high but-
ton shoes worn by Miss Blanche Stew-
art of Boston, Mass., late 19th century,
and picture of Miss Stewart wearing
dress (200763).

Threlkeld, Dr. W. L. (See Virginia
Agricultural Experiment Station)

Thurman, Mrs. Ernestine B., Chevy
Chase, Md.: Approximately 300 marine
mollusks, 6 mosquitoes, and 9 barnacles
from Thailand (198802, 200778); ap-
proximately 100,000 insects and an
arachnid from Northern Thailand, col-
lected by the late Lt. Comdr. Deed C.
Thurman, Jr., and donor (202488).

Tibbetts, Capt. Ted, APO San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: 118 miscellaneous insects,
centipedes, millipedes, and 9 mollusks,
all from Korea (198815, 199089,
201886).

Tiensnu, Dr. L., Helsinki-To616, Fin-
land: 95 flies from Finland, 4 genera
and 28 species new to _ collection
(201289).

Tierney, J. Q., Washington, D. C.: 1
hydrocoral from Cross Sound off Cape
Spencer, Alaska (199238) ; 204 marine
invertebrates (200055).

Tierney, Peter, Washington, D. C.: 1
marine mollusk from California
(201364).

Tilden, Dr. J. W., San Jose, Calif.:
6 butterflies from California (200032).

Tilleaux, Eugene A., Arlington, Va.:
8 posters, period of World War II
(199084).

Timberlake, P. H., Riverside, Calif.:
57 beetles and 19 bees from United
States (201506).

Tissot, Dr. A. N.
versity of)

Titterington, Dr. P. F., St. Louis,
Mo.: Notched human tooth from north-
east of Monk’s Mound, Cahokia, Ill.
(201989).

Todd, Ruth. (See Interior, U. S. De-
partment of the, Geological Survey)

Tokyo, University of, Tokyo, Japan:
(Through Dr. Hisashi Kuno) 48 rocks
from the Hakone Mountains, Japan,
and 1 osumilite (198998, exchange) ;

(See Kansas,

(See Florida, Uni-
96

(through Dr. Masaji Honda) 7 Japa-
nese plants (200817, exchange).

Tokyo Imperial University, Tokyo,
Japan: (Through Dr. Kiyoshi Take-
waki and Dr. T. Fujii) 24 samples of
Alcyonarian corals (200678).

Tomiyama, Dr. Ichiro. (See Misaki
Marine Biological Station)

Townes, Dr. H. K., San Francisco,
Calif.: 5 paratypes of parasitic wasps
from Philippines (201293).

Townsend, Earl C., Jr., Indianapolis,
Ind.: 101 silver beads from Fulton
County, Ill. (199615, exchange).

Traub, Lt. Col. Robert. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department
of the Army)

Treasury, U. S. Department of the,
Washington, D. C.: 46 coins: 2 sets of
United States coins, 1953; 2 sets proof
coins, 1954; 2 sets Booker T. Washing-
ton—George Washington Carver Com-
memorative half dollars (201294);
57,955 assorted Revenues and Revenue
proofs (201555) ; 25 pruta and 50 pruta
coins of Israel (202245) ; 92 Japanese
coins (2024738); 2,132 counterfeit
United States and foreign stamps, and
64 counterfeit singles from d’Utassy
Estate (202118, deposit); (through
Granville S. Borden) 4 quartz with gold
specimens, and 1 quartz with altaite
from IJIdaho—Maryland mines, Grass
Valley, Calif. (200474).

Trechman, C. T., Castle Eden, County
Durham, England: 10 Permian inverte-
brate fossils from England, and 3 bar-
nacles from New Zealand (200223, ex-
change).

Trembley, Helen L. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U. S. Depart-
ment of, Public Health Service)

Tressler, Dr. Willis, Washington,
D. C.: 12 type ostracods from Texas
and México (200507).

Troelsen, Dr. J. C., Copenhagen, Den-
mark: 29 foraminiferal paratypes from
Paleocene of Denmark (201015).

Tucker, Dr. J. M., Davis, Calif.: 18
plants collected in México (202231).

Tulane University, New Orleans, La.:
(Through Dr. George H. Penn) 157
bugs from Louisiana (200822, ex-
change) ; 88 mosquitoes from United
States (201503); (through Dr. George
H. Penn and Edward N. Lambremont)
16 butterflies from Korea (202111).

Turner, Alfred W., Carlos A. Carrillo,
México: 19 beetles from México
(198955).

Turner, Rodney, Portsmouth, Va.:
Oligochaete worms from Dismal
Swamp, Va. (198797).

Tuttle, Eric, Fall River, Mass.: 14
fresh-water mollusks from Fall River
(199169).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations
Postal Administration)

United Nations Postal Administra-
tion, New York, N. Y.: (Through Reidar
Tvedt) 48 exhibit frames of UNPA
philatelic material (198872, loan) ;
3-cent United Nations embossed enve-
lope (199862); first-day cover, United
Nations Universal Postal Union issue,
with official cachet (199145); 4 first-
day covers (200419, 200766, 202376).

Universidad de Concepcién, Concep-
cién, Chile: 29 plants from Chile
(200405, 200957).

Universidad Nacional de San Marcos,
Lima, Pert: 1 plant collected in Peru
(201808) ; (through Dr. Octavio Velarde
Nufiez) 32 plants from Perti (199268).

Universidade Rural, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 30 plants collected by H. Mon-
teiro in Brazil (202170, exchange).

Universitatis Jagellonicae, Krakow,

Poland: 156 miscellaneous plants
(201871, exchange).
Université d’Alger, Algiers, North

Africa: (Through Dr. F. Bernard) 50
ants from Mediterranean region
(200587, exchange).

Université de Nancy, Nancy, France:
(Through Dr. P. A. Sauvan) 203 Juras-
sic and Cretaceous brachiopods from
France (200706, exchange) ; 571 plants
collected in Europe by J. Baagoe (202-
228, exchange).

Universitetets Botaniske Museum,
Copenhagen, Denmark: 1,934 miscel-
laneous plants (199419, exchange).

Universitetets, Mineralogiska and
Geologiske Institut, Copenhagen, Den-
mark: (Through Dr. Henning S¢ren-
sen) 1 gunnbjarnite from Hold with
Hope, East Greenland (201498, ex-
change); 11 minerals from Greenland
(201908, exchange) ; 17 nepheline sye-
nites from Julianehaab region, Green-
land (202465, exchange).

University College, London, London,
England: 6384 fossil invertebrates from
England (200757, exchange).

Unknown: 1 U. S. Internal Revenue
stamp and 2 British covers (202431) ;
225 philatelic specimens, photographs,
letters, and clippings (202502).

Uno, Kakuo, Okayama-ken, Japan:
157 Japanese ferns (198907, exchange) ;

100 Japanese grasses (201229, ex-
change).
Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, Mich.:

(Through Donald T. Meredith) 2 boards
used by the donor around 1890 to meas-
ure size and count pills (202337).
Utah, University of, Salt Lake City,
Utah: 3 plants from Utah (200833).
Utinomi, Dr. Huzio. (See Kyoto Im-
perial University )
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Utnick, Morris, Brooklyn, N. Y.:
Scale model of western Wells Fargo
stagecoach (200586).

Vaiden, M. G., Rosedale, Miss. : 2 blue
jays from Mississippi (198775).

Valerio, Prof. Manuel, San José,
Costa Rica: 11 marine and fresh-water
mollusks from Costa Rica (1987381).

Van Cleave, Estate of Harley J., Ur-
bana, Ill.: 2,871 specimens of Acantho-
cephala and ‘Trematoda, including
many types; also the Carus collection
of photographs and negatives (198314).

Vandenbulcke, Jacques, Rome, Italy:
12 crystals of pyrite from Rio Elbano
mine, Island of Elba (200963).

van der Kuyp, Dr. E., Paramaribo,
Surinam: 72 mollusks from Surinam
(199126, 199827); 4 mosquitoes from
Surinam (200029).

van der Vecht, Dr. J., Bogor, Indo-
nesia : 82 wasps, including 16 paratypes,
from Indonesia (198818, 202110, ex-
change).

Vanegas P., Agustin.
gua, Government of)

Van Ells, Dr. M. E., Ann Arbor, Mich. :
6 oligochaetes (201332).

Van Itallie, Philip H.
Laboratories)

Van Noten, Jean, Englewood, N. J.:
16 Belgian semi-postal stamps designed
by donor (202429).

Vargo, Mrs. Kathryn Fritch, Wash-
ington, D. C., and Bresser, Mrs. Esther
Fritch, Cincinnati, Ohio: 9 costume
specimens, ca. 1890 to 1910 (200461) ;
2 porcelain-head dolls, doll’s trunk and
clothing, used by donors’ mother, Effie
Dora White (202494).

Varimex. (See Poland, Government

(See Nicara-

(See Wyeth

of)

Vazquez, Alberto W., Arlington, Va.:
10 marine invertebrates, 1 frog, and 2
snakes collected in Minnesota, South
Dakota, and Virginia (200316, 200487) ;
10 leeches, 2 nematodes (201613); 5
fresh-water mussels from Fairfax
County, Va. (201757).

Velarde Nunez, Dr. Octavio.
Universidad de San Marcos)

Veloso, Dr. H. P. (See Ministerio da
Educacéo e Saude)

Verrill, A. Hyatt, Chiefland, Fla.: 17
miscellaneous insects from Florida
(200026, 200165); 1 fresh-water mol-
lusk dredged from off Tobago, B. W. I.
(200603).

Viener, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice A.,
Washington, D. C.: Woodcut, “Street
Brawl in Jerusalem,” by Jacob Pins
(201656).

Villalobos, Dr. Alejandre, México,
D. F.; 3 type mysids from Grutas de
Quintero, Tamaulipas, México (200108,
exchange).

(See

97

Virginia, University of, Charlottes-
ville, Va.: (Through Horton H. Hobbs,
Jr.) 12 fishes from Lithia Springs, Hills-
borough County, Fla. (201234).

Virginia Agricultural Experiment
Station, Blacksburg, Va.: (Through Dr.
W. L. Threlkeld) 2 parasitic worms
representing types of new species
(200881).

Voigt, Walter H., Ruxton, Md.: One-
horse open sleigh of colonial period,
supposed to have been used by Gen.
George Washington in his Jersey cam-
paign (195668).

Voss, Gilbert L., Coral Gables, Fla.:
Holotype of new species of cephalopod
from Florida (199170); 7 pelecypods
from the Pliocene of Florida (199926).

Vuorelainen, Yrjo, Outokumpu, Fin-
land: 3 uvarovites from Outokumpu
(201793, exchange).

Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Approximately 10,000 Permian
and Pennsylvanian invertebrate fossils
from West Texas, southern Kansas,
and northern Oklahoma, collected by
Dr. G. A. Cooper and W. T. Allen in
summer of 19538; 55 blocks from the
Permian of West Texas for etching
(199311) ; approximately 625 fossil
mammals from early Tertiary of cen-
tral and southwestern Wyoming; col-
lected by Dr. C. Lewis Gazin and
Franklin L. Pearce during June, July,
and August 1953 (199551) ; about 7,500
Middle and Lower Devonian inverte-
brate fossils from Ohio, Michigan, On-
tario and New York, collected by Dr.
Cooper and Josephine W. Cooper
(199960) ; 3 specimens of fossil amber
containing insects, from Germany
(200164) ; 4 fossil vertebrate specimens
from Jackson, Hinds County, Miss., and
near Melvin, Choctaw County, Ala.,
collected from Hocene Upper Jackson
formation by J. Magruder Sullivan
(200409); 500 Lower Cretaceous
pelecypods and gastropods from Ed-
wards formation, Lake Whitney, Tex.,
and Glen Rose formation, Burnet, Tex.,
collected by David and Helen V. Nicol,
October and November 1953 (200531) ;
500 Silurian and Devonian invertebrate
fossils from Cumberland and vicinity,
collected by Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur
Cooper, Dr. Arthur Boucot, and Roger
Batten (202240).

Walker, Dr. Boyd W. (See Cali-
fornia, University of)
Walker, Dr. Charles F. (See Michi-

gan, University of)

Walker, Dr. Egbert H., Washington,
D. C.: 41 fossil plants and approxi-
mately 200 invertebrate fossils from the
Pennsylvanian, vicinity of Peoria, Ill.
(199517) ; 40 plants collected in Vir-
98

ginia and Maryland (202106).
also Chase, V. H.)

Walker, W. C.
Ine., Charles)

Wallace, Frank, New York, N. Y.: 34
woodcuts for special exhibition Septem-
ber 1953 (199271, loan).

Wallace, Dr. S. Lee, Augusta, Ga.: 6
crustaceans (199354).

Wallen, Dr. I. E., Stillwater, Okla.:
135 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Oklahoma (195310, 199039).

Wallens, Richard L., Chicago, IIl.:
Shoulder-sleeve insignia of 10th Moun-
tain Division, U.S. Army, World War II
(199941).

Walter, J. C., Jr. (See Texas, Uni-
versity of)

Walton, Capt. Bryce C. (See De-
fense, U. 8S. Department of, Department
of the Army)

Warburg, Dr. E. F. (See Oxford
University, Druce Herbarium)

Ward, Dr. Justus C., Arlington, Va.:
1 dry plate camera, 2 glass-plate hold-
ers, and 1 lens and shutter combination
(199186).

Ward, Philip H., Jr., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 2,032 United States Carriers and
Locals, and foreign postage stamps
(199066) ; 12 United States stamps and
527 Chinese stamps (202487).

Wardell, Mike, New York, N. Y.: 1
cacheted first-day cover (200770).

Ware, Robert E., Clemson, S. C.: 1
copepod collected from catfish in vicin-
ity of Clemson (199212).

Waring, A. J. (See Smithsonian In-
stitution, Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy)

Waring, P. Alston, New Hope, Pa.: 20
plants collected in India (201985).

Warnock, Prof. Barton H. (See Sul
Ross State College)

Warsaw, Max M., Highland Park, IIl.:
1 wooden bottle corker with brass fit-
tings and rubber washer, described in
American Druggist Circular, 1857
(199535).

Washington, University of, Arbore-
tum, Seattle, Wash.: 8 plants (201034).

Washington State College, Pullman,
Wash.: (Through Dr. M. T. James) 3
flies, including 1 paratype, from United
States (199775).

Waskey, Frank H., Olney, Md.: 8
pseudomorphs of calcite after glau-
berite from Alaska on Arctic Ocean
(200321).

Wass, Marvin L., Pass-a-Grille, Fla.:
110 marine invertebrates collected at
Alligator Point and Pass-a-Grille, Ma.,
by Dr. Harold J. Humm and donor
(200042).

Watkins, Mrs. Arthur, Washington,
D. C.: Man’s winter overcoat of carly
19th century (199377).

(See
(See Pfizer and Co.,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Watson, Alfred, Buffalo, N. Y.: 45
pictorial photographs for special ex-
hibition, October and November 1953
(199963, loan).

Weaver, Ken.
graphic Society)

Webb, J. H., Rochester, N. Y.: 87 ma-
rine mollusks, including some rare
species (198934, exchange) ; 57 marine
mollusks from Japan and the Philip-
pines (200168).

Webb, Walter F., St. Petersburg, Fla.:
99 marine mollusks from Margarita Is-
land and north coast of Venezuela
(199571, 199751).

Weber, Walter A., Washington, D. C.:
2 bobeats from the Adirondack Moun-
tains, New York (200167).

Webster, Grady L., Cambridge, Mass. :
18 plants collected in southern United
States and Cuba (201496).

Wedel, Dr. Waldo R., Washington,
D. C.: 150 surface-collected archeologi-
cal materials from sites in Kansas and
North Dakota, August 1953 (200124) ;
4 fresh-water mussels from Kansas
(201248).

Weeks, C. A. Meredith, N. H.:
(Through William T. Allen) 1 tourma-
line from Black Mountain, Maine
(201235).

Weisenhaus, Betty, Port Isabel, Tex. :
4 marine mollusks from Port Isabel
(201948).

Weisman, D. M., Raleigh, N. C.: 2
beetles from North Carolina (198921).

Welch, Prof. Winona. (See DePauw
University )

Wellons Gallery, New York, N. Y.:
(Through Roy G. Kaader) 30 etchings
by Hugene Higgins for special exhibi-
tion, November 1953 (200024, loan).

Wentworth, Edward N., Washington,
D. C.: (Through J. V. Hurson) 2 sec-
tions of cattle metacarpal bones such
as were furnished by Armour and Co.
for manufacture of bone hairpipes for
the Indian trade (199951).

West, Dr. Erdman. (See Florida,
University of)

West Virginia University, Morgan-
town, W. Va.: 224 plants collected in
West Virginia (201606, exchange).

Westinghouse Air Brake Co., Wil-
merding, Pa.: Bust of George Westing-
house; engineer’s brake valve, ca. 1869;
automatic triple valve, ca. 1872; AB
automatie triple valve, ca. 19538; air
brake exhibit panel, and air brake dia-
gram panel (199361).

Wetmore, Dr. A., Washington, D. C.:
A silver Balboa piece of Panama
(198776) ; 1 chaffinch from Denmark
(200212) ; gold ornament from Vera-
guas, Panamé (202321); 19 mammals
from Kansas (202354).

(See National Geo-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Weyhe Gallery, New York, N. Y.:
(Through Martha Dickinson) 21 wood-
cuts by Leona Pierce for exhibition Oc-
tober 1953 (199595, loan) ; 27 etchings
by Milton Goldstein, together with zinc
plate and 6 progressive proofs of
“Child’s World” for special exhibition
January 1954 (200636, loan).

Wharton, Dr. Charles, Gainesville,
Fla.: 45 plants collected in Cambodia
under auspices of Coolidge Foundation
(195349) ; 87 snake skulls from Dr.
Moichiro Maki’s collection (199784).

Wharton, Dr. G. W. (See Duke Uni-
versity )

Wheeler, H. E., Helena, Ala.: 92 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Ala-
bama and Texas (199710).

Wheeler, Dr. Marshall R., Austin,
Tex.: 2 paratypes of midges (201511).
(See also Texas, University of)

Whelden, Dr. Roy M., Schenectady,
N. Y.: 38 eryptograms (198758, ex-
change).

Whicher, L. S., Richmond, Hngland:
356 beetles from England (200423, ex-
change).

White, Dr. Paul Dudley, Boston,
Mass.: A harpoon electrode used for
taking Beluga whale’s electrocardio-

gram (198578).
Whittington, Dr. Harry B. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: 27 late Ordovician
Sweden

brachiopods from Dalarne,
(201879). (See also Harvard Uni-
Museum of Comparative

versity,
Zoology)

Wiggins, Dr. Ira L. Fairbanks,
Alaska: 2 wolverines from Alaska
(198810, 198720).

Wigley, Roland L. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)

Wilcox, John A., Albany, N. Y.: 1
beetle from Florida (200975).

Wilcox, Leroy, Speonk, N. Y.: 18 mol-
lusks (202115).

Willeford, Harvey D.: (Through
Richard W. Lewis, Jr.) 1 enargite crys-
tal from the Quiruvilea mine, La
Libertad, Perti (201283, loan).

Williams, Dr. Hermann Warner, Jr.,
Washington, D. C.: Carved African
neckrest, Ojibwa hair pipe breastplate,
early Massachusetts wrought iron
lamp, and tinder box, complete
(202162, exchange).

Williams, Lucia Kirk, Washington,
D. C.: Silver Indian peace medal of
Andrew Johnson, collected by Lt. Wil-
liam Noble Williams, father of donor
(200386).

Williamsen, M. C.
Lomb Optical Co.)

Willing, Ora Lee, Nanticoke, Md.:
Ladies watch, marked “The James R.
Armiger Co., Baltimore, Md.” (200182).

(See Bausch &

99

Willis, Mrs. G. B., Alexandria, Va.:
18 specimens of period art and textiles
(202490, loan).

Wilson, Prof. C. A., State College,
Miss.: 2 paratypes of waterboatmen
(199381).

Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., Anchorage,
Alaska: 1 type copepod from WNatchi-
toches Parish, La., collected by Walter
G. Moore, April 1953 (200109).

Winokur, Seymour. (See Winokur,
Dr. William)

Winokur, Dr. William; Winokur, Sey-
mour; Hermanoff, Irvin; and Hol-
lander, Lawrence, Detroit, Mich.: 1,468
philatelie specimens of Papal States
stamps contained in 8 volumes (200460).

Wint, General Theodore J. (de-
ceased) : (Through Mrs. C. H. Hawley)
Chinese national flag of latter part of
19th century (200003, bequest).

Winter, Dr. Kenneth B. (See Wyo-
ming Game and Fish Commission)

Wisconsin, University of, Madison,
Wis.: 6 plants from Wisconsin and Ari-
zona (201608, exchange); (through
Mrs. Margaret Bergseng) 4 ferns from
the West Indies (199540).

Wisconsin State Historical Society,

Madison, Wis.: 1 bottle Garnier-
Lamoureux & OCo.’s “Granules de
Semence Colchique” (201518).

Witschi, Prof. Emil, lowa City, Iowa:
2 type frogs (202025).

Witt, William, Arlington, Va.: Collec-
tion of reptiles and amphibians
(202361).

Women’s International Stamp Club,
New York, N. Y.: 2 souvenir cacheted
first-day cancellations marking 300th
anniversary of New York City (200744).

Wong, Mrs. Marianne S., Warsaw,
Ind.: 1 silver chatelaine from Germany,
and a steel belt buckle with silver inlay
from Yugoslavia (200320).

Woodring, Dr. W. P. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, Geological
Survey)

Woodruff, Iva M., Washington, D. C.:
Black grenadine shawl worn by Mrs.
Amelia Hickok Bosworth of Ohio about
1870 (198814).

Woolsey, Heathcote M., Kent, Conn.:
2 marine mollusks from Jamaica
(200777) ; 5 marine mollusks from An-
tigua and Tobago, British West Indies
(202027).

Woods, Loren P. (See Chicago Natu-
ral History Museum)

Wright, C. W., London, England: 86
Mesozoic and Tertiary invertebrate fos-
sils from England (200708).

Wu Kueng-Yu. (See Taipei City
Zoological Garden)

Wyant, D.G. (See Kenda, JozZe)

Wyeth Laboratories, Philadelphia,
Pa.: (Through Philip H. Van Itallie) 4
100

colored reproductions of paintings by
Dean Cornwell from series ‘Pioneers
of American Medicine” (200742).

Wygodzinsky, Dr. Petr, Tucumaén,
Argentina: 52 Sylvicola and associated
pupal skins from Argentina (199807,
exchange) ; 1 paratype bug from Argen-
tina (201892).

Wyoming Game & Fish Commission,
Laramie, Wyo.: (Through Dr. Kenneth
B. Winter) 7 land mollusks (199717).

Yagi, Dr. Kenzo, Tomizawa, Sendai,
Japan: 21 rocks and 2 minerals from
Usu voleano, Japan (200079, exchange).

Yale University, New Haven, Conn.:
1 plant collected in Peri (201621); 1
bird (202322, exchange).

Yochelson, Ellis L., Washington, D.
C.: Approximately 150 land mollusks
from Utah and Colorado (200977).

Yoder, Dr. Hatton, Washington, D.
C.: 1 type vermiculite from Loolekop,
Palabora, Northeastern Transvaal
(200759).

Young, Dr. Frank N., Bloomington,
Ind.: 27 beetles from United States
(199756).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954

Yugoslavia, Government of, Direction
General des Postes, Belgrade: 9 Yugo-
Slavian stamps (199872, 200724);
(through M. Radalj) 3 stamps from
Yugoslavia (202382).

Ziebell, Charles, Corvallis, Oreg.: 9
fresh-water mollusks from Oregon
(199131).

Zollman, Joseph, New York, N. Y.:
FKirst-day cover franked with copies of
United Nations Universal Postal Union
stamps (198875).

Zoologisch Museum, Amsterdam,
Netherlands: 1 Curacao grasshopper
sparrow (199657, exchange).

Zoologische Sammlung des Bayeris-
chen Staates, Munich, Germany:
(Through Dr. Walter Forster) 100 Hu-
ropean and Asiatic butterflies (200463,
exchange).

Zoologisches Institut, Tiibingen, Ger-
many: (Through Prof. Dr. Hans M.
Peters) 6 marine invertebrates from
El Salvador (198957).

Zumpt, Dr. F. (See South African
Institute for Medical Research)

O
is
cet a
We

‘WLI

3 9088 0 34
"
~
—

‘rempsslon

eS

é

