Pies eae

yf 4
eS
‘ i i)

ul

iy
r
"4

aN
a

i
Vey
:

Mi.

a]

Sale

2,

=

é.

ee

Sore

J * ere £ - ce Lae
Va ae ae.
nh , ay ‘ teal) <i

ae x
Is ee! Bayt) i! i
ees a ni

oly reue

Pal oe

pi

ri

py ee

i es '

Wi

STITUTION a

RS. Ss aiebenare ie Ser.

¢

ae

PERATIONS, EXPEND TUR, han

Caer

ECION. OF TRE WSN TION ;
BME YEAR ERDING JUNE 7

ye oa A T aw,
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

L915

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1916
CONTENTS.

Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to

CURT ET S's Ra eee aR ee Se ¥ RRR pane pes
PeaLeOIS OL PAOTCDONG. 2.55502 ke a a 8 oo At co eae) rt EA
LL SST ACTING) ENTE Ai) sence ace Re SOR ml Far aes PEC PERS Te fre 8 aL Se See CORDS SENS eee
Goneralsibjccts of the annual Teport. 4244.2. 5 oe 0 aS sels oe ei ss
Officials of the Lostitution and its branches: .222.8 2. 2. oo. enone ans 2s

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The Smithsonihnelnstitutionss<ne%. 925th sa3t)slen cel foes seosece jo elsadikes
Phe ata isnn ent ayes se hos Sys se ts T5, = oS. n se sit
hes OAndyOrrwepen tier: katt on. o sy oem ee. a. pE A. cesb eae wei
Pinances, (ssa eter es 2d - cht haplce’ } acest iS * sighs zach
Researches and explorations:

Geological explorations in the Rocky Mountains..................--
Stratigraphic studies in central Tennessee...............:....-------
Fossil Echinoderms in western New York.....-..-.-.-..+-------+-----
Viertebratetiosstlsain~Montama, 9 ya) .ah2id Saecehss $y eddie sds 45-canh
Coralidinyestiontions= 0 sted? 7A oo tias goueiash- esr bap adele} ees
Borneo and Celebes expeditions: Abesesi2 te seu). ssa Jo nahe deeseaes
Expeditions to the War: Hast seo vel sd eeseea itt Io aitise begat aaet
ipird -siudies an ULingige> oo je eS Tee alee see sett oe
Henderson, expedition: im Cuback csc bec $fish2 case) wastes bs de eine
Botanicaliexplorations,in South, Americas. 22230. sue oes. ys ects sas
Anthropological researches in Africa and Siberia ..........--..------
Phe natimalynistory ol mam: 2) Seb ot. eee yt es a ek pat
lislandiok bimorjexpedtilony ss Sh) Seco Se ay cece deh id aiid hays
Clearing of fog by electrical precipitation...........-..-.-...-..-----
PLCSEATE MO OLDOPALLOD sis Cis Uae Lu Sn ye US NURSE EOP le aay Ss
Harmimen Drueti-Bund A:teetat Bisse auto toe eb nd eeeyetioee> 2 e556
ianeley Aerodynamical Laboratory... ...- 2 4522820-2) 8-52 F853
Pup ieaitonss- eeeo ee eas oan. x URED er le wach UG A Sa ead ee I
Piiperctigees eor eter Sete ar ae cen tC Re Se. Le ee mesa eel Sa
iLuvey=t and George’ W. Poore Fund:: .--...22.22 20. 02. rails ani aN
Ser bresrCollecttonlans <2 onss) seme: oe. cL here «Seu eee Seek eee 2

uN OMI eML ERE CSE Cte vars es, 2 Mrerto ee hee NNO) MISS LSet ine dats eu a:

Breda of Aumont cam! RGANOlR V2 Sos. s) oe de cls gh ss bent eae ook eo 2 SEE

SMErO THN SICAL) DSERV ALONG ee tea, ais sg te ola sbnie. aos aya sPierae aes Sas. els sie =

HetrcemaniomaletnChanresencs 0 sakes attend oe oe aE oS eRe biaracals

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature...............----.-..-------

iivenal MogtariCal Patkeee ee.) <n seoGuee Alf oS onsen ao ob dats aL oe Vd

er mecaeneae sie ccm ete as eR ek eee Sa Beans os

Page.
VI CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY—Continued.

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum. ...-............
. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology..... Bh) eco ae

. Report on the National Zoological Park...........-...........-
. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory..........-......-------
. Report:onthe Tuibrany 44.52 ee 4 ard Pe os ie ee ee
. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. - -
;. Report onspublicationsiis: = 402-6 cee scene ase eee eee

CONT SO Or & bO

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND REGENTS.

Report of Executive Committee...4.\..2 2.2. cya cine earoncicioie = 3 a
Proceedings of Board.of, Regents: . poss. hee erence enon pene tu ee eee

GENERAL APPENDIX.

Review of astronomy for the year 1913, by P. Puiseux ............-..-...---
The utilization of solar energy, by A. S. E. Ackermann.............---------
The constitution of matter and the evolution of the elements, by Ernest Ruther-

Submarine signaling, by R..F. Blake ..<.....5.-2-2- 22 coe! eee
The earthquake in the Marsica, Central Italy, by Ernesto Mancini..-.-......--
Atlantis, by Pierre Termier......2- 2. 2.5.2 6202 . 22. So ER OB Pare
Evidences of primitive life, by Charles D. Walcott........--....------+-----
The place of forestry among natural sciences, by Henry S. Graves.........-.--
Lignum Nephriticum, by- W. E.-Satiord. soit. sigieny. os Sie ee
Impressions of the voices of tropical birds, by Louis Agassiz Fuertes........-.-
The Eskimo Curlew and its disappearance, by Myron B.. Swenk.............-
Construction of insect nests, by Y. Sjéstedt..2l0s2.. 2522 222 9.2 Ieee see
Olden time knowledge of Hippocampus, by C. R. Eastman............-.----
Heredity, by William: Bateson... .. <5 sco00.0 Gancsci oS FARE Se
Some aspects of progress in modern zoology, by Edmund B. Wilson......-..---
Linguistic areas in Europe: Their boundaries and political significance, by

Leon Dominian:: 2222.55 2. SYP 20 eae Oe Le
Excavations at Tell el-Amarna, Egypt, in 1913-14, by Ludwig Borchardt. .....
Vaccines, by Li-Rogeri sos.) s55 3450-225 222n Se SOE Oe ee
Progress in reclamation of arid lands in the Western United States, by John

Bs Beadle cis aces eect ek ates a coer screenees
Some recent developments in telephony and telegraphy, by Frank B. Jewett.
Sir David Gill, by A. S. Eddington....... 222002: | 1S ae es eee
Walter Holbrook Gaskell, by J. N. Langley .........:....-.2-.2022<i-0 SSR Ue ee

. Report omtheInternational Exchanges.........................

Page.

28
LIST OF
Secretary’s Report: Page.
Va tey pl see cen ae (2
Solar Energy (Ackermann) :
IVE GES pel en eee an ee Need re 154
124 Key econ ee: ee eel ee ee ne 160
RISCSGOs Ose oa eee eee 164
Constitution of Matter (Ruther-
ford):
LEAP yey: ee Soe a aoe eed 172
1 Er) es gy ae ee Re ce eee 180
latest one See ee 182
eaten ees 190
Earthquake (Mancini) :
TFs ey a ete re ne 218
Primitive Life (Walcott) :
lente ies Nas ee Pee MRE Ese 235
Plates 2 asp sess eee Ge es 240
BaP CShA pte oe Re ale Dye 242
PES HG el ee ee ee ee 244
LESS Ey ta act ee se is ras 246
PRUs Ee a KO) pa Un a I ad 248
Paes ial Melly ees are we Se)
2d fs HLire\ feel Wc: Ee ty rue ws Mee ae are 252
TRANG) ees G3 Ro He ae SE as 254
Lignum nephriticum (Safford) :
Platena(colored)) 22. see ee al
Plate. = eee ee eee PU
TV en EC apie tes est ie ES as 280
Plater4 (colored) 2 2082 ee 282
Plate: 5s (colored) 2222202 es 283
TAT CG Sneek 292
VAL (ei san a nek LL 296
Bird Voices (Fuertes) :
ates pl eae ey oe ee 300
DEAE eS ge DS ee eee hae 304
Plates 5? Ge 22 See a 310

PLATES.

Bird Voices—Continued. Page.
PL ATCS PR Se Se = Uh ern ee 312
PlatestOP On. 222 bee ee 314
1 EAs ea tt Ms bp a ee 316
Plates. sae a ee 318
Plates past Gee eee 322

Eskimo Curlew (Swenk) :

I a eee a Pe 338

Insect Nests (Sjostedt) :

1 EUG ratte [1 Ae Soy cw toes epapel pi 342
Plates oie eee Ee ee 344

Hippocampus (Hastman) :

PTAC ia eee es OE a EE 352
1 Be) ets iea yes oe se ae 354
Linguistic Areas (Dominian) :
1 eat ates a (se ee = 412
aC eee eae 414
1 BATS Re vical alt i ale ee 426
Plate nace: cee ee a ee 434
Et ek aS ae 2 Te a ae gS 442
Excavations in Egypt (Borchardt) :
Es entered. sat) eet oe Pe Sl ee 446
PACES Do oye Se 2 ee 448
DBA EG eC SyS Itz Se Onteal R S 450
PVA CESE Ge ie ee el eee 452

Jl ARCS etShupcl ko Vana ens aloe TN aces 454
Plates HlOaljoee ae. ae 456

Reclamation (Beadle) :

1 BA Re Tt Sint Leb al ee ale ap 472
PIA eSp So Aarne a See oe 474
Piatess di. Gas ote ee 478
PIAGeS (iG eee a 480
Plates: ON Osseo st a ee 482
Plates; da alee Ss 484
Plates Sas ae ee 486
noe

Tarr ane Fit i

a

’ bane a
Lats bt} s
#2 4 = Vy
. un
( ‘
‘
I 2

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1915.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1915, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for the
year ending June 30, 1915.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1915.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1915.

Ix
— -asgqo nf to tosionon sn noe enstoron 3 Yo
sla at tug fearE ao

cos sae

a %

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

June 380, 1915.

Presiding officer ex officio —Woovrow Wixson, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—EpWARD DouGLAsSS WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:

Wooprow WIxson, President of the United States.

THomMAs R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.

Epwarp Douciass WHITE, Chief Justice of the United States.

RoBert LANSING, Secretary of State.

WILLIAM GisBs McApoo, Secretary of the Treasury.

LINDLEY MILLER GARRISON, Secretary of War. .

THoMAS WATT Gregory, Attorney General.

ALBERT SIDNEY BURLESON, Postmaster General.

JOSEPHUS DANIELS, Secretary of the Navy.

FRANKLIN KNIGHT LANE, Secretary of the Interior.

Davin FRANKLIN Houston, Secretary of Agriculture.

WiLttAmM Cox REDFIELD, Secretary of Commerce.

WitiiAmM BAucHop WILSON, Secretary of Labor.

Regents of the Institution:

Epwarp Dovucitass WuHite, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
THOMAS R. MARSHALL, Vice President of the United States.
Henry Casor Lopgrt, Member of the Senate.

WILLIAM J. STonE, Member of the Senate.
Henry FRENCH Ho.tiis, Member of the Senate.
Scorr Frerris, Member of the House of Representatives.-
MavricE Connotty, Member of the House of Representatives.
Ernest W. Roserts, Member of the House of Representatives.
ANDREW D. WHITE, citizen of New York.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.
GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES I’. CHoaTe, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
JoHN B. HENDERSON, Jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.
CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS, citizen of Indiana.

Executive committee——GrorGeE GRAY, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, MAURICE

CoNnNOLLY.

Secretary of the Institution— CHARLES D. WaLcort.

Assistant secretary.—RIcHARD RATHBUN.

Chief clerk—Harry W. Dorsry.

Accountant and disbursing agent.—W. I. ApAMS.

Editor—A Howarp Crark.

Assistant librarian.—Paut Brockett.

Property clerk.—J. H. Hix.

xI
XII THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio CHARLES D, WALCOTT, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Assistant secretary in charge.—RicHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative assistant.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators.—Wi1Lu1aM H. HoitmMEs, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL.

Curators.—Pavu. Bartscu, R. S. Basster, A. Howarp Crark, F. W. CLARKE,
F. V. Covitte, W. H. Dati, CHESTER G. GILBERT, WALTER Hoven, L. O. Howarp,
AteS HrpiiéKa, FREDERICK LL. Lewton, GEorGE C. MAyNaArp, Gerrit S.
Miter, Jr., RoBERT RIDGWAY.

Associate curators.—J. C. CRAw¥ForpD, W. R. Maxon, DAvip WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H. HoLtMEs.

Chief of correspondence and documents.—RANDOLPH I. GBARE.

Disbursing agent.—W. I. ADAMS.

Chief of exhibits (Biology).—James BW. BENEbICT.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—J. S. GoLpsM1?TH.

Jditor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Assistant librarian.—Nn. P. ScupDDER.

Photographer.—T. W. SMILLIE.

Registrar.—S. C. BRown.

Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.

Eingineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ethnologist-in-charge.—F. W. Honper.

Ethnologists—J. WALTER FEwkKeEs, JoHN P. Harrineton, J. N. B. Hewitt,
Francis LA FLESCHE, TRUMAN MICHELSON, JAMES MoOONEY, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Special ethnologist.—Lxo J. FRACHTENBERG.

Honorary philologist—FRANZ Boas.

Hditor—JosErH G. GURLEY.

Librarian.—E.Lua LEARY.

Tllustrator.—DrE LANCEY GILL. -

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.
Chief clerlk.—C, W. SHOEMAKER.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—F RANK BAKER.
Assistant superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F. E. Fow te, Jr.
Bolometric assistant.—L. B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in charge.—LEONARD C. GUNNELL.
REPORT
OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

CHARLES D. WALCOTT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1915.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith the annual
report on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its
branches during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1915, including work
placed by Congress under the direction of the Board of Regents in
the United States National Museum, the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, the International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park,
the Astrophysical Observatory, and the United States Bureau of
the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

The general report reviews the affairs of the Institution proper
and briefly summarizes the operations of its several branches, while
the appendices contain detailed reports by the assistant secretary
and others directly in charge of various activities. The reports on
operations of the National Museum and the Bureau of American
Kthnology will also be published as independent volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The Smithsonian Institution was created an establishment by act
of Congress approved August 10, 1846. Its statutory members are
the President of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice President and the
Chief Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three Mem-
bers of the Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives,
and six citizens, “two of whom shall be resident in the city of Wash-
ington and the other four shall be inhabitants of some eae but no
two of them of the same State.”

In regard to the personnel of the board nae were no changes
during the fiscal year. The roll of Regents on June 30 was as fol-
lows: Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United States, Chan-

18618°—sm 1915——1 1
me ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

cellor; Thomas R. Marshall, Vice President of the United States;
Henry Cabot Lodge, Member of the Senate; Henry French Hollis,
Member of the Senate; William J. Stone, Member of the Senate;
Scott Ferris, Member of the House of Representatives; Ernest W.
Roberts, Member of the House of Representatives; Maurice Con-
nolly, former Member of the House of Representatives; Andrew D.
White, citizen of New York; Alexander Graham Bell, citizen of
Washington, D. C.; George Gray, citizen of Delaware; Charles F.
Choate, jr., citizen of Massachusetts; John B. Henderson, jr., citizen
of Washington, D. C.; and Charles W. Fairbanks, citizen of Indiana.

The board held its annual meeting on December 10, 1914. The
Hon. George Gray was on that date elected chairman of the executive
committee to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Senator Bacon
on February 14, 1914. The proceedings of the above meeting, as also
the annual financial report of the executiye committee, have been
printed, as usual, for the use of the Regents, while such important
matters acted upon as are of public interest are reviewed under ap-
propriate heads in the present report of the Secretary. A detailed
statement of disbursements from Government appropriations, under
the direction of the Institution for the maintenance of the National
Museum, the National Zoological Park, and other branches, will be
submitted to Congress by me Secretary in the usual manner in com-
pliance with the law.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

Bequest of James Smithson, 1846______ SAT Ge We bee ie Me ES yall el GOO
Residuany lecacysor james Smithson) 1867222 eee 26, 210. 63
Deposit of Savings OL income, 156s 28-2 os ee ee eee 108, 620. 37~
Bequest of James Hamilton, 1875_____ fh SIF Ly SUS OOO
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895 - Rae er Se ees 1, 000
2, 000. 00
Bequestvof Simeon: Habel tS SOs sae Sa ed ee eee oe _ 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881___-______________ 51, 500. 00
Gittiot ThomasiGs Hod ska ss SOs ee ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894__________ 8, 000. 00
Depositirom savingscot income ad O032 see eee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy. of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1907___________-_____ 7, 918. 69
PDeposituirom savines Of ANCOmMe,- Oils i sces eee ees oe ee eee 636. 94
Part of bequest of William Jones Rhees, 1918___________________ 251. 95
Deposit of proceeds from sale of real estate (gift of Robert
Stanton sAvery ) 2101p BAe ee ee ee eee 9, 692. 42
Bequest: of :Addison Ts ReidtAGi4e. ewe Wee es eee ee 4, 795. 91

Deposit of savings from income Avery bequest, 1914_____________ 204. 09
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

Deposit of savings from come Avery fund, 1915__.-- $1, 862. 60
Deposit of savings from income Reid fund, 1915__________ 426. 04
Deposit of balance of principal $248.05 and income $28.39 Rhees

TEE G Ls AS DG Se GS RE RE YP ey \e Se 2 aoe et 276. 44
Deposit of first payment of Lucy T. and George W. Poore

CITC [She US BS eae NR at Sa A Adee 24, 5384.92

Total of fund deposited in the United States Treasury_._... 987, 600. 00

Other resources.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad

Co., part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value) ________ 42, 000. 00
PO Gea ee OC tI I aE TOM Ge UTC ae ee ee ea 1, 029, 600. 00

The first installment to the Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund,
amounting to $24,534.92, was received in March, 1915, and was im-
mediately deposited in the United States Treasury to the credit of
the permanent fund. Other deposits to this fund during the year
were from the income of several funds amounting to $2,565.08, or a
grand total of $27,100, making a total now deposited in the Treasury
to the credit of the permanent fund of $987,600.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$112,035.90, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent
foundation, $59,310; contributions from various sources for specific
purposes, $12,000; first installment of a bequest known as the Lucy
T. and George W. Poore fund, amounting to $24,534.92; the original
bequest designated as the George H. Sanford fund of $1,020; the
balance of the William Jones Rhees fund, amounting to $248.05; and
from other miscellaneous sources, $14,922.93; all of which was de-
posited in the Treasury of the United States.

With the balance of $30,560.13 on July 1, 1914, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $142,596.03. The disbursements,
which are given in detail in the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, amounted to $100,430.17, leaving a balance of $42,165.86 on
deposit June 30, 1915, in the United States Treasury and in cash.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1915:

iiemiahional Bicchamses i. ee Ee Ss ae 2s Fd ek et 829 000
PREIS! CEU ey WEUTLO LO LAY 2 eee oie ee ER ee ee ee Be 42, 000
Prats OM My Seed OUSCEV lO yrs nee ome en oye ne an meee ane ABA 13, 000
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

National Museum:

Murniture and, fixtures. = Shes hee la Ree ee eee eee es $25, 000
Heating ‘and Lighting xh sitet sss 20 Oe a Eh sae Se es a ate 46, 000
Preservation of collections == 2e— = esha a i ee es eee 300, 000
BROOKS = 2 sew A it eG oe ge 0 TE ee de Ns ete a ye ye 2, 000
POSTAGE: 2 e us ee See ee 500

SES UAT hiner Pa ATS ee I ee ne 10, 000
Bookstacks for Government bureau libraries___________--__-_________ 10, 000
National Zoological Parke 3:42 58) Ie vs 2h eee. ee eee 100, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_______________________ 7, 500
Tower telescope, Astrophysical Observatory, Mount Wilson, Cal_______ 2, 000
Repairs; Smithson ra es a is eee ee ee eee ae ee ee OT oe 16, 000
Ul Mfc) ore) Lies Mls Uo pe eae UR een Tha a eles OMe Eee oa peed nae 606, 000

In addition to the above specific amounts to be disbursed by the
Institution there was included under the general appropriation for
public printing and binding an allotment of $76,200, to cover the
cost of printing and binding the annual report and other Govern-
ment publications issued by the Institution, and to be disbursed by the
Public Printer.

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

The “increase of knowledge ” is one of the fundamental objects of
the Smithsonian Institution, and toward the accomplishment of that
object it has imaugurated and maintained or has participated in
astronomical, anthropological, biological, and geological explora-
tions in every portion of the world, resulting in greatly increasing
our knowledge of the meteorology, the geography, the fauna and
flora, and the ethnology of all lands, and in the acquisition of a large
amount of valuable material for the National Museum. The Insti-
tution has likewise, through special grants, aided laboratory re-
searches in practically every line of natural science.. The extent of
these explorations and researches during the last 60 years covers a
wide range, although a great deal more of most important work
could have been accomplished had adequate funds been available.
Friends of the Institution have many times, and particularly during
the last few years, generously aided the work through the contribu-
tion of funds for specific purposes, but much yet remains undone,
and opportunities for undertaking important lines of investigation
are constantly being lost through lack of means to carry them into
execution.

I will here allude only briefly to some of the activities of the Insti-
tution in these directions during the year and for details of other
investigations may refer to the appendices containing the reports
of those directly in charge of the several branches of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5
GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.

In continuation of my previous geological researches in the Rocky
Mountains of Canada and Montana I spent a week during the field
season of 1914 at Glacier, British Columbia, where I assisted Mrs.
Walcott (née Mary M. Vaux) in measuring the flow of the Ilecille-
waet and Asulkan Glaciers.

From Glacier we proceeded to White Sulphur Springs, Mont.,
for the purpose of studying the ancient sedimentary pre-Paleozoic
rocks of the Big Belt Mountains. These explorations were made on
the eastern and southern slopes of this range, and then extended to
the south on the Gallatin, Madison, and Jefferson Rivers.

It was found that the pre-Paleozoic sedimentary rocks were ex-
posed by the uplift of the granite mass forming the summit of
Mount Edith of the Big Belt Mountains in such a way that the
thickness of the sandstones, limestones, and shales could be readily
measured in the numerous sections exposed in the canyons worn by
waters descending from the higher points to the valley surrounding
the range. Nearly 5 miles in thickness of rock were measured, and
in the limestone belts reefs of fossil algal remains were studied and
large collections made with the assistance of Mrs. Walcott and
Charles E. Resser and sent on to Washington.

It was found that the algal remains were deposited very much
in the same manner as those that are now being deposited in many
fresh-water lakes, and that many of the forms had a surprising simi-
larity to those being deposited in the thermal springs and pools of
the Yellowstone National Park.

In the lower portion of Deep Creek Canyon, southeast of the city
of Helena, a deposit of siliceous shale was examined where some
years ago I had discovered the remains of crablike animals suggest-
ing in form the fresh-water crayfishes found in the streams and ponds
all over the world. These fossils are the oldest animal remains now
known, and the algal deposits which occur at intervals for several
thousand feet below the shales containing the crustaceans are the
oldest authentic vegetable remains. It is also most interesting that
two types of bacteria have been found in a fossil state in the rock
in association with the algal remains.

On the north side of the Gallatin River two very rich beds of
algal remains were found, many of which, on account of the fossil
being silicified and embedded in a softer limestone, were weathered
out in relief.

For the season of 1915 I have planned some investigations in the
Yellowstone Park in order to be able to better interpret the fossil
algal remains found in and about the Big Belt Mountains.
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.
STRATIGRAPHIC STUDIES IN CENTRAL TENNESSEE.

Under the joint auspices of the United States Geological Survey
and the United States National Museum Dr. E. O. Ulrich and Dr.
'R. S. Bassler, of the Museum, were engaged for several weeks dur-
ing the summer of 1914 in a study of debated points in the stratig-
raphy of the Central Basin of Tennessee with a view to determine
accurately the division line between the Chazyan and Black River
groups and to secure additional information on the black shale
problem. ;

The well-known marble beds of east Tennessee and associated
shales and sandstones of Upper Chazyan age, with a thickness of
over 8,000 feet, have never been found in central Tennessee or, in
fact, in any area west of the Appalachian Valley. The first problem
was therefore to determine either the corresponding rocks in the
more western areas or, if such strata were wanting, to discover the
unconformity representing this great thickness. It was found that
the Lower Chazyan or Stones River rocks of central Tennessee are
succeeded directly by the lowest Black River or Lowville formation,
and central Tennessee therefore was presumably a land area during
the time of deposition of the celebrated east Tennessee marbles.

The second problem entailed further work on the determination of
the age of the widespread Chattanooga black shale, which previously
had been considered to be middle to late Devonian. In recent years
this determination had been questioned, and facts had accumulated
showing it to be of younger age. Two features of considerable sig-
nificance in this problem were the discoveries in northern Tennessee,
where the shale is well exposed, that (1) this black shale passes with-
out a discernible break into the overlying Mississippian (Kinder-
hook) shales, and (2) that the fossils of this overlying shale are of
late instead of early Kinderhook age. As a result of this work good
collections of several well-preserved faunas were added to the Mu-
seum collection.

FOSSIL ECHINODERMS IN WESTERN NEW YORK,

Field work carried on during the summer of 1914 under the super-
vision of Mr. Frank Springer, for the purpose of adding to the
Springer collection of fossil echinoderms in the Museum, was devoted
mainly to a careful examination of Silurian rocks exposed along the
new Erie Canal in western New York, especially the waste material
thrown out in excavations for the canal. The most valuable speci-
mens from this part of New York occur in the Rochester shales of
Niagaran age, which weather rapidly into mud upon exposure
to the elements, and it was therefore necessary that the new outcrops
be examined at once to secure the best results. Numerous specimens
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

of crinoids and cystids were found, a number of them having, as is
rarely the case, root, stem, and crown preserved.

VERTEBRATE FOSSILS IN MONTANA.

Through cooperation with one of the field parties of the United
States Geological Survey, Mr. Charles W. Gilmore, of the National
Museum, spent three weeks during the summer of 1914 searching for
fossil vertebrate remains in the Judith River formation in north
central Montana. The most noteworthy discovery was the fragmen-
tary remains of a fossil bird related to Hesperornis. It came from
practically the same locality as the type of Coniornis altus Marsh,
and is of importance as showing these bird remains as occurring in,
the upper part of the Claggett formation, whereas heretofore it was
thought that Coniornis had come from the lower part of the Judith
River formation.

CORAL INVESTIGATIONS.

Dr. T. Wayland Vaughan has for some time been engaged under
the auspices of the Carnegie Institution in a study of the growth of
corals, their role in reef building, and related problems. His field
of investigation has been chiefly the coast of Florida, the Bahamas,
and other regions of the West Indies. Large collections made by
him in those localities have been received by the Museum.

BORNEO AND CELEBES EXPEDITIONS.

Through the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott, who for so many
years has been a most generous contributor to the zoological and
ethnological collections of the Museum, Mr. H. C. Raven conducted a
collecting expedition in Borneo for a period of about two years. His
work there was completed in September, 1914, having yielded about
3,000 interesting specimens of mammals and birds. Mr. Raven next
crossed the Macassar Strait to the Island of Celebes, where he
expects to remain for a considerable period and to secure impor-
tant collections from a region heretofore poorly represented in the
National Museum.

EXPEDITIONS TO THE FAR EAST.

Through the liberality of a gentleman who desired to remain un-
known, Mr. Arthur de C. Sowerby has continued his zoological ex-
plorations in Manchuria and northeastern China and has forwarded
a valuable collection of insects and vertebrates, including two wapiti
bucks, a roe deer, two bears, and a peculiar rabbit.

Mr. Copley Amory, jr., a collaborator of the National Museum,
joined a party accompanying Capt. J. Koren to the northeast coast
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

of Siberia. It was Mr. Amory’s intention to explore such territory
as may be practicable from Nijni Kolymsk as a winter base, giving
special attention to mammals and birds. When last heard from he
had made a trip up the Lesser Ammi River, where he obtained a
good number of fossil specimens, also some birds and small mammals.

BIRD STUDIES IN ILLINOIS.

Incidental to continued work on preparation of manuscript of the
unpublished volumes of “Birds of North and Middle America”
(Bulletin 50, U. S. National Museum), Mr. Rebert Ridgway, during
the past year, made a careful study of bird life in southern Illinois
in order to compare present conditions with those existing half a
century ago. It was found that with few exceptions the native birds
are greatly decreased in numbers. At least three species (the pas-
senger pigeon, wild turkey, and ruffed grouse) have totally disap-
peared from the region examined, while several others are on the
verge of extermination. A few species, such as the crow blackbird
(bronzed grackle) and blue jay, and perhaps the robin, are, appar-
ently, as numerous as they were 50 years ago.

The principal causes which have brought about this greatly dimin-
ished bird life are: (1) In the case of the game birds, relentless
shooting; (2) greatly reduced breeding and shelter areas, through
clearing of forests, cutting away of woody growths along roadsides
and fence lines, and drainage of swampy or marshy areas; (3) intro-
duction of the European house sparrow, which has increased to such
an extent that it now outnumbers, even on the farms, all the smaller
native birds combined, greatly reducing their food supply and mo-
nopolizing the nesting sites of such species as the bluebird, purple
martin, wrens, swallows, and other birds that nest in cavities or about
buildings; (4) invasion of the woods and fields by homeless house
cats and destruction of eggs and young (often the parents also) of
ground-nesting species by “self-hunting” bird dogs (setters and
pointers) ; and, probably, (5) spraying of orchards.

HENDERSON EXPEDITION IN CUBA.

Since the Zomas Barrera expedition to western Cuba, Mr. John
B. Henderson, a regent of the Smithsonian Institution, has made
two trips to eastern Cuba to supplement the work of that expedition.

One of these visits was to Cardenas Bay, where extensive, as well
as intensive, dredgings yielded a lot of interesting marine organisms.
The second trip embraced Cubitas Mountains, and was made in quest
of land shells, which were needed to elucidate problems in the geo-
graphic distribution of the land mollusks.

As heretofore, Mr. Henderson’s yacht, the Wolis, has been kept
busy exploring the Pourtales Plateau. Numerous hauls in all depths
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

of water have been made, and the material, which has arrived here
from time to time, is exceedingly rich in marine invertebrates, par-
ticularly mollusks. }

This year’s efforts have resulted in the discovery of grounds with a
more prolific, varied, and interesting fauna than previously known
in this region.

BOTANICAL EXPLORATIONS IN SOUTH AMERICA.

Through cooperation with the Carnegie Institution of Washington
the Museum was enabled to benefit by an expedition carried on by
Dr. J. N. Rose during the summer and fall of 1914 along the west
coast of South America in furtherance of his work on the Cactacee.
About 3,000 specimens of cacti and other plants collected by him
have been permanently deposited in the National Herbarium.

Dr. Rose explored a section through central Peru from Callao to Oroya, from
sea level to the top of the Andes, at an altitude of 15,665 feet. Cacti were found
in the greatest abundance at an altitude of 5,000 to 7,500 feet; but the various
species range from a few feet above sea level to as high as 12,000 to 14,000 feet.

A second section was made across southern Peru, from Mollendo to Lake
Titicaca via Arequipa. The highest point reached was 14,665 feet. Here also
the cacti are found from near sea level nearly to the top of the Andes; but the
most remarkable display is on the hills surrounding Arequipa, at an altitude of
from 7,000 to 8,500 feet. While the cacti are abundant in both these regions,
they are, with only a few possible exceptions, quite distinct. Side trips were
made from Arequipa to Juliaca and Cuzco, in Peru, and to La Paz, Oruro, and
Comanche, in Bolivia.

On the pampa below Arequipa are found the famous crescent-shaped sand
dunes. Hach dune or pile of sand is distinct in itself, often separated some dis-
tance from any other dune, and occurring, too, on rocky ground devoid of other
sand. The dunes are found on the high mesa some 5,250 feet above the sea.
They form definite regular piles of sand, each presenting a front 10 to 100 feet
wide and 5 to 20 feet high, nearly perpendicular, crescent shaped, amd from the
crescent-shaped ridge tapering back to the surface in the direction from which
the wind blows. These piles of shifting sand go forward about 40 feet a year.

In Chile two sections were made into the interior—one from Antofagasta to
Calama, and one from Valparaiso to Santiago. The first is through the rainless
deserts of northern Chile, the whole region being practically devoid of all vege-
tation. The second is across central Chile, the hills and valleys of which are
veritable flower gardens, the hills often being a mass of yellow. Various trips
were made in the central valley of Chile and one journey along the Longitudinal
Railway of Chile extended from Caldera to Santiago. Special trips were made
for certain rare ptants like Cereus castaneus, first collected in 1862 and not since
observed until found by Dr. Rose; and Cactus horridus and Cactus Berteri, de-
scribed in 1833, but long since discarded by cactus students. In the central
valley of Ghile is seen that beautiful palm, the only one native of Chile, Jubaea
' spectabilis H. B. K., which often forms forests of considerable extent. From
this palm is made the “ Miel de Palma” so much used as a sirup on ships and
at hotels.

Botanical explorations by Dr. Rose on the east coast of South
America were in progress at the close of the fiscal year.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.
ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN AFRICA AND SIBERIA.

In connection with the work of the division of physical anthropol-
ogy in the National Museum, two expeditions were sent out during
the year 1914 under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
and the Panama-California Exposition at San Diego.

One of these expeditions was in charge of Dr. V. Schiick, anthro-
pologist of Prague, Bohemia, and its objects were: 1, to study the
negro child in its native environment, and thereby create a basis of
comparison for the study of the negro child in our country; 2, to
visit the South African Bushmen for the purpose of obtaining meas- ~
urements, photographs, and facial casts of the same; and 3, to
visit British East Africa in search of the Pygmies. The tribe chosen
for the child study were the Zulu, of Natal or Zululand, and over 1,000
children and adolescents of all ages—ages which could be definitely
determined—were examined. These data are expected to contribute
some very important results to anthropology. The Bushmen were
reached in the Kalahari Desert, and besides other results 20 first-class
facial casts were obtained of the people, which have since then been
installed among the anthropological exhibits at San Diego. As to
British East Africa, the work soon after a successful beginning was
interrupted by the war.

The second expedition was in charge of Dr. St. Poniatowski, head
of the ethnological laboratory at Warsaw. The object of this expedi-
tion was to visit a number of the remnants of native tribes in eastern
Siberia, among which are found physical types which so closely
resemble the American Indian. The expedition reached two such
tribes, and secured valuable data, photographs, ete., when its work
also was interrupted by the war.

THE NATURAL HISTORY OF MAN.

Some of the results of exploration and field work by the Institution
among various races of mankind are shown in connection with the
anthropological exhibits of the Panama-California Exposition at
San Diego. These exhibits were in preparation for over three years.
They are original and much more comprehensive than any previous
exhibits in this line, either in this country or abroad. Dr. Hrdlicka,
under whose direction this exhibit was prepared, describes it as fol-
lows:

The exhibits fill five large connecting rooms, which occupy the building of the
Science of Man at the Exposition. Four of these rooms are devoted to the -
natural history of man, while the fifth is fitted up as a modern anthropological
laboratory, library, and lecture room. Of the four rooms of exhibits proper,
the first is devoted to man’s phylogeny, or evolution; the second, to his ontog-

eny, or life cycle at the present time; the third, to his variation (sexual, indi-
vidual, racial) ; and the fourth, to his pathology and death.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

The exhibits in room 1, on Human Evolution, consist of: (a) A large series
of accurate, first-class casts of all the more important skeletal remains of au-
thentie antiquity; (b) photographic enlargements and water color sketches
showing the localities where the specimens were discovered; (c) charts show-
ing the relation of the archeological position of the various finds, and their
relation to the extinct fauna and to archeological epochs; (d) a series of
sketches by various scientific men showing their conception of the early man,
with several illustrations of drawings, statuettes, and bas-reliefs, showing early
man as drawn or sculptured by the ancient man himself; and (e) a remarkable
series of 10 large busts prepared by the eminent Belgian sculptor, M. Mascré,
under the direction of Prof. Rutot, representing early man at different periods
of his physical advancement.

The main part of the exhibits in room No. 2, devoted to man’s development at
the present time, from the ovum onward, are three series of true-to-nature
busts, showing by definite age-stages, from birth onward and in both sexes, the
three principal races of this country, namely, the “ thoroughbred ” white Ameri-
ean (for at least three generations in this continent on each parental side), the
Indian, and the full-blood American negro. These series, which required two
and one-half years of strenuous preparation, form a unique exhibit, for nothing
of similar nature has ever been attempted in this cr any other country. Each
set consists of 80 busts, 15 males and 15 females, and proceeds from infants at
or within a few days after birth to the oldest persons that could be found.
The oldest negro woman is 114. After the new born, the stages are 9 months, 3
years, 6, 10, 15, 20, 28, 35, 45, 55, 65, and 75 years. The utmost care was exer-
cised in ascertaining the age, particularly among the negro and Indian. No
choice was made of the subjects beyond that due to the requirements of pedi-
gree, age, and good health. The whites and negroes were obtained, with a few
exceptions, in Washington and vicinity, but their places of birth range over a
large part of the Eastern, Southern, and Middle States; for the Indian, we
chose the Sioux, a large, characteristic, and in a very large measure still pure-
blood tribe, and one in which the determination of the ages of the subjects was
feasible. Special trips were made to these people, and no pains were spared
to get just what was wanted; in the case of the new born, it was actually neces-
sary to wait until they came.

Other exhibits in room 2 show the development, by various stages, of the
human brain, the skull, and various other parts of the body. A large series of
original specimens show the most closely related animal forms to man at the
present time, particularly the anthropoid apes; a series of charts on the walls
deal with the phenomena of senility; finally, 10 photographic enlargements
show living centenarians of various races.

Human variation is shown in room 8 by 10 sets of large busts representing
10 of the more important races of man; by 200 original transparencies giving
racial portraits; by over 100 bronzed facial. casts, showing individual vari-
ations within some of the more important branches of humanity ; and by numer-
ous charts and other exhibits.

in room 4 a series of charts and maps relates to the death rate in various
countries, to the principal causes of death in the different parts of the world,
and to the distribution of the more common diseases over the earth. Actual
pathology is illustrated extensively by prehistoric American material. Many
hundreds of original specimens, derived principally from the pre-Columbian
cemeteries of Peru, show an extensive range of injuries and diseases, such as
have left their marks on the bones. In many instances the injuries are very
interesting, both from their extent and the extraordinary powers of recupera-
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

tion shown in the healing; while among the diseases shown on the bones there
are some that find no, or but little, parallel among the white man or even the
Indian of to-day. In addition this room contains a series of 60 skulls with
pre-Columbian operations (trepanation).

ISLAND OF TIMOR EXPEDITION.

Among the projected expeditions interrupted by the European
war was one to the Island of Timor, in the East Indies. This island
has been a rich collecting ground for scientific study, though little
has been done by the paleontologist. An opportunity was offered for
making collections at Timor through the courtesy and interest of
Mr. N. E. Crane, a retired engineer, of Pittsburgh, who had planned
to visit the island. The fund for this enterprise was contributed by
Mr. Crane, Mrs. E. H. Harriman, and Mr. Frank Springer, but the
expedition has been postponed for the present.

CLEARING OF FOG BY ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION.

The fact was long ago scientifically established that all dust and
fog particles in the open atmosphere are electrified and subject to
dispersion or precipitation, but how to clear fog from a street, along
a railway, or from the neighborhood of a ship at sea, and to do it
in a manner commercially feasible has been a matter of serious study
for many years. The question having recently aroused fresh atten-
tion, particularly in the neighborhood of San Francisco, through re-
searches planned by the University of California in cooperation with
the United States Lighthouse Service, it was decided by the Smith-
sonian Institution during the past year to make an appropriation to
further this investigation, which is under the general direction of
Dr. F. G. Cottrell, who has done so much toward the practical pre-
cipitation of dust, smoke, and chemical fumes at large industrial
plants. The American Institute of Electrical Engineers has also
appointed a committee to cooperate in this great work, and reports
on the results of the study are awaited with much interest. The
essential element to success in scattering fog seems to be some form
of electrical apparatus of very high direct voltage, with facilities for
its control and ready application.

RESEARCH CORPORATION.

In previous reports I have called attention to the Research Cor-
poration formed primarily to undertake the development of certain
precipitation patents generously offered to the Institution by Dr.
F. G. Cottrell. Although it was impracticable for the Smithsonian
Institution to administer this work directly, yet there was no objec-
tion to the Secretary becoming a member of a distinct organization
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

that would undertake its development. An independent organiza-
tion was accordingly formed in 1912 under the laws of the State of
New York, the Secretary of the Institution becoming one of the
directors of the Research Corporation and a member of the executive
committee. The board of directors includes a number of prominent
men of wide business experience, such as James J. Storrow, of Lee,
Higginson & Co., Boston; Charles A. Stone, of Stone & Webster,
Boston; Arthur D. Little, of the Little Chemical Co., Boston; T.
Coleman du Pont, of Wilmington, Del.; Elon H. Hooker, president
of the Hooker Electrochemical Co., Niagara Falls, N. Y.; Benjamin
B. Lawrence, mining engineer, New York; George F. Kunz, of Tif-
fany & Co.; Frederick A. Goetze, dean of the engineering depart-
ment of Columbia University, New York; William Barclay Par-
sons, engineer, of New York; and Hennen Jennings, mining engi-
neer, of Washington.

The principal object of the corporation is to acquire inventions
and patents and to make them more available in the arts and indus-
tries, while using them as a source of income, and, second, to apply
all profiits derived from such use to the advancement of technical
and scientific investigation and experimentation through the agency
of the Smithsonian Institution and such other scientific and educa-
tional institutions and societies as may be selected by the directors.

The chief assets of the corporation at present are the Cottrell pat-
ents relating to the precipitation of dust, smoke, and chemical fumes
by the use of electrical currents. Dr. F. G. Cottrell, the inventor
and donor of these patents, has described their operation and advan-
tages and the progress thus far made in their installation in an
article printed in the Smithsonian Report for 1913.

There is now under consideration the acceptance and develop-
ment of other patents besides those presented by Dr. Cottrell. It
is planned that when the funds of the corporation received from
royalties and other sources shall have reached $100,000, to apply the
income “to the advancement of technical and scientific investigation
and experimentation ” as provided by the act of incorporation.

Owing to the wide experience of the members of the board and
their standing in the business community, it has been possible to do
work in connection with the Research Corporation that would have
required the expenditure of large sums if undertaken by an ordinary
business organization or private individual.

HARRIMAN TRUST FUND.

Aided by the income of a special fund established by Mrs. E. H.
Harriman, Dr. C. Hart Merriam, research associate of the Institu-
tion, has continued and practically completed his studies of the big
bears of America, so that it is now possible to determine the relations
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

of most of the species and to arrange them in definite groups. Of
the true grizzlies there appear to be about 38 species and subspecies
representing a dozen groups, and of the brown bears about 10 species,
representing 5 groups. Opportunity will now be afforded for study
in other fields of biological research.

THE LANGLEY AERODYNAMICAL LABORATORY.

The Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory was reopened under reso-
lution of the Board of Regents adopted May 1, 1918, and on May 23
an advisory committee was organized, as detailed in my report for
that year. In my last report I reviewed what had been accomplished
up to June 30, 1914, in certain lines of investigation, including the
successful flights of the Langley aeroplane built in 1898-1903, and
further trials of that machine were described by Dr. A. F. Zahm in an
article in the general appendix of the Smithsonian Report for 1914.

During the past year it was found necessary for legal reasons to
discontinue the advisory committee as originally organized, and it
therefore seemed advisable to call upon Congress to authorize the
establishment of a national advisory committee for aeronautics.

Following an urgent appeal by myself and others to the Senate
Committee on Naval Affairs, there was inserted in the naval appro-
priation act (Public, No. 271, 63d Cong.) approved March 3, 1915, the

following provision for a national advisory committee for aeronautics.
oS oy * * * * *

An Advisory Committee for Aeronautics is hereby established, and the Presi-
dent is authorized to appoint not to exceed twelve members, to consist of two
members from the War Department, from the office in charge of military aero-
nauties; two members from the Navy Department, from the office in charge
of naval aeronautics; a representative each of the Smithsonian Institution, of
the United States Weather Bureau, and of the United States Bureau of Stand-
ards; together with not more than five additional persons who shall be ac-
quainted with the needs of aeronautical science, either civil or military, or
skilled in aeronautical engineering or its allied sciences: Provided, That the
members of the Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, as such, shall serve with-
out compensation: Provided further, That it shall be the duty of the Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics to supervise and direct the scientific study of the
problems of flight, with a view to their practical solution, and to determine the
problems which should be experimentally attacked, and to discuss their solu-
tion and their application to practical questions. In the event of a laboratory
or laboratories, either in whole or in part, being placed under the direction of
the committee, the committee may direct and conduct research and experiment
in aeronauties in such laboratory or laboratories: And provided further, That
rules and regulations for the conduct of the work of the committee shall be
formulated by the committee and approved by the President.

That the sum of $5,000 a year, or so much thereof as may be necessary, for
five years is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not other-
wise appropriated, to be immediately available, for experimental work and in-
vestigations undertaken by the committee, clerical expenses and supplies, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

necessary expenses of members of the committee in going to, returning from,
and while attending, meetings of the committee: Provided, That an annual
report to the Congress shall be submitted through the President, including an
itemized statement of expenditures.

On July 27, 1914, the Institution published a report by Dr. Zahm
on European aeronautical laboratories, in which he describes the
buildings, equipment, and operations of laboratories in England,
France, and Germany.

Although, as above stated, it was not practical to continue the
advisory committee of 1913 as originally planned, nevertheless the
individual members of the committee have been active in their in-
vestigations, and several valuable reports have been received, some
of which are as yet confidential or incomplete, one of those being a
report on wireless communications to and from air craft.

Mr. Buckingham completed and published a masterly paper on the
mathematical principle governing the relations of experimental mod-
els of all sorts to those of full-scale machines. Dr. Humphreys pub-
lished a long paper on the Physics of the Atmosphere. Dr. Zahm
helped to design for the United States Army a 200-horsepower bi-
plane, and published a mathematical method of analyzing the stresses
sustained by such an aeroplane during flight.

At the annual meeting of the Regents on December 10, 1914, Dr.
Alexander Graham Bell, Senator William J. Stone, Representative
Ernest W. Roberts, Mr. John B. Henderson, jr., and Secretary Wal-
cott were appointed a committee to consider questions relative to the
Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.

PUBLICATIONS.

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
during the year comprised a total of 6,753 printed pages, accom-
panied by 655 plates of illustrations, and the number of copies dis-
tributed of these various publications, both pamphlets and bound
volumes, aggregated 132,010.

The Institution has for one of its primary objects the “ diffusion
of knowledge,” and this aim is carried out by printing and distribu-
ting the results of scientific investigations, accounts of explorations
and researches, of progress in the various branches of science, and of
development in any phase of human endeavor which would tend to
increase “knowledge among men.” Of its three series of publica-
tions, the Contributions to Knowledge, Miscellaneous Collections,
and the annual reports, the first two are issued in limited editions
at the expense of the Institution and are sent out to libraries, institu-
tions, and interested individuals throughout the world. The annual
reports, containing in addition to the administrative reports a gen-
eral appendix of original and selected papers showing the recent
progress made in all branches of natural and applied science, are
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

printed under congressional appropriation, so that a larger edition
and more widespread distribution is possible.

Under the direction of the Institution are issued the various pub-
lications of its branches, (a) the Annual Report, the Proceedings, and
the Bulletins of the National Museum, including the series of Con-
tributions from the National Herbarium; () the Annual Reports
and Bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology; and (c) the
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory. These series are all public
documents and are printed by means of annual allotments by act of
Congress.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge—The requirements for
memoirs in this series are that they be accounts of extended original
research constituting important additions to knowledge. Since the
first appearance of this series in 1848, 35 quarto volumes containing
150 memoirs have been issued, the most recent one being the “ Lang-
ley Memoir on Mechanical Flight,” in which are recorded the results
of the late Secretary Langley’s experiments establishing the practica-
bility of heavier-than-air flying machines.

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections —Fourteen papers forming
parts of four volumes of this series were issued during the year,
among them one paper on Cambrian geology by your Secretary.
Another interesting paper was that by Messrs. Abbot, Fowle, and
Aldrich recording new solar radiation researches, in the course of
which free balloons carrying recording apparatus, ascended to a
height of over 15 miles and were found on their descent with the
records in good condition. As a result of these and other experi-
ments, the authors abide by their former results, namely, that “the
mean. value of the ‘solar constant’ is 1.93 calories per square centi-
meter per minute.” In this series, the sixth revised edition of the
Smithsonian Physical Tables was issued, and was practically ex-
hausted at the close of the year, showing the continued popularity
and usefulness of this work. The publication of a further edition
was being considered at the close of the year. The usual annual
account of the Institution’s explorations and field work was issued,
and being profusely illustrated, was of considerable popular interest.

Smithsonian report—tThe report for 1918 was received from the
printer and distributed during the year. Separates of the articles
forming the general appendix of the 1914 report were issued, the
completed volume, however, not being received from the printer until
shortly after the close of the fiscal year. Incorporated in the con-
eressional act providing for printing for the Institution and its
branches was a clause increasing the edition of the Smithsonian
annual reports from 7,000 to 10,000, a very desirable change, as the
edition of this volume has heretofore been exhausted almost imme-
diately following its appearance.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ‘ 17

Special publications—Of the opinions rendered by the Interna-
tional Commission on Zoological Nomenclature, which the Institu-
tion has published for some years past, Opinion 66 was issued, and
the Institution has continued to provide clerical services in connec-
tion with the office of the secretary of the commission.

Among other special publications was a short biographical sketch
of James Smithson, abridged from the chapter on Smithson by S. P.
Langley in the history of the first half century of the Institution.

National Museum publications—The National Museum issued an
annual report, 1 volume of the Proceedings and 41 separate papers
forming parts of this and other volumes, 6 bulletins, and 1 volume of
Contributions from the National Herbarium.

Bureau of Ethnology publications—The Bureau of American
Ethnology published two bulletins and three miscellaneous publica-
tions. Among the latter was a circular of information regarding
Indian popular names, to be distributed in response to the numerous
letters requesting information of this kind. Four annual reports and
five bulletins were in press at the close of the year.

Reports of historical and patriotic societies—The annual reports
of the American Historical Association and the National Society of
the Daughters of the American Revolution were submitted to the
Institution and transmitted to Congress in accordance with the
charters of these organizations.

Allotments for printing—The allotments to the Institution and
its branches under the head of “ Public printing and binding” were
utilized as far as practicable, although there was a large amount of
material which the Public Printer was unable to complete, and this
will therefore become a charge against the 1916 allotment.

The allotments for the year ending June 30, 1916, are as follows:
For the Smithsonian Institution: For printing and binding the annual

reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendices, the edi-

tions of which shall not exceed 10,000 copies_____...._.__._______ $10, 000
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-

dices, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the Bulletins and

Proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not

exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half morocco or material not more
expensive, scientific books, and pamphlets presented to or acquired

Bi DytherNationalvMiusecumclibraty.£< 22 te. eo A ee a 37, 500

For the annual reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau____ 21, 000

For miscellaneous printing and binding:

ECL MALO Ma Lg HG Ma SCs ee ae pe eee Sp 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature____.__ ~ 100
Neon al AOOlOZI Cale a racemes Lehn At een wee Bae Po some 200
Astrophysical! Observatory_t0 2 ti J BLECW i Gd EY bh fee 200
Yor the annual report of the American Historical Association________ 7, 000
"RCO EET ee Sa se GP I a eee) ba 76, 200

18618°—sM 1915
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Committee on printing and publication—All manuscripts sub-
mitted for publication by the Institution or its branches have, as usual,
been examined and passed upon by the Smithsonian advisory com-
mittee on printing and publication. The committee has also con-
sidered various general matters concerning printing and binding.
During the year 18 meetings were held and 109 manuscripts acted
upon. The personnel of the committee was as follows: Dr. Leonhard
Stejneger, head curator of biology, National Museum, acting chair-
man; Dr. C. G. Abbot, director of the Astrophysical Observatory ;
Dr. Frank Baker, superintendent of the National Zoological Park;
Mr. A. Howard Clark, editor of the Smithsonian Institution, secre-
tary of the committee; Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge of
the Bureau of American Ethnology; and Dr. George P. Merrill, head
curator of geology, United States National Museum.

THE SMITHSONIAN LIBRARY.

The formation of a library of science was one of the earliest
activities of the Smithsonian Institution and its natural growth
during the last 60 or more years has resulted in the accumulation of
nearly half a million works bearing on practically every branch of
natural science, the fine arts, and the industrial arts. For adminis-
trative reasons a large portion of the library, consisting in the main
of transactions of learned societies, was in 1866 deposited in the
Library of Congress. This deposit is constantly being increased, the
accessions during the past year numbering 24,713 items of publica-
tions and making the total number of entries to June 30, 1915,
521,616.

The several libraries still directly maintained by the Institution
and its branches include the Smithsonian office library; the libraries
of the National Museum, comprising over 100,000 titles; the Bureau
of American Ethnology, about 35,000 titles; the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory; the National Herbarium; and in addition to these should
be mentioned the more recently formed aeronautical library, which
contains probably the most complete series of works on this sub-
ject in the United States. One of the chief contributors to this
library during the year was Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, whose
gift included a working library of 46 volumes and 156 volumes of
newspaper clippings covering the recent years of rapid development
of the art of aeronautics.

Among other accessions to the art section of the library during the
year I may mention the loan by Mrs. Walcott of nine volumes of
Japanese art and about 400 volumes of architectural publications
which formed the library of her brother, Mr. George Vaux, of
Philadelphia.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

The report of the assistant librarian, appended hereto, describes
the improvements recently made by the construction of steel stacks
in the Smithsonian building for assembling in accessible quarters
many general works belonging to the Government bureaus under the
Institution which had heretofore been widely scattered in unsuitable
rooms.

LUCY T. AND GEORGE W. POORE FUND.

In my last report I referred to a number of bequests then awaiting
settlement. One of these was the bequest of George W. Poore, of
Lowell, Mass., who died December 17, 1910, and by the terms of
his will made the Smithsonian Institution his residuary legatee.
As mentioned in my 1910 report, the estate, estimated at about
$40,000, is bequeathed under the condition that the income of this
sum should be added to the principal until a total of $250,000 should
have been reached, and that then the income only should be used for
the purposes for which the Institution was created. Although I
have heretofore called attention to Mr. Poore’s reason for making
this bequest, it is so apt and appropriate that I will repeat it here.
The will says:

I make this gift not so much because of its amount as because I hope it will
prove an example for other Americans to follow, by supporting and encouraging
so wise and beneficent an institution as I believe the Smithsonian Institution
to be, and yet it has been neglected and overlooked by American citizens.

In March, 1915, the Institution received from the executors of the
Poore estate the first installment of the bequest, amounting to
$24,534.92, as noted under the head of finances. It will be known as
the Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund.

THE FREER COLLECTION.

In 1906 Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, Mich., presented to the
Institution about 2,300 paintings and other objects of art, and from
time to time since then he has supplemented that gift by further
generous donations until this wonderful collection now aggregates
4,811 pieces, including 991 paintings, engravings, lithographs, etc.,
by American artists, and 3,820 oriental works of art, many of them
of high historic and intrinsic value. It was stipulated by Mr. Freer
in connection with the gift that the collection should remain in his
custody during his lifetime, and that he would provide funds for the
erection of a suitable building for the permanent preservation of the
collection. He is now considering the question of erecting such a
building and a committee of the Regents has been appointed “on
the securing of a site for the Freer Art Gallery.”
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.
THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The report of the Assistant Secretary in charge of the National
Museum, hereto appended, indicates most gratifying progress in all
lines of Museum activities. To the collections there have been many
large and most valuable additions, and installation of exhibits, par-
ticularly in the new or natural history building, has been greatly ad-
vanced and improved.

More than 300,000 specimens were accessioned during the year,
over two-thirds of which pertained to paleontology and zoology,
one-sixth to botany, and the remainder to anthropology, geology,
mineralogy, textiles, and to other divisions of the Museum.

The ethnological exhibits were enriched by a large series of old
Japanese art assembled some 30 years ago by the late J. Crawford
Lyon; baskets, musical instruments, and other objects from Dutch
Borneo, presented by Dr. W. L. Abbott; also many interesting ar-
ticles pertaining to the American Indians. In American archeology
the principal accession was a series of implements and other objects .
of stone, metal, and terra cotta from various parts of the United
States and Mexico, secured through cooperation with the management
of the San Diego Exposition. Dr. Alexander Graham Bell added
very greatly to the electrical exhibits by his gift of 280 pieces of
experimental phonographic apparatus and several relics relating to
the early history of the telephone.

Special mention should also be made of the gift of Mr. Hugo
Worch of a large number of pianofortes, illustrating the progress
and development of piano making from about 1770 to 1850. The
earliest of European pianos in the series dates from about 1770 and
of American pianos about 1790. Many interesting accessions per-
taining to American history are mentioned by the Assistant Secretary
in his report, as also important additions to the zoological, geological,
and botanical collections. A most notable contribution of mollusks,
consisting of a very large collection of specimens from practically
every part of the world, was a gift from Mr. John B. Henderson, a
Regent of the Institution.

As in previous years, much material was received from the United
States Geological Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Department
of Agriculture, and other Government establishments, these accumu-
lations from various field researches having served their purpose in
the preparation of reports on scientific investigations.

The National Gallery of Art has already outgrown the space
allotted to the display of paintings. Each year the additions to the
permanent collection of paintings, as well as the loan exhibits, causes
more and more embarrassment to those in charge of their installa-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ait

tion, and the time has now come when serious consideration must be
given to securing adequate quarters for these national collections.

I can not pass without mention of the very interesting exhibition of
laces, embroideries, and other art textiles, as also the historical cos-
tumes, especially those representing the several administrations at
the White House since the period of President Washington. I will
not attempt to describe any of the gowns recently received, further
than to say that they include a lavender silk dress worn by Mrs. Fill-
more, one of black moiré worn by Mrs. Pierce at the inauguration of
President Pierce in 1853, and a pale green brocade worn by Mrs.
Cleveland during President Cleveland’s first administration.

The division of textiles has greatly increased in popular interest
through the installation of a series of machines illustrating methods
of manufacture as well as exhibits of the raw and finished products.

Likewise, mineral technology is being illustrated by models and
products, showing the manufacture of mica plate from material here-
tofore thrown away as waste, the preparation of asbestos products,
and the manufacture of graphite and its industrial products.

The Museum is participating in the expositions at San Francisco
and San Diego, although the very small allotment allowed the Institu-
tion and its branches from the appropriation for Government ex-
hibits permitted only a comparatively small display at San Fran-
cisco. At the San Diego Exposition, however, for which no appro-
priation was granted for Government exhibits, it was possible,
through cooperation with the exposition management, to prepare an
interesting exhibit of physical anthropology and one illustrating
American aboriginal industries. The former exhibit, more fully de-
scribed on a previous page, is an entirely novel one. It illustrates
man’s evolution, his development or growth, his racial, sexual, and
individual variations, and the causes, other than normal senility,
which result in the decline of the human organism.

For many years it has been possible to aid the schools and colleges
of the country in their teaching of natural history through the dis-
tribution of duplicate material. During the past year 163 sets of
such duplicates, aggregating 14,843 specimens, were thus distributed.
And about 8,000 duplicate specimens, nearly three-fifths of which
were plants, were utilized in exchanges with other museums and in-
stitutions.

The total number of visitors to the older Museum building during
the year was 133,202, and to the new building 321,712. The latter
aggregate includes 59,577 Sunday visitors to the new building, the
older building not being open on that day.

The Museum issued its usual annual report and series of scientific
papers, the total distribution for the year aggregating 54,000 volumes
and pamphlets.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The field work of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the
last year resulted in the accumulation of a large amount of im-
portant data relating in particular to the early inhabitants of the
western and southwestern portions of the United States. There was
also brought together a great deal of material bearing on the habits,
customs, beliefs, institutions, ceremonies, and languages of vanishing
tribes of Indians throughout the country. The report of the ethnolo-
gist-in-charge, appended hereto, reviews in detail many lines of sys-
tematic research now being conducted by the bureau. Among these
I may note interesting explorations in New Mexico and Utah among
ancient village sites which appear characteristic of peoples prob-
ably of a considerable earlier period than those heretofore known
from those regions. Ancient earthenware collected by Dr. Fewkes
in such sites in the lower Mimbres Valley in New Mexico bear deco-
rations of animals and geometric designs in some measure resembling
certain ancient paintings on the walls of caves in France, In south-
ern Arizona are some extensive aboriginal ruins awaiting investiga-
tion, which bid fair to add much to our knowledge of the early in-
habitants of that region.

Among documents preserved in the Santa Ines Mission in Califor-
nia there has been brought to light an old manuscript of special in-
terest in connection with the study of the former Chumash Indians,
and a complete copy of the manuscript has been made for the use of
the bureau. .

Special researches have been in progress for some years in the
preparation of several series of handbooks relating to American In-
dians. One of these series, devoted to Indian languages, is in course
of publication, the first volume already having been issued, under
the editorship of Dr. Franz Boas. A Handbook of American An-
tiquities, the first part of which will soon be ready for the printer,
is being prepared by Mr. W. H. Holmes. The “ Handbook of Ameri-
can Indians North of Mexico,” published some years ago, has had
several reprintings, and the public demand for it still continues. A
handbook in course of preparation is devoted to Aboriginal Remains
East of the Mississippi.

There had been such doubt and discussion as to the probable age
of certain Indian mounds in northeastern Kansas and southeastern
Nebraska that it seemed important for a representative of the bureau
to make an investigation of the facts in the case. This task was
undertaken by Mr. Gerard Fowke. His report indicates that instead
of dating back many thousands of years, as some had claimed, “it is
safe’ to say that no earthwork, mound, lodge site, or human bones
along this part of the Missouri River has been here as long as 10
centuries.”
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

The study and analysis of Indian music is a subject to which the
bureau has devoted considerable attention during the last few years,
and there have already been published two bulletins on Chippewa
music, which have attracted much attention in the musical world.
There is now in press an extended account of “Teton Sioux Music”
with transcriptions of 240 songs and about 100 illustrations; and a
paper on the music of the Ute Indians is in preparation.

The collection of manuscripts pertaining to American Indians which
has been accumulated by the bureau during the last 80 years now
numbers about 1,700 items. Many of these manuscripts have come to
be of priceless value, comprising as they do records which it would
be impossible now to duplicate. There was added to this collection
during the last year a number of interesting records, including a
Laguna Indian dictionary, 49 Arapaho and Gros Ventre notebooks,
the war record of “Sitting Bull” depicted in 55 pictographs, and a
photostat copy of “A Grammar of the Pottewatomy Language.”

The bureau issued two bulletins, and there was in press at the Gov-
ernment Printing Office at the close of the year the twenty-ninth,
thirtieth, thirty-first, and thirty-second annual reports, and four
bulletins. The completion of several of these works is delayed by
the European war, the authors in some cases residing in belligerent
countries. The distribution of publications aggregated 10,185 vol-
umes and pamphlets. There were about 500 books added to the
library, which now numbers 20,287 volumes, 13,188 pamphlets, and
several thousand unbound periodicals.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

One of the principal researches by the Astrophysical Observatory
during the past year was the continuation of observations as to the
intensity of solar radiation at various altitudes, with a view to defi-
nitely determine the value of the solar constant of radiation. By
means of sounding balloons, to which were attached automatic record-
ing pyrheliometers, successful records were secured up to a height of
25,000 meters or about 15 miles, where the barometric pressure is only
one twenty-fifth that at sea level. Director Abbot, in his report
and in a special publication (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
Vol. 65, No. 4, June 19, 1915), reviews the observations in solar radia-
tion made at various altitudes from sea level up to the highest prac-
ticable mountain peak (Mount Whitney), thence in a balloon as high
as man could live, thence to a height of 15 miles, and concludes that
the solar constant of radiation is 1.93 calories per square centimeter
per minute. Dr. Abbot discusses also the interesting fact that con-
siderable fluctuations of the “solar-constant ” values occur from day
to day ranging over nearly 10 per cent between the extreme limits,
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

1.81 and 1.99 calories. In 1913 the radiation of the sun was 2.5 per
cent below the mean, and 1 per cent above the mean in 1914. A high
average value is said to be indicated for 1915. In concluding his re-
port for the year Dr. Abbot says:

Short-period fluctuations of solar radiation were large in 19138, but small in
1914. Associated with these quick, irregular fluctuations are found variations
of contrast of brightness between the center and edges of the solar disk. Curi-
ously enough, while greater contrast is associated with greater radiation and
with numerous sun spots in the general march of the sun’s activity, lesser con-
trast is associated with greater solar radiation in the march of the quick, irregu-
lar fluctuations of the sun’s emission. This paradox points to two causes of
solar radiation—the long period changes may probably be caused by changes of
the sun’s effective temperature attending the march of solar activity; the quick
fluctuations may be ascribed to changes of the transparency of the outer solar
envelope.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The operations of the International Exchange Service have been
necessarily curtailed for some months because of the European war.
The total number of packages handled during the year was 275,756,
or 65,911 less than the year before, and their weight was 367,854
pounds, a decrease of 199,131 pounds. There has accumulated, more-
over, a large number of packages awaiting opportunity of shipment,
particularly to Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Hungary,
Montenegro, Roumania, Russia, Servia, and Turkey, which were en-
tirely shut out of the service at the close of the year, although cor-
respondence is in progress to secure renewal of shipment with some
of those countries.

One of the important functions of this service is the interchange
of official Government documents with various countries, resulting
in the building up of a most important division of the Library of
Congress. During the past year there was received in this connection
from the Chinese Government a set of the Imperial Institute of the
Ching Dynasty and other valuable records aggregating 684 volumes.

Fifty-six full sets and 36 partial sets of United States official publi-
cations are now sent regularly to depositories abroad, in accordance
with treaty stipulations and congressional resolutions. A list of these
depositories and detailed statistics of the service are given in the
appendix to this report.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

The Smithsonian Institution has administered the United States
Bureau of the International Catalogue since its organization in 1901.
There are 33 of these regional bureaus located in the principal coun-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

tries with a central bureau in London, where reference cards are as-
sembled and published annually in 17 volumes covering each branch
of science. During the past year there were collected and classified
in the Smithsonian office and sent to London 12,386 cards of reference
to the scientific literature of the United States for the year 1914, be-
sides 14,027 references for the years 1906 to 1913, or an aggregate of
26,413 cards, making 345,349 references to American literature since
1901.

Through a minute system of classification, the equivalent of a brief
digest of the subject contents of each paper, the International Cata-
logue places before students and investigators references to practi-
cally all the scientific literature of the world.
~ On account of the necessarily high cost of the annual volumes sub-
scriptions to the series are limited as a rule to the most important
institutions and libraries, where, however, the catalogue is available
to everyone desiring to consult this work.

As in all lines of scientific work, the European war temporarily in-
terferes with the finances and general work of the catalogue and the
amount of literature produced in most of the countries at war is
greatly curtailed.

“NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

There was added to the collections in the National Zoological Park
during the past year a number of interesting animals, including 25
species not before represented there. The total accessions aggregated
498. The census of animals on hand June 30, 1915, was 1,397 indi-
viduals, representing 151 different species of mammals, 185 of birds,
and 22 of reptiles, as compared with 1,362 animals on hand July 1,
1914. The report of-the superintendent of the park, on another page,
records a detailed systematic list of all the animals, numbering 629
hammals, 696 birds, and 72 reptiles.

Every year since 1890, when the park was established, many speci-
mens have been received through the individual donations of those
interested in its growth. Forty-three such donors during the past
year contributed 60 animals,

The total number of visitors was 794,530, an increase of about
60,000 over the year preceding, and the largest attendance in the his-
tory of the park. Among the visitors were 3,485 students from vari-
ous schools and classes on special visits to the park for educational
purposes.

The superintendent notes among the improvements of the year the
construction of a cage and shelter house for pumas; and an out-of-
doors inclosure with a small shelter house for a band of 25 rhesus
monkeys which thrived there well throughout the winter.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Near the close of the year work was begun on a hospital and labor-
atory building, the urgent need of which was noted in my last
report.

In the sundry civil act making appropriations for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1914, provision was made for the acquisition of about
10 acres of land along the western boundary of the park, but neces-
sary legal proceedings to complete the purchase had not come to a
close at the end of the year.

Among the primary objects in establishing the Zoological Park was
the “instruction and recreation of the people.” To this end the
playground department of the District of Columbia has been allowed
to install several pieces of apparatus in a meadow tract which has
become a favorite resort for picnic parties.

The needs of the park become greater with the growth of the col-
lections and the increasing popularity of the resort as an attractive
public institution. The appropriations from year to year, while
sufficient for absolute maintenance, have permitted the construction
of but few of such permanent buildings as are needed for the ade-
quate care of the animals. Among these urgent needs I may mention
an aviary building and a building for the proper housing of ele-
phants, hippopotami, and certain other animals now ‘Sheltered in
mere temporary quarters.

Accompanying the superintendent’s report is an outline map on
which are indicated desirable building sites where necessary grading
for that purpose would permit the desirable filling of certain ravines
now practically useless.

NECROLOGY.

THEODORE NICHOLAS GILL.

Theodore Nicholas Gill was born at New York March 21, 1837,
and died at Washington September 25, 1914. The following tribute,
to his memory was adopted at a meeting of his associates on Sep-
tember 26:

TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF DR, GILL.

Theodore Nicholas Gill, master of arts, doctor of medicine, doctor of philos-
ophy, doctor of laws, associate in zoology in the United States National Museum.
died at Washington, D. C., September 25, 1914, in the seventy-eighth year of his
age.

His associates in the Smithsonian Institution and its several branches,
assembled at a meeting in his memory at the National Museum on September
26, do here record their deep sorrow in the loss of a sincere friend, profound
scholar, one of America’s foremost men of science, and one ofiicially connected
with the Smithsonian Institution in various capacities for more than half a
eentury.

Trained in private schools and by special tutors in New York City, he early
acquired a love for natural science which he made his life work, rising to the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2

highest rank in the field of zoology, and through his critical studies adding
greatly to the sum of human knowledge.

As one of the founders of the Cosmos Club; as a professor in the Columbian
(now the George Washington) University for more than 50 years; as a member
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Philosophical
Society, the National Academy of Sciences, and of many other scientific socie-
ties in the United States and foreign lands, Dr. Gill was most highly esteemed
and was widely known to biologists throughout the world as a man of deep
and accurate learning, particularly in the study of his specialty, ichthyology. A
man of phenomenal memory, familiar with many languages, he was a veritable
eyclopedia of science and knew how to make plain to the layman its technical
phraseology. He was a constant and willing source of information and_ in-
spiration to all who sought his aid in professional studies.

Through devotion to his chosen calling and his genial disposition Dr. Gill
has left to his associates a cherished memory and a brilliant example worthy
of emulation.

WILLIAM WOODVILLE ROCKHILL.

William Woodville Rockhill, former ambassador to Russia, Tur-
key, and other countries, one who had ably filled many other im-
portant diplomatic positions in China, Korea, and elsewhere, and
had served as Assistant Secretary of State, was born in Philadelphia
in 1854 and died in Honolulu, December 8, 1914. From 1888 to 1892
he conducted two scientific missions to China, Mongolia, and Tibet
under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, resulting in a
large accumulation of most interesting and important data bearing
on the habits and customs particularly of the then little-known
Tibetans. Much of this valuable information was embodied in his
“ Diary of a Journey through Mongolia and Tibet,” published by the
Institution. 'To the National Museum collections he added a large
amount of ethnological material resulting from his journeys. Mr.
Rockhill was intensely devoted to oriental study and had been a con-
stant collaborator of the Smithsonian Institution throughout all his
official career. At the time of his death he was en route to assume his
duties as financial adviser to the Chinese Government.

Respectfully submitted.
Cuartes D. Waccort, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States National Museum for the fiscal year end-
ing June 30, 1915:

{NTRODUCTORY.

In the last two reports the general status and arrangement of the
public collections in all departments were briefly reviewed. Since
then the exhibits of anthropology, biology, and geology in the new
building have undergone few material changes, though they have
received many important additions and there has been an improve-
ment in the condition of a large number of specimens which needed
renovation. It having become necessary to provide a place for the
larger whale skeletons, which were not transferred at the time of
the general moving of the zoological collections, the south hall in the
second story of the west wing, previously assigned to marine in-
vertebrates, was allotted to this purpose and the invertebrates were
taken to the north side of the building on the same floor. The re-
installations necessitated by these changes were in progress at the
close of the year.

The accommodations afforded by the improvised picture gallery
in the north main hall have been entirely outgrown and the point
has been reached where the paintings must be so crowded as to
utterly destroy their effect. There is no other suitable location to
which this important collection can be extended and would-be con-
tributors find no encouragement in the conditions. The time has
certainly arrived when serious consideration should be given toward
providing proper means for sheltering and displaying the art treas-
ures of the Museum, in which connection the interests of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art are vitally at stake.

The work of renovation of the main hall in the Smithsonian
building, which continued throughout the year, prevented the exe-
cution of the proposed plans for the enlargement and improvement
of the exhibition series of the graphic arts. In the older Museum
building the installations, especially in the recently reorganized di-
visions, steadily progressed with very measurable advancement. In

28
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

the division of textiles much material was added, many gaps were
filled, and numerous novel features were introduced. In mineral
technology, where the construction of models makes progress slower,
the number of comprehensive educational features was nevertheless
considerably increased, and so many more are in course of preparation
that another year should see a wide representation of the subjects
covered. Toward the end of the year a section of wood technology
was established with the main object of setting forth in a manner to
satisfy the artisan and the public the qualities and sources of the
woods available for any purpose to which that material is put. It
is not doubted that a creditable collection can soon be gathered.

COLLECTIONS.

The additions to the collections, comprised in 1,481 accessions,
aggregated approximately 304,647 specimens, which were classified
and assigned as follows: Anthropology, 15,140; zoology, 101,928;
botany, 51,295; geology and mineralogy, 4,063 ; paleontology, 129,981;
textiles and animal and vegetable products, 1,511; mineral technol-
ogy, 607; National Gallery of Art, 122. Loans for exhibition were
also received to the extent of 1,760 articles, consisting of paintings
and sculptures, laces, embroideries and tapestries, costumes and
other historical objects, ethnological specimens, etc. The number
of lots of material sent in for examination and report amounted to
790, of which about 64 per cent were geological and 28 per cent
zoological.

Among the more important gifts to the division of ethnology were
a large series of old Japanese art, assembled about 30 years ago by
the late J. Crawford Lyon and presented by the Misses Lyon; a col-
lection of baskets, bark cloth, sword hilts in process of making,
quivers for blowgun darts, musical instruments, and other objects,
gathered in Dutch Borneo by Mr. H. C. Raven, and donated by Dr.
_W. L. Abbott; examples of modern Egyptian clothing contributed
by Mr. Herbert E. Winlock; and interesting articles from the Plains
Indians, which belonged to the late Maj. George Henry Palmer,
United States Army, presented by Mrs. Palmer. A valuable series
of musical instruments, household articles, tools, and other objects
from the Ute Indians of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation, south-
eastern Utah, was purchased. The loans comprised objects from
southern Mindanao, P. I., Abyssinia, Japan, China, Egypt, and
Europe.

The principal accession in American archeology was secured
through the cooperation of the Smithsonian Institution with the
management of the Panama-California Exposition at San Diego, and
comprised important series of implements and other objects of stone,
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

metal, and terra cotta from various localities in the United States
and Mexico. Many specimens of like nature from the same countries
were also received in exchange from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseum
at Stockholm, and the Bureau of American Ethnology transmitted a
quantity of pottery displaying a distinct type of decoration from
the lower Mimbres Valley, N.-Mex. A banner stone of rose quartz,
a very remarkable Indian relic and probably one of the finest ex-
amples of its kind yet brought to light, from Woodruff County, Ark.,
and one image of gold and two of gilded copper from Chiriqui,
Panama, were purchased. The principal gifts consisted of a notable
jade ax from Alta Verapaz, Guatemala, a small stone celt from
Ahuachapan, San Salvador, and a clay figurine from Tepecoyo, in
the same country, presented by Mr. Emilio Mosony1, of San Salvador,
and a pottery vase from a mound in Marion County, Tenn., con-
tributed by Mr. Clarence B. Moore.

In Old World archeology there were only two relatively important
accessions. The first, an exchange from Dr. Rutot, of the Royal
Museum of Natural History at Brussels, consisted of 90 Neolithic
stone implements from Belgium, representing the first epoch of pol-
ished stone culture in Europe, known as the “ Spiennian”; the sec-
ond, a gift from Mr. Herbert E. Clark, of Jerusalem, of 19 stone
implements, forming a valuable addition to the present collection
from Palestine.

The more important contributions in physical anthropology com-
prised skeletal material from a Minsi burial place on the Jersey
side of the Delaware River, 3 miles below Montague, N. J., one
of the most complete and carefully recorded collections of such
specimens so far acquired, from Mr. George G. Heye, of New York;
similar material from Alabama and Tennessee, from Mr. Clarence B.
Moore; eight prehistoric skeletons and four skulls from Bohemia,
from Prof. J. Matiegka, of the University of Prague; and three
nearly complete and four partial human skeletons, from Montana,
collected by Mr. C. W. Gilmore, of the Museum staff.

The electrical collections were enriched by a most noteworthy
gift from Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, consisting of 280 pieces of
experimental phonographic apparatus and several relics connected
with the early history of the telephone. Under a special act of
Congress, the Coast and Geodetic Survey transferred a large number
of antiquated surveying instruments which are now of much his-
torical importance; and a quantity of guns needed to fill gaps in the
collection were deposited by the Navy and War Departments. Of
especial interest is a gasoline automobile of 1896, presented by the
Olds Motor Works.

The section of musical instruments received during the year such a
contribution as places its collection among the most notable of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ol

kind in the world. The gift came from Mr. Hugo Worch, of Wash-
ington, D. C., a student of the history of the pianoforte in America,
who has been assembling a collection of these instruments, which he
offered to the Museum in order to provide for their permanent
preservation. While accommodations for the entire series may not
be found, 70 instruments have already been delivered, the selection
following lines to best illustrate the progress and development in
piano making down to about 1850. Too much praise can not be
accorded Mr. Worch for this splendid donation, which now includes
24 examples of European make and 46 of American make. With few
exceptions, the latter are the product of manufacturers in Philadel-
phia, New York, Baltimore, and Boston, and represent, among
others, the names of Taws, Albrecht, Harper, Geib, Kearsing, Loud,
Hisky, Osborne, Nunns, Goodrich, Stewart, Chickering, Meyer, Bab-
cock, and Wise. The earliest of the American pianos is of date about
1790 and of the European about 1770. While in most cases the ex-
amples are no longer in playing shape, the mechanism is preserved,
and some remain in excellent condition.

In the section of ceramics the more noteworthy additions con-
sisted of two loans, one including an old porcelain rice bowl and a
tea set of cloisonné on porcelain from Miss Julia H. Chadwick, the
other being a collection of Chinese and Japanese porcelains from
Miss Eliza R. Scidmore. The division of graphic arts received
a large number of specimens mainly required for filling gaps in the
collections, among the more important being illustrations of a process
for color printing from photographs and of the rapid rotary in-
taglio process, besides many examples of lithographs, collotypes,
and other prints.

The additions to the memorial collection of American history were
numerous and of great variety, the most important being loans, in
which were included a water-color portrait of Washington by James
Peale; articles of military equipment carried by Capt. William Wal-
ton during the War of the Revolution; a silver tea service of five
pieces once the property of Laura Wolcott, daughter of. Oliver
Wolcott, a signer of the Declaration of Independence; a pair of gold
and jeweled earrings formerly belonging to Mrs. Rebecca Madison,
niece of President Madison; and three gold medals and one of
bronze added to the collection of Rear Admiral Robert E. Peary,
United States Navy. There was also a large contribution of silver
and bronze coins of the nineteenth century, issues of the United
States and several foreign countries; and the collection of postage
stamps, envelopes, and post cards was very materially increased.

The exhibition of historical costumes was greatly increased both by
gift and loan, most noteworthy being appropriate costumes for repre-
senting four additional presidential administrations at the White
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915,

House. The earliest of these belonged to Betty Taylor, daughter of
President Zachary Taylor, 1849-1850. The next, a lavender silk dress,
was worn at the White House by Mrs. Fillmore, wife of President
Millard Fillmore, 1850-1853. The third, a black moiré, was worn
by Mrs. Pierce on the occasion of the inauguration of her husband,
Franklin Pierce, March 4, 1853. The last, a pale-green brocade, was
used by Mrs. Cleveland during the first administration of President
Cleveland, 1885-1889.

In the section of art textiles the acquisitions, all loans, comprised
over 100 pieces of lace, besides embroideries, brocades, velvets, tapes-
tries, etc. Six tapestries of great beauty and value were also lent for
a short period by Messrs. P. W. French & Co., of New York. The
room containing this collection was entirely renovated and repainted,
the materials were also for the most part rearranged, and where
necessary new and more effective backgrounds were substituted.

As during many successive years, the Museum was indebted to Dr.
W. L. Abbott for large collections of the higher animals, one made
at his expense in Dutch East Borneo by Mr. H. C. Raven, the other,
composed entirely of mammals, obtained by himself in Kashmir. Of
no less importance was a collection from the northwest coast of Cuba,
secured during an expedition by Mr. John B. Henderson, comprising
at least 10,000 mollusks and other invertebrates, nearly 3,000 fishes,
and many reptiles and batrachians. The Bureau of Fisheries made
extensive deposits of marine invertebrates and fishes; and Mr. Arthur
de C. Sowerby continued to transmit valuable series of vertebrates and
insects from little known districts in China. Birds, reptiles, batra-
chians, fishes, and marine invertebrates from Panama were contrib-
uted by Mr. James Zetek; plants and marine invertebrates in large
numbers by the Carnegie Institution of Washington; and animals of
various groups by the Biological Survey.

Besides those above mentioned, interesting collections of birds were
received from Ecuador and Australia. A unique accession consisted
of the last of the pair of passenger pigeons which had been so long
preserved in the Cincinnati Zoological Gardens, and whose death sig-
nalized the absolute extinction of this remarkable form. Additional
specimens of reptiles and batrachians were obtained from Texas, Cali-
fornia, Mexico, and Baluchistan; and of fishes from the Philippine
Islands, Formosa, and Panama.

The most notable contribution of mollusks was a gift from Mr.
John B. Henderson of a very large collection of selected and gen-
erally identified specimens assembled from practically every part of
the world. Eight separate transfers of invertebrates by the Bureau
of Fisheries were of much scientific value. Four of these consisted of
material that had been studied and described and therefore contained
numerous type specimens, and the remainder of new collections from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

recent surveys of the steamer Albatross on the Pacific coast.
‘Through the courtesy of the Carnegie Institution of Washington,
about 1,000 specimens of corals from the Bahama Islands and
Florida, 300 specimens from Australia, and many other marine forms
were acquired. The Bureau of Entomology was the principal con-
tributor of insects, which belonged mainly to the Hymenoptera, Dip-
tera, and Odonata. Peruvian Diptera to the number of over 3,000,
besides several hundred preparations, were presented by Dr. C. H. T.
Townsend; and numerous wasps and other insects, by Dr. T. D. A.
Cockerell. ‘Two other important collections, consisting of Coleoptera
and Hymenoptera, were received from Copenhagen.

The number of plants received was greater than in any of the pre-
vious 10 years except 1913. Nearly one-fourth were deposited by the
Department of Agriculture, including 7,300 specimens of grasses, of
which the larger part will be distributed in sets to scientific establish-
ments. ‘Two other noteworthy collections from the same department
consisted of phanerogams from the western United States and west-
ern Canada. Important accessions otherwise obtained came from the
West Indies, the Philippine Islands, China, the Canary Islands,
western South America, Mexico, and several of the States.

Though the accessions in geology were not extensive, they fur-
nished a considerable variety of valuable material. A collection
from the Geological Survey was illustrative of the economic phases
of the feldspar deposits of the United States. Individual gifts com-
prised excellent specimens of ferberite-bearing pegmatite from Ari-
zona; tungsten ore and roscoelite-bearing sandstone from Colorado;
and a sample of ferro-vanadium made from patronite ores of Minas-
ragra, Peru; besides several slabs of marble for the exhibition series
of ornamental stones. The meteorite collection was enriched by
specimens from 13 falls, obtained by gift, exchange, and purchase,
to which may be added fragments of 12 meteorites deposited by the
National Academy of Sciences.

The most important single accession in mineralogy consisted of
several hundred specimens of minerals and cut stones, including a
suite of unique titantic crystals from an exhausted locality at Bridge-
water, Pa., received as a bequest from the late Brig. Gen. William H.
Forwood, United States Army. Among the transfers from the
Geological Survey were various lots of gem minerals, in both rough
and cut form, including many specimens of exceptional value, con-
sisting for the most part of types of new species, or restudied and
redescribed material from new localities. From several other sources
rare and interesting examples were also obtained, such as one of the
largest known nuggets of osmiridium, large crystals of phenacite,
tarbuttite, roepperite, pseudomorphs from the Blue Jay Copper
Mine, scheelite, large rhodonites, etc. The additions in petrology

18618°—sm 1915——3 ;
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915,

consisted, as usual, largely of studied material, representing folio
series, deposited by the Geological Survey. Mention should also be’
made of an interesting collection of obsidians from Iceland, pre-
sented by Dr. F. E. Wright, and illustrating his studies on the origin
of spherulitic structure.

An extensive series of Devonian fossils, representing the lifelong
collecting of Prof. Henry Shaler Williams, and including many
faunas not previously represented in the Museum, formed the largest
and most important accession in invertebrate paleontology. It was
transferred by the Geological Survey, which also deposited nearly
600 specimens of type and other monographic material. Other large
acquisitions consisted of about 5,000 specimens of European Paleo-
zoic and Mesozoic fossils; some 6,000 specimens of Ordovician and
Silurian fossils from Illinois, Indiana, and Kentucky; and about
5,000 Cambrian fossils from China. <A series of Mesozoic sponges
from Germany is especially adapted for exhibition purposes, as is
also a large slab containing numerous Devonian glass sponges from
New York. Additional specimens from the cave deposit at Cum-
berland, Md., referred to in previous reports, comprising 15 more or
less complete skulls and other fragmental material, were obtained
through the generous financial aid of Mr. John B. Henderson.
Portions of a mastodon discovered at Winamac, Ind., indicate the
existence at that place of a more or less complete skeleton, which the
Museum has obtained permission to excavate. Other important con-
tributions include 30 dinosaurian skin plates from the Lance forma-
tion in Wyoming; a composite skeleton of a dog, and three skulls
and lower jaws, from the Rancho La Brea asphalt deposits at Los
Angeles, Cal.; and a large part of the skeleton of the extinct swim-
ming reptile, Mosasaurus, from Montana.

The division of textiles received so many and such variety of addi-
tions as to render an adequate summation impossible within the
compass of this report. Of particular popular interest is a series of
machines for ginning, drawing, spinning, and weaving cotton, which
it is intended, in part at least, to provide with motive power so as
to be able to actually demonstrate to the public the processes of manu-
facture from the raw material to the finished product. The processes
in the manufacture of worsted goods and of carded woolen fabrics
are also fully illustrated by a large series of specimens. Besides
standard goods of cotton, wool, silk, etc., the contributions include
a great array of specialties and novelties, materials recently placed
upon the market, or soon to be, in satisfaction of the ever-increasing
demand for new stuffs and new patterns. Printed cotton goods,
printed cotton draperies, upholstery fabrics; pile fabrics for dress and
decorative purpose, including beautiful examples of artificial furs;
brocaded dress silks for the fall season of 1915, new printed satins,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

pongees, tussah silks, trimming silks, taffeta dress silks in Mexican
and Indian designs; satins, crépes, and chiffons decorated by means
of spray printing; machine and hand made laces; embroidered and
brocaded Chinese silks; Cashmere shawls; the manufacture of Amer-
ican rugs; oilcloths—these and many samples of other goods were
all well represented in the accessions of the year. Additions were
also received for the historical collection of textile machinery, in-
cluding several early appliances marking important stages in the
development of the industry.

Following the plans outlined in a previous report, the work of
preparing exhibits in mineral technology was actively carried on.
The principal ones, including models and products, installed during
the year were illustrative of the occurrence, mining, and treatment of
rock salt for the manufacture of sodium compounds by the Solvay
Process Co., of Syracuse, N. Y.; the manufacture of glass, additional
to the models received the previous year, from the Macbeth-Evans
Co.; the processes employed in the manufacture of gypsum as a
building material at Oakfield, N. Y.; the manufacture of mica plate
by a process which permits the utilization of what. was formerly
thrown away as waste; the occurrence, derivation, and adaptability
of abrading materials; asbestos fiber and the manufacture of asbestos
products; a by-product coke furnace, its operation, and products;
and the manufacture of graphite and its industrial products.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

By a supplemental transfer executed in January, 1915, the splendid
gift of Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, Mich., was increased by
110 articles, of which 8 are American and 102 oriental. The Ameri-
ean works comprise 1 oil painting by Dwight W. Tryon, 1 oi] pamt-
ing and 2 silver points by Thomas W. Dewing, and 3 drawings and
sketches and 1 lithograph by James McNeill Whistler. The oriental
objects consist of 43 Chinese and 7 Japanese paintings, mainly panels,
kakemono, and makimono; 14 pieces of pottery, of which 12 are
Chinese and 1 each Rakka and Raghes; and 24 pieces of jade, 5
sculptures in stone, and 9 bronzes, all Chinese. By this addition
the Freer collection now aggregates 4,811 items of American and
oriental art.

The other permanent acquisitions numbered 12, of which the prin-
cipal donor, as heretofore, was Mr. William T. Evans, of New York,
who contributed 4 paintings and 1 bronze, namely: “Moonrise at
Ogunquit,” by H. Hobart Nichols; “Portrait of Mrs. William T.
Evans and Son,” by Henry Oliver Walker; “ Portrait of William T.
Evans,” by Wyatt Eaton; “ Portrait of Wyatt Eaton,” by J. Alden
Weir; and a bronze bust inscribed “ William Thomas Evans
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

MCMIV,” by J. Scott Hartley. The further contributions were as
follows: “ Wooded Landscape,” oil painting, by Samuel Isham,
received from the estate of the artist in accordance with his wish;
“Fisher Girl of Picardy,” oil painting, by Elizabeth Nourse, pre-
sented by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Pilling, of Washington, in memory of
her husband, the late John Walter Pilling; “ Full Moon,” a land-
seape at Limache, Chile, oil painting, by Alfredo Helsby, presented
by the Embassy of Chile at Washington; the original plaster model
of the bronze equestrian statue of Lafayette, by Paul Bartlett,
erected in the Square of the Louvre, Paris, France, in 1900, as a testi-
monial from the school children of the United States, presented by
the artist; a bronze bust, heroic size, of Viscount Bryce, formerly
ambassador of Great Britain to the United States, by Henry Hudson
KXitson, presented by the artist; a full-length statue of the goddess
Sappho, in white marble, typifying the Muse of’ Poetry, modeled be-
tween 1865 and 1870 by Vinnie Ream Hoxie and presented by Brig.
Gen. Richard L. Hoxie, United States Army (retired) ; and the origi-
nal plaster cast of the statue of The Falling Gladiator, by William
Rimmer, presented by his daughter, Miss Caroline Hunt Rimmer.

The loans to the Gallery aggregated 121 paintings, 2 bronzes, and 2
plaster casts, received from 14 sources. Included in the paintings
were 27 portraits by 23 artists, forming a special loan exhibition on
behalf of The National Association of Portrait Painters, which was
held from March 6 to April 7, 1915, a special view by invitation being
given on the first evening. This exhibition, like the corresponding
one of the year before, was especially noteworthy.

MEETINGS, CONGRESSES, AND SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS.

Fhe facilities afforded by the new building for meetings, lectures,
and congresses were extensively utilized. The Washington Society of
the Fine Arts continued its lecture courses, which, as customary, were
divided into three series, one being on “ The art of to-day,” another
on “'The decorative arts,” and the third on “The romantic period of
music.” Seven interesting lectures on various scientific subjects were
given, five under the auspices of the Washington Academy of
Sciences, and two under the joint auspices of the same organization
and the Biological Society of Washington. The Washington Society
of the Archaeological Institute of America provided two lectures, as
did also the Audubon Society of the District of Columbia.

The National Academy of Sciences during its regular annual
meeting in April used the auditorium for its public sessions, which
included two lectures under the William Ellery Hale foundation, and
also held a conversazione in the picture gallery and rotunda. The
annual meeting of The American Fisheries Society took place in Sep-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

tember and October, in the course of which two lectures on the sal-
smon industry of the Pacific coast, illustrated by moving pictures,
were given. Accommodations were furnished for two conventions.
The first was the twelfth annual convention of the National Rural
Letter Carriers’ Association, held in August, and the second a joint
convention of postmasters from Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and
North and South Carolina, which met in October. Two special ex-
hibitions of exceptional interest on July 16, consisted of illustra-
tions of marine life below the surface of the sea at the Bahama Is-
lands by means of moving pictures. The films were the first of their
kind known to have been taken, and this was the first occasion of their
public display, arranged through the courtesy of the Submarine Film
Corporation. 2

Two receptions were given by the Regents and: Secretary of the
Institution, the first, on April 17, in honor of the National Society of
the Daughters of the American Revolution, the second, on May 13, to
the delegates to The American Federation of Arts, then in session in
the city. The auditorium and other rooms were used on a number of
occasions by branches of the Department of Agriculture for hearings
and meetings, including a series of 12 Saturday lectures under the
auspices of the Bureau of Plant Industry.

Outside of the National Gallery of Art, the only special loan exhi-
kition of importance held during the year was one assembled under
the auspices of The American Federation of Arts. It relates wholly
to industrial art in the United States, was opened on May 13, and
will continue until the middle of September of the current year.
Favored by a very large number of contributors, including manu-
facturers, craftsmen, artists, and schools, it has proved one of the
most notable displays of its kind ever held in this country, and, while
not claiming to be complete, it is remarkably comprehensive and rep-
resentative. The standard upheld is extremely high, and two things
are especially emphasized—the value of beauty in design and the fine
quality of artistic products now being made in America.

The Museum is participating in the two California expositions,
which, beginning in January and February, respectively, will continue
until the close of the calendar year 1915. For preparing Government
exhibits to be shown at the larger of these, the Panama-Pacific Inter-
national Exposition at San Francisco, Congress gave $500,000, of
which amount the small and inadequate sum of $23,750 was allotted
to the Smithsonian Institution and its branches. The repre-
sentative of these, by designation of the Secretary, is Mr. W. de C.
Ravenel, administrative assistant of the Museum. The display made
by the Museum has, in view of the circumstance, been almost entirely
restricted to ethnology, of which the most prominent features are
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

four large family groups, representing the Alaskan Eskimo, the
Zulu-Kaflir of southern Africa, the Caribs of British Guiana, and the
Dyaks of Borneo. These are supplemented by a series of 10 aborigi-
nal dwelling groups, a large collection of artifacts, and several sy-
noptic series illustrating the history of fire making and illumination,
the jackknife, the saw, the spindle and shuttle, and the hafted and
perforated stone ax. Outside of ethnology the only material exhibit
is a splendid group of the common elk, or wapiti, of the Rocky Moun-
tain region, comprising male, female, and young, but the important
Museum exhibits in anthropology, biology, and geology are repre-
sented by means of an extensive series of lantern slides for use with
the stereomotorgraph.

While the Panama-California Exposition at San Diego received no
aid from the Government, the Museum was enabled to take part and
also to derive considerable benefit through a cooperative arrangement
between the management of the exposition and the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, whereby the latter assumed charge of the assembling and
installation of an exhibit of physical anthropology and another illus-
trating certain important industries of the American aborigines. The
expenses were entirely defrayed by the exposition company, which
allotted $27,000 for the former subject and $5,000 for the latter.
Preparations were begun in 1912, and in physical anthropology, un-
der Dr. AleS Hrdlicka, of the Museum staff, entailed extensive ex-
plorations which were carried to many quarters of the globe. The
collections as finally installed greatly surpass in richness, instructive-
ness, and harmony anything before attempted in this line. They are
divided into four sections, illustrating, respectively, man’s evolution ;
his development or growth; his racial, sexual, and individual vari-
ations; and the causes, outside of normal senility, which contribute
to the decline of the human organism, as disease and injury. The
other exhibit, prepared under the direction of Mr. William H.
Holmes, head curator of anthropology, consists primarily of six lay-
figure groups, representing the mining of iron ore and pigment mate-
rials, and of copper, the quarrying of soapstone, obsidian and build-
ing stone, and the arrow makers. These groups are supplemented by
extensive series of the implements, utensils, and art works generally
of these ancient peoples. Particular interest attaches to these col-
lections, as they have been installed as permanent exhibits in a build-
ing specially erected as a museum feature for the city of San Diego.
The benefits derived by the National Museum through its participa-
tion in this exposition consist in the division of a part of the collec-
tions, the opportunity of reproducing many novel features, and the
working up and publication of the scientific results of the expedi-
tions which were mainly into new and important fields.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89
MISCELLANEOUS.

Duplicate specimens of natural history to the number of 14,848,
accurately classified and labeled, and put up in 163 sets, were dis-
tributed for teaching purposes among the schools and colleges of the
country. They consisted mainly of rocks, minerals, ores, fossils, and
recent mollusks, though other zoological groups and ethnological
and archeological subjects were also represented. In making ex-
changes 7,927 duplicates were used, over three-fifths being plants.
The number of specimens, all belonging to natural history, sent out
for study by specialists located elsewhere, was 10,269, the preponder-
ating subjects being plants, insects, marine invertebrates, and fossils.

The total number of visitors to the new building aggregated
262,185 for week days and 59,577 for Sundays, being a daily average
of 837 for the former and of 1,145 for the latter. At the older
Museum building the attendance for week days (the building not
being opened on Sundays) was 133,202, a daily average of 425. The
Smithsonian building was closed to the public during five months on
account of extensive alterations in progress, and the attendance was
thereby reduced to 40,324 persons.

The publications issued during the year comprised 9 volumes and
41 separate papers. The former consisted of the annual report for
1914; volume 47 of the Proceedings; volume 19 of the Contributions
from the National Herbarium; and 6 bulletins, 3 of which related to
paleontology and 3 to marine animals. The separate papers formed
parts of volumes 47, 48, and 49 of the Proceedings. The total num-
ber of copies of Museum publications distributed was about 54,000.

The library received 2,209 volumes, 2,530 pamphlets, and 183 parts
of volumes, and at the close of the year contained 45,818 volumes and
76,295 pamphlets and unbound papers, or a total of 122,118 titles.

Respectfully submitted.
Ricwarp Ratusun,
Assistant Secretary in Charge,
United States National Museum.
Dr, Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

SEPTEMBER 27, 1915.
APPENDIX 2.
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: Pursuant to the communication of the Acting Secretary dated
July 2, I have the honor to present the following report on the oper-
ations of the Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1915, conducted in accordance with the act of Con-
egress approved August 1, 1914, making appropriations for the sundry
civil expenses of the Government, and with a plan of operations sub-
mitted by the ethnologist-in-charge and approved by the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution. The provision of the act authorizing
the researches of the Bureau of American Ethnology is as follows:

American Ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and
preservation of archseologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees and

the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, including payment in advance
for subscriptions, $42,000.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES.

As in the past, the systematic researches of the bureau were con-
ducted by its regular staff, consisting of 9 ethnologists, including the
ethnologist-in-charge, and of 10 ethnologists during part of the year.
These operations may be summarized as follows:

Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist-in-charge, devoted most of his atten-
tion during the year to the administration of the affairs of the bu-
reau, but opportunity was found, with the assistance of Miss Florence
M. Poast, to add materially to the compilation of the bibliography of
the Pueblo Indians, which now comprises about 2,400 titles. Mr.
Hodge also read several extended manuscripts submitted for publi-
cation by the bureau; he likewise continued to represent the bureau
on the Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and publication
and the Smithsonian Institution on the United States Geographic
Board.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, at the beginning of the fiscal
year brought to a close his archeological researches in the valley of
the lower Rio Mimbres, N. Mex., reference to which was made in the
last annual report. These studies of the many village sites of the
prehistoric people of the section named lead to the belief that the

40 :
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 4]

ancient habitations were not terraced community houses, such as
characterize typical pueblos, but were of an older form, hence Dr.
Fewkes assigns them to a period and a people which he designates
pre-Puebloan. This conclusion is based not only on the character of
the house structures as indicated by their ground plans, but also on
the character and decoration of the pottery vessels found under the
floors. The most noteworthy feature of this earthenware is the re-
markable painted decoration on the inside of the bowls, consisting of
representations of men engaged in various pursuits, animals, and
geometric designs of exceptional forms, suggesting the culture of the
Keres Indians of New Mexico rather than that of other Pueblos. A
distinctive feature of some of the animal pictures on the Mimbres
pottery is the fusion of two different animal forms, as the antelope
and a fish, in a single representation. Dr. Fewkes suggests that the
almost constant presence of rectangular and other geometric designs
on the bodies of the animals depicted on the pottery may be con-
sidered in a sense parallel with certain very ancient paintings on the
walls of caves in France, as described by Dr. Capitan and others.
The special value of the study of the painted designs on the Mimbres
pottery lies in the light which they cast on general problems con-
nected with the culture-genesis and clan migrations of the sedentary
Indians of the Southwest. These designs are related, on the one hand,
to those on Pueblo painted pottery of northern New Mexico and
Arizona and, on the other, to the decorations on the earthenware of
the prehistoric inhabitants of the valleys of the southern part of the
Sierra Madre Plateau, notably those of the celebrated Casas Grandes
in Chihuahua. An illustrated preliminary report, under the title
“Archeology of the Lower Mimbres Valley, New Mexico,” was pre-
pared by Dr. Fewkes and published in Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections (Vol. 63, No. 10, pp. 1-53, pls. 1-8, figs. 1-82).

In January Dr. Fewkes visited southern Arizona, where he made
several archeological reconnoissances, following the Rio Santa Cruz
almost to the Mexican boundary. He visited the old Indian missions
of San Xavier del Bac and Tumacacori, and in their vicinity examined
extensive aboriginal ruins, which were found to belong to the same
type as Casa Grande, Ariz. The group of prehistoric ruins near the
dilapidated mission of ‘Tumacacori (which imposing structure, now
preserved as a national monument, is greatly in need of repair) pre-
sents unusual advantages for thorough archeological investigation,
with promise of important collections. The walls of the compound
can be traced readily, and if uncovered by excavation would reveal
important information on the ancient culture of the Santa Cruz Val-
Jey. Similar remains were noted in other parts of this valley and
elsewhere in southern Arizona. While in this general area Dr.
Fewkes observed that the Papago Indians of the desert have been
AQ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

little affected by civilization, retaining many of their original cus-
toms, beliefs, and ceremonies, and a wealth of folklore.

Dr. Fewkes visited also the ruins of a large pueblo compound on
the road between Phoenix and Tempe, chiefly for the purpose of de-
termining the advisability of its excavation and repair, as an effort-is
being made by citizens of Phoenix to preserve the ruins with a view
of having the compound created a national monument and receiving
adequate scientific treatment.

Leaving Arizona in February, Dr. Fewkes proceeded again to the
Mimbres Valley, but found the weather unpropitious for field work
except for excursions with the view of locating sites for possible fu-
ture excavation. He returned to Washington about the middle of the
month and continued the preparation of his memoir on “ Antiquities
of the West Indies,” which is to include the results of archeological
research conducted in the Greater and the Lesser Antilles under the
joint auspices of the bureau and the Heye Museum of New York, as
referred to in a previous report. In connection with this work Dr.
Fewkes visited New York for the purpose of studying recently ac-
quired collections, in the Heye Museum, illustrating the culture of
the ancient inhabitants of the West Indies.

The greater part of May was devoted by Dr. Fewkes to the com-
pletion of a paper on “ Prehistoric Hopi Pottery Designs,” which
comprises 138 manuscript pages, 12 plates, and 105 figures. In this
article the author treats of the pictography on the ceramics of the
ancient village dwellers of the East Mesa of the Hopi of northwest-
ern Arizona, including the Keres and Tewa colonists of early times,
as well as the designs of the more modern period. The memoir con-
siders in detail the probable genesis of modern Hopi symbolic figures,
and devotes attention also to their connection with clan and other
sociclogic groups.

The opening of the fiscal year found Mr. James Mooney, ethnolo-
gist, engaged in field studies among the Cherokee Indians of North
Carolina, which were continued until the middle of September. Mr.
Mooney devoted his efforts especially to the further collection and
translation of the sacred formulas of the Indians named, together
with the collection, for botanical identification, of the plants men-
tioned in the formulas, with others of Indian economic importance.
The remainder of the fiscal year was spent by Mr. Mooney in the
office, most of the time being devoted to the final elaboration of the
Cherokee formulas, of varying length, originally written down by
the priests of the tribe in the native Cherokee alphabet and used by
them for purposes of medicine, love, hunting, fishing, agriculture,
protection, etc. Each formula consists usually of a prayer or a song,
or both, in an archaic and highly figurative form of the language,
followed by brief directions couched in the everyday language, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

relating to the manner of the ceremony or the plants to be used in
the prescription. The printed formula will consist of three parts,
namely, transliteration, translation, and explanation. The glossary
will comprise perhaps 4,000 words, largely archaic and otherwise
unusual in form. The botanical appendix will deal with the names
and uses of from 500 to 700 plants mentioned in the formulas, nearly
all of which have already been collected and botanically identified.
There will also be an extended chapter on Cherokee religion and
mythology. Approximately a third of the transliterations and trans-
lations have been written in final form from the interlinear note-
books, and half of the work has been glossarized on cards.

Considerable time was spent by Mr. Mooney in furnishing special
information for use in answering inquiries of correspondents.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, in addition to supervising the
final work incident to the publication, as Bulletin 45, of “ Byington’s
Choctaw Dictionary,” edited by himself in conjunction with Mr.
H. 8. Halbert, devoted attention to the study of the Creek Indians,
to which reference is made in former reports. The first draft of his
memoir on the Creeks is practically completed, but the amount of
material was found to be so great that it has seemed best to separate
it into two, if not three, sections. The first of these, embracing a
discussion of the location and classification of the southern tribes,
their early history, and their population, Dr. Swanton is now revis-
ing, incorporating new material and making such changes as fuller
information has shown to be necessary. It is hoped that this section
may be ready for publication at a comparatively early date.

Through an Alibamu Indian living in Texas the bureau has been
able to add several hundred words and a few pages of text to the
Alibamu material gathered by Dr. Swanton.

During the first three months of the year Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, eth-
nologist, completed the translating and editing of a collection of
texts and legends for the memoir on “Seneca Myths and Fiction” to
be published in the Thirty-second Annual Report, consisting of ma-
terial originally collected in native texts and in English by the late
Jeremiah Curtin and Mr. Hewitt. This material, aggregating 2,300
pages, besides 350 notes and additions by Mr. Hewitt, was submitted
early in October for publication. Subsequently, and as opportunity
was afforded throughout the year, Mr. Hewitt devoted special atten-
tion to the preparation of material for a grammatical sketch of the
Troquois languages, especially as spoken by the Mohawk, Onondaga,
and Cayuga, for incorporation in the “ Handbook of American In-
dian languages.”

In December Mr. Hewitt visited the Grand River Reservation in
Canada for the purpose of prosecuting his studies among the Indians
dwelling thereon. A serious epidemic of smallpox interfered some-
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

what with his work, but with the efficient assistance of Mr. William
K. Loft, a Mohawk speaker, Mr. Hewitt was able to make a critical
phonetic and grammatie study of portions of the Mohawk texts
relating to the league of the Iroquois, recorded by him in former
years. Work was also done in recording a selected list of Mohawk
verbs for comparative use, and with the painstaking aid of Mrs.
Mary Gibson, widow of the late noted chief John Arthur Gibson,
Mr. Hewitt was able to supply the Cayuga equivalents to this list,
as well as to record other vocabulary terms of the Cayuga. From
Mrs. Gibson also was obtained an extended text in Cayuga relating
to the origin and the ritual of the death feast of the women. On the
same reservation Mr. Hewitt, with the aid of Mr. Hardy Gibson, a
Cayuga chief, elucidated certain mooted points in regard to the
ritual significance of a number of words and phrases employed in the
chants of the condoling and installation council of the Iroquois
league. From Miss Emily Carrier, a mixed-blood Nanticoke, he ob-
tained a list of 50 Nanticoke words. This short list is of smgular
interest, as the Nanticoke dialect of the Algonquian stock has become
practically extinct through absorption of its speakers by the Iro-
quois-speaking peoples. Mr. Hewitt also made about 70 photo-
graphs, principally of persons.

On his return to Washington on January 15 Mr. Hewitt at once
resumed his analytic study of the Mohawk, Onondaga, and Cayuga
dialects for the purpose of obtaining proper material for the prepa-
ration of the grammatic sketch above referred to.

In addition to these investigations, Mr. Hewitt furnished much
information for use in preparing replies to inquiries from corre-
spondents, some of them requiring considerable research. No fewer
than 130 such letters were answered by means of data supplied by
Mr. Hewitt. As in the past, he performed the duties connected with
the custodianship of manuscripts, which required more than the usual
time and effort owing to the preparation of more thoroughly fire-
proof quarters and transfer of the manuscripts thereto, as will later
be mentioned. During June Mr. Hewitt was engaged in reading the
first proofs of “Seneca Myths and Fiction.”

Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, was engaged during the year
chiefly in assembling his notes on the No"’zhizho®, or fasting degree,
of the tribal rites: of the Osage called No" ho*zhi‘ga Te Ita, or Sayings
of the No“ho'zhitga. Of the seven degrees, the No™’zhizho" is said
to be the longest and the next in importance to the Nikie degree;
it is also said that this degree contains nearly all the symbols and cere-
monial forms (wégaxe), for which reason it is regarded as higher in
rank than the other degrees, excepting the Nikie. From information
given by Watsémo" of the Black Bear gens and by Waxthizhi of
the Puma gens, both of the Ho” ga dual division, their version of the
ritual of the No*’zhizho" degree is composed of 116 songs, 14 wigie
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

(parts of the ritual that is spoken), and a number of ceremonial acts
and forms. Waxthizhi, from whom the songs and wigie were ob-
tained, gave 14 wigie and 74 songs; he was unable to give the entire
116 songs, having lost some of them by reason of long disuse of the
ritual. To the close of the year 206 pages of this ritual have been
completed by Mr. La Flesche; these comprise 9 wigie with literal
and free translations, 25 songs with translations, and explanations
of the songs, ceremonial acts, and movements, as well as of the vari-
ous symbols and paraphernalia used in the ceremonies.

Mr. La Flesche’s work on the No™zhizho® ritual has twice been
interrupted by visiting Osage, from whom, however, further infor-
mation has been obtained concerning the great war rites of the Osage
people. First, Wathuxage, who visited Washington in the autumn
of 1914, gave the ritual of the WaxXobe degree of the Tsizhu Wash-
tage gens, of which he was a member. The wigie and songs of this
ritual cover 76 typewritten pages, including the music, which has
been transcribed from the dictaphone. Besides the WaxXobe ritual,
Wathuxage gave, in fragmentary form, the Nikie ritual of his gens;
this covers 20 typewritten pages, including the music of the songs,
which also have been transcribed from the dictaphone. The trans-
lations of the songs and wigie of these rituals have yet to be made
and the explanatory texts written. Wathuxage died in May, 1915.

The second interruption was by Xutha Wato"l® and Watsémo',
from whom additional information was obtained. The former gave
three of the wigie: Wigie Tonga or Great Wigie, Kino® Wigie or
Symbolic Painting Wigie, and Wazhdigathe Wigie or Gentile Sym-
bol Wigie, which it was his part to recite at the tribal ceremonies.
These cover 37 typewritten pages. Besides the three wigie, Xutha
Wato"r gave the ritual of the Nikie degree of his gens. The wigie
and songs of the ritual, including the music, comprise 15 pages. The
translations of the three wigie, and the wigie and songe of the Nikie
ritual, have yet to be made and the explanatory notes assembled.
Watsémo"1” gave another version of the Nidse Wacpe Wigie, or
Black Bear Wigie, which he had already given some time ago.
This new version is the one recited when the widow of a deceased
member of the No”ho*zhitga is admitted to take his place in the
order; it comprises 6 typewritten pages and will form a part of the
No” zhizho® ritual. This informant also gave some information con-
cerning his great grandfather, who was a prominent “ medicine-man.”
The notes recorded from the dictation of Watsémo"i have yet to
be transcribed. The story will form a part of the chapter on the
Wako"dagi, or “ medicine-men.”

Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, continued her researches among
the Tewa Indians of New Mexico, but failing health prevented her
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

from completing the final revision of the manuscript of her memoir
as she had hoped, and it remained unfinished at the time of her un-
fortunate death, on June 24, in the suburbs of Washington. It is
believed, however, that when an opportunity of fully examining Mrs.
Stevenson’s completed manuscript and notes is afforded, it will be
found in condition for publication after the customary editorial
treatment. Mrs. Stevenson was an efficient and industrious investi-
gator of the ethnology of the Pueblo Indians, to which subject she
had devoted many years of her life, giving special attention to the
Sia, the Zufii, and the Tewa Tribes. Three memoirs on these Indians,
published in the annual reports, are replete with information on the
subjects of which they treat, and there is no doubt that when Mrs.
Stevenson’s memoir on the -Tewa Indians finally appears much
valuable knowledge will be added to that which she has already given
on the sedentary Indians of the extreme Southwest.

With the opening of the fiscal year Dr. Truman Michelson pro-
ceeded to Wisconsin in the hope of obtaining ethnologic and lin-
guistic information regarding the Stockbridge Indians residing in
that State. It was found that, with respect to the language of this
remnant tribe, about a dozen members remembered isolated words,
but only one could dictate connected texts, half a dozen of which
were recorded. Although knowledge of the language is now too ©
limited to enable restoration of the grammar, enough material was
obtained to show that Stockbridge was intimately related to Pequot
and Natick, as well as to Delaware-Munsee. The Stockbridges have
long since abandoned all their native customs and beliefs, conse-
quently their ethnology may be regarded as beyond recovery.

While in Wisconsin Dr. Michelson procured also ethnologic and
linguistic notes on the Menominee. A visit to the Brotherton In-
dians resulted in the acquirement of little information excepting
historical data, as these people have become greatly modified.

Dr. Michelson next visited Tama, Iowa, for the purpose of renew-
ing his researches among the Fox Indians, to which he has been de-
voting his energies for some time. He was especially successful in
obtaining accounts of the mythical origin ascribed to the Fox people,
given in the form of rituals, and he gave attention also to the
phonetics of the Fox language. A noteworthy result of Dr. Michel-
son’s Fox investigations was the acquirement, through Horace Powa-
shiek, of a complete translation of the two most important Fox
myths—the Culture Hero and Mother of All the Earth.

At the request of the Davenport Academy of Sciences, Dr. Michel-
son conducted some archeological excavations for that institution at
its own expense, leave of absence having been granted him for that
purpose. En route to Washington, he examined the Sauk and Fox
collections in the Field Museum of Natural History at Chicago.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

In the office Dr. Michelson paid special attention to the observa-
tions on the Sauk and Fox by early writers, especially by the authors
in the Annals of the Propaganda Fide, and by Marston, Long,
Carver, Beltrami, and others. With the view of definitely settling the
question of the relationship of the Yurok and Wiyot languages of
California to the Algonquian linguistic stock, Dr. Michelson devoted
further study to the subject, reaching the conclusion that whether or
not further material would prove these languages to be divergent
members of Algonquian, the existing data do not warrant such a
classification. Dr. Michelson also devoted attention to the linguistic
_ classification of Potawatomi, based on certain grammatical treatises
by the late Father Gailland in possession of St. Mary’s College at
St. Marys, IXans., which the bureau was permitted to copy through
the courtesy of Rev. George Worpenberg, 8. J., librarian of the col-
lege. By these studies Dr. Michelson concludes from the verbal pro-
nouns of Potawatomi that it belongs to the Ojibwa division of the
central Algonquian languages, but that the language is further re-
moved from Ojibwa, Ottawa, and Algonkin than any of these is from
the others.

Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, became a member of the
staff of the bureau, with the approval of the Civil Service Commis-
sion, on February 20, from which time until the close of May he
finished 600 pages of manuscript and more than 3,000 slips of
linguistic information regarding the Chumash Indians of California,
the result of researches conducted by him before entering the service
of the bureau. He also has, in various stages of elaboration, a quan-
tity of other Chumash ethnologic and linguistic material in the
preparation of which for publication satisfactory progress is being
made. At the end of May Mr. Harrington proceeded to Santa Ines
Mission, where, among its documents, he found an old manuscript
bearing the title “ Padron que contiene todos las Neofitas de esta
Mision de la Purisima Concepcion con expresion de su edad, y par-
tida de Bautismo segun se halla hoy dia 1° de Enero de 1814,” by
Father Mariano Payeras, of the greatest importance to the study of
the former Chumash Indians of La Purisima and Santa Ines. A
complete copy of this splendid manuscript, which does not seem to
have been known to historians, was made by Mr. Harrington, who
also extracted a considerable amount of other material from the mis-
sion records. While at Santa Ines Mr. Harrington located the site
of the former large rancheria of Nojogui (which had not before been
known), and also the site of the rancheria of Itias, mentioned in the
records. On June 19 Mr. Harrington visited Arroyo Grande, where
he worked for a week with a poor, sick old woman, the sole survivor
of the San Luis Obispo Indians, for which reason, to use Mr. Har-
rington’s own expression, “the words of her language are precious
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915,

beyond the power of money to buy,” especially as her speech is the
most archaic of all the Chumashan dialects. For the convenience of
his field studies Mr. Harrington has established headquarters at Los
Angeles, where he has been granted the facilities of the Southwest
Museum by the courtesy of its officials.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES.

The preparation of the second volume of the “ Handbook of
American Indian Languages,’ under the editorship of Dr. Franz
Boas, honorary philologist, has progressed slowly, on account of the
impossibility of sending proofs to Russia, where the author of the .
section on the Chukchee and Eskimo resides. The chapter on
Siuslaw, by Dr. Frachtenberg, has been corrected and made up in
pages, forming pages 431 to 605 of the second volume. At the begin-
ning of the year Dr. Boas concluded his collection of Kutenai
material, which was studied preliminary to the writing of the gram-
mar of this language. The texts collected by him were written out,
and the completed manuscript, consisting of 263 pages of Indian
texts and 269 pages of translation, has been submitted and set in
type, forming 125 galleys. The texts include some material collected
by the late Dr. A. F. Chamberlain, which was acquired by the bureau
and was revised by Dr. Boas.

Much time has been spent by Dr. Boas in work on his memoir,
“Tsimshian Mythology,” to accompany the thirty-first annual re-
port. During the fiscal year 1913-14 the tales themselves had been
set up. During the year now under consideration the manuscript
of the discussion of this material was completed and put in type; it
forms pages 394 to 867 of the annual report. In the mechanical work
of preparing the manuscript Dr. Boas was assisted by Miss H. A.
Andrews, who, besides the preparation of manuscript and proof
reading, did much of the laborious work of extracting and collating
material needed for the investigation.

The manuscript on Eskimo mythology, intrusted to Waldemar
Bogoras and accepted for publication, together with an introduction
by Mr. Ernest Hawkes, is held in abeyance, owing to the impossibility
at the present time of communicating with the author in Russia.

Dr. L. J. Frachtenberg, special ethnologist, left Washington on
July 6, 1914, going directly to Oregon for the purpose of concluding
his investigations of the language, mythology, and culture of the
Kalapuya Indians, commenced during the previous fiscal year.
After a short trip to the Siletz and Grand Ronde Agencies in north-
western Oregon for the purpose of interviewing all available inform-
ants, he proceeded to Chemawa, Oreg., where he conducted his Kala-
puya investigations until December, and completed them at the
Grand Ronde Agency between December 13 and 20, which time was
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

spent chiefly in the collection of linguistic material for a comparative
study of the Kalapuya dialects. Special attention was given to the
Yamhill and Yonkalla variations. Dr. Frachtenberg’s field work
proved highly successful. He obtained 30 myths, tales, historical
narratives, and ethnographic descriptions, told in the various Kala-
puya dialects, an unusually large amount of grammatical notes, sufli-
cient material for a linguistic map showing the original distribution
of the several Kalapuya dialects, and some data on Kalapuya eth-
nology. A glance at this material reveals some interesting facts:
The Kalapuya Indians in former times were the most powerful and
numerous family of Oregon. They claimed the whole of the fertile
valley of the Willamette, extending from the Coast Range to the Cas-
cade Mountains, their settlements reaching as far north as the pres-
ent Portland and as far south as the middle course of Umpqua River,
an area of approximately 12,000 square miles. These Indians were
placed on the Grand Ronde Reservation in 1857, at the close of the
Rogue River war. Previous tribal wars and frequent epidemics of
smallpox and other infectious diseases have reduced the Kalapuya
tribes to such an extent that Dr. Frachtenberg has found but a mere
handful of survivors, hence the time is not far off when the stock will
become extinct.

The Kalapuya family embraces a large number of tribes, the most
important of which are: (1) Atfalati (or Wapato Lake), living
formerly on the banks of the Tualatin River; (2) Yamhill, claiming
the banks of the river of the same name; (8) Lakmayuk, who ob-
tained their name from the river Luckiamute; (4) Marys River
(Calapooia proper), whose settlements were situated along the banks
of the Calapooia and Marys Rivers; (5) Yonkalla, the most south-
erly Kalapuya tribe; (6) Ahantsayuk, also called Pudding River
Indians; and (7) Santiam, who formerly lived on the banks of
Santiam River. These tribes speak varieties of the Kalapuya lan-
guage, which show remarkable lexicographic diversities. Morpho-
logical differentiations exist also, but are chiefly of a phonetic nature.
All differences between the dialects seem to have been caused by a
geographic distribution, resulting in the three subdivisions men-
tioned in the last annual report. Long and continued contact of the
Kalapuya Indians with white settlers has resulted in a complete
breaking down of the native culture and mode of living; conse-
quently the ethnologic data obtainable were very meager and in most
cases were given as information obtained through hearsay.

In the early part of January Dr. Frachtenberg made a short trip
to the Siletz Agency for the purpose of settling a few questions per-
taining to Alsea phonetics. In view of the fact that the allotment
made for his field researches during the fiscal year became exhausted
Dr. Frachtenberg was obliged to remain in the field until the close

18618°—sm 1915——4
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915,

of June. On January 15 he resumed the work of preparing a gram-
matical sketch of the Alsea language, which was finished late in
May; this consists of 158 sections, approximating 600 manuscript
pages. During June he was engaged in typewriting this grammati-
cal sketch, which will be published in part 2 of the “ Handbook of
American Indian Languages.”

In addition to his field investigations Dr. Frachtenberg corrected
the proofs of his grammatical sketch of the Siuslaw language, spe-
cial attention being given to the insertion of the proper references
taken from his Lower Umpqua texts, printed in the Columbia Uni-
versity Contributions to Anthropology.

Mr. W. H. Holmes continued the preparation of the “ Handbook of
American Antiquities’ whenever his exacting duties in behalf of the
National Museum permitted. Part 1 of this work is well advanced
toward completion; much attention has been given to part 2, and the
preparation of the numerous illustrations is well in hand.

During the month of July, Mr. Gerard Fowke was engaged, under
instructions from the bureau, in making limited archeological in-
vestigations in northeastern Kansas and southeastern Nebraska, the
purpose of which was to ascertain the value of certain recent deter-
minations regarding the age of the prehistoric aboriginal occupancy
of this region. Respecting the large mounds, the age of which has
been under discussion, Mr. Fowke reports that three points must be
taken into consideration in fixing a definite age for these remains, as
follows:

1. The relics found in and around the lodge sites, except for the markings
on some of the pottery, are in no wise different from those found on the sites
of villages which were occupied when Lewis and Clark came through here.

2. Fairly solid bones of animals, and occasionally human bones, are found
in the bottoms of the lodge sites, even where these are damp most of the year.
In the pits, where such remains are preserved by ashes, this would not mean
much; but where they are found in clayey earth it is evident that ‘‘ thousands
of years” is a meaningless term to apply to them.

3. Persons who claim these “ thousands of years” for pretty much everything
they find in the ground, must explain why it is that while the bones and imple-
ments of these assumed “ ancients”? are found in such quantities and in such
good preservation, those of later Indians should have entirely disappeared.

The only tenable theory of age is the amount of accumulation in the depres-
sions of the lodge sites. Above the clay which formed the roof, and is next
to the floor now, is a depth of material sometimes, it is said, as much as 20
or even 22 inches of mingled silt, decayed vegetation, and soil from the sur-
rounding wall. It is used as an argument of age; that as these sites are on
hilltops where there can be no inwash, this depth must indicate a very remote
period for their construction. But a large amount of the earth thrown out into
the surrounding ring or wall will find its way back into the depression. The
water will stand in them a good part of the year, and the soil remain damp
even in prolonged drought; vegetation is thus more luxuriant than on the out-
side, and its decay will fill up rather rapidly. In addition, much sand blows
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

from the prairies as well as from the bottom lands, and whatever finds its way
into the pit will stay there; it will not blow away again, as it would in
open ground. Weeds also will catch and retain much of this dust, which would
pass on over a dry surface. Consequently the allowance of an inch in a
century, which is the most that advocates of great age will allow for accumu-
lation, is too small.

The topography of the region was essentially the same when these remains
were constructed as it is now. ‘The hills and valleys were as they now exist;
the erosion has been very slight as compared with that which has taken place
since the loess was brought above the water to which it owes its origin. This
statement is fully proved by the position of the mounds and lodge sites. Any
estimate of age must be only conjecture at best; but it is safe to say that no
earthwork, mound, lodge site, or human bones along this part of the Missouri
River has been here as long as 10 centuries.

With regard to the discoveries of human remains at exceptional
depths in loess formations on Longs Hill, near Omaha, Mr. Fowke
states that excavation of the site has been so exhaustive that further
investigations are out of the question, and that determinations of age,
therefore, must rest, in the main at least, with the published state-
ments of the original explorers.

During recent years observers have reported the existence of
mounds and other evidences of prehistoric occupancy in western
Utah; these reports, however, contained little definite information
regarding the character of existing ruins and described only briefly
the artifacts associated with them. The possible relationship of
such remains with those of the ancient pueblo dwellers of Arizona,
New Mexico, and Colorado suggested the necessity of a preliminary
examination of the western Utah field, with the view of determining
the nature and range of former settlements, and also the desirability
of more detailed investigations. This work of reconnoissance was
commenced by the bureau in May and extended through the close of
the fiscal year, the field observations being made by Mr. Neil M.
Judd, of the National Museum. A group of small mounds near Wil-
lard, on the northeastern shore of Great Salt Lake, were first exam-
ined. Many other mounds in this locality have been completely
destroyed by cultivation during recent years, and of those remaining
all show modifications resulting from recent tillage. Four mounds
were selected for special investigation, and from these sufficient in-
formation was gathered to indicate the chief characteristics of the
primitive dwellings over which the mounds had accumulated.

Following the work at Willard, an examination was made of
certain well-defined mounds on the outskirts of Beaver City, in
Beaver County, where three house sites of the Willard type were
found in close proximity to larger mounds containing groups of
dwellings. Two weeks’ work resulted in the complete excavation of
one house group comprising 16 rooms and the partial examination
of a still larger group. The Beaver mounds, like those at Willard,
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

have resulted from the gradual accumulation of drifting sand and
dust over the fallen walls of more or less permanent dwellings. Un-
like the isolated structures at Willard, however, the mounds at
Beaver City disclosed groups of associated rooms, arranged with
some degree of regularity and exhibiting a certain unity of purpose.
In each of the two groups studied, small series of contiguous rooms
were uncovered, but the majority were single compartments sepa-
rated from the other dwellings by varying distances. The walls of
these primitive dwellings at Beaver were built of adobe, sometimes
placed in wide layers but more often forming a solid mass. No open-
ings that could be identified definitely as doors were found in any of
these walls; this fact, together with the comparative abundance of
circular stone slabs, leads to the belief that entrance to the dwellings
was gained through roof openings which could be closed with the
stone disks. Post holes in several floors, with charred fragments of
cedar logs, and masses of clay bearing impressions of logs, willows,
and grass, give a fairly complete indication as to the nature of the
roof construction. Large timbers crossed in the direction of the
shorter dimensions, their ends resting upon the side walls of the
rooms; when necessary these were supported by upright timbers.
The roof beams in turn supported lesser timbers with layers of wil-
lows and grass. Layers of clay, varying in thickness from 1 inch to
6 inches with the unevenness of roof materials, covered the grass,
thus completing a truly substantial shelter.

Four small mounds, similar to those at Beaver City, were excavated
at Paragonah, in Iron County. These contained one room only, but
there are larger mounds in the vicinity whose superficial indications
suggest as many if not more rooms than the group at Beaver.
Twenty years ago, it is reported, there were about 100 mounds in
this vicinity; to-day more than half of them have disappeared
through cultivation of the soil.

A brief examination was made by Mr. Judd of several house sites
overlooking the Rio Virgen, near St. George, in the extreme south-
western corner of the State. From this village eastward to Kanab
only a few mounds were noted, although cowboys reported the exist-
ence of others in the vicinity of Short Creek, on the Utah-Arizona
line.

From Kanab as a base, the mounds in Johnson Canyon and the
small cliff houses in Cottonwood Canyon were visited and partially
examined. From superficial observations the former were judged to
contain the remains of house structures similar to those at Beaver
and Paragonah, although the availability of suitable stone for build-
ing purposes has resulted in its partial substitution for adobe, with
certain accompanying structural modifications.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 538

Several caves in Cottonwood Canyon 12 miles westward from
Kanab contained evidences of human occupancy. The walls of
nearly all bear pictographs of more than ordinary interest, and three
of the caves visited sheltered the remains of small dwellings, the most
interesting of which is a group of four detached rooms and one cir-
cular kiva. The walls of these are of stone with a rather greater pro-
portion of mud plaster than is common in cliff dwellings of the
Southwest. ‘The ceremonial room measures 14 feet in diameter, but,
except in its lack of recesses, does not differ greatly from similar
structures in ruins previously reported throughout the San Juan
drainage.

Mr. Judd’s preliminary observations among a limited number of
ruins in western Utah indicate the former existence of a people whose
dwellings developed in natural sequence from single earth-covered
shelters, such as those at Willard, to groups of more permanent
_ structures like those at Beaver, Paragonah, and elsewhere, and finally
to allied cliff houses similar to those in Cottonwood Canyon. The
construction of these several types of houses and the character of the
artifacts found in them point to close relationship between their
builders and the better-known pre-Puebloan peoples of New Mexico,
Arizona, and Colorado. Whether these primitive structures in Utah
actually antedate the communal dwellings in the States named or
whether they represent an offshoot from the more highly developed
Pueblo culture is a point not yet determined. The relationship is
certain, however, and future investigation may be expected to deter-
mine its limits. It is hoped that the opportunity to continue this
investigation may soon be afforded, as the progress of agriculture
in most of the areas investigated by Mr. Judd is resulting in the
rapid disappearance of all superficial evidences of aboriginal occu-
pancy.

En route to Washington from Utah, Mr. Judd spent a day at the so-
called “Spanish diggings,” the ancient quarries in Wyoming where
generations of western Indians quarried the flint and chert utilized
in the manufacture of various weapons and household implements.

Excellent progress has been made in the study and analysis of
Indian music, to which subject Miss Frances Densmore has devoted
special attention. The principal work in this direction has been the
completion of the manuscript on “ Teton Sioux Music,” consisting
of 1,067 pages, in addition to transcriptions of 240 songs and about
100 illustrations. This material was submitted in June for publica-
tion. Miss Densmore also made considerable progress in the prepa-
ration of a paper on the music of the Ute Indians, 92 pages of manu-
script, 28 transcriptions of songs, 11 analyses of songs, and 8 original
photographic illustrations being submitted. This work is not yet
finished.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Mr. D. I. Bushnell, jr., has continued the preparation of the
“Handbook of Aboriginal Remains East of the Mississippi,” under a
small allotment by the bureau for this purpose, and has made steady
progress. During the year circulars were addressed to county offi-
cials in those sections from which no information had been received,
and good results were obtained. The thanks of the bureau are due
Mr. Arthur C. Parker, State archeologist of New York, for a large
body of valuable data regarding the archeological sites in New York,
and to Mr. Warren K. Moorehead, of Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass., for similar information respecting aboriginal remains in the
State of Maine, derived from his personal observations.

Mr. James R. Murie, as opportunity offered, continued his studies
of the ceremonies of the Pawnee Indians, under a small allotment
by the bureau. During the year Mr. Murie submitted, as a result of
these investigations, a manuscript of 266 pages on “The New Fire
Ceremony ” of the Pawnee.

Dr. A. L. Kroeber, of the University of California, has made good
progress in the preparation of the “ Handbook of the Indians of
California.” At the inception of this work it was believed prac-
ticable to confine the treatment to a very limited number of pages.
By reason of the great diversity in the languages and the culture of
the Indians of California, past and present, however, it was found
that no adequate treatment of the subject was possible within the
limits originally prescribed, consequently the handbook when pub-
lished will comprise approximately 200 pages. Dr. Kroeber expects
to submit the manuscript in readiness for publication in the early
part of 1916.

The “ List of Works Relating to Hawaii” has been added to from
time to time by the surviving compiler, Prof. Howard M. Ballou,
of Honolulu. Mr. Felix Neumann has devoted attention to its edi-
torial revision, but it was found at the close of the year that much
work of a mechanical nature remained to be done before plans for
publication could be completed.

- MANUSCRIPTS.

As in the past the valuable collection of manuscripts of the bureau
has been in the immediate custody of Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, whose
work in this direction was considerably increased by reason of the
necessity of returning the manuscripts to the newly fireproofed room
in the north tower of the Smithsonian building and reclassifying
them. For the first time the manuscripts of the bureau, which now
number about 1,700 items, many of which are of priceless value, are
believed to be safe from possible fire, being contained in steel cases
or on steel shelves, surrounded by brick, cement, and terra-cotta walls,
floor, and ceiling. In addition to manuscripts submitted for imme-

.
j
f
;
;

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

diate publication or elsewhere referred to in this report, the follow-
ing accessions were made during the year:

Laguna Indian Dictionary. Deposited by the wife and son of the late John
B. Dunbar, of Bloomfield, N. J. :

Dr. A. L. Kroeber. Forty-nine Arapaho and Gros Ventre notebooks, six
packages of slips containing an Arapaho vocabulary, and a carbon copy of a
study of Arapaho dialects.

War record of Sitting Bull, depicted in 55 pictographs, with a letter of
authentication. Deposited by Dr. D. 8S. Lamb, of the Army Medical Museum.

J. P. Dunn. The third part of the translation of the anonymous Miami-
Peoria Dictionary, the original of which is in the John Carter Brown Library
at Providence, R. I.; 86 pages, Assomer to Bercer.

Photostat copy of “A Grammar of the Pottewatomy Language,” by Rev.
Maurice Gailland, the original of which is in possession of St. Mary’s College
at St. Marys, Kans.; 452 pages.

Note should here be made of the great usefulness of the photostat
apparatus acquired by the bureau during the last fiscal year, which
has enabled the photographic copying at slight cost of various manu-
scripts, field notes, and rare books and pamphlets needed for refer-
ence in the researches of the bureau. , These copies have been made
in the photographic laboratory of the bureau by Mr. Albert Sweeney,
assistant to Mr. De Lancey Gill, illustrator.

PUBLICATIONS.

The editorial work of the bureau has been continued by Mr. J. G.
Gurley, editor, who from time to time has been assisted by Mrs.
Frances 8. Nichols. The publications issued during the year were:

Bulletin 46. “ Byington’s Choctaw Dictionary,” edited by John R. Swanton
and Henry 8. Halbert.

Bulletin 58. “ List of Publications of the Bureau,” which appeared in August,
1914, with a second impression in May, 1915.

Miscellaneous publications:

No. 10. Circular of Information Regarding Indian Popular Names.

No. 11. Map of Linguistic Families of American Indians North of Mexico.
This map, which is a revision of the linguistic map published in Bulletin 30
(Handbook of American Indians), was reprinted in advance from the plate in
the report on “Indian Population in the United States and Alaska,” subse-
quently published by the Bureau of the Census.

No. 12. List of Indian words denoting “man,” prepared in placard form for
use in the Smithsonian exhibit at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.

The status of other publications now in press is as follows:

Twenty-ninth annual report. The “accompanying paper” of this report is
“The Ethnogeography of the Tewa Indians,’ by J. P. Harrington, a work
presenting many technical difficulties. The solution of these was retarded by
the illness of the author, which resulted in his incapacity for several months to
deal with the various questions arising in connection with the.text. The read-
ing of the proof has been carried forward as rapidly as circumstances would
permit, and at this time the entire report is paged with exception of the list of
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

place names, 2,650 in number, and the index. Considerable progress has been
made in the final reading of the page proof. The number of pages in the vol-
ume (estimated) will be 660, with 21 plates, 81 maps, and 1 diagram.

Thirtieth annual report. This report, which contains as ‘“ accompanying
papers ” ‘The Ethnobotany of the Zuni Indians,” by Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, and
“Animism and Folklore of the Guiana Indians,” by Walter E. Roth, has been
“made up” and read through three page proofs. At the end of the year the
report (458 pages) was practically ready for the bindery.

Thirty-first annual report. With this report is incorporated a memoir on
“Msimshian Mythology,” by Dr. Franz Boas. Of this material less than half
(865 pages) had been paged at the beginning of the fiscal year. With the
progress of the work a large amount of new matter has been inserted, necessi-
tating considerable revision from time to time and the reading of several gal-
ley and page proofs of the greater part of the memoir. At this writing the
make-up has been carried through page 682, and Dr. Boas looks forward to
paging the remaining material at an early day. The memoir will contain in all
about 850 pages, with 3 plates and 24 text figures.

Thirty-second annual report. The memoir accompanying this report is en-
titled “ Seneca Fiction, Legends, and Myths,” the material of which was col-
lected by the late Jeremiah Curtin and J. N. B. Hewitt and edited by the
latter. The manuscript reached the bureau for publication about the middle
of October and when the fiscal year closed more than one-fourth (82 galleys)
had been set up. The number of pages will approximate 900.

Bulletin 40. ‘‘ Handbook of American Indian Languages,’ part 2 (Boas).
During the year two sections of the above-named handbook have received atten-
tion—the Chukchee (Bogoras) and the Siuslaw (Frachtenberg). After the
former had been put into page form to the extent of 50 pages work thereon
had to be suspended by reason of the impossibility of communicating with the
author of the section, who is in Russia. The Siuslaw section (75 galleys) is
now at the Government Printing Office for paging. Two of the “ illustrative
sketches ” of part 2 of this bulletin, namely, Takelma (Sapir), 298 pages, and
Coos (lrachtenberg), 183 pages, have already appeared in separate form.

Bulletin 55. “'The Ethnobotany of the Tewa Indians” (Robbins, Harrington,
and Freire-Marreco). After the manuscript of this bulletin had been prepared
by the other authors here named and had passed into galley proof, Miss
Freire-Marreco incorporated therewith additional material to the extent of
greatly enlarging and practically recasting the memoir. Subsequently, on
account of the Huropean war it was found impracticable to get from Miss
Freire-Marreco the proof sent to her for correction and in the absence of her
revision the task of putting the bulletin into final form has proved difficult.
Half of the material, however, has been paged and it will be possible to com-
plete the work in the near future.

Bulletin 57. “An Introduction to the Study of the Maya Hieroglyphs” (Mor-
ley). The first proof of this publication bearing the author’s corrections
reached the bureau the middle of September. Since then two additional proofs
have been revised, the character of the material being such as to require great
eare and exactness in the work. The author is now engaged in a final reading
of the pages. Unfortunately the progress of the work has been delayed several
months by his absence in Central America. The volume will contain, when
completed, about 320 pages, with 32 plates and 85 figures.

Bulletin 59. “ Kutenai Tales” (Boas and Chamberlain), The manuscript of
this bulletin was received in March and, after being edited, was placed in the
hands of the Public Printer. By the middle of June the first proof, complete
(125 galleys), had been forwarded to Dr. Boas.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

Bulletin 61. “Teton Sioux Music” (Densmore). The material of this bulle-
tin, comprising 1,067 pages of manuscript, and copy for 80 plates, 20 text
figures, and 263 folios of music, was approved for publication in June, too
late for inclusion by the Printing Office under the bureau’s allotment for this
fiscal year.

As during the last few years, the correspondence arising from the
large demand for the publications of the bureau has been in the im-
mediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe and Mr. E. L. Springer, of
the Smithsonian Institution, assisted during part of the year by Mr.
Thomas F. Clark, jr., and later by Mr. William A. Humphrey. The
distribution has been made, in accordance with law, by the superin-
tendent of documents on order of the bureau. The total number of
publications issued during the fiscal year was 10,185, distributed as
follows:

JSSaWOACEYL, CHR LOY eS SEE ata ass 5 eal SN Dt Mi lay el cd aS pena i= aera 1, 239
ne tis ae Se Se PTA coer Ee eee ibs Lt IS 8, 515
Contributions to North American) Hthnology222 3) 228) te 25
NT OCMC PIONS = Mem Te ne Ean hea PO RS So reel i wy IB se eel ee see te 8
MISCelam COS eet es ween weak Mere nie Eb eM ot MIN ee ee a le 398

PAR Gy fren een Ee i bes oe ae OY 2 eS. 2 ey ot 10, 185

This total shows a decrease of 2,634 volumes in comparison with
the year 1913-14, due largely to the retention in the transmission of
certain publications to Europe by reason of the war.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

The preparation of illustrations for the publications of the bureau
and of photographic portraits of the members of visiting Indian
deputations has continued in charge of Mr. De Lancey Gill, illus-
trator, assisted by Mr. Albert Sweeney. The photographic work
during the year may be classed as follows:

Portrait negatives of visiting delegations (Crow, Osage, Chippewa, and

SOUT VERIDCS)) sa tS EE IE Sev eee ae PT 10
Negatives of ethnologie subjects to illustrate publications___________ 52
Development of negatives exposed by field parties___._._-________________ 548
Photographic prints for distribution and for office use_______-___-_-__ 690
Photographic prints for publication and for office use______________._____ 120
Ehororraphierprints for exhibition, PULPOSES=. = ee ee ee eee 115
Small photographic prints distributed chiefly for scientific purposes______ 850
Drawinesaprepared for IMsStrationS 3222 se a ee ee 30
Photostat copies (pages) of books and manuscripts________________ 1, 452

In addition Mr. Gill gave the usual attention to the critical exami-
nation of engraver’s proofs of illustrations designed for the publica-
tions of the bureau, submitted by the Public Printer.

In the last report mention was made of a series of photographs
of Indian subjects that has been exhibited successively by the New
York Public Library, the Library Commission of Indiana, and the
Providence Public Library. In September, 1914, in response to the
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

request of the Public Library of Haverhill, Mass., this series of pic-
tures was sent for public exhibition in that library. In addition,
collections of photographs of Indian subjects, designed to illustrate
in part the work of the bureau, were sent for exhibition at the Pan-
ama-Pacific Exposition in San Francisco and at the Panama-Califor-
nia Exposition in San Diego.

LIBRARY.

The reference library of the bureau has been in the continuous
charge of Miss Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mrs. Ella Slaughter
until her death on November 1, 1914, and subsequently by Charles
B. Newman, messenger boy. During the year 997 books were acces-
sioned, but of this number only 448 were newly acquired, the remain-
der being represented by the binding and by entry on the records
of serial publications that had been in possession of the bureau for
some time. Of these accessions 138 volumes were acquired by pur-
chase and 310 by gift or through exchange. The serial publications
currently received number about 700, of which only 17 are obtained
by subscription, the remainder being received by exchange of the
bureau’s reports and bulletins. Of pamphlets, 294 were acquired.
The number of volumes bound was 678. The library contained
20,237 volumes, 13,188 pamphlets, and several thousand unbound
periodicals at the close of the year. The number of books borrowed
trom the Library of Congress for the use of the staff of the bureau
in prosecuting their researches was about 450.

The new steel bookstacks in the eastern end of the main hall of the
Smithsonian building, referred to in the last annual report, were
finished and placed at the disposal of the bureau in August, when the
work of reinstallation of the library was undertaken by the librarian
and promptly carried to completion. The facilities afforded by the
new stacks are an improvement over those of the old hbrary equip-
ment, while safety is greatly increased.

COLLECTIONS.

The following collections were acquired by the bureau or by mem-
bers of its staff and transferred to the National Museum, as required
by law:

Model of Cherokee packing basket from the Hast Cherokee Reservation, Swain
County, N. C. Collected by James Mooney, Bureau of American Ethnology.
(57699. )

179 archeological objects from the lower Mimbres Valley and an earthenware
vase from Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, Mexico. Collected by Dr. J. Walter
Fewkes, Bureau of American Ethnology. (57777.)

Three stone figurines from the Tewa Indians of New Mexico. Collected by
Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, Bureau of American Ethnology. (58129.)

Snipe flute of the Sioux Indians. Received from Rev. A. McG. Beede, of North
Dakota. (58254.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

Five archeological objects from Virginia. Gift of Dr. W. B. Barham, of New-
soms, Va.; and a necklace presented by Mrs. J. R. Kello and her daughter,
Miss Hattie Kello. (58177.)

PROPERTY.

The most valuable property of the bureau consists of its library
(of which brief statistics have been given), a collection of unpub-
lished manuscripts, and several thousand photographic negatives.
Comparatively little of this material could be duplicated. The other
property of the bureau is described in general terms in the last annual
report. The total cost of furniture, typewriters, and other apparatus
acquired during the fiscal year was $553.35.

MISCELLANEOUS.

QUARTERS.

The quarters of the bureau have been improved by the completion
of the library bookstacks, previously referred to, and the installation
of additional electric lights in the library and in one of the office

rooms.
PERSON NEL.

The personnel of the bureau has been changed by the appointment
of Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, on February 20; the death
of Mrs. Matilda Coxe Stevenson, ethnologist, on June 24; the death
of Mrs. Ella Slaughter, classified laborer, on November 1, 1914; the
transfer of Thomas F. Clark, jr., to the National Museum; the ap-
pointment of William Humphrey, stenographer and typewriter; and
the appointment of Dennis Sullivan, messenger boy. The corre-
spondence of the bureau and other clerical work has been conducted
with the assistance of three clerks and a stenographer and typewriter.

Respectfully submitted.
IF. W. Hopes,

Ethnologist-in-C harge.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1915:

The system of international exchanges is based on the convention
and the resolutions of Congress briefly referred to below:

Convention between the United States and several other countries
for the international exchange of official documents and scientific
and literary publications, concluded at Brussels in 1886 and pro-
claimed by the President of the United States in 1889. (Stat., X XV,
1465.) (Since the ratification of this convention, several additional
Governments have signified their adherence thereto; while a number
of other countries, though they have not officially adhered to the con-
vention, have established international exchange bureaus.)

Resolution providing for the exchange of certain public documents,
approved March 2, 1867. (Stat., XIV, 573.) This resolution pro-
vides that 50 copies of all documents printed by order of either House
of Congress, and also 50 copies of all publications issued by any
bureau or department of the Government, shall be placed at the dis-
posal of the Joint Committee on the Library for exchange with for-
eign countries through the agency of the Smithsonian Institution.

Joint resolution to regulate the distribution of public documents
to the Library of Congress for its own use and for international ex-
change, approved March 2, 1901. (Stat., XX XI, 1464.) By this
resolution it is provided that, in heu of the 50 copies of the publica-
tions referred to in the above-mentioned resolution, there shall be
placed at the disposal of the Library of Congress for its own use
and for international exchange 62 copies of such documents, with the
privilege, at the request of the Librarian, of enlarging this number
to 100.

Joint resolution for the purpose of more fully carrying into effect
the convention concluded at Brussels in 1886 in reference to the im-
mediate exchange of the official journal, approved March 4, 1909.
(Stat., XX XV, 1169.) This resolution provides that such number
as may be required, not exceeding 100 copies, of the daily issue of

60
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

the Congressional Record shall be supplied to the Library of Con-
gress for distribution, through the Smithsonian Institution, to the
legislative chambers of such foreign Governments as may agree to
send to the United States current copies of their parliamentary
record or like publication.

The estimate submitted for the support of the service during 1915
was $32,200, including the allotment for printing and binding, and
this amount was granted by Congress. The repayments from private
and departmental sources for the transportation of exchanges ag-
gregated $4,819.41, making the total available resources for carrying
on the Exchange Service $37,019.41.

During the year 1915 the total number of packages handled was
275,756, a decrease of 65,911, as compared with the preceding year.
The weight of these packages was 367,854 pounds, a decrease of
199,181 pounds. These decreases were caused by the suspension of
shipments to a number of countries on account of the European war,
as explained below.

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are
indicated in the following table:

Packages. Weight.
Sent. |Received.) Sent. |Received.
Pounds. | Pounds.
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad........-.-. 135; O50)|ssoecnce2 CEA 26) yo Jka os oe
Publicationsreceived in return for parliamentary documents....|........-. PRA eSeee sence 5,817
United States departmental documents sent abroad............ 13; Ga4uleecrecee a 14 54Gb eeetee era
Publicationsreceived in return for departmental documents. ....|.........- 4 O7G64|- vs Sea 9,389
Miscellaneousscientific and literary publications sent abroad ...| 39,164 |.......... 80448 et ee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States...................]...----.-- ONG 2 Tal eosse eee ee 52,525
MOA ESS ciskiwe sscesisimaae ceios as asiges ce eet docacccecectee te. 247, 848 27,908 | 300,123 67,731
Grandtotaliee ss tare eat Naas er ee 275, 756 367, 854

It should be added that the disparity between the number of pack-
ages dispatched and those received in behalf of the Government is not
so great as indicated by these figures. Packages sent abroad usually
contain only a single publication each, while those received in return
often comprise many volumes. In the case of publications received in
exchange for parliamentary documents and some others the term
“package” is applied to large boxes containing a hundred or more
publications. No lists of these are made in the Exchange Office, as
the boxes are forwarded to their destinations unopened. It is also a
fact that many returns for publications sent abroad reach their des-
tinations direct by mail and not through the Exchange Service.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Of the 1,653 boxes used in forwarding exchanges to foreign agen-
cies for distribution, 220 contained full sets of United States official
documents for authorized depositories and 1,433 were filled with
departmental and other publications for depositories of partial sets
and for miscellaneous correspondents. The total number of boxes
sent abroad during 1915 was 812 less than the preceding year. This
decrease was due to the suspended shipments to certain countries
owing to the inability of the Institution to secure transportation
facilities for forwarding consignments to the various exchange agen-
cies, which condition has been brought about by the European war.

Owing to the disturbed conditions which existed in Europe and the
interruption to transportation facilities, shipments to ali European
countries were suspended during August and a part of September,
1914. On September 17 transmissions were resumed to Great Brit-
ain, and during the month of October to Denmark, Holland, Italy,
Norway, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden. Through the courtesy of the
minister of the Netherlands at Washington, arrangements were made
to send consignments to Switzerland by way of Rotterdam, and
transmissions to that country were resumed on November 2. On
December 8 shipments were resumed to Greece, and on January 23
to France. At the close of the fiscal year, therefore, the only coun-
tries to which shipments were not being made were Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Germany, Hungary, Montenegro, Roumania, Russia, Ser-
bia, and Turkey. Steps are being taken through the Department of
State to send exchanges for Germany to the American consul general
at Rotterdam for reforwarding to the German exchange agency in
Berlin, and it is hoped that the exchange of publications with Germany
will be resumed at an early date. Through the assistance of the De-
partment of State, arrangements have also been made for the for-
warding of exchange consignments from Germany to the United
States through the American consul general at Rotterdam.

The Russian Commission of International Exchanges was ap-
proached with a view to sending exchange consignments to Petrograd
by way of Archangel during the summer months, but the commis-
sion replied that, as the route in question presents so many difficul-
ties and is so encumbered, it would prefer not to make use of it, and
not to renew the sendings until after the conclusion of peace and the
reestablishment of the regular communications.

The number of boxes sent to each foreign country and the dates
of transmission are shown in the following table:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries.

Country.

IMRGENTINA So 0o-5=scesctecsiee

J\COfS TA Wg RN a en see A
IBENGIUM Jt. -seec succes ce sec ese
IB OLIVTARSE A 2 ae eee cece Sees

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.

Ode ALOE OY C10 ioe a a a ee
GUATEMALA........ So Rees
TERA yepe ts See Dea Ve ee
HIONDURAS sos .so. tes 5328552

LOURENGO MARQUEZ......-.-.
MANTTOB ARS Po taace ft Fe

NEw SoutH WALES..........

INEWaZ BALAND Ya32 oacccncoosd
INT@AGDA GUM se octane sisrcee
NOR WAYS ib 3l. Nie

Date of transmission.

July 16, Sept. 9, Nov. 17, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 27, Feb. 26, Apr. 22,
May 20, Jane 22, 1915.

July 8, 1914.1

July 11, 1914.2

Oct. 8, Dec. 10,1914; Jan. 28, May 10, June 16, 1915.

July 16, 20, Oct. 19, Noy. 18, 20, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 27, Feb. 26,
Apr. 22, May 20, June 22, 1915.

July 31, Sept. 17, 25, Oct. 26, Nov. 7, Dec. 5, 1914; Jan. 2, 16, 23,
Feb. 6, Mar. 8, 20, Apr. 20, May 1, 29, June 12, 19, 1915.

Oct. 31, 1914; Mar. 12, May 7, 1915.

July 20, Nov. 20, 1914; Jan. 21, Mar. 31, May 29, 1915.

July 16, Oct. 19, Nov. 18, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 26, Apr. 23,
May 20, June 22, 1915.

Oct. 28, Nov. 4, 1914; Jan. 2,30, Mar. 2, Apr. 12, May 13, June 12,
1915.

Oct. 20, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, May 15, June 16, 1915.

Oct. 21, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, May 5, June 16, 19]5.

July 20, Nov. 20, 1914; Jan. 21, Mar. 31, May 29, 1915.

July 24, Oct. 10, Nov. 12, Dec. 14, 1914; Jan. 14, Feb. 20, Mar. 30,
May 4, June 4, 1915.

Oct. 31, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, May 5, June 16, 1915.

July 24, Nov. 16, 1914; Jan. 12, May 22, June 23, 1915.

July 3, 1914; Jan. 23, Feb. 23, Apr. 30, May 14, 29, June 14, 1915.

July 7, 1914.1

July 3, 11, 18, 31, Sept. 17, 25, Oct. 26, Nov. 7, 23, Dec. 5, 12, 19,
26, 1914; Jan. 2, 9, 16, 23,30, Feb. 6, 13, Mar. 12, 27, Apr. 20, 24,
May 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, June 5, 12, 19, 26, 1919.

Oct. 9, Dec. 8, 1914; Mar. 13, May 10, June 22, 1915.

Oct. 31, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, May 7, June 17, 1915.

July 20, Nov. 20, 1914; Jan. 21, Mar. 31, May 29, 1915.

Oct. 31, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, May 7, June 17, 1915.

July 8, 1914.1

July 3, 16, 31, Sept. 17, 25, Oct. 26, Nov. 7, Dec. 5, 26, 1914; Jan.
16, 30, Feb. 6, 13, Mar. 8, 20, Apr. 10, 24, May 1, 8, 15, 22, 29,
June 12, 19, 26, 1915.

July 18, Oct. 7, Nov. 12, Dec. 11, 1914; Jan. 13, Feb. 12, Mar. 11,
Apr. 12, May 11, 25, June 11, 25, 1915.

Oct. 8, Dec. 8, 1914; Jan. 28, Mar. 12, May 10, June 22, 1915.

July 15, Nov. 28, Dec. 22, 1914; Jan. 26, Feb. 26, May 4, June 4,
1915. .

Jan. 2, Mar. 12, May 12, June 22, 1915.

July 24, Nov. 16, 1914; Mar. 12, May 12, 1915.

Dec. 10,1914; Mar. 10, 1915.

July 20, Nov. 20, 1914; Jan. 21, Mar. 31, May 29, 1915.

July 20, Nov. 20,1914; Jan. 21, Mar. 31, May 29, 1915.

Oct. 12, Nov. 3, Dec. 9, 1914; Jan. 6, Feb. 10, Mar. 10, Apr. 13,
May 13, 27, June 14, 26, 1915.

July 14, Oct. 2, Nov. 14, Dec. 15, 1914; Feb. 24, Apr. 8, May 8,
June 8, 1915.

July 14, Oct. 2, Nov. 14,1914; Feb. 24, Apr.9, May 8, June 8, 1915,

Oct. 31, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, May 7, June 17, 1915.

July 24, Oct. 10, Nov. 12, Dec. 14, 1914; Jan. 14, Feb. 20, Mar.
30, May 4, June 4, 1915.

1 Shipments temporarily suspended on account of the European war.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Consigninents of exchanges for foreign countries—Continued.

Num-
Country. ber of Date of transmission.
boxes.

ONTARION aaa ee een errno 5 | July 20, Nov. 20, 1914; Jan. 21, Mar. 31, May 29, 1915.

PALESTINE $45.1) saacocsemen eae 1 | June 30, 1915.

PARAGUAY vos cecso sce =aeiaee 6 | Oct. 31, Dec. 4, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, Mar. 12, May 5, 1915.

IP ER Use ene ot tne sc ee eee eee 19 | July 16, Oct. 20, Nov. 18, Dec. 17, 1914; Feb. 27, Apr. 20, May
20, June 22, 1915.

IRORTU GAT 2.5 dc bere csaiteceteeee 16 | July 24, Oct. 9, Nov. 12, Dec. 14, 1914; Feb. 20, Mar. 30, May 4,
June 4, 1915.

QUERBE CANS. eee eee ree 5 | July 20, Nov. 20,1914; Jan. 21, Mar. 31, May 29, 1915.

QUEENSGAND® «- -o- scene case oe 17 | July 14, Oct. 2, Nov. 14, Dec. 15, 1914; Feb. 24, Apr. 9, May 8,
June 8, 1915.

TVUSSTA oh. seis ce niek seen e Seo 9 | July 9, 1914.1

SALVADOR? —. 52 eee Be © erelcineie 5 | Oct. 31, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, May 7, June 17, 1915.

SIAM ee ane sc cue eto se siskines te 4] Dec. 10,1914; Mar. 12, May 12, June 22, 1915.

SOUTHTATUISTRATIAL =. oe se -2- 23 | July 14, Oct. 2, Nov. 14, Dec. 15, 1914; Jan. 20, Feb. 24, Apr. 9,
May 8, June 8, 1915.

SPAIN @ cco sos coer aceecicees 24 | Oct.9, Nov. 16,1914; Jan. 12, Feb. 17, May 7, June 7, 1915.

SWEDEN acc cosceetiece secee 59 | July 9, Oct. 15, Dec. 1, 1914; Jan. 6, Feb. 10, Mar. 10, 19, Apr.

5 29, May 26, June 24, 1915.

SWITZERLAND Soe. cise meee 42 | July 11, Nov. 2, Dec. 8, 1914; Feb. 9, Mar. 11, Apr. 28, May 14,
28, 1915.

BYRTA See = semana isaen see ate oe 2 | July 25, Oct. 28, 1914.1

AAS WAIN TAGE oe Ace = Seen eee 14 | July 18, 31, Sept. 25, Oct. 26, Nov. 7, Dec. 5, 1914; Jan. 2, 16,
Feb. 13, Apr. 20, June 19, 1915.

IBRINIDAD): saesjes oe oes cce cere 5 | Oct. 8, Dec. 10, 1914; Jan. 25, May 10, June 22, 1915.

AS URGE Wea seo ete mee cee sisi eae 2 3 | July 25, Oct. 28, 1914.1

UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA....- 30 | July 23, Oct. 30, Dec. 10, 1914; Jan. 12, Feb. 16, Apr. 30, May 27,
June 25, 1915.

WRUGUAY sc 3. oscesst cnceeeee 17 | July 16, Oct. 20, Nov. 18, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 27, Apr.

; 23, May 20, June 22, 1915.

VENEZUELA oa-cencseeoe neces 11 | Oct. 20, Dec. 17, 1914; Jan. 28, Feb. 29, May 5, June 16, 1915.
WICTORIA js2:28 oeeotes. tye) 5 25 | July 14, Oct. 2, Nov. 14, Dec. 15, 1914; Jan. 20, Feb. 24, Apr. 8,
May 8, June 8, 1915.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA.......-. 20 | July 3, 31, Sept. 17, 25, Oct. 26, Nov. 7, Dec. 5, 12, 1914; Jan. 16,
23, Feb. 6, 13, Mar. 8, 20, Apr. 20, June 12, 1915.
WINDWARD AND LEEWARD 3 | Dec. 10,1914; Mar. 12, June 22, 1915.
ISLANDS,
\

1 Shipments temporarily suspended on account of the European war.

With the exception of one package for the chief secretary to the
government of Madras, India, and one for the undersecretary to the
government of the United Provinces, Allahabad, India—each con-
taining 12 United States governmental documents—no consignments
have, so far as the Institution has been informed, been lost during
the year, which is considered remarkable in view of the number of
ships sunk by war vessels.

A number of boxes have been detained at several ports of de-
barkation owing to the fact that the vessels on which they were
forwarded have been interned. Wherever possible the Institution
has obtained the release of these consignments and they have been
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

sent forward to their destinations. At the close of the year one box
for Sofia, one for Serbia, and two for Syria, all forwarded from New
York July 2, 1914, per steamship Barbarossa, were held at Bremen,
Germany, and four boxes for Pretoria, forwarded from New York
July 10, 1914, per steamship Rawenfels, were held at Bahia, Brazil.
With the exception of the latter, these consignments will probably
be held until the close of the war. The Institution is endeavoring
to have the boxes for the Government Printing Works at Pretoria
released and forwarded from Bahia to destination.

During the year the Institution has obtained for the Library of
Congress from the Chinese Government, in exchange for the full
series of United States official documents sent to China, a set of the
Imperial Institutes of the Ching Dynasty and of the Imperial Rec-
ords Relative to the Suppression of Rebellions. These valuable
works comprise a total of 684 volumes. Many other foreign govern-
mental documents have been obtained through the Exchange Service
for the Library of Congress. In special instances, when requested
to do so, the Institution has used the facilities of the Exchange
Service to procure publications for both foreign and domestic gov-
ernmental and scientific establishments. Quite a number of requests
of foreign organizations for publications have been received from
American consular officers through the Department of State.

Owing largely to the efforts of Mr. Vittorio Benedetti, recently ap-
pointed chief of the Italian office of International Exchanges, the
service between Italy and the United States has been very much
improved during the year. Mr. Benedetti has presented the Insti-
tution with a typewritten copy of an account prepared by him of
the origin and development of the International Exchange Service.
A translation will be made of this interesting document and placed
in the archives of the exchanges for reference.

The act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the
Government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1916, included a pro-
vision authorizing the Government branches under the direction of
the Smithsonian Institution to exchange typewriters, adding ma-
chines, and other labor-saving devices in part payment for like ar-
ticles. This office exchanged four typewriting machines during the
year. .

The multigraph duplicating machine supplied by the Institution,
which has been in use in the Exchange Office since 1908, has been
replaced by a new machine. This multigraph, with stand, cost
$283.50, and was purchased from the appropriation for the Inter-
national Exchanges. It has been found to be very useful in the
printing not only of circular letters, but of envelopes, labels, and
other forms.

18618°—sm 1915——5
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

The walls, ceilings, floors, and woodwork of the government and
shipping rooms were painted during the year and the government
room was provided with a large sorting table 27 feet 3 inches long,
2 feet 104 inches wide, and 3 feet high, with drop leaf at end and
two drawers and shelves. There are only two windows in the gov-
ernment room, and on account of the thickness of the walls of the
Smithsonian Building these admitted very little hight. The windows
in that room have therefore been splayed, with the result that the
lighting has been greatly improved.

Another room has been assigned by the Institution for the use of
the Exchange Office, which has facilitated the handling of the many
packages received for transmission through the service.

The unsatisfactory electric lighting system throughout the Ex-
change Office has been very much improved by the installation of a
semi-indirect hghting system. ‘The washroom provided for the use
of the employees has been fitted up with two lavatories.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL
DOCUMENTS.

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of
the congressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901,
setting apart a certain number of documents for exchange with for-
eign countries, there are now sent regularly to depositories abroad
56 full sets of United States official publications and 36 partial sets.

The partial set of publications sent to Ceylon has in the past been
forwarded in care of the American consul at Colombo. The consul
now informs the Institution that the documents in question are de-
posited in the Record Department of the Library of the Colonial
Secretary’s Office, and consignments will therefore be sent direct to
that office in the future.

The recipients of full and partial sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

AusTRIA: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

BADEN: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the Grand Duchy
of Baden.)

BAVARIA: KOnigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

BomsBay: Secretary to the Government, Bombay.

Braziz: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Buenos Atres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata. (Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

Canapa: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

Cutter: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

CuinA: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai. f

CotomsBrIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

CuBa: Secretaria de Hstado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.

DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

GuAscow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Harri: Secrétairerie d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Huneary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

InptA: Department of Education (Books), Government of India, Calcutta.

TreELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Iraty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of the
London County Council.)

MAntrosa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New SoutH WatEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

Nrw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

PorTUGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussta: Konigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

QurBec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russta: Imperial Public Library, Petrograd.

Saxony: Konigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

Serpra: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliament Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SweDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TurKEY: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Union or SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urnueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicTorRIA: Public Library, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WURTTEMBERG: Konigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

ALsAcr-LORRAINE: K. Ministerium fiir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.

Bortv1A: Ministerio de Colonizaci6én y Agricultura, La Paz.

BrEMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.

BritisH CotumsBiA: Legislative Library, Victoria.

BritIsH GurIaANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.

Butcaria: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

CrEyLon: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Co-
lombo.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Eeyer: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

FINLAND: Chancery of Governor, Helsingfors.

GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

HampBurG: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswirtigen Angelegenheiten.

HeEssE: Grossherzogliche Hof Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.

LouRENcO MArQuEz: Government Library, Lourengo Marquez.

Lutseck: President of the Senate.

Mapras, PRovINCE oF: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Matta: Lieutenant Governor, Valetta.

MOoNTENEGRO: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

NEw BRUNSWICK: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

NICARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

NorkTHWEST TERRITORIES: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotta: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Oficina General de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

RouMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

SALvApor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OuDH: Under Secretary to Government, Alla-
habad.

VIENNA: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNALS.

There are now 33 countries with which. the immediate exchange of
official journals with the United States is carried on, the Government
of Costa Rica having been added during the year. A complete list
of the Governments to which the Congressional Record is now sent is
given below:

Argentine Republic. Belgium.

Australia. Brazil.

Austria. Buenos Aires, Province of.
Baden. Canada.

|
j
!
q

|
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

Costa Rica. Portugal.

Cuba. Prussia.

Denmark. Queensland.
France. Roumania.

Great Britain. Russia.

Greece. Serbia.
‘Guatemala. Spain.

Honduras. Switzerland.
Hungary. Transvaal.

Italy. Union of South Africa.
Liberia. Uruguay.

New South Wales. Western Australia.

New Zealand.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARE
TRANSMITTED.

The following is a list of the bureaus or agencies through which exchanges

are transmitted :

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Reconquista 538,
Buenos Aires, :

AusTRIA: K. K. Statistische Zentral-Kommission, Vienna.

AZORES, Via Portugal.

Betcrum: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots
46, Brussels.

BottviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Brazii: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BritTisH CoLonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BritisH HonpurAS: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Buuearia: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia. ©

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

Cu1nA: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bu-
reau of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

CoromsIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José. .

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GurtANnaA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eeypr: Government Publications Office, Printing Department, Cairo.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GrerMany: Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex Street,
Strand, London.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUADELOUPE, via France.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

GUINEA, via Portugal.

Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

HonpuraAs: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huncary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, Vaci-utea 80, Buda-
pest.

IcELAND, via Denmark.

InptA: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Seambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Kman-
uele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Korra: His Imperial Japanese Majesty’s Residency-General, Seoul.

Lieerta: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

LUXEMBURG, via Germany.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

Mapetra, via Portugal.

Monrenecro: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

New Guinea, via Netherlands.

New SourH Wares: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaracua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paraguay: Servicio de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Seccién Consular
y de Comercio, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

PrrstA: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

PortuGaL: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Inspeccio Geral das Biblio-
theeas e Archivos Publicos, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Office, Brisbane.

RouMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

Russta: Commission Russe des HNchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Im-
periale Publique, Petrograd.

Satyapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Spreta: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires trangéres, Belgrade.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Sparn: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

SwepEeN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwitzERLAND: Service des Echanges Internationaux Bibliothéque Fédérale
Centrale, Berne.

Syrta: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.
I
—_

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Tunis, via France.

TurKEY: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Mission§8, Boston.

Union or SoutH Arrica: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

UruGuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victrorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WINDWARD AND LEEWARD ISLANDS: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridge-
town, Barbados.

Respectfully submitted.
C. W. SHOEMAKER,

Chief Clerk International Kachange Service.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Avcust 24, 1915,
APPENDIX 4.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report concerning the
operations of the National Zoological Park during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1915.

The sundry civil act approved August 1, 1914, provided $100,000
for improvement and maintenance. The cost of food for the animals
during the year was about $23,000, being slightly less than the
previous year, when it attained the highest figure yet reached ; exten-
sive repairs were required on roads and a considerable amount had
to be expended on some of the buildings, all of which reduced the
amount available for additional improvements.

ACCESSIONS.

EKighty-eight animals were born and hatched in the park. Among

these were a South American tapir, an Arabian camel, 4 otters, 5

bears, a beaver, and various other mammals and birds.

The accessions included altogether 25 species not hitherto repre-
sented in the collection, and although considerably greater in number
than during the previous year, included few of importance, as the
supply of foreign animals was largely cut off by the war. A speci-
men of Przewalski’s horse was secured as were various other animals
of less note; a considerable number of waterfowl were also added.

EXCHANGES.

Eighty-two animals were secured through exchange. including 4
pumas, a jaguar, a palm civet and other mammals, a considerable
number of birds, and a few reptiles.

GIETS.

Mr. H. H. Bailey, Newport News, Va., a whistling swan.

Mr. H. B. Barber, Washington, D. C., a great horned owl.

Mr. D. L. Barton, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mrs. O. L: Beardsley, Washington, D. C., three spermophiles.
Mrs. B. O. Billingsby, Jules Station, Va., a skunk.

Miss Lillian Birney, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. IF. D. Bradford, Washington, D. C., four alligators.

Mr. M. EB. Bruce, Philadelphia, Pa., two yellow-naped parrots.

72

"uvag NMOYG NVYSVIV NV SVM YSHLV4 SHI “GL6L ‘GL AYVMNVE NYOg ‘Sano GNV Yva3g NMOUg Nvadoung

“| S3Lv1d , yoday s Airjaineag—'g|6| ‘jioday ueluosyyiws
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

Mr. John Buckey, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. Joseph H. Curtis, Washington, D. C., a woodechuck.

Mrs. J. B. Dodson, Washington, D. C., an opossum.

Mr. G. A. Durfee, Washington, D. C., a grass parrakeet.

Mr. C. C. Estes, Washington, D. C., two cottontail rabbits.

Mrs. Sheldon Evans, Washington, D. C., a white-fronted parrot.

Mr. KE. Fabre, Washington, D. C., a red-shouldered hawk.

Mrs. George Fowler, Philadelphia, Pa., a white-throated capuchin.

Mr. I’. A. Frazer, Spotsylvania, Va., a Cooper’s hawk.

Mr. James Frazier, Washington, D. C., a silver pheasant.

Brother Geraptin, Franciscan Monastery, Washington, D. C., two mocking
birds.

Mr. C. G. Hoffman, Remington, Va., a barn owl.

Mr. J. M. Johnson, Washington, D. C., a bald eagle.

Mrs. D. C. Laws, Port Limon, Costa Rica, a white-throated capuchin.

Mrs. Arthur Lee, Washington, D. C., a silver-blue tanager.

Mr. Oscar M. Link, Washington, D. ©., a sparrow hawk.

Mr. E. A. Mcthenny, Avery Island, La., six blue-winged teal.

Mr. Vinson W. McLean, Washington, D. C., a diamond rattlesnake.

Mr. Lester Martin, Washington, D. C., a raccoon.

Mr. Fred. Mertens, Washington, D. C., a bald eagle.

Mr. A. M. Nicholson, Orlando, Fla., a diamond rattlesnake.

Mr. John M. Pickrell, Washington, D. C., a diamond rattlesnake,

Mr. Hdw. S. Schmid, Washington, D. C., a screech owl, two barn owls, and a
spreading adder.

Mr. Fred. Schnaebele, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, Washington, D. C., a black snake and a barred owl.

Mrs. C. B. Strong, Washington, D. C., a merganser.

Mrs. Swyhart, Washington, D. C., a horned lizard.

Mr. E. Thomas, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. Samuel G. Walker, Weld, W. Va., a bay lynx.

Mr. William Whyte, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Hon. Woodrow Wilson, Washington, D. C., an opossum.

Mr. D. E. Winstead, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mr. N. P. Wood, North Mountain, W. Va., a green snake,

Unknown donor, a red fox,

Unknown donor, a Gila monster.

LOSSES.

a

The most noteworthy loss during the year was the death by rup-
ture of the aorta of the largest of the Alaskan brown bears, caught
as a small cub in May, 1901. ‘He had attained a weightsof 1,160
pounds. A Coke’s hartbeest and several monkeys died from tuber-
culosis, two pronghorn antelopes from necrotic stomatitis, a lion
from pericarditis, and a large bison bull (the “ten-dollar buffalo”)
from the effects of old age. Quail disease was again brought into
the collection in a shipment of birds received from the southwestern
United States and caused the death of more than half of the quail in
the collection. A few waterfowl, also, died from aspergillosis, and
there was some loss of birds from attacks by predatory animals
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

roaming at large in the park, though it was less than during the pre-
vious year. Torty-one of the animals that died were transferred to
the National Museum. Autopsies were made, as usual, by the Patho-
logical Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of
Agriculture."

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 380, 1915.

MAMMALS.

Green monkey (Cercopithecus eallitri- Common ferret (Putorius putorius)_— il

ChUS i oe ee Se ee 1 | Black-footed ferret (Putorius nigripes) 1
Mona monkey (Cecropithecus mona) —- 8 | North American otter (Lutra cana-
Diana monkey (Cercopithecus diana)~ 1 densts)\ =< oS eae
Bonnet monkey (Macacus sinicus)——~ 1 | Eskimo dog (Canis familiaris) _____-~ 1
Macaque monkey (Macacus cynomol- Dingo (@anis dingo) 2 ee

GUS) ees Boe ce Se A ye ae ep ee 2} Gray wolf (Canis occidentalis) _-__~
Pig-tailed monkey (Macacus nemes- Coyote (Canis latrans).2_ 20 22s

ERIN Ss) 2 aS Be Se ee 3 | Woodhouse’s coyote (Canis frustror)_—
Rhesus monkey (Macacus rhesus)_-_- 31 | Red fox (Vulpes pennsylwanicus) —----

Brown macaque (Macacus arctoides) —- 2°| Swift fox (Vulyes velor) 21)" ss =
Japanese monkey (Macacus fuscatus) — 8 | Arctic fox (Vulpes lagopus) ---=-_L_=
Moor macaque (Macacus maurus) ——-~ 1 | Gray fox (Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) —
Chaecma (Papio porcarius) —_-—___=_— 1 | Spotted hyena (Hyena crocuta) —___--~
Hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) — 2 | Indian palm civet (Viverra civettina) —
Mandrili (Papio maimon)——-_--_--_- 1 | Common genet (Genetta genctta) _--__
White-throated capuchin (Cebus hypo- Cheetah (Cynailurus jubatus) —-------

LEWIS) eee oe ee Se eee Sudan lion (felis leo)__- 2 ese
Brown monkey (Cebus fatuellus) ---- Kilimanjaro lion (Felis leo sabakiensis) —
Mongoose lemur (Lemur mongoz)—--~ Tirer (Kelis: tigris)=——--——
Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)—---_~- Puma (felis oregonensis hippolestes)-—
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) ——~ Jaguar (GHelisionca).2 oe
European brown bear (Ursus arctos)— Leopard \(elis pardus) 2 ee
Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi) ---~ Black leopard (Felis pardus) —--------
Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli)—----_—__~ Canada lynx (Lyn canadensis) ___----
Alaskan brown bear (Ursus gyas)--- Bay hus (Lyne 1s)
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) ---_-_- Spotted lynx (Lyne rufus texensis) ~~~
Hybrid bear (Ursus kidderi-arctos) ___- California lynx (Lyn# rufus californi-
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) —~
Japanese bear (Ursus japonicus) ——_~
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) ___-_-

DORR WrERRPNMHRPWNHMNRE RRR RP OWN Re PO

is)
=
a
—
1

if

1

1

1

1

1

I

i

1

|

1

i}

|

i]

1

i}

1

1

i}

i}

1

|

1

i}

1

1

!
—

Steller’s sea lion (Humetopias stelleri) _—
California sea lion (Zalophus califor-

PREF WON WR RRP REP HEN OWRHR HENNY NREP RYN RNY WOR

Black bear (Ursus americanus) ~~~ manus) 222---24h SEER Se Sees 2
Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus) —— Northern fur seal (Callotaria alascana) — al
Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus)- ---__ Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina)_-_._----_ 1
Kinkajou (Cercolentes caudivolvulus) — Fox squirrel (Sciwrus niger) —-----~--- 9
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astuta) __--___ Western fox squirrel (Sciurus ludo-

Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica)——-~ MiCiIQNUs)) — 2S Ee eee eee 8
Raccoon ‘(Procyon lotor) 2222 32552 = 1 Gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)_— 40
American badger (Tavidea tarus) —-_~ Black squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) 20
European badger (Meles tarus)_-_____ Albino squirrel (Sciuwrus carolinensis) — il
Common skunk (Mephitis putida) —__~ Thirteen-lined spermophile (Spermo-

Tayra (Galictis tarbera) i= philus tridecimlineatous)__---_-----_ 2
American marten (Mustela americana) _— Prairie dog (Cyomys ludovicianus)__-- 60
Fisher (Mustela pennantii) _~-_______ Woodchuck (Marmota monaz)-—_----~-- 2
Minks (Putorius, vison) — 2-2 ee 16 1 Alpine marmot (Marmota marmotta)-— 1

1 The causes of death were reported to be as follows: Enteritis, 20; gastritis, 2; gastro-
enteritis, 1; quail disease, 20; pneumonia, 8; tuberculosis, 10; congestion of lungs, 4;
pleurisy, 1; aspergillosis, 4; congestion of liver, 5; rupture of liver, 1; nephritis, 1;
peritonitis, 1; septicemia, 2; pyemia, 1; septic endometritis, 1; pericarditis, 3; rupture
of aorta, 1; hemorrhage on spinal cord, 1; visceral gout, 2; chronie arthritis, 1; impaction
of intestine, 1; necrotic stomatitis, 2; anemia, 3; wound infection, 1; accident, 2; unde-
termined, 7.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

American beaver (Castor canadensis) _—
Coypu (Myocastor coypus) —___-__--_~
THuropean porcupine (Hystriaz cristata) —
Indian porcupine (Hystrixv leucura)-—-
Canada porcupine ( Hrethizon dorsatus) —
Canada porcupine (Hrethizon dorsa-

UES) eps EO) 22 oe at eee ee ek
Viscacha (Lagostomus trichodactylus) —
Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta mexicana) —
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azar@)_—-—~
Crested agouti (Dasyprocta cristata) —_
Hairy-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta

DUM OLO DUG 2S ere a
Paeca .(Celogenys paca) _-._--—— -=-==—
Guinea pig (Cavia cutleri) ___________
Patagonian ecavy (Dolichotis pata-

PGR CO) Sas ee Oe Se Se
Capybara (Jlydrocherus capybara)_—--
Domestic rabbit (Lepus cuniculus) ~~~
African elephant (Hlephas ovyotis) —~-~
Indian elephant (Hlephas maximus) _—~
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus americanus) -—
Wild horse (Zquus przewalskii) ------
Greyy’s zebra (Hquus grevyi)_--------
Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus grevyi-ca-

GU TAR Shee  lae lg Be r
Zebra-donkey hybrid (Hquus grevyi-asi-

Grant’s zebra (Hquus burchelli granii)~
Collared peccary (Dicotyles angulatus)—
Waldsbour (Sws sc0f,d) 2 = — ee
Northern wart hog (Phacocherus afri-

COMMS aS 2s ails. Se see ee
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphi-

Guanaco (Lama huanachus) ~~ -----_-
Rlama(hanad Glama@) 22222 3.4 = 2
Alpaca, (Lama paces) =. 22222 ek
Vicugna (Lama vicugna)—-.-_.-__--—
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —
Arabian camel( Camelus dromedarius) —

Mocking bird (Mimus polyglottos) —---~
Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis)_---~-~
Japanese robin (Liothri« luteus) ----~
Laughing thrush (Garrulaxr leucolo-

TAS essa Se Oa Ng et
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea

CUNEN EA) eens a= Se a Sa es eee to
Bishop finch (Tanagra episcopus)_—---
Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata) —_
Zebra finch (Amadina castanotis)_—___
Black-headed finch (Munia atricapilla) —
Three-colored finch (Munia malacca) ——
White-headed finch (Munia maja)_-___
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctularia)_—__
Java sparrow (Munia oryzivora)______
White Java sparrow (Munia oryzi-

Sharp-tailed grass finch (Poéphila acu-
TUCO) \ Se Ss St be ee BS
Silver-bill finch (Aidemosyne cantans) —
Chestnut-breasted finch (Donacola cas-
CAONCOLILOTOG) Perea tas Sere o WR ee

Sambar deer (Cervus wricolor)—_—__
Philippine deer (Cervus philippinus) ——
Flog deer (Cervus porcinus)————- —-_—
Barasingha deer (Oervus duvaucelii) —_
Axis deer (Cervus avis). -~--——-=_ =
Japanese deer (Cervus sika)  ----___
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)..-______
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ~~~
Fallow deer (Cervus dama) ~~ ~—~—__~-_~—
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginianus) —
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) ~~~
Columbian black-tailed deer (Odocoileus
2 COULNLOTANIUS) yea ee ee ee 2 alae,
2 | Cuban deer (Odocoileus sp.)--.-_---_
3 | Blessbok (Damaliscus albifrons) ~~~
White-tailed gnu (Connochates gnu) —
Defassa water buck (Cobus defassa) —_
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Arabian gazelle (Gazgella arabica) ____
Sable antelope (Hippotragus niger) —~
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) ——__
Congo harnessed antelope (T'ragelaphus
gratus)
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlaicus)— ~~~ _~
Common goat (Capra hircus) ~_____—
Angora goat (Capra hircus) —~--_____
Circassian goat (Capra hircus) ______
Barbary sheep (Ovis tragelaphus) —__~
Barbados sheep (Ovis aries-tragela-
phus)
Anoa (Anoa@ depressicornis)——_-______—
Zebu (Bibes indicus) 2242 =
Yak (Poéphagus grunniens)_—_-______
American bison (Bison americanus) ~~
Hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus) ——
2} Wallaroo (Macropus robustus) ~~ ____
7 | Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) ~-___
3 | Bennett’s wallaby (Macropus ruficollis
1 bennetti)
2
4

me BR bo OT

bee e He

be Be eb OF bo

=

bo FPwWREH

i}

Virginia opossum (Didelphys marsupi-
alis)

BIRDS.

2 | Napolean weaver (Pyromelana afra) —-
1 | Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-
2 COPLENSTS) RELY Be ete he, BON |e
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea)_____
Paradise weaver (Vidua paradisea) —___
Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-

bo

Common cardinal (Cardinalis cardi-

NGS) 5. aa Le Soe Bye
Siskin. (Spinusi spinus)2S2>- a ee
Saffron finch (Sycalis flaveola) _______
Yellow hammer (Hmberiza citrinella)__
Common canary (Serinus canarius) —__
Linnet (Linota cannabina)___________
Cowbird (Molothrus ater)_-__-_______
Glossy starling (Lamprotornis cauda-
CUS) eno eS oe eg Soe ee da

WADATAIR OH R

rar

=
bo

toe

European rayen (Corvus corar)___--~
| American raven (Corvus corar sinua-

10
5
15
1

WEN REE Ee PR

a
Ww Ot me bP to

= 00

H
et HB OD 1 Or OO
76

Rocky Mountain jay (Perisoreus cana-

densisicapitalisy) 222 eae eee
White-throated jay (Garrulus leucotis) —
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata)________
American magpie (Pica pica hudsonica) —
Red-billed magpie (Urocissa occipitalis) —
Yellow tyrant (Pitangus sulphuratus

PURPENNis) LLB wIeE SATs Te AY SO
Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas)_______
Concave-casqued hornbill (Dichoceros

OiCOTNIS) 2, Wa Oe ees
Reddish motmot (Momotus subrufes-

Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua ga-
LETT CH) ST i AE ers
White cockatoo (Cacatua alba) _-__-_
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Cacatua lead-
CCALOT EY EAST ie Bir 2 ALE BEA Ae
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Cacatua gymno-

Yellow and blue macaw (Ara ararauna) —
Red and yellow and blue macaw (Ara

Red and blue macaw (Ara cllorop-
tera)
Great green macaw (Ara militaris) ___
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Orange-winged amazon (Amazona ama-
zonica)
Festive amazon (Amazona festiva) —__
Porto Rican amazon (Amazona vit-
tata)
Yellow-shouldered amazon
ochroptera)
Yellow-fronted amazon (Amazona och-
rocephala)
Yellow-naped amazon (Amazona auri-
palliata)
Yellow-headed amazon (Amazona le-
vaillanti)
Blue-fronted amazon (Amazona @stiva) -
Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —
Banded parrakeet (Pal@ornis fasci-
ata)
Love bird (Agapornis pullaria)_~___~
Shell parrakeet (Melopsittacus undula-
tus)
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus)_—
Arctic horned owl (Bubo virginianus
subarcticus)
Barred owl (Stri# varia) _—.__----__—
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius)———~
Bald eagle (Haliwetus lewcocephalus) —
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-
cephalus alascanus) ~~ _-_---__--_-_—
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaéios) ~~~
Harpy eagle (Thrasaétus harpyia) —---~
Crowned hawk eagle (Spizaétus coro-
natus)
Rough-legged hawk (Archibuteo lago-
Dus... soncti-jonannis)——— === ee
Cooper’s hawk (Accipiter cooperi)—-~
Venezuelan shawk 2222202 pou pe

(Amazona

=

ra

me bo bh

eB bo

ee eeeeeeeeeeSeSSeSeSSeeSSeSeSSeEeeeeeSSSSSFSFSSSSSFesFsseFeFeEeEeEeEeEeEeeEEEEeEee

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Lammergeyer (Gypaétus barbatus) _—-_
South American condor (Sarcorham-

PIVUS OTYDNUS) ae ess an eee
California condor (Gymnogyps califor-

NiONUS) Foo SO ee a eee
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)________
Cinereous vulture (Vultur monachus) —
Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnop-

TETUS) Pes SE NE ae ee
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura)____
Black vulture (Catharista urubi)_--__
King vulture (Gypagus papa) —---___
Snow pigeon (Columba leuconota)_—___
Red-billed pigeon (Columba flaviros-

tris)
White-crowned pigeon (Columba leuco-

CODRGNW) ee ee <_—
Band-tailed pigeon (Columba fasciata) —
Mourning deve (Zenaidura macroura) —
Peaceful dove (Geopelia tranquilla) ___
Zebra dove (Geopelia striata) ________
Collared turtle dove (Turtur risorius) —
Cape masked dove (Gna capensis) ___~
Australian crested pigeon (Ocyphaps

lophotes)
Wonga-wonga

picata)
Nicobar pigeon (Calenas nicobarica) —
Red-billed curassow (Craw carunculata) —
Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo sil-

vestris)e fea US Ae Ae ee
Peafowl (Pawo cristata) === =e
Peacock pheasant (Polyplectron chin-

Quis) 22n Cee bo ee

pigeon

Huropean quail (Coturnix communis) —
Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) ——~---~
Curacoa crested quail (Hupsychortyz

Cristatws) ke See Sa eee ees
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata)_—_~
Valley quail (Lophortyx californica

wallicola) 22-22 ee eee
Gambel’s quail (Lophortyxr gambeli) _-
Massena quail (Cyrtonyx% montezume@) —
American coot (Fulica americana) —---
Great bustard (Otis tarda) —---~--~-
Common cariama (Cariama cristata) ——
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) —
Whooping crane (Grus americana) ——~
Sand-hill crane (Grus mexicana) ~~~
Australian crane (Grus australasiana) —
European crane (Grus cinerea) -—----
Indian white crane (Grus leucogera-

NUS) LOLs die Ne LS See a eee
Ruff (Machetes pugnar)——---=-=-___—
Black-crowned night heron (Nycticorar

nycticora® nevis) 42. se
Snowy egret (lgretta candidissima) ~~
Great white heron (Herodias egretia) —
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) ~~~
Great black-crowned heron (Ardea co-

Ot): Loni usi Rien 2 eee ee
Boatbill (Cancroma cochlearia) ~~---~
Black stork (Ciconia nigra) —------=-

eet

BPHORNDAREORPHwO He

ee

Nr wo

PNpH
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Marabou stork (Leptoptilus dubius) ~~~ 1 | Fulvous tree duck (Dendrocygna bi-
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) _——-_-~ 2 COLON) 2 ae ae Re eee: oes ie 2
Sacred ibis (Ibis ethiopica) —_--_-____ 3 | Wandering tree duck (Dendrocygna ar-
White ibis (Guara atba) __.------=--- 13 Cudta)yi si 1 a RE ee ee 6
Roseate spoonbill (Ajaja ajaja)_------ 2 | Ruddy sheldrake (Casarca ferruginea) — if!
European flamingo (Phenicopterus ro- Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos)_------~ 19
CALS) ) cetera nea ns, Se Le ES 2 | Hast Indian black duck (Anas sp.) —--- 6
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus)_—~ 6 | Black duck (Anas rubripes) -__-_----_ 2
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)._________ 6 | European widgeon (Mareca penelope) _— 2
Black-necked swan (Cygnus melancory- Chilean widgeon (Mareca sibilatrix) __ 2,
TOOTS) ae seen ee Ee Oe ee 2 9| Pintail (Daefilaacuia)=—————=—-_..—— 2
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)---_--_- 3 | Blue-winged teal (Querquedula discors)_ 5
Spur-winged goose (Plectropterus gam- Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pepo-
RCFE SES)) ene pene seers ees Bee ay 1 SOC) 2S Se SS fe eae wee 2
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) —~-_ 2 | Red-headed duck (Marila americana) __ 9
White muscovy duck (Cairina mos- American white pelican (Pelecanus
Oia) ti. SAS ee SS ee ee al Cruchnnornyncnos)aoee=- == ee 9
Wood duck (Aix sponsa) —-_.-..-_-__— 13 | European white pelican (Pelecanus
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericu- ON OCT OUOLUES eee ees Fe
[A THAD \ 2 et aa ES: eG a a SNS) 10 | Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus)_-_~ 2
Cape Barren goose (Cereopsis nove-hel- Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) — 5D
STR IUO ATEN 2 SON OO Be Is ci a are 2 | Australian pelican (Pelecanus conspi-
Lesser snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) — 3 Gillatys) 3322 ee eee 2
Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz au-
ERATED UGS) yet ae i te) al PULLS OTL OILS) ee eee 15
Ross’s goose (Chen rossi) _----__-___ 2 | Water turkey (Anhinga anhinga) —---- 3
American white-frented goose (Anser Great black-backed gull (Larus mari-
aloijrons cambew) 222 == ee 5 V1, S)) ae a ee ee ee 1
Barred-head goose (Anser indicus) —-_.. 2 | American herring gull (Larus argenta-
Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) ___-~ 2 tus smithsonianus) ==. -- === 3
Canada goose (Branta canadensis)_-_.__ 12 | Laughing gull (Larus atricilla)_-_--___ 2
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis South African ostrich (Struthio austra-
TELCO TELUS eee ee ents es eee 3 Gis) nesct SS el i Se 6
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis mi- Somali ostrich (Struthio molybdo-
EI) pe es See a A 2 DRONES) 22222 Se eee ee if:
Upland goose (Chloéphaga magella- Common cassowary (Casuarius galea-
MACUL) eee BE eS i ee St eS 27 1 TUS ie ht BS ee ft
White-faced tree duck (Dendrocygna Common rhea (Rhea americana) -----~ 2
ORGY ITH 0 1) CS SiR ND ce AP NB Be 2' Emu (Dromeus nove hollandie) —_---_- 2
REPTILES.
Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis)__ 22 | Black snake (Zamenis constrictor)_-_- 1
Painted box tortoise (Cistudo ornata)_— 2 | Coach-whip snake (Zamenis flagellum) — a
Duncan Island tortoise (Testudo ephip- Water snake (Natrigz sipedon) _—_______ 3
/ OTH TL pens ws Ba SS Ue 8 io es Cee Beeb ab 2 |} Common garter snake (Hutenia sirta-
Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo vi- US) Met te ae a Nl Le 3
BEEING) ee ep Se Ne pr Aa as Bg a he 1 | Texas water snake (Hutenia provima)— 2
Horned lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum)— 1 | Pine snake (Pituwophis melanoleucus) — 5
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) — 2 | King snake (Ophibolus getulus)__-___ 2
Regal python (Python reticulatus) —-- 8 | Water mocassin (Ancistrodon piscivo-
Common boa (Boa constrictor) _______ 5 FUS) Soo Soe oe ee 6
Cook’s tree boa (Corallus cookii)----~ 1 | Copperhead (Ancistrodon contortriz)_— 1
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus)__-_--__ 1 | Diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus ada-
Velvet snake (Hpicrates cenchris)----~ 2 WANT CUS)) 2 a ee a ee 5
Spreading adder (Heterodon platyrhi-
(vid) Var Ss eaeet 2 Sa eis Agee sae eee eee es 1
STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION.
ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR.
EROS CIN Ce tee Se BS 5 RS A he awe 0 be diay) a Ee et te A) 60
Rea Se Oeste Be ee at oo kt a oS 225
Born and hatched in the National Zoological Park______________________ 88
RECEIVE Canl M gO CM AM SCS aa cern eee men ene fa LS cet eee nes Re ee ee 82-
Menosited in=National’Zoologicalye ark = 22 ae Se ae ee 43
DYER be SC SE Ne 5 I a Re a Re a ej Se eo ee 498
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915,

SUMMARY.
Animals on hand” sully sy Gi saree 2) es ee ee ee ee 1, 362
Accessions Curing Ene yas ss 2 a Ea Se es ee 498
1, 860
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, return of animals, etc.) ________________ 463
On shang. Jumesa Os TOM yaks secs Te 2 ee ee 1, 397
Class. Species. nei
PMSA TTA TANS ge Ros ars Ba ie aA tS Re AE ihe hae a nO On 151 629
TB Ro Septet RE bei dl MOR a eet Sata) Gia a BE ES SPR pa eth ca el OY Sint 185 696
Rep tiles: 222 Sc Pesce Gees Sa ce ee eh ecb soK JH Les rae ein eeicen ee 22 72
TE GMS ooo tote pa, 2a alex tee eres SPS eso ategehe ie eas Sha ea eV Lc oe aera re 358 1,397
VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year, as determined
by count and estimate, was 794,530, a daily average of 2,176. This
was the largest year’s attendance in the history of the park. The
greatest number in any one month was 153,452 in April, 1915, an
average per day of 5,115.

Sixty-two schools, classes, ete., visited the park, with a total of
3,485 individuals.

IMPROVEMENTS.

A cage for pumas was built near the lion house. The cage is
22 by 28 feet, 10 feet high, and attached to it is a well-built shelter
house, which provides four compartments for the animals and ample
space for the keeper in caring for them.

In order to provide for keeping a band of rhesus monkeys out of
doors throughout the year, a small shelter house with thick wooden
walls was built and connected with it a yard 25 feet square. Twenty-
five monkeys were placed there in October; all came through the
winter in good shape except one, which was taken out as it appeared
to suffer from the cold.

A new machine lathe was added to the shop equipment, replacing
one of inferior type which had been in use since the early years of
the park. <A tool grinder and power hack saw were also installed and
overhead equipment of shafting and pulleys arranged for the several
machines. A food chopper and bone grinder, with motor for driving
them, were put in at the food house.

For the convenience of the increasing number of people who enter
at the south end of the park, a foot bridge was constructed there
across the creek. A small rustic shelter was also built near the new
stone bridge.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

The most important improvement undertaken was a building for
hospital and laboratory. The construction of this was begun near
the end of the year, part of the cost being met from this year’s ap-
propriation and the balance to come from the appropriation for
the following year. The total cost is expected to be about $5,000.
The building will be of stone, 80 by 56 feet, and one story high.
There will be a room at each end fitted up for the accommodation
of animals, and between these a laboratory room, 16 by 27 feet.
Each room will be provided with four skylights. The location
selected for the building is entirely separate from all other animal
quarters, but yet easy of access for those who will have charge of the
animals that are kept in it.

The cost of these improvements was as follows:

EOspitaleand laboratory Olosappropriation))) 2s. 2388 _ ee $2, 300
CHOeeANGeHOUSE: TOM PUMAS! =a s- = aoe Se ee ee i BE
OQurdoorscace and Nouse ton monkeys = |e a ee 250
Additional machine-shop equipment____________________ atts mdi Ses 700
Adaitional-equipmenttor food houses 22222222 te ee es es 250
HAC CO LER) TSE GL eet oe ce Es EN Rear ON Pg ey eye ae Pe ry Vote 8 ys ak 325
Husheshelter atenews stone bridges.) he Ee 210

MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS, INCLOSURES, ETC.

The roads and walks in the park had received almost no repair
since 1910, when a special appropriation was made for that purpose.
Their condition had become so bad that repairs had to be made early
in the year. The roads were extensively patched and given a general
surfacing throughout with tar and crushed stone, over 2 miles of
roadway being thus treated. Portions of the walks were repaired
in the same manner. The total area of roads and walks repaired
was 8,330 square yards. The ford near Klingle Road also had to be
thoroughly repaired, and toward the close of the year it became nec-
essary to pave with concrete the ford on the driveway to Cathedral
Avenue, which, from the effects of high water and heavy ice in the
creek, had become impassable. The total cost of this road work was
$4,075 (upper ford $325, lower ford $615).

It was also necessary to clean out and repair the larger pond for
waterfowl, in which an extensive bank of sand and mud had been
deposited at time of flood by the water supply from the creek; this
cost $850.

Progressive deterioration of the temporary bird house again made
repairs necessary there. The wooden floor, which had already been
rebuilt twice, was replaced with concrete, as was also a part of the
wooden foundation. The cost of this work was $700. This building
is an example of the ultimate costliness of cheap temporary con-
struction.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

The roof of the office building had to be reshingled and some other
repairs made at a cost of $400.

The section of the heating main between the temporary bird
house and the antelope and elephant houses was repaired and a
considerable part of the pipe replaced. A new hot-water boiler, for
auxiliary heating of snake cases, was also put in at a total cost of
$500.

ALTERATION OF THE WEST BOUNDARY OF THE PARK.

The acquisition of the land required to extend the park to Con-
necticut Avenue from Cathedral Avenue to Klingle Road, for which
an appropriation of $107,200 was made in the sundry civil act for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, has not yet been accomplished.

There was great delay at several stages in the proceedings for the
condemnation of the land. <A special survey and map of the prop-
erty involved was required; the preliminary proceedings were then
postponed from time to time in order that the property owners
interested might submit arguments regarding the instructions to be
given to the jury of condemnation; the work of the jury in arriving
at the value of the land to be taken and the amount of benefits which
should be assessed against neighboring property occupied several
months; the hearing by the court of objections on the part of prop-
erty owners to the verdict further delayed the matter, especially as
the time of that court from November, 1914, to May, 1915, was al-
most entirely occupied by the contest in an important will case.
Changes in the personnel of the court and of the Government attor-
neys also operated to delay and complicate the matter. The court
finally, on June 28, 1915, confirmed the verdict of the jury as regards
the awards of damages for land to be taken and a portion of the
benefits assessed against neighboring property, but set aside the ver-
dict as to benefits in all cases where the owners of the property had
filed exceptions to the verdict. The amount awarded for the land
to be taken was $194,438.08, and to this is to be added the cost of the
proceedings, $2,203.35, making a total of $196,641.43. The benefits
were assessed at $66,013.50, but a considerable part was set aside by
the court. The exact amount that is involved in this decision of the
court has yet to be determined by the Government attorneys upon
examination of the land records.

The total amount required to purchase the land and meet the costs
of condemnation will therefore be considerably greater than the sum
that was appropriated, so that an additional appropriation will have
to be obtained in order to secure all-of the land for which the act
provides.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81
ROCK CREEK INTERCEPTING SEWERS.

The District of Columbia completed the construction of the main
intercepting sewer through the park in October, 1914, and shortly
thereafter built a large connecting sewer to this from the intercept-
ing sewer that had been constructed through the park some years
before. In accomplishing this work there was necessarily a con-
siderable amount of destruction and defacement of natural features
along the line of the work. The District authorities and the con-
tractor have removed the excavated material and restored the ground
to its original condition so far as that is practicable, but some ex-
penditure on the part of the park and considerable time will be re-
quired to bring it again into satisfactory condition.

PLAYGROUND PRIVILEGE. x

At its request, the playground department of the District of Co-
lumbia was allowed to install several pieces of apparatus on a meadow
near which is a favorite resort of picnic parties. The apparatus has
been quite largely used. Objectionable features thus far have been
some temporary disfigurement of an attractive part of the park and
the tendency to extend playground operations beyond the area that
_ was allotted for that purpose.

IMPORTANT NEEDS.

BUILDINGS.

The importance of providing certain permanent buildings for
housing the collection and for other purposes has been urged for
several years past, but, with the scanty means available, all that
could be done was to provide, from two yearly appropriations, a small
building to meet the bare necessities of a hospital and laboratory.
An aviary building is still a most urgent need, and repeated efforts
have been made to secure an appropriation for this purpose. A
building to accommodate elephants, hippopotami, and certain other
animals whose requirements as to housing and care are similar will
soon be a necessity, as the present temporary quarters are already
too small and insecure for the young animals, which are rapidly grow-
ing and acquiring formidable strength.

The need of a public-comfort and restaurant building has been
stated repeatedly and attention called to the fact that the facilities
which it has been possible thus far to provide are altogether inade-
quate and not befitting a public institution of this character.

Gatehouses should be provided at the principal entrances, all of
which are at considerable distance from the exhibition buildings, and

18618°—sm 1915——6
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

they should include a small room for watchmen and limited toilet
facilities for visitors.

PREPARATION OF SITES FOR BUILDINGS.

The park includes but little ground that is even comparatively
level, and in order to provide a building site of any considerable
extent it is usually necessary to grade off a hill or fill up a valley.
This involves the destruction of the trees and shrubs on the area and
their replacement after the grading is completed by others required
about the building for shade and ornament. Early preparation of
such sites is highly desirable, in order that the planting may be done
in advance and as much time as possible utilized for growth, especially
of trees for shade. The site that has been selected for the aviary
wall require grading over practically the entire area needed for the
building, the attached outdoor cages, and the walks about them.
This would involve the excavation and removal of some 14,000 cubic
yards of earth. The location is indicated at A on the accompanying
map, which also shows where the excavated material could be used to
fill a deep, narrow valley adjoining the bear yards at B. Nearly
70,000 square feet of ground would thus be made available at the
aviary site and some 34,000 square feet would be added to the usable
area where the fill is made. It is estimated that the cost of this work
would be about $4,000, and it is recommended that Congress be
asked to appropriate that sum for the purpose.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION.

Attention is again called to the desirability of adding to the
exhibit some of the more important animals which it still lacks, such
as anthropoid apes, rhinoceros, giraffe, African buffalo and ante-
lopes, and the mountain sheep and goat of our own country.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank Baker,
Superintendent.
Dr. CHarues D. Waucort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

| A. SITE FOR AVIARY.
Area of Cut

B. LOCATION OF PROPOSED FILL,
3.—-ANTELOPE HOUSE.
4.—-INDIAN ELEPHANT.
5.—MONKEY HOUSE.
6.—AFRICAN ELEPHANTS.
7.—TEMPORARY BIRD HOUSE.
8.—BEARS.

f 9.—SEA LIONS.

| 10.-WOLVES.
11.—ZEBRA.
13.—BEAVER.
14.—FLYING CAGE.
16.—RESTAURANT.

Se eee en eee aN

<>
SSO]
Se

83
‘APPENDIX 5.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the
operations of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the
year ending June 30, 1915:

EQUIPMENT.

The equipment of the observatory is as follows:

(a) At Washington there is an inclosure of about 16,000 square
feet, containing five small frame buildings used for observing and
computing purposes, three movable frame shelters covering several
out-of-door pieces of apparatus, and also one small brick building
containing a storage battery and electrical distribution apparatus.

(0) At Mount Wilson, Cal., upon a leased plat of ground 100 feet
square, in horizontal projection, are located a one-story cement ob-
serving structure, designed especially for solar-constant measure-
ments, and also a little frame cottage, 21 feet by 25 feet, for observer’s
quarters.

Upon the observing shelter at Mount Wilson there is a tower 40
feet high above the 12-foot piers which had been prepared in the
original construction of the building. This tower is being equipped
with a tower telescope for use when observing (with the spectro-
bolometer) the distribution of radiation over the sun’s disk. This
has been made possible by an appropriation by Congress of $2,000
for this purpose.

During the year apparatus for research has been purchased or ~

constructed at the observatory shop. The value of these additions to
the instrumental equipment, not counting the tower equipment above
mentioned, is estimated at about $500.

WORK OF THE OBSERVATORY.
AT WASHINGTON.

Observations were made for the testing of pyrheliometers. As in
former years several silver-disk pyrheliometers were prepared and
sent abroad by the Institution after standardization at the Astro-

physical Observatory.
84

oe a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

Several automatic recording pyrheliometers were raised to great
heights in sounding balloon experiments at Omaha early in July,
1914. ‘These instruments were all recovered, and the one which made
the most successful flight was received back entirely uninjured. A
great many experiments were made with it at Washington to inves-’
tigate certain peculiarities of its record, and to more thoroughly
standardize its pyrheliometric and barometric elements. These ex-
periments consumed much time of the director and Mr. Aldrich.
The results reached from these balloon pyrheliometer records will
be summarized below.

Further experiments were made with sky-radiation apparatus.

As in former years the major portion of the time of Mr. Fowle
and Miss Graves, and a considerable part of \that of Mr. Aldrich
and Mr. Carrington, has been used in measuring and reducing the
Mount Wilson bolographic data. This work is heavier than for-
merly, as it now includes the tower-telescope observations on the dis-
tribution of brightness along the sun’s diameter. These are now
made at seven different wave lengths of the spectrum on each day
that solar-constant measurements are secured. Owing to the de-
mands of the Mount Wilson work, Mr. Fowle has devoted but little
time to his research on the transmission of long-wave rays in air
containing water vapor.

The instrument maker, Mr. Kramer, was occupied mainly on the
construction of sky-radiation apparatus, and on many improvements
for the Mount Wilson tower telescope.

AT MOUNT WILSON.

Observations by Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich were continued at
Mount Wilson from July to about November 1, 1914, and were begun
again about June 1,1915. Asin former years measurements of solar
radiation were made on every favorable day, with the purpose of
following the course of the solar variation. On each day of observa-
tion the distribution of brightness along the diameter of the solar
image of the tower telescope was also observed at seven different
wave lengths.

AT OMAHA.

As stated in last year’s report, Mr. Aldrich, in cooperation with
Dr. Blair and other representatives of the United States Weather
Bureau, made sounding-balloon experiments at Omaha early in
July, 1914. Three flights with automatic recording pyrheliometers
were made on July 1, 9, and 11, respectively. The first was made at
night, with electric lamps for recording, as a test of certain antici-
pated sources of error. In the second flight the instrument was
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

much damaged when landing and remained a great while undis-
covered, so that the record was quite spoiled. Apparently, too, the
clockwork had stopped before reaching a very great elevation. _The
third flight was highly successful.

‘ RESULTS OF BALLOON PYRHELIOMETRY.

A complete account of the balloon pyrheliometers, the circum-
stances of the flights, and the results obtained has been published in
a paper by Messrs. Abbot, Fowle, and Aldrich, entitled, “ New Evi-
dence on the Intensity of Solar Radiation Outside the Atmosphere ”
(Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 65, No. 4, 1915). The
following is a summary of the principal results:

In the flight of July 11, 1915, the balloons reached an elevation of
approximately 25,000 meters, or 81,000 feet. The pressure of the air
remaining above the instrument was approximately 8 centimeters, or
1.25 inches of mercury, about one twenty-fifth of the barometric
pressure at sea level. Seven readable measurements of solar radia-
tion were recorded at various levels. Of these the three near highest
elevation were the best. Their mean gives a value of 1.84 calories
per square centimeter per minute, as the intensity of solar radiation
at mean solar distance, at noon on July 11, at the altitude of about
22,000 meters, or 72,000 feet. It appears reasonable to add about
2 per cent for the quantity of solar radiation absorbed and scattered
by the air above the instrument. This gives 1.88 calories as a value
of the solar radiation outside the atmosphere, on this day, according
to the balloon pyrheliometry. Unfortunately no solar-radiation
measurements were secured on Mount Wilson on July 11, but the
result falls well within the range of values for the solar constant of
radiation which have been obtained by the bolometric method at
various stations, and compares well with the mean of these values,
1.93 calories.

UNIFORMITY OF ATMOSPHERIC TRANSMISSION AT MOUNT WILSON.

In solar-constant measurements on Mount Wilson the atmospheric
transmission for vertical rays is determined in the following man-
ner for numerous spectrum wave lengths:

Spectrobolographic observations are made at different zenith dis-
tances of the sun, usually between 75° and 30°. Between these
limits the length of the path of the rays within the atmosphere is
proportional to the secant of the zenith distance. Knowing the
length of path and the intensity of the transmitted rays, the co-
efficient of transmission for any ray is readily computed. In this
determination it is assumed that the atmosphere remains unchanged
in transparency during the whole period of observation. Several

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

critics have objected against the Mount Wilson measurements that
a progressive decrease of transparency occurs during the morning
hours, and especially during the period ordinarily used in our ob-
servations, so that our estimates of atmospheric transmission are
in their view too high, and our solar-constant values too low in con-
sequence. Jt has been suggested by one critic that the period during
which the zenith distance of the sun changes from 85° to 75° would
be more suitable for the work.

To test this matter, observations were begun at sunrise on Septem-
ber 20 and 21, 1914, and continued until 10 o’clock, the usual clos-
ing time. These days were exceptionally clear and very dry, and
seemed well suited to give excellent solar-constant values. The
conditions of experiment, discussion of observations, and results are
given in full in the paper by Abbot, Fowle, and Aldrich above cited.
The principal results are these: No considerable difference in trans-
mission coefficients appeared whether these were based on the whole
morning’s observations, on the range of air masses usually employed,
or on the range recommended by the critic above mentioned. Six
solar-constant values were derived for the two days, based on these
three different treatments of the data. All six values fall between
1.90 and 1.95 calories per square centimeter per minute, in good
agreement with values obtained as usual on other days. The ex-
periments confirm the view that the atmospheric transparency above
Mount Wilson is sufficiently uniform for the purposes of solar-
constant investigations.

LONG-PERIOD VARIATION OF THE SUN.

In the year 1913 the solar activity, as judged by the prevalence of
sun spots, was less than at any time for about a century. The mean
of all solar-constant values obtained at Mount Wilson from July to
October, 1913, inclusive, was 1.885 calories per square centimeter per
minute. This value falls 2.5 per cent below the mean value for the
years 1905 to 1912, which was 1.933 calories.

Beginning September 9, 1913, observations of the distribution of
radiation along the diameter of the solar disk were secured on about
45 days of September, October, and November. These showed that
the increase (or contrast) of brightness of the center of the sun’s
disk over that which prevails near the edge was less than that which
was found from Washington observations of the years 1905 to 1907.

In the year 1914 the solar activity became distinctly greater than
in 1918. The number of spots, to be sure, was not great, but other
phenomena joined in showing that the period of maximum sun spots
was about to come. The mean of all solar-constant values obtained
at Mount Wilson from June to October, inclusive, was 1.950 calories.

e
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

This value is 3.5 per cent above that of 1913 and 1 per cent above
the mean for former years. Indications are that the value for 1915
will also fall very high.

The contrast of brightness between the center and edges of the
solar disk was greater in 1914 than in 1913, and, in fact, almost as
great as was found from Washington work of 1905 to 1907.

These facts confirm the result derived from earlier observations,
namely, the solar emission of radiation varies along with the solar
activity as revealed by sun spots and other phenomena. Higher
values of solar radiation prevail at times of greater solar activity, as
expressed by sun spots. The connection does not, however, appear
to be a strictly numerical one between solar radiation and sun spot
numbers. In the return of solar activity presaged in 1914 the solar
radiation rose almost to its maximum value before the number of
sun spots had greatly increased. Associated with these changes,
greater contrast of brightness between the center and edges of the
solar disk prevails when the solar activity is greater.

SHORT-PERIOD VARIATION OF THE SUN.

In the year 1913, as in former years, considerable fluctuations of
the solar-constant values occurred from day to day. The values
found ranged over nearly 10 per cent between the extreme limits 1.81
and 1.99 calories, but seldom more than 38 per cent in any 10-day
interval. The periods of fluctuation were irregular, as heretofore.
Associated with these fluctuations, though perhaps not strictly con-
nected numerically, the contrast of brightness between center and
edges of the solar disk also varied. Curiously enough, however, the
correlation between solar-constant values and contrast values proves
to be of opposite sign for these short irregular fluctuations to that
which attends the long-period changes which are associated with the
general solar activity. In other words, in the progress of the sun
spot cycle high solar-constant values and increased contrast between
center and edges of the solar disk are associated together with numer-
ous sun spots, but for the short irregular period fluctuations of solar
radiation, higher solar-constant values are associated with diminished
contrast of brightness along the diameter of the solar disk. The year
1914 was singularly free from large fluctuations of solar radiation.
The extreme range of solar-constant values was only 4 per cent be-
tween limits 1.91 and 1.99 calories. Accordingly the year was not
very favorable for testing the relation just described. Nevertheless,
the results tend to confirm rather than disprove the conclusion
reached that for short, irregular fluctuations of the solar radiation
high values are associated with less contrast of brightness between the
center and edges of the sun.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

The somewhat paradoxical conclusions above stated seem capable
of explanation as follows: Associated with the great increase of
solar activity attending the maximum of the sun spot cycle, increased
convection is continually bringing fresh hot material to the sun’s
surface, so that the effective solar temperature is then higher, and
greater emission of radiation prevails. At such a time the contrast,
which would be zero if the solar temperature were zero, is naturally
also increased. As for the quick, irregular fluctuations, it must be
supposed that the sun’s outer envelope hinders somewhat the passage
of radiation from within outward. This hindrance is greater at the
edges of the sun’s disk, where the path of the rays in the line of
sight is oblique, than it is at the center of the sun’s disk. Suppose
now that the obstructive property of these layers varies from day to
day. When their transparency is increased the solar radiation must
increase; but as the effect will be most conspicuous at the edge of the
solar disk, where the path of the rays is longest, the contrast of
brightness between center and limb must thereby decrease.

Two kinds of causes may, therefore, contribute to the sun’s vari-
ability. The one, a change of effective temperature attending the
general march of solar activity, may cause the variability of long
period. The other, a change of. opacity of the outer solar layers,
may cause the variability of short irregular period.

SUMMARY.

Successful records of the intensity of solar radiation up to 25,000
meters were secured by means of automatic recording pyrhelio-
meters attached to sounding balloons. The mean of the three highest
values reduced to mean solar distance is 1.84 calories per square
centimeter per minute. Making 2 per cent allowance for scattering
and absorption in the air above (which gave a barometric pressure
only about one twenty-fifth of that at sea level), the value 1.88
calories is obtained as the probable intensity of solar radiation out-
side the atmosphere at mean solar distance on this day. This value
falls near the mean of numerous values obtained by spectrobolo-
metric observations on Mount Wilson.

Experiments begun at sunrise and continued until 10 o’clock on
September 20 and 21, 1914, indicate great constancy of transparency
of the atmosphere above Mount Wilson, and yield solar-constant
values independent of the altitude of the sun. These results con-
firm the substantial accuracy of the Mount Wilson observations of
the solar constant of radiation.

The radiation of the sun was 2.5 per cent below the mean, accord-
ing to the average of observations extending from July to October,
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

1913, inclusive, and 1 per cent above the mean from similar studies
extending from June to October, 1914, inclusive. A high average
value for 1915 is indicated.

The contrast of brightness between the center and edges of the
solar disk was less in 1913 than in 1905 to 1907, but was restored to
the earlier condition in 1914.

Short-period fluctuations of solar radiation were large in 1913,
but small in 1914. Associated with these quick, irregular fluctua-
tions are found variations of contrast of brightness between the
center and edges of the solar disk. Curiously enough, while greater
contrast is associated with greater solar radiation and with numerous
sun spots in the general march of the sun’s activity, lesser contrast
is associated with greater solar radiation in the march of the quick,
irregular fluctuations of the sun’s emission.

This paradox points to two causes of solar variation—the long-
period changes may probably be caused by changes of the sun’s
effective temperature attending the march of solar activity; the
quick fluctuations may be ascribed to changes of the transparency
of the outer solar envelopes.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Apgor,
Director Astrophysical Observatory.
Dr. C. D. Waxcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 6,
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report upon the
operations of the library of the Smithsonian Institution and its
branches for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1915:

In common with other libraries of the world, the Smithsonian
library has had to confront a serious situation during the last year.
This was the difficulty experienced in the securing of current parts
and the completing of sets of the publications of learned institutions
and scientific societies that have been received from Kuropean sources
for many years. Some of these series have ceased publication, others
have been published with fewer pages and in smaller editions, while
still others have been issued but not forwarded, all due largely to
the military service required of the contributors and publishers at
this time at the front and the risk involved in transportation. Not-
withstanding these conditions, the efforts to keep the library ex-
changes alive have been continued with marked success.

ACCESSIONS.

During the fiscal year a total of 26,928 packages of publications
were received, of which 25,097 came through the mails and 1,831
through the International Exchange Service. The correspondence
necessary in connection with these receipts numbered about 1,400
letters, requesting publications and acknowledging them, and 5,148
acknowledgments on the regular form.

The publications for the Smithsonian library were entered, acces-
sioned, and forwarded to the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of
Congress each day as received, numbering in all 24,718 publications,
as follows: 3,043 volumes, 1,179 parts of volumes, 1,763 pamphlets,
17,410 periodicals, 594 charts, and 724 parts of serials to complete
sets. The numbers in the accession record run from 517,777 to 521,616.
There were catalogued during the year 3,451 publications, of which
1,000 were charts. Four thousand one hundred and twenty-two
volumes were recatalogued from the old records and entered in the
new catalogue. The cards typewritten and filed in the catalogue

numbered 4,038.
91
992 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

The sending to the Library of Congress of public documents pre-
sented to the Smithsonian Institution, without stamping and record-
ing, has been continued, and 4,675 were forwarded in this way.

The accessions for the office library, which includes the Astro-
physical Observatory and the National Zoological Park, numbered
561 publications, distributed as follows: 3851 volumes, 35 parts of
volumes, and 40 pamphlets, for the office library; 72 volumes, 11
parts of volumes and 25 pamphlets for the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, and 21 volumes and 6 pamphlets for the National Zoological
Park.

Complete sets of inaugural dissertations and technological publica-
tions from 12 universities and technical high schools were received
from the following places: Baltimore, Basel, Copenhagen, Delft,
Ithaca, Lund, Paris, Philadelphia, Toulouse, and Ziirich.

EXCHANGES.

The sendings from Europe have been restricted compared with
those of former years, but there has been no cessation in the efforts
to secure new exchanges and missing parts in the series, and many
have been received. The new series added to the library numbered 48,
and all of the 887 want cards for the series searched in the Library of
Congress were considered and some action taken on each at the
Smithsonian Institution, with the result that 82 sets of publications
of learned institutions and scientific societies in the Smithsonian
division were entirely or partially completed by the supplying of 460
parts; in the same way 254 parts of 48 sets were supplied to the
periodical division, and for the part of the deposit in the general
classification 10 parts of 4 sets.

Among the more important of these series secured for the Smith-
sonian library may be cited the following:

Australia:

Sydney, New South Wales.—Royal Anthropological Society of Australasia.

Science of Man.
Belgium :

Brussels.—Académie Royale de Belgique. Bulletin, Classe des lettres.
Association des industriels de Belgique pour l'étude et la propagation
des engins et mésures propres 4 préserver les ouvriers des accidents du
travail. Rapport.

St. Nicholas.—Cercle archéologique du pays de Waes. Annales.

England:

London.—Agricultural Economist and Horticultural Review.

Royal Geographical Society. Geographical Journal.

Birmingham.—Birmingham Natural History and Microscopical Society.
Report.

France:
Nice.—Association Procincials des architectes francais. Bulletin.
Paris.—Société Francaise de Physique. Résumé des communications.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

Germany:
Berlin.—Berliner Missionsgesellschaft. Berliner Missions-Berichte. -
Deutscher Fischerei-Verein. Zeitschrift fuer Fischerei.
Darmstadt.—Historischer Verein fuer das Grossherzogthum Hessen.
Quartalblitter.
Dresden.—K. Oeffentliche Bibliothek. Papyrus-Fragment aus der Kgl.
Oeff. Bibliothek zu Dresden.
Munich.—K. Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen,
Denkschriften Gelehrte Anzeiger Sitzungsberichte.
India:
Caleutta.—Medical and Sanitary Departments of India. Scientific Memoirs
by the Officers of the Medical and Sanitary Departments.
Italy :
Florence.—Societa Botanica Italiana. Bullettino.
Siam:
Bangkok.—Siam Society. Journal.

The exchange of publications with historical societies in this coun-
try and abroad has been continued, resulting in many additions both
in the form of new exchanges and the supplying of missing parts.

READING ROOM.

In the reading room the current foreign and domestic scientific
periodicals have been in constant use by the staff and the members
of the scientific bureaus of the governmental establishments in Wash-
ington, and there are now 294 titles on the shelves. Three thousand
five hundred and three publications from the reading and reference
rooms were circulated during the year. Of these 3,161 were single
numbers of periodicals, and 342 were bound volumes.

THE AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY.

One of the important collections of reference works at the In-
stitution is that relating to aeronautics, and is, in all probability,
the most complete series on this subject in the United States. The
collection had its origin with Secretary Langley when he was carry-
ing on his aeronautical experiments, at which time he was able to
secure many early works that can not now be purchased.

One of the chief contributors during the year was Dr. Alexander
Graham Bell, a Regent of the Institution, whose gift consists of his
working library on the subject, numbering 46 volumes, and another
series of 153 volumes of newspaper clippings relating to the im-
portant period when the Wright brothers were making their initial
flights.

The additions to the collection during the year, including those
from Dr. Bell, were 256.
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.
ART ROOM.

Mrs. Charles D. Walcott has added to the collection of works on —
art an exceptionally valuable loan, consisting of nine magnificent
volumes on Japanese art, fully illustrated in color. Mrs. Walcott
has also deposited the architectural publications, numbering 394
volumes, and parts of serial publications which formed the library of
her brother, George Vaux, an architect of prominence in the city of
Philadelphia.

EMPLOYEES’ LIBRARY.

The employees’ library has also received a contribution from Mrs.
Walcott by the deposit of a collection of popular works, numbering
145 volumes.

NEW STEEL STACKS.

The work on the new steel stacks for the books belonging to the
libraries of the Government bureaus under the Smithsonian Institu-
tion has been continued, and at the close of the year this work is
nearly completed. With the passage of the appropriation bills in
August, 1914, the additional sum of $10,000 became available, and
immediately an order was issued for the erection of as much of the
second half of the stacks in the west end of the main hall as the
money available would permit. Those in the east end were completed
in August, and the moving of the library of the Bureau of American
Ethnology to its new quarters was accomplished within a very short
time. The old wooden galleries in the west end were then removed,
and this part of the hall was turned over to the contractors for the
erection of stacks. Congress having appropriated an additional sum
of $6,500 during the last session, the steel stacks were practically
finished at the close of the year.

The libraries of the Government bureaus under the Institution have
heretofore been cared for in the bureau offices and wherever there was
space for shelving. Proper classification and arrangement were im-
possible, owing to lack of space, and much time was lost in looking for
references. The new stacks have a capacity of 100,000 volumes, and
make it possible for the first time to bring all publications relating to
one subject together, so that each is available for consultation.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

It seems desirable, after a period of a third of a century, to briefly
review the growth and progress that have been made in the Museum
library. The formation of a working library in the National
Museum in 1881 was largely due to the increased activity in investi-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

gations and the need of reference works for the curators in their
study of the collections which were moved from the Smithsonian
Building to the separate building erected for the Museum.

A nucleus was begun in the northwest corner of the Museum build-
ing with a collection of publications for the most part made up of
standard zoological and industrial works and bound pamplets, com-
posing the library of Spencer Fullerton Baird, second Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, which he had presented to the Museum.
The Library has grown steadily until it now occupies not only the old
rooms, but additional larger quarters in the new building as well as
space for the special libraries in the various sections. Within a year
after the first books had been brought together there were 5,450
volumes and 4,750 pamphlets; in all, 10,200 publications. Now, in
the thirty-fifth year of its existence, there are 45,818 bound volumes,
76,295 pamphlets, forming a collection of 122,113 titles, from which
the duplicates have been removed.

The system of arrangement has been modified to some extent, but
the plan upon which the Museum library was organized has been
continued, in that the general library has retained all books treating
of more than one subject, such as periodicals, proceedings of socit-
ties, dictionaries, and encyclopedias, together with such monographs
as are not constantly needed in the sectional libraries; and the sec-
tional libraries have had assigned to them only those publications
which relate to the work of, the department or division. <A little more
than a year ago the general library and works relating to anthro-
pology, biology, and geology were moved to new quarters in the
new building, where up-to-date facilities for the consultation of
publications have been provided.

This left the old rooms where the library had had its inception
free, and the space thus made vacant is now being used for the
accumulation of another collection of works of reference of equal
importance relating to history and the collections of arts and indus-
tries of a technical nature, which are being developed in the older
Museum Building. While this hbrary has but recently been started,
the indications are that it will have a growth equal to that of the
parent library, and it promises to become one of the most important
technical series of publications in the country.

The establishment of sectional libraries of special reference works
bearing on the collections has been of importance to the curators,
and the number has been increased in proportion to the growth of
the Museum. Beginning with 8 in 1881, there are now 33 collections
of publications on special subjects.

Considering the ways and means for adding to the library in the
early days, its growth has been remarkable. The library for the first
18 years was dependent largely for its increase upon the exchange
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

of the publications of the Museum descriptive of its collections in
the various fields of science. This plan for increasing the library was
very successful, but it did not provide books of reference, in part
published at a loss, which could only be secured by purchase. In
1898 an appropriation of $2,000 was made by Congress for the pur-
chase of such books, but this sum was barely adequate then, and
while the appropriation has been continued, it has not been in-
creased. This lack of sufficient funds will be more keenly felt in the
very near future, owing to the present conditions in Europe and the
inability of the scientific societies and institutions abroad to supply
even exchange copies.

ACCESSIONS.

The Museum library now contains 45,818 volumes, 76,295 pam-
phlets and unbound papers, and 124 manuscripts. The accessions
during the year covered by this report number 2,209 volumes, 2,530
pamphlets, and 183 parts of volumes.

CATALOGUING.

The books catalogued number 1,550, pamphlets 2,530, and the
total number of cards made 4,664; completed volumes of periodicals
catalogued, 756; parts of publications, 183; parts of periodicals,
9,805; new periodical cards made, 389.

The old catalogue of the Museum library was entered on cards
of about twice the size of the standard card now in use without suffi-
cient information for the proper identification of the publication.
For a number of years the recataloguing of these publications on
standard cards has been carried on as the other work permitted until
at the present time only the publications in the sectional libraries
remain. With the continued increase in the work it is hardly pos-
sible to do more than recatalogue 100 volumes in a year, but with ad-
ditional help this work could be completed at once, and would be of
great value to the Museum in connection with reference work.

EXCHANGES.

The existing conditions in Europe have interfered to some extent
with the securing of new exchanges as well as with the receipt of
publications which have been coming for many years. In the matter
of exchanges and the securing of publications needed to complete
the series 297 letters were written, with the result that many new
titles of publications issued in series were added to those already
coming. The receipts of publications from abroad have been de-
layed, and in many cases the institutions and societies are holding the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97

sets and series until it will be safe to transmit them. Also, for
economic reasons, only limited editions with fewer pages are issued,
which gives a special value to those received.

LOANS.

The use of the library has been largely by the scientific staff of
the Museum, but other departments of the Government, particu-
larly the Department of Agriculture, have availed themselves of the
opportunity of consulting the publications relating to the various
branches of science. During the year the loans from the general
library numbered 12,492 publications, which includes 5,272 books
assigned to the sectional libraries, 3,020 books borrowed from the
Library of Congress, 111 from the Department of Agriculture
library, 72 from the United States Geological Survey, 44 from the
Army Medical Museum and Library, and 13 from other places. Irom
the Museum shelves there were borrowed 3,960 volumes.

One of the important matters considered during the latter part
of the year was the return of books that had been borrowed from
the Library of Congress on the older records, and while only the
charges for books coming under the first three letters of the alphabet
were acted upon, the indications are that those running back as far
as 1876 will be cleared up. During the year 3,487 books were re-
turned to the Library of Congress and 294 to other libraries.

BINDING.

The binding of volumes received in separate parts is still a serious
matter, and it is hoped that some provision can be made at an early
date, so that all of them may be bound. To cite an instance, there are
now in the technical series of recently catalogued works over 100
volumes that should be bound at once, in order that they may be
preserved intact.

There were 812 volumes prepared for binding and sent to the Gov-
ernment bindery.

GIFTS.

Gifts of importance have been received from the following per-
sons: Dr, Charles Doolittle Walcott, Mrs. Richard Rathbun, Dr.
William Healey Dall, Dr. Oliver Perry Hay, Dr. Charles W. Rich-
mond, Mr. George C. Maynard, Dr. Robert W. Shufeldt, Mr. Austin
Hobart Clark, Mr. Robert Ridgway, Dr. Joseph Nelson Rose, Dr.
I. M. Casanowicz, Mr, William R. Maxon, and also the library of
the late Dr. Theodore Nicholas Gill has been presented by Mr.
Herbert A. Gill.

18618°—sm 1915——7
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

DALL COLLECTION.

Dr. William Healey Dall contributed 162 titles, at a cost of about
$60, as additions to the collection of books relating to mollusks which
has been brought together by him as curator of that division, as a
reference library. These and the publications previously received
now number approximately 7,662 titles.

BOTANICAL LIBRARY.

A large collection of botanical books, the property of Dr. Edward
L. Greene, which had been on deposit in the United States National
Museum since 1904, was withdrawn during the year as it was imprac-
ticable to secure the sum of $20,000 required for their purchase.

TECHNOLOGICAL SERIES.

Tn this branch of the library, which has only recently been formed,
and which is cared for in the older Museum Building, special efforts
have been made to put the classes of publications in more conven-
ient places and to make them more accessible for consultation. Those
relating to music, ceramics, photography, and botany have been
critically examined, recatalogued, and put in order on the shelves.
Those of the following classes have not as yet been considered: Art
and architecture, physics, chemistry, history, literature, sociology and
economy, and political science.

This branch of the library is very deficient in general reference
books, such as an exhaustive encyclopedic work, technical diction-
aries, and dictionaries of some of the foreign languages, and while
a few of these works can be purchased during the present year, there
will not be money available to secure them all.

The additions to this part of the library numbered 1,061 volumes,
3,973 parts of volumes, and 2,631 pamphlets and 4 maps.

The cataloguing for the year numbered 660 volumes, 1,181 pam-
phlets, and 4 maps, requiring 1,406 cards. The number of periodicals
entered on the records were 801 volumes and 6,253 parts of volumes.
Special efforts have been made to catalogue the entire collection in
the library, and until this is completed the record for cataloguing
will not cover the receipts. Books and pamphlets loaned during the
year, in addition to those from the general library, numbered 258
volumes and 346 pamphlets, while there were consulted in the read-
ing room about 520 publications. In addition to the work on the
catalogue, about 800 volumes and 7,000 pamphlets and parts of
volumes were filed on the shelves, to be added to the records later.

In the scientific depository set of printed cards from the Library
of Congress about 30,000 were filed alphabetically by authors. This
index will be of great value when the subject cards are included, as
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99

it will then contain a complete reference list of publications available
on all subjects considered in the Museum.

SECTIONAL LIBRARIES.

While progress has been made in the revision of the records for
reference publications which are permanently deposited in the sec-
tional libraries it has not been possible to carry the systematic check-
ing very far, and my recommendation of last year that a competent
cataloguer be employed to do this special work is renewed. While
this condition is largely due to the overcrowded condition of the
library for so many years, it is essential to the work of the Museum
that the sectional libraries should be in perfect order and that the
records in the main hbrary should be complete.

The following is a complete list of the sectional libraries:

Administration. Materia medica.
Administrative assistant’s office. Mechanical technology.
Anthropology. Mesozoic fossils.
Biology. Mineralogy.

Birds. Mineral technology.
Botany. Mollusks.

Comparative anatomy. | Oriental archeology.
Editor’s office. Paleobotany.

Ethnology. Parasites.

Fishes. Photography.

Geology. Physical anthropology.
Graphic arts. Prehistorie archeology.
History. ’ | Reptiles and batrachians.
Insects. Superintendent’s office.
Invertebrate paleontology. Taxidermy.

Mammals. Textiles.

Marine invertebrates. Vertebrate paleontology.

BUREAU QF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

This library is administered under the direct care of the ethnolo-
gist-in-charge, and an account of its operations will be found in the
report of that bureau.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Publications relating to astrophysics have been assembled in the
bookcases just completed in the east end of the main hall of the
Smithsonian Building. This situation is convenient to the observa-
tory, and the new facilities make it possible for the first time to
properly classify this library. During the year there were added
72 volumes, 11 parts of volumes, and 25 pamphlets. Fifty-five vol-
umes were bound.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

This library contains publications relating to the work of the park
in the care of the animals, reports of other zoological parks, and a
few works on landscape gardening. The number of publications
received was very small as compared with the previous year, and this
may be due to the fact that none of' the parks abroad, except that
at Gizeh, Egypt, issued any publications. During the year there
were received 21 volumes and 6 pamphlets.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The following statement summarizes the accessions during the
year, with the exception of the library of the Bureau of American
Ethnology:

.

To the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, including parts to

completé: “‘seteiisi Sh tReet ese See See ee Se eee 7, 808

To the Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, and National Zoo-
logicalwPark=—25 2 > Secheelass See See a ee ee ee oe ee 560
MouthesUnited States sNational Museum] == === eee 4, 922
TMotaliz ees) sos ee ee eee ea ee 12, 785

Respectfully submitted.
Pavuut BrocKert,
Assistant Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue
of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1915:

This international cooperative enterprise has since 1901 published
annual classified index catalogues of the current scientific literature
of the world. The following-named branches of science are repre-
sented each year by a separate volume: Mathematics, mechanics,
physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteorology, mineralogy, geology,
geography, paleontology, general biology, botany, zoology, anatomy,
anthropology, physiology, and bacteriology.

All of the first 10 annual issues of 17 volumes each have been pub-
lished, together with 15 volumes of the eleventh issue, 9 volumes of
the twelfth issue, and 2 volumes of the thirteenth issue; a total of
196 regular volumes in addition to several special volumes of
schedules, list of journals, ete.

The 15 volumes of the eleventh issue published are mathematics,
mechanics, physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteorology, mineralogy,
geology, geography, paleontology, general biology, botany, zoology,
anatomy, and anthropology.

The nine volumes of the twelfth issue published are mathematics,
mechanics, physics, chemistry, astronomy, geography, paleontology,
general biology, and zoology.

The two volumes of the thirteenth issue published are mathematics
and zoology.

During the year there were 26,413 classified references to American
scientific literature prepared by this bureau, as follows:

Literature of—

TKO (VG Ne A Se ieee ae Fat tas Fe 10
AQ TIRE Peer atet 6ST va Ped ES _ RE 19
DQ Sie tite Ver ITE IE Oe Nee 192
1909) see DOE) (PE Sy oF ees In 195
AQT OAL Se AUS ATE SEIT eI eee 348
TOM ee Pies TSO) BLT Soe tc) ee 1, 358
tN OT a ee ee FN i = a} oll
POMS anaes aera ee ete ee, ee 8, 394
AS ic Sypeeecctn os 5h  srl la ae ROR liae  oop 12, 386

Totalss 2 ae ee ee ee ee ee 26, 413

101
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

The object of the catalogue is not only to publish references by
authors to current scientific literature, but also to supply practically
a digest of the subject contents of each paper by means of minutely
classified subject catalogues. The elaborate classification schedules
used render it possible to refer to all subjects treated in each paper
indexed.

It is the duty of this Bureau of the International Catalogue to
analyze and classify the contents of all scientific papers published
in the United States. An idea of the extent of the work may be
gained from the fact that between 25,000 and 30,000 citations are
sent each year to the London central bureau for publication, the
subjects classified covering all branches of science. In this day of
specialization it is not possible for one or two individuals to have a
thorough knowledge of all the sciences, and as economy of adminis-
tration would not warrant the employment of, say, a dozen special-
ists, it was the practice for a number of years to refer some of the
more technical papers to specialists for classification. These special-
ists, being employees of the various scientific branches of the Goy-
ernment in Washington, have, while not engaged in their official
duties, aided*the catalogue by furnishing the classification data
required. Payments averaged approximately $600 per year, divided
among five or six individuals. It may be said that while the
specialists were willing to aid in this important international under-
taking for a comparatively nominal compensation, the catalogue was
benefited to a very great extent, for each citation furnished was the
equivalent of a specialist’s decision as to the value and application
of the scientific subject of each paper classified. This method of
compensating employees of other scientific bureaus of the Govern-
ment was decided on in 1905 after a conference between the disburs-
ing agent of the Smithsonian Institution and the then Comptroller
of the Treasury.

The present Comptroller of the Treasury does not agree on this
subject with the former comptroller, and in a letter dated February
4, 1914, referring to a number of similar payments stated:

I am of the opinion that the payments in question come within the prohibi-
tion of sections 1764 and 1765, Revised Statutes, and were not authorized by
law. In view of the fact that this office, in letters dated October 24, 1905,
and February 15, 1906, sanctioned the payments to employees of other bureaus
and departments, which seems to have been construed to sanction the payment
for both classes, no disallowance will be made in the present settlement, but
payments made subsequent to the date of this decision will not be allowed.

This decision has greatly embarrassed the work of the bureau, and
it is hoped that Congress will so change the wording of future appro-
priations for the maintenance of the bureau as to authorize payments
of this character being made.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103

The general organization of the International Catalogue of Scien-
tific Literature consists of a central bureau in London whose duty
it is to assemble, edit, and publish classified references to current
scientific literature supplied by the various regional bureaus repre-
senting the cooperating countries. The following named countries
have established regional bureaus, supported in most cases by direct
Government grants: Argentine Republic, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Chile, Cuba, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Holland, Hungary, India and Ceylon, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New
South Wales, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Queensland,
Russia, South Africa, South Australia, Spain, Straits “Settlements,
Sweden, Switzerland, United States of America, Victoria and Tas-
mania, and Western Australia.

The present war in Europe has seriously interfered not only with
the finances but with the general work of the catalogue. Before
hostilities began the receipts and expenditures of the London cen-
tral bureau just balanced. These receipts are derived from the sale
of the catalogue to the various subscribers throughout the world
and are used entirely to defray the cost of printing and publishing.

Subscriptions aggregating almost $6,000 a year, due from five of
the countries engaged in hostilities, have been either delayed or
stopped by the war. The Royal Society of London, realizing that
it would be impossible for the central bureau to continue publishing
the catalogue in the face of this deficit, has very generously made
a grant of a sum almost sufficient to cover the deficit caused by the
first year of the war. It may be said that the Royal Society has
not only stood sponsor for the catalogue since its inception, but it
was through the good offices of this society that the enterprise was
begun. It is greatly to be hoped that this action of the Royal
Society will stimulate similar institutions in the United States to
aid in making up the annual deficit until a readjustment of the
affairs of the bureaus affected can be made after peace has been
declared.

Very respectfully, yours,
Lronarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuarues D. Watcort,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8.
* REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the
year ending June 30, 1915:

The Institution proper published during the year 14 papers in the
series of “Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,” two annual re-
ports, pamphlet copies of 68 papers from the general appendices of
these reports, and 8 special publications. The Bureau of American
Ethnology published 2 bulletins and 3 miscellaneous publications,
and the United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 1
volume of the Proceedings, and 41 separate papers forming parts of
this and other volumes, 6 bulletins, and 1 volume pertaining to the
National Herbarium.

The total number of copies of publications distributed by the In-
stitution proper during the year was 77,710. This number includes
620 volumes and separate memoirs of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 30,058 volumes and separate pamphlets of Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, 30,909 volumes and separate pamphlets of
Smithsonian annual reports, 10,185 publications of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, 5,424 special publications, 86 volumes of the
Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 121 reports of the Harri-
man Alaska Expedition, 245 reports of the American Historical
Association, 5 publications of the United States National Museum,
and 108 publications not of the Smithsonian or its branches. There
were distributed by the National Museum 54,300 copies of its several
series of publications, making a total of 182,010 publications dis-
tributed by the Institution and its branches during the year.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.
QUARTO,
No publications of this series were issued during the year.
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.
OCTAVO.

Of the Miscellaneous Collections, volume 57, the title-page and
table of contents was published; of volume 62, 1 paper; of volume 63,
104

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

4 papers and title-page and table of contents; of volume 64, 1 paper;
and of volume 65, 8 papers; in all, 14 papers, as follows:

Volume 57.
Title-page and table of contents. July 31, 1914. (Publ. 2270.)
Volume 62.

No. 8. Report on European aeronautical lavoratories. By A. F. Zahm. July 27,
1914. 23 pp., 11 pls. (Publ. 2278.)

Volume 63.

No. 6G. Smithsonian Physical Tables. Sixth revised edition. By F. E. Fowle.
November 10, 1914. xxxvi+355 pp. (Publ. 2269.)

No. 8. Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1913.
November 27, 1914. 88 pp. (Publ. 2275.)

No.9. The olfactory sense of insects. By N. E. McIndoo. November 21, 1914.
63 pp. (Publ. 2315.)

No. 10. Archeology of the lower Mimbres Valley, N. Mex. By J. Walter Fewkes.
December 18, 1914. 53 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 2316.)

Title-page and table of contents. January 30, 1915. v pp. (Publ. 2320.)

Volume 64.

No. 2. Cambrian geology and paleontology. III. Pre-Cambrian Algonkian algal
flora. By Charles D. Walcott. July 22, 1914. Pp. 77-156, pls. 4-23.
(Publis 2274.)

Volume 65.

No.1. The present distribution of the Onychophora, a group of terrestrial in-
vertebrates. By Austin H. Clark. January 4, 1915. 25 pp. (Publ.
2319.)
. The development of the lungs of the alligator. By A. M. Reese. March 3,
1915. 11 pp.,9 pls. (Publ. 2356.)
No.3. A study of the radiation of the atmosphere. By Anders K. Angstrém.
Hodgkins fund. 159 pp. (Publ. 2854.) In press.

No. 4. New evidence on the intensity of the solar radiation outside the atmos-
phere. By C. G. Abbot, F. E. Fowle, and L. B. Aldrich. Hodgkins
fund. June 19, 1915. 55 pp. (Publ. 2361.)

No. 5. The microspectroscope in mineralogy. By Edgar T. Wherry. April 7,
1915. 16 pp. (Publ. 2362.)

No. 6. Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1914. June
30, 1915. 95 pp. 1 pl. (Publ. 2363.) ;

No. 7. Two new sedges from the southwestern United States. By Kenneth K.
Mackenzie. April 9, 1915. 3 pp. (Publ. 2364.)

No. 8. Report upon a collection of ferns from western South America. By Wil-
liam R. Maxon. May 8, 1915. 12 pp. (Publ. 2366.)

A,
9
bo

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.
Report for 1913.

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1913 was received
from the Public Printer in completed form in December, 1914.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1918. xi+804 pp., 169 pls. (Publ. 2277.)
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Small editions of the following papers, forming the general appen-
dix of the annual report for 1918, were issued in pamphlet form:

The earth and sun as magnets, by George E. Hale. 14 pp., 8 pls. (Publ.
2278.

The Eton of the planets upon the sun, by P. Puiseux. 16 pp. (Publ. 2279.

Recent progress in astrophysics, by C. G. Abbot. 20 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 2

The earth’s magnetism, by L. A. Bauer. 18 pp., 9 pls. (Publ. 2281.)

Modern ideas on the end of the world, by Gustav Jaumann. 9 pp. (Publ.
2282.)

Recent developments in electromagnetism, by Eugene Bloch. 19 pp. (Publ.
2283.)

Wireless transmission of energy, by Elihu Thomson. 18 pp. (Publ. 2284.)

Oil films on water and on mercury, by Henri Devaux. 13 pp., 7 pls. (Publ.
2285.)

Water and voleanie activity, by Arthur L. Day and BE. 8. Shepherd. 381 pp., 11
pls. (Publ. 2286.)

Ripple marks, by Ch. Epry. 11 pp., 10 pls. (Publ. 2287.)

Notes on the geological history of the walnuts and hickories, by Edward W.
Berry. 13 pp. (Publ. 2288.)

The formation of leaf mold, by Frederick VY. Coville. 11 pp. (Publ. 2289.)

The development of orchid cultivation and its bearing upon evolutionary
theories, by J. Costantin. 14 pp. (Publ. 2290.)

The manufacture of nitrates from the atmosphere, by Ernest Kilburn Scott.
26 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 2291.)

The geologic history of China and its influence upon the Chinese people, by
Eliot Blackwelder. 12 pp., 9 pls. (Publ. 2292.)

The problems of heredity, by E. Apert. 17 pp. (Publ. 2293.)

Habits of fiddler-crabs, by A. S. Pearse. 14 pp. (Publ. 2294.)

The abalones of California, by Charles L. Edwards. 10 pp., 10 pls. (Publ.
2295.) f

The value of birds to man, by James Buckland. 20 pp. (Publ. 2296.)

Experiments in feeding hummingbirds during seven summers, by Althea R,
Sherman. 10 pp. (Publ. 2297.)

What the American Bird Banding Association has accomplished during 1912,
by Howard H. Cleaves. 11 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 2298.)

The whale fisheries of the world, by Charles Rabot. 9 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 2299.)

The most ancient skeletal remains of man, by AleS Hrdlicka. 62 pp., 41 pls.
(Publ. 2300.) ;

The redistribution of mankind, by H. N. Dickson. 17 pp. (Publ. 2501.)

The earliest forms of human habitation, and their relation to the general’
development of civilization, by M. Hoernes. 8 pp. (Publ. 2302.)

Feudalism in Persia; its origin, development, and present condition, by Jacques
de Morgan. 28 pp. (Publ. 2303.)

Shintoism and its significance, by K. Kanokogi. 9 pp. (Publ. 2304.)

The Minoan and Mycenaean element in Hellenic life, by A. J. Evans. 21 pp., 3
pls. (Publ. 2305.)

Flameless combustion, by Carleton Ellis. 14 pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 2306.)

Problems in smoke, fume, and dust abatement, by F. G. Cottrell. 33 pp., 37
pls. (Publ. 2307.)

Twenty years’ progress in marine construction, by Alexander Gracie. 21 pp.
(Publ. 2308.)

Creating a subterranean river and supplying a metropolis with mountain water,
by J. Bernard Walker and A. Russell Bond. 14 pp., 11 pls. (Publ. 2309.)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. rOZ

The application of the physiology of color vision in modern art, by Henry G.
Keller and J. J. R. Macleod. 17 pp. (Publ. 2310.)

Fundamentals of housing reform, by James Ford. 14 pp. . (Publ. 2311.)

The economic and social rdle of fashion, by Pierre Clerget. 11 pp. (Publ.
2312.)

The work of J. van’t Hoff, by G. Bruni. 238 pp. (Publ. 2313.)

Report for 191}.

The report of the executive committee and proceedings of the
Board of Regents of the Institution, as well as the report of the
Secretary, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1914, both forming
part of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress,
were published in pamphlet form in December, 1914, as follows:

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents for
the year ending June 30, 1914. 17 pp. (Publ. 2318.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1914. iii, 117 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 2317.)

Small editions of the following papers, forming the general appen-
dix of the report, were issued in June, and the complete volume was
received from the printer shortly after the close of the fiscal year:

The radiation of the sun. By C. G. Abbot. 16 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 2322.

Modern theories of the sun. By Jean Bosler. 8 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 2823.)

The form and constitution of the earth. By Louis B. Stewart. 14 pp. (Publ.
2324.)

Some remarks on logarithms apropos to their tercentenary. By M. d’Ocdgne.
DD: 2) pss | (Publ 2325.)

Modern views on the constitution of the atom. By A. S. Eve. 9 pp. (Publ.
2326. )

Gyrostats and gyrostatic action. By Andrew Gray. 16 pp., 10 pls. (Publ.
22.)

Stability of aeroplanes. By Orville Wright. 8S pp. (Publ. 2328.,

The first man-carrying aeroplane capable of sustained free flight—Langley’s
success as a pioneer in aviation. By A. F. Zahm. 6pp.,8 pls. (Publ. 2329.)

Some aspects of industrial chemistry. By-.L. H. Baekeland. 25 pp. (Publ.
2330.)

Explosives. By Edward P. O’Hern. 27 pp., 7 pls. (Publ. 2331.)

Climates of geologic time. By Charles Schuchert. 35 pp. (Publ. 2332.)

Pleochroic haloes. By J. Joly. 15 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 2333.)

The geology of the bottom of the seas. By L. de Launay. 24 pp. (Publ. 2334.)

Recent oceanographic researches. By Ch. Gravier. 10 pp. (Publ. 2335.)

The Klondike and Yukon goldfield in 1918. By H. M. Cadell. 20 pp., 6 pls.
(Publ. 2336.)

The history of the discovery of sexuality in plants. By Duncan S. Johnson.
24 pp. (Publ. 2337.)

Problems and progress in plant pathology. By L. R. Jones. 13 pp. (Publ.
2338. )

Plant autographs and their revelations. By Jagadis Chunder Bose. 23 pp.
(Publ. 2339.)

The National Zoological Park and its inhabitants. By Frank Baker. 34 pp.,
41 pls. (Publ. 2340.)
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

On the habits and behavior of the herring gull. By R. M. Strong. 31 pp., 10
pls. (Publ. 2341.)

Notes on some effeets of extreme drought in Waterberg, South Africa. By
Hugéne N. Marais. 12 pp. (Publ. 2342.)

Homeotie regeneration of the antennze in a Phasmid or walking-stick. By
H. O. Schmit-Jensen. 14 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 2343.)

Latent life: Its nature and its relations to certain theories of contemporary
biology. By Paul Becquerel. 15 pp. (Publ. 2344.)

The early inhabitants of western Asia. By Felix V. Luschan. 25 pp., 12 pls.
(Publ. 2345.)

Excavations at Abydos. By Edouard Naville. 7 pp., 3 pls. (Publ. 2346.)

An examination of Chinese bronzes. By John C. Ferguson. 6 pp., 14 pls.
(Publ. 2347.)

The role of depopulation, deforestation, and malaria in the decadence of certain
nations. By Felix Regnault. 5 pp. (Publ. 2348.)

The story of the chin. By Louis Robinson. 11 pp., 12 pls. (Publ. 2349.)

Recent developments in the art of illumination. By Preston S. Millar. 18 pp.,
3 pls. (Publ. 2350.)

The loom and spindle: Past, present, and future. By Luther Hooper. 49 pp.,
1 pissy (Publ 23512)

The demonstration play school of 1913. By Clark W. Hetherington. 29 pp.
(Publ. 2352.)

‘Sketch of the life of Eduard Suess (1831-1914). By Pierre Termier. 10 pp.
(Publ. 23853.)

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

The following special publications were issued ‘in octavo form:

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
June 30, 1914. Published August 8, 1914. 2 pp. (Publ. 2274.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
September 380, 1914. October 7, 1914. 2 pp. (Publ. 23814.) ;

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
December 31, 1914. January 23, 1915. 3 pp. (Publ. 2355.)

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution issued between January 1 and
March 31, 1915. April 17,1915. 1p. (Publ. 2865.)

Biographical sketch of James Smithson. October 380, 1914. 17 pp., 4 pls.
(Publ. 2276.)

Opinions rendered by the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature,
Opinion 66. March 8, 1915. Pp. 171-176. (Publ. 2359.)

An index to the Museum Boltenianum. By William H. Dall. March 29, 1915.
64 pp. (Publ. 2360.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report to Congress; (0) the Proceedings of the United States Na-
tional Museum; and (c) the Bulletin of the United States National
Museum, which includes the contributions from the United States
National Herbarium. The editorship of these publications is vested
in Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

During the year the Museum published an annuaf report, one
volume of the Proceedings and 41 separate papers forming parts of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

this and other volumes, 6 bulletins, and one volume of Contributions

from the National Herbarium.

The issues of the proceedings were as follows: Volume 47, papers
2052 to 2063, and the complete volume; volume 48, papers 2064 to
2091; volume 49, paper 2093; Annual Report of the United States
National Museum for 1914.

The bulletins were as follows:

Bulletin 71, A monograph of the Foraminifera of the North Pacific Ocean, Part
V, Rotaliidae. By Joseph Augustine Cushman.

Bulletin 82, A monograph of the existing Crinoids, Vol. 1, The Comatulids,
Part 1. By Austin Hobart Clark,

Bulletin 88, Revision of Paleozoic Stelleroidea, with special reference to North
American Asteroidea. By Charles Schuchert.

Bulletin 89, Osteology of the Armored Dinosauria in the United States National
Museum, with special reference to the genus Stegosaurus. By Charles Whit-
ney Gilmore.

Bulletin 90, A monograph of the molluscan fauna of the Orthaulax Pugnax
Zone of the Oligocene of Tampa, Florida. By William Healey Dall.

Special Bulletin, American hydroids, Part III, The Campanularidae and the
Bonneviellidae. By Charles Cleveland Nutting.

In the series of Contributions from the National Herbarium there

appeared volume 19, Flora of New Mexico, by E. O. Wooten and
Paul C. Standley.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed in Appendix 2 of
the Secretary’s report. The editorial work of the bureau has been
continued by Mr. J. G. Gurley, editor, who has been assisted from
time to time by Mrs. Frances 8S. Nichols.

Two bulletins and three miscellaneous publications were issued dur-
ing the year, as follows:

Bulletin 46. Byington’s Choctaw Dictionary. Hdited by John R. Swanton and

Henry 8S. Halbert. :

Bulletin 58. List of publications of the bureau.

No. 10. Circular of information regarding Indian popular names.

No. 11. Map of linguistic families of American Indians north of Mexico.

No. 12. List of Indian words denoting ‘‘ man,” prepared in placard form for use
in the Smithsonian exhibit at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.

Four annual reports and five bulletins were in press at the close
of the year.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated to Congress under the provisions
of the act of incorporation of the association.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

The annual report for 1912 was published in August, 1914. In
September, 1914, the manuscript of the 1913 report was sent to the
printer, but it was not completed at the close of the year.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the Seventeenth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution for the
year ending October 11, 1914, was communicated to Congress March
3, 1915.

THE SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND
PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication. To this committee
have been referred the manuscripts proposed for publication by the
various branches of the Institution, as well as those offered for
printing in the Smithsonian series. The committee also considered
forms of routine, blanks, and various matters pertaining to printing
and publication. Eighteen meetings were held and 109 manuscripts
were acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp Cuarx, 2'ditor.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1915.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following
report in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scientific Lit-
erature for the year ending June 30, 1915, together with balances of
previous appropriations:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 19165.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

1S (SUISSE OnE tS har el otsfoy ole oy ee ee eae $515, 169. 00
Besiduary lesacy of, Smithson, 186%_——_-_.—_ = 26, 210. 63
Depositeirom ssavingslor Income, J6Oj22= = 83S 108, 620. 37
Bequest OF James sHamilton, WSih22 222 es $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895_________ 1, 000. 00

—_—_—_—<— 2, 000. 00
Benuestosimeon Habel. 18802 2522s Sees Se ee eee 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881___________________ 51, 500. 00
CiiiGieehhomasiG.s HOCKING. LS Ollie. Sar a Se eee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894___________ 8, 000. 00
Depositmrom savings of income) 1903222) 2 ee eae 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1907__--_---__-______ 7, 918. 69
DEPOSItssroMusavines| OL income) [913s ee ae 636. 94:
Part of bequest of William Jones Rhees, 1913__--___.-_________ 251. 95
Deposit of proceeds from sale of real estate (gift of Robert Stan-

GOTMASVICTY)) odo coy mee eens eee ee = ese es ST ee 9, 692. 42
Bequest of Addisgn T. Reid; 1914 _—__-_ acetants tas sae 4, 795. 91
Deposit of savings from income of Avery bequest, 1914___________ 204. 09
Balance of bequest of William Jones Rhees, 1915 -______________ 248. 05
Deposit of savings from income of Rhees bequest, 1915_-________ 28. 39

111
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Deposit of savings from income of Avery fund, 1915__-___-________ $1, 862. 60
Deposit of savings from income of Reid fund, 1915__.__-_________ 426. 04
Deposit of first payment Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund, 1915_ 24, 534. 92

Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury_______ 987, 600. 00

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co.,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value) _—~_________ 42, 000. 00

Woy 2 0l y Oey ag oye ns) On Ags DUO eee Sees eee eer ee ere ee He Re 1, 029, 600. 00

Also three small pieces of real estate located in the District of Columbia and
bequeathed by Robert Stanton Avery, of Washington, D. C.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution,
and the act approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the
West Shore Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum. The real
estate received from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation
and yields only a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1914, to June 80, 1915.

RECEIPTS.
@ashvon) deposit and invsate Julyed) doit Sees see $30, 560. 18
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury,

due July 1. 1914. andi Jan. 110i jee ee $57, 630. 00
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1,

1914, “and: Jani, plies we ee See eee ee 1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, ete____-____-_-----___ 14, 922. 93
Contributions from various sources for specific pur-

USCS 22 eee ee ee eee Soe enon ee eee 12, 000. 00
Hucy and Georse Ww. we oore: funds 2 ss eee 24, 534. 92
George ks Santord sundae oes anes ee ee ee 1, 020. 00
Wailhiamigdiones 2Rhees: fun S222 eee 248. 05

—————— 112, 035. 90

142, 596. 03

DISBURSEMENTS.
Buildings, care-and repairs 2225-22222 oe ee eee 5, 468. 44
Hurniture and.fixtures 2. o22= Ree Re ee ed eee es EE 1, 290. 04
General expenses:

Salaries= so a Re EEE 18, 514. 26
Meetingsoitiies Aypeuied ti See SP IeS je ee Bee oh 148. 00
Stahlonery-=-a=_-==-<> Sab sete See ee eee 770. 91
Postage, telegraph, and telephone_______._________ 793. T4
WreIGhE . cece I, A RE 93. 05
incidentals; -fuel,-and) lights=_ 223022 Soe ieee 1, 264. 47

Garage ode et ee Baer ae TEE: 1, 827. 36
——————-_ 28, 411. 79

— —
ES a
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTER. eS

JAY OVEN ee, Ne eo a ee ees nee See ae $2, 554. 13
Publications and their distribution:
Miscellaneous Collections=s2==2——-2—2—— = = $5, 447. 87
BEST) CO Tas Se ee le ne ee ee Me ee ee ee caer 493. 42
DCC DUD CATIONS eae eee ee 553. 21
120 ODI eiray cVestSi0 0) Ops) si meter ee i ae pe 181. 86
NSH Ces) ise Se a ee ee eS 6, 892. 72
—————— 13, 569. 08
Explorations, researches, and collections__--------_--_- ee G6 358805.
Hodgkins specific fund, researches, and publications_______________ 2, 153. 21
Invern ahOnaleyXChamsese se Fe eR ee ey EE ee 5, 022. 74
RES bree O feANTS [ee alee a Se a a Se ee 19. 53
Aivamnceesifor neldwexpenses, (etG 2 =i se 5 es 2 ees 12, 464. 60
Meposiced. to credit; of permanent fund] 2s ee 27, 100. 00
waney Aecrodynamical Waboratoryo- = ee ot hy 418. 58
100, 430. 17
Balance, June 30, 1915, deposited with the Treasurer
Giathemunited: states. See hats tke ves eee $41, 965. 86
@ashwon Mando te er 2 Veet abate he phos te Taree 200. 00
—————_._ 42, 165. 86
142, 596. 03

By authority your executive committee again employed Mr. Wil-
liam L. Yaeger (now Capital Audit Co., William L. Yaeger, presi-
dent), a public accountant of this city, to audit the receipts and dis-
bursements of the Smithsonian Institution during the period covered
by this report. The following certificate of examination supports
the foregoing statement and is hereby approved:

Capiran AupIT CoMPANY,
METROPOLITAN BANK BUILDING,
Washington, D. C., August 6, 1915.
Baecutive Committee, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution.
Sirs: We have examined the accounts and vouchers.of the Smithsonian In-
stitution for the fiscal year ending June 80, 1915, and certify the following to
be a correct statement:

PERG tied ete COUN Sp ee ats ee i ee A ee $112, 035. 90
RCO AEE Co CODES| THD USS) 0012) 0 do ee ee ee ee Sees eer Ee 082d 100, 480. 17
Excess of receipts over disbursements____________________ 11, 605. 73

/o\ SHA COTDIAER AE 0) 0701-7) fb D Layee Ue el 01 Sl ca Nm SCUBA 30, 560. 13
1 B35 Fevave es Coy aia) aksware he itovew GOs Ca ee Ss ee a ea 42, 165. 86
Balance shown by Treasury statement of June 30, 1915__________ 46, 423. 25
MESSHOUESEAG IT Oy CHC CHG Eee Mea a pe 4, 457. 39
41, 965. 86

Wash. Om hander = bss es a el Ee 200. 00
Balam Cem Neyo Ost lO cy eee eee eee ree 42, 165. 86

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the
year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary, or, in his absence, of

18618°—sm 1915——8
i14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged
were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in connec-
tion with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

CapiraL AupiT Co.,
By WitiiAmM L. YAEGER, President.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the
Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
secretary.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and Other Departments are
reported in detail to Congress and will be found in the printed
document.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1915 intrusted by Congress to the care of
the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations at
ihe beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on June
30, 1915:

Available | Balance

1, 1914. 1915
Appropriations committed by Congress to the care of the institution:
imntermational Hxchanees: LON 3 vce cai siaininiciniiajtelciaisie(am =ininil=(e)einipieie) -'aelninin[niaia tela $0. 02 1 $0. 02
iT aaeine doe erie es ie eo Ae ee eo oe cco soso cE tSNOSESSspSOe 1, 622. 22 OL
International Exchanges, LOT Sees Seale tee esiceee Ge eee is ctoeialsetin late lals/~:atntacele 32, 000. 00 3, 453. 79
deen eriiteryard Dyn ev aVo) Voyen at Rea eee A ee a neocon sao odtc sass eee asepeode 1, 250. 74 1 400. 74
American Ethnology, LOU cesses ce atte ea aie eater telat oln/ ain iwieleeicim = ela 2, 676. 68 185. 30
iMmerican BD thnolopy Oloecsecee ene eae eee aaa emaeeta= Ses ceceebSsoncncb0e 42, 000. 00 3, 854. 52
Astrophysical Observatory, QUIROS Eee Sasa aoe seen ee See see ieee ate 142, 42 141.04
Astrophysical Observatory, 1914.......-.------0--------- 22222-2222 teen eee ee 779. 87 62. 36
IAStropiysical ODSeRVatOGy;, 10 lowe. melee om alalelelatas a= oie ale aint =a 13, 000. 00 1, 263. 57
Bookstacks, Government bureau libraries, 1914............------------:---.: 18, 559. 77 33. 61
Bookstacks, Government bureau libraries, LOLS ES cee wesw c home ep aes eaeayas 10, 000. 00 35. 36
Tower telescope On Mount; Wilson, Vols Suscs ae ee os 2, 000. 00 1, 284.17
Repairs to Smithsonian Building, 1915...............-.--------------------- 16, 000. 00 452. 13
AteRMALOn Al CALalOpUealGlsuee meme cecal eeeecioe eis etic seen le meat cee eee 291. 73 1291.73
International Catalogue, 1914 720. 69 21. 50
International Catalogue, 1915 7, 500. 00 864. 45
National Museum—
Murnitureand fixtures Oloissce oases seein tee cieenae eee 42. 58 142.58
Furniture and fixtures, VOU sinc slojsis sete em Seem sll son as Sean aes ere ae 10, 369. 30 56. 85
HMUTMIGUTe AN tx UULeSs LO lO eae emictee ieee etal eteteistattere teats J aeeee terse 25, 000. 00 1, 048. 83
Heatme and lighting 191s eee 8 Peeecn s sse cee ee ees a eee eee ene 151.81 1151. 81
Heating and lighting, 1014 oan on ocean ee ce ene = ts = eae 5,902. 35 242. 62
iHeatineand lehtine Ol ots ceeeniseee cer en eae ee Ree eee ae arene 46, 000. 00 4,473.33
Preservation of collections, Ts aaa enen HE ea DAN e MES 2 Cy i eN 3,659.15 | 11,485.78
Preservation of collections, DG eee 98 he Sem nese me ae ieee richie 2 7, 652. 72 744. 09
Preservation of collections, LOND epee seas eae So eenet ie -pameracece tac 300, 000. 00 8,774. 88
Books, 1913... Se ee tee oe lot are sensors ce eens hace cicatem 10. 67 13.67
Books, A) a Se ene BOON SUC onde aS SASS Mea gREcn ace SES Orer croc 1,091.35 25. 83
Books, 1G Eee CERT -1s SoA S 2 ac oo sa Sed reerpee So LUE SS er aos olar asec 2,000. 00 1,389. 73
Postage, IAS) Eilat he S56 500: 00) eee mee anlar
Building repairs, 1913. 1.14 11.14
Building repairs, 1914... -| 1,298.78 5. 03
Building repairs, 1915. ...-. -| 10,000. 00 487.15
National Zoological Park, 1913 j 9.18 1.18

National Zoological Park, 1914.- : r
National Zoological Park, 1915.........--- RGseee “| 100, 000. 00 6, 261. 07
Bridge over Rock Creek, National Aoolopies Parks 22 - cee staat = 2 a 018. 67 1,830. 90

1 Carried to credit of surplus fund.

ee
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

115

Statement of estimated income from the Smithsonian fund and from other
sources, accrued and prospective, available during the fiscal year ending

June 30, 1916.

PAANCOr UNG: SOS cl ON Hk es el ee ease ee te ee $42, 165. 86
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury
Mies Ulys 1.1010, ane Jals ply PUG. oe ee $58, 000. 00
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1,
aS ESy, eos US (eH ole ben OS 9 care ey Se Cc nS SO 1, 689. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, refund of ad-
TEINS SC a a es Ee 11, 901. 83
WEpOsits for Specific} purposes 22 wa er = prler e e e 12, 000. 00
———._ 83, 581. 83
Total available for year ending June 30, 1916_.____________ 125, 747. 69

Respectfully submitted.
Gro. Gray,

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,

Maurice Conno.ty,

Executive Committee.

Wasuineton, D. C.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE
30, 1915.

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 10, 1914.

Present: The Hon. Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor, in the chair; the Hon. Thomas R. Marshall, Vice
President of the United States; Senator William J. Stone; Senator
Henry F. Hollis; Representative Maurice Connolly; Representative
Ernest W. Roberts; Dr. Andrew D. White; Dr. A. Graham Bell;
the Hon. George Gray; Mr. John B. Henderson, jr.; the Hon.
Charles W. Fairbanks; and the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

DEATH OF SENATOR BACON.

The secretary announced the death of Senator Bacon, who had
been a Regent of the Institution since 1905, and chairman of the
executive committee for the last three years.

Senator Stone submitted the following tribute to his memory:

Augustus Octavius Bacon, doctor of laws, United States Senator from
Georgia, and Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, died February 14, 1914,
in the seventy-fifth year of his age.

His associates on the Board of Regents, assembled in annual meeting, do here
record their personal sorrow in the loss of a distinguished citizen, lawyer, and
statesman; one whose sound advice will be greatly missed by the Regents in
their deliberations on the affairs of the Institution, in whose development and
in whose plans for the advancement of science and the general welfare of
mankind he at all times exhibited the deepest interest.

He was a most worthy exemplar of a gentleman, a scholar, a legislator, and
a councilor.

On motion, the tribute was unanimously adopted, ordered to be

spread upon the records of the board, and a copy directed to be sent
to the family of Senator Bacon.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

Senator Henry F. Hollis, of New Hampshire, was appointed by
the Vice President on March 10, 1914, to succeed the late Senator
Bacon.

Mr, Charles F. Choate, jr., was reappointed for six years by joint
resolution of Congress, approved March 20, 1914.

116
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 117
CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Hon. George Gray was elected chairman of the executive
committee to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Senator Bacon.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Judge Gray, as chairman of the executive committee, submitted
the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1916, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by
the Secretary with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the Secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTER.

The annual report of the executive committee, showing the finan-
cial condition of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1914, was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

Hodgkins fund.—There has been no change in the status of this
fund since the last report of the committee.

The sum of $5,000 was allotted from the income of the fund, in
accordance with the formal action of the board at the meeting of
May 1, 1913, for the purpose of continuing the work of the Langley
Aerodynamical Laboratory during the past year.

Two thousand dollars was allotted to Mr. F. G. Cottrell for
experiments in the clearing of fog by electrical precipitation.

Avery bequest.—This bequest has remained unchanged during the
past year. Three parcels of land are still to be sold.

The Poore bequest.—A recent report states that this property is
being closed up as rapidly as possible, and it is expected that within
a short time it will be turned over to the Institution. The whole
estate is now valued at approximately $35,000 to $40,000, but under
the terms of the will the income is to be added to the principal until
the latter has reached: the sum of $250,000, the income of which will
then become available for the Institution’s purposes.

On motion, the report was accepted.

THE SECRETARY’S ANNUAL REPORT.

The secretary presented his report for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1914, and stated that since the last annual meeting of the Regents
there had been printed a total of 90 publications, aggregating about
6,000 pages of text and 650 plates. Of this aggregate 23 volumes
and pamphlets (1,626 pages and 289 plates) pertain to the institu-
tion proper; 55 volumes and pamphlets (4,170 pages and 352 plates)
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

were issued by the National Museum; and 2 volumes and pamphlets
(115 pages and 11 plates) by the Bureau of American Ethnology.
In addition there are now in page proof 5 annual reports (about
2,000 pages) and 3 pamphlets and 1 special publication (about 1,000
pages); these will probably be ready for distribution within a few
months. The total number of copies of all publications distributed
during the year was about 169,000. There were also transmitted
through the institution to Congress two annual reports of the Amer-
ican Historical Association and the Annual Report of the Daughters
of the American Revolution.

Among the Museum publications is the sixth volume of the De-
scriptive Catalogue of the Birds of North and Middle America, a
work in which there has thus far been technically described more
than 2,500 species and subspecies of American birds.

A second edition of the Hodgkins fund prize essay by Dr. Hins-
dale on atmospheric air in relation to tuberculosis was published to
meet the general demand for this work.

The institution also published through the generosity of Mrs. E. H.
Harriman two elaborate volumes by Prof. Verrill, on the Starfishes
of the Pacific Coast.

On motion the report was accepted.

THE SECRETARY’S STATEMENT.

The secretary made personal statements as follows:

Death of the assistant secretary, Dr. F. W. True—Dr. True died
on the 25th of June, 1914, in the fifty-sixth year of his age. He
entered the service of the Institution as the youngest member of the
scientific corps brought together by Profs. George Brown Goode and
Spencer F. Baird during the primitive stages of the National
Museum, his first work being in connection with investigations by
the U. S. Fish Commission. Later he had been placed in charge of
the mammal collections in the Museum, and upon its reorganization
into three principal departments became head curator of biology.
For a number of years he had served as executive curator of the
Museum and at times had been designated acting secretary of the
Institution. June 1, 1911, he had been appointed an assistant secre-
tary, his special duties being in connection with the library and
International Exchanges.

The secretary added a tribute to Dr. True’s ability and loyalty.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Statue of Lafayette—The Museum was honored during the past
summer by receiving as a gift from the sculptor, Mr. Paul Wayland
Bartlett, a copy of his equestrian statue of the Marquis de Lafayette
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 119

erected in 1900 in the Court of Honor of the Louvre, Paris, France.
The statue in Paris is of heroic size and in bronze, and was presented
to France by the school children of the United States. The copy
given to the Museum is the original plaster model, of natural size,
in excellent condition, and has been installed in the rotunda of the
new building.

Collection of pianos—Since the beginning of the present fiscal
year the Museum has received a remarkable donation consisting of an
historical collection of pianos, the gift of Mr. Hugo Worch, of
Washington, by whom they had been assembled. Mr. Worch is a
student of the piano, on which he is preparing an extensive memoir,
which is now approaching completion, hence he has sought a place
where his collection could be permanently preserved. ‘The series
consists of over 200 examples, covering the entire period from the
invention of the piano, shown in the various changes in construction
and the great variety of form and decoration of the case. The col-
lection is very beautiful, instructive, and has involved a very large
expenditure on the part of Mr. Worch. It is being installed in the
first gallery of the rotunda in the new building, which it will entirely
fill. The Museum was already in possession of one of the best col-
lections of musical instruments in any of the museums of the country
and the addition of such an important special series will probably
give it a very high standing.

Gift of Mr. John B,. Henderson, jr—During a number of years
the Museum has been placed under deep obligations to Mr. John B.
Henderson, jr., a Regent of the Institution, for valuable collections
of marine animals secured in the course of his own explorations, in a
number of which members of the Museum staff have participated as
guests of Mr. Henderson. Very recently Mr. Henderson has made a
most exceptional donation to the Museum, consisting of over 30,000
specimens of land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks, assembled dur-
ing a long period of years and representing in a broad sense the
donor’s special lines of study. Notable among its contents are
specially fine series from Japan coliected by Hirase, and from the
Philippines by Quadras; the old and valuable collection of J. H.
Redfield in its entirety; and a complete set of the fluviatile and land
shells of the Southern States. This is unquestionably one of the
most valuable additions to the division of mollusks of the Museum
since the bequest of Dr. Isaac Lea.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Bureau of American Ethnology has been devoting special
attention to the study of certain tribes of Indians on the verge of
extinction. To this end successful efforts have been made in record-
ing the languages, beliefs, and customs of some of the tribes of
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Oregon, Oklahoma, and Texas. In some cases these remnant groups
are represented by only one.or two survivors who speak their native
language, hence the very last opportunity of gaining authentic in-
formation regarding them has been embraced. In other directions
also the bureau’s activities are being vigorously pursued and several
volumes will soon be published.

ADDITIONAL LAND FOR NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK,

Since the statement at the last meeting of the board much delay
has been encountered in the steps taken to acquire the land on Con-
necticut Avenue, for which Congress appropriated $107,200 by the
act of June 23, 1913, but it is now understood that the jury of con-
demnation has completed its work and will shortly present its find-
ings to the court. As previously stated, the land in question has a
frontage on Connecticut Avenue of 1,750 feet and covers about 10
acres, and when acquired will bring the park area to 180 acres.

THE LANGLEY AERODYNAMICAL LABORATORY.

The first year’s work of the Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory,
reopened by authorization of the Board of Regents in May, 1913, was
to organize an advisory committee, arrange a comprehensive program
of operations, devise ways and means of carrying on investigations
and publishing reports, conduct such active experiments as were pos-
sible with the means immediately available, and secure and arrange
in the library all available aeronautical literature.

The reports of the committee thus far published have appeared as
individual papers in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.
The first of these recounts the organization of the advisory commit-
tee and the resources of the Langley Laboratory. The first technical
publication sets forth the results of experiments made at the model
tank at the Washington Navy Yard. Another report describes the
organization and equipment of the leading aeronautical laboratories
of England, France, and Germany. Some of the reports of the com-
mittee are as yet confidential or incomplete, such as Hammond’s re-
port on wireless communications to and from air craft.

The members of the various committees of the Langley Laboratory
have been active in aerodynamics and allied subjects. Naval Con-
structor Hunsaker has completed the installation and equipment of
the aerotechnical laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology and has sent the Smithsonian the results of the first researches
for publication. Mr. Buckingham has completed and published a
masterly paper on the mathematical principle governing the relations
of experimental models of all sorts to those of full-scale machines.
Dr. Humphreys has published a long paper on the physics of the
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. ca:

atmosphere. Dr. Zahm has helped to design for the United States
Army a 200-horsepower biplane and has published a mathematical
method of analyzing the stresses sustained by such an aeroplane
during flight.

The library has been furnished with the chief aeronautic periodi-
cals and the best books thus far published. The recent additions
number 120 publications, of which 71 were purchased and the others
received in exchange. The publications were chosen from a list
specially prepared by Dr. Zahm and Naval Constructor Hunsaker
while visiting the leading aeronautical libraries of Europe.

The rehabilitation and successful launching of the Langley aero-
plane, constructed over a decade ago, was accomplished last May.
The machine was shipped from the Langley Laboratory to the Cur-
tiss Aeroplane Factory to have the planes recanvassed and hydro-
aeroplane floats attached before launching on Lake Keuka May 28.
With Mr. Curtiss as pilot the machine planed easily over the water,
rose on level wing, and flew in steady poise 150 feet. Subsequent short
flights were made in order to secure photographs of the craft in the
air. Then Mr. Curtiss was authorized, in order to prolong the flights
without overtaxing the bearings of the Langley propulsion plant, to
install in its place a standard Curtiss motor and propeller.

On October 1, hovering within 30 feet of the water and without
material loss of speed, the great craft made in quick succession flights
of the following duration and length at an average speed of 50 feet
per second: Twenty seconds, 1,000 feet; 20 seconds, 1,000 feet; 65
seconds, 3,250 feet; 20 seconds, 1,000 feet; 40 seconds, 2,000 feet; 45
seconds, 2,250 feet. The total weight of the aeroplane with its hydro
floats and the pilot was 1,520 pounds.

The tests thus far made have shown that former Secretary Lang-
ley had succeeded in building the first aeroplane capable of sus-
tained free flight with a man. It is hoped that further trials will
disclose more fully the advantages of the Langley type of machine.
It may be recalled that this aeroplane was begun in 1898 for the
War Department, and in the interest of the national defense.

The numerous and comprehensive aerotechnical investigations
planned for the Langley Laboratory can be successfully carried out
only when increased funds are available. Properly equipped and
endowed, the laboratory would serve as a national aeronautical in-
stitute suitable for conducting the aerotechnical investigations and
tests required by the Government and the aeronautical industries
of this country.

The secretary further spoke of the personnel of the advisory com-
mittee, and said that its operations were very much hampered by the
recent decision of the Comptroller of the Treasury that it was illegal
for the members already in the Government service to act as an ad-
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

visory committee to the laboratory. All of the gentlemen selected
have expressed their interest and willingness to serve, but in view
of the decision referred to were able to do nothing except in a most
informal manner. The secretary expressed the opinion that a com-
mittee of the Regents should be appointed to take up matters in this
connection.*

Dr. Bell said that he was much gratified at the secretary’s state-
ments in regard to the successful flights of the Langley aeroplane.
He was familiar with its history and had been present at the flights
of the models, and now that the large machine, with the addition of
floats weighing upward of 400 pounds, had actually flown, he felt
that the Institution, and the board also, should be congratulated at
the verification of Langley’s work. He thought that the Langley
type of machine was a correct one, and he hoped that this would
be further proved by the additional flights contemplated. He
thought that the important work of the laboratory should be facili-
tated in every way, and he hoped that the committee recommended by
the secretary would be appointed.

Dr. Bell then submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted:

Resolved, That a committee be appointed by the chancellor, to consist of four
members of the board and the secretary, to consider questions relative to the
Langley Aerodynamical Laboratory.

The chancellor appointed the following as the committee: Dr.
Bell, Senator Stone, Representative Roberts, Mr. Henderson, and
the secretary.

RESEARCH CORPORATION.

Tt will be recalled that when Dr. F. G. Cottrell presented his pre-
cipitation patents to the Smithsouian Institution, the Board of Re-
gents decided that it was not practicable for the institution to under-
take the commercial development of the patents, but there was no
objection to the secretary becoming a member of a distinct organiza-
tion that would undertake their development.

This independent organization was formed under the laws of the
State of New York as the Research Corporation, as reported to the
Board of Regents at the meetings in 1912 and 1918. The secretary
became one of the directors of the corporation and a member of the
executive committee. The board includes a number of prominent
men of wide business experience, such as James J. Storrow, of Lee,
Higginson & Co., bankers, Boston; Charles A. Stone, of Stone &
Webster, Boston; Arthur D. Little, of the Little Chemical Co.,
Boston; T. Coleman Du Pont, of Wilmington, Del.; Elon H. Hooker,

1 By act of Congress approved Mar, 3, 1915, the President was authorized to appoint an
advisory committee for acronautics.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 123

president, Hooker Electrochemical Co., Niagara Falls, N. Y.; Ben-
jamin B. Lawrence, mining engineer, of New York; George F. Kunz,
of Tiffany & Co., New York; Frederick A. Goetze, dean, engineering
department, Columbia University, New York; William Barclay Par-
sons, engineer, of New York; Hennen Jennings, mining engineer, of
Washington.

The development of a patent on a commercial basis is a very difil-
cult proposition, and it was only through the active cooperation of
Dr. Goetze, chairman of the executive committee, and other gentle-
men on the board, in connection with the engineers of the corpora-
tion, that success has been attained.

On a capital of $10,100, subscribed by the directors, and the fees
received for engineer services, work was carried on for 18 months.
In July last there was but $1,200 in the treasury and many monthly
expenses to be met. This was the low-water mark, as payments then
began to come in in the form of royalties and payments for the per-
manent use of the patent, so that on December 1 there was $65,000 in
the treasury besides $100,000 in approved notes.

At a recent meeting of the board of directors it was decided that
no grants for general research would be made until after the invested
funds of the corporation were $100,000 with cash in bank for ex-
penses.

In addition to the Cottrell patents, the corporation is now consid-
ering the acceptance of certain rights in connection with a patent for
a reinforced concrete railroad tie that is quite promising. There are
also several other patents that have been brought to the attention of
the engineers, but owing to the necessity of concentrating all effort
upon the commercial development of the Cottrell patents, it was not
deemed best to undertake other investigations. Now that the finan-
cial conditions are improved, some money and energy will be ex-
pended in looking up the concrete tie and other promising patents.
Owing to the wide experience of the members of the board and their
standing in the business community, it has been possible to do work
in connection with the Research Corporation that would have re-
quired the expenditure of large sums if undertaken by an ordinary
business organization or private individual.

CLEARING OF FOG BY ELECTRICAL PRECIPITATION.

Science has established the fact that all dust and fog particles in
the open atmosphere are electrified and subject to dispersion or
precipitation. It is apparent, therefore, that a source of very high
direct voltage with facilities for control and application, may be of
inestimable value in certain quarters and seasons for clearing fog
from a street, from along a passenger railway, from around the land-
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

ing stages of a ferry, or possibly about and in advance of a ship under
headway at sea.

Sometime ago Mr. Cottrell, who has been referred to in connec-
tion with the work of the Research Corporation, expressed to the
secretary his desire to take up the investigation of the possibility of
clearing away fog by the precipitation method mentioned, and he
was asked to communicate again later when his ideas and plans were
more fully developed.

He has recently written from San Francisco to say that the idea is
now arousing interest in various quarters; for instance, the Uni-
versity of California is actively engaged in the investigation, while
the United States Lighthouse Service has placed its boats and facili-
ties at his disposal when needed, while assurances have been received
from certain transportation companies that as soon as definite effects
in the open were shown they would assist in the further development
of the work.

Mr. Cottrell stated that funds were urgently needed to enable the
university people to carry through what he termed the academic part
of the program. They had already accomplished a great deal with
their own funds and the apparatus and supplies contributed by the
electric companies, but certain essential equipment was needed that
could not be obtained through these channels. Chief among these
was a transformer of at least 250,000 volts, which would cost about
$1,500; and $500 additional was desired for smaller items of special
equipment.

The importance of this work was apparent, and as it came within
the scope of researches outlined in the Hodgkins fund, an allotment
of $2,000 was made.

In acknowledging this action, Mr. Cottrell stated that the San
Francisco section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers
had appointed a committee to cooperate in this great work. Reports
will be submitted from time to time on the progress of the investi-
gation.

THE FREER COLLECTION.

The original gift of Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, Mich., made
in 1906, comprised about 2,326 paintings and other objects of art.
The additions since that date, recorded in five supplementary inven-
tories, the last submitted in February. 1914, increase the total extent
of this wonderful collection to 4,/U1 pieces, of which 983 are paint-
ings, engravings, lithographs, etc., by American artists; and 3,718
are oriental paintings, pottery, bronzes, stone and wood carvings,
lacquered objects, glass, etc. In the eight years which have inter-
vened since the acceptance of Mr. Freer’s offer the collection has,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 125

therefore, been doubled in extent, and its value has been increased
far beyond all earlier expectations.

The secretary added that Mr. Freer was considering the matter
of erecting the building to house his gift, and that the question of a
site was now an important one, and he suggested that a committee
be appointed to take the matter up.

Dr. White offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That four members of the board and the secretary be appointed
by the chancellor as a committee on the securing of a site for the Freer Art
Gallery.

The chancellor appointed the following as the committee: Senator
Lodge, Senator Hollis, Judge Gray, Representative Connolly, and
Secretary Walcott.

WORK UNDER THE HARRIMAN TRUST FUND.

Dr. C. Hart Merriam, research associate under the special fund
established by Mrs. E. H. Harriman, has continued his studies of
the big bears of America and has practically completed the research
work.

In addition to the technical studies, the literature of early explora-
tion and hunting in the western and northern parts of the continent
has been searched for records concerning the former ranges and
habits of the grizzlies and big brown bears, and it was now possible
to determine the relations of most of the species and to arrange them
in definite groups. Of the true grizzlies there appear to be about
38 species and subspecies, representing a dozen groups; of the big
brown bears, about 10 species, representing five groups.

REPAIRS, SMITHSONIAN BUILDING.

The appropriation of $16,000 for the repairs to the exterior of
the Smithsonian Building became available on August 1,1914. These
repairs are now practically completed, well within the limits of the
appropriation, the balance remaining being set aside for exterior
painting and some further minor repairs which will be undertaken
in the spring.

EXPEDITIONS.

Borneo expedition—F¥or over two years an expedition has been
engaged in Borneo through the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott, a
collaborator of the National Museum, who had at the time of the last
meeting contributed $8,000 for this purpose. Dr. Abbott has since
added $3,000 to this sum for the completion of the work in Borneo
and the further work of collecting in Celebes, the fauna of which is
practically unrepresented here. Mr. H. C. Raven, who has been
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915. -

conducting this expedition, left Borneo in June, 1914, crossing with
his native boat and crew to Celebes.

In addition to the gifts already mentioned, Dr. Abbott has sup-
plied Mr. Raven directly with ammunition and supplies and with
funds aggregating between $500 and $1,000. Much valuable material
has been received from Borneo and the work in Celebes is expected
to prove of great interest.

Biological work in north China.—At the last meeting mention was
made of the work being carried on in north China by Mr. A. de C.
Sowerby through the liberality of a gentleman who desired to re-
main unknown. There has been no change in this condition. Mr.
Sowerby has already sent numerous valuable specimens to the Mu-
seum and other collections are understood to be nearly ready for
shipment.

British Columbia and Montana.—The Secretary continued the work
of exploration among the fossil beds of British Columbia inaugu-
rated some years ago, and extended the work to Montana.

A week was spent in measuring and recording the flow of two
glaciers near Glacier, British Columbia, before beginning the meas-
urement of sections and the collecting of fossil remains in the very
ancient pre-Paleozoic rocks of central Montana.

In Montana a camp was established in July and field work con-
tinued until a heavy snow storm closed the season early in October.
A number of great sections of bedded rocks were studied and meas-
ured. Large collections were made from the limestones, that in-
clude the oldest and most simple forms of life yet recorded in the
early history of the earth. They are mainly algal deposits that may
be compared with those now being made in fresh-water lakes and
streams by the beautiful blue-green algae.

At the secretary’s request, Dr. Albert Mann, the distinguished
microscopist, began a search for microscopic organisms in thin,
translucent sections of the algal deposits. He has discovered the
remains of two types of bacteria in great abundance. ‘These, in
connection with the microscopic cells of the algae, furnish positive
proof of the organic origin of the limestones in a period that hereto-
fore had furnished no evidence of such life.

Solar radiation—Observations have been continued on Mount
Wilson, Cal., for the purpose of observing the variability of the
sun, and of confirming the newly discovered relationship between
the variation of the total heat of the sun and the variation of the
distribution of its light over the solar surface. Computations of
the results are now in progress, and it is hoped very soon to make a
satisfactory confirmation of this discovery.

Mr. Aldrich, in cooperation with the United States Weather
Bureau, sent up several sounding balloons with apparatus attached
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 127

for measuring the heat of the sun at high altitudes. In spite of
unlooked-for difficulties, an excellent ascension was made to an alti-
tude above 15 miles and very fine records were obtained, the pre-
liminary reduction of which indicate that they will confirm the
value of the solar constant of radiation which has resulted from
years of observation at the Astrophysical Observatory. Additional
flights were made up to altitudes of 20 miles, but no records were
obtained at that height owing to the freezing of the mercury in the
thermometers.

By invitation of the Australian Government and of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, Dr. C. G. Abbot,
director of the Astrophysical Observatory, attended the meetings of
the British association in Australia and submitted to the Australian
Government a recommendation for the establishment in that country
of a solar observatory particularly devoted to the measurement of
the radiation of the sun. Owing to the breaking out of the war in
Europe, the Australian Government was unable to promise definitely
the early establishment of such an observatory, but expressed great
interest in the project.

Island of Timor expedition.—The island of Timor in the East
Indies has been a rich collecting ground for scientific study, though
little or nothing has been done by the paleontologist. An expedition
for this sole purpose would be a very expensive undertaking, but an
opportunity presented itself for acquiring many of these collections
through the courtesy and interest of Mr. W. E. Crane, of Pittsburgh,
a retired engineer and an enthusiastic collector, who had planned
to visit the East Indies and to aid in making collections on the
island of Timor for the National Museum. The expense of the
enterprise was estimated to be $2,000, one-half of which was con-
tributed by Mr. Crane, while Mrs. E. H. Harriman and Mr. Frank
Springer gave $500 each.

Unfortunately, about the time Mr. Crane was to start, the war
broke out in Europe and the expedition had to be abandoned for the
present.

Western Siberian expedition—During the spring of 1914 the
secretary received information that an expedition was being fitted
out for western Siberia to take in the Kolyma River region, for the
purpose of making collections in general ethnology and natural
history. The locality was represented as particularly rich in such
material, and after consultation with those qualified to advise, the
secretary decided that it would be well that the Institution par-
ticipate in the results of the expedition.

There being no funds of the Institution that could be allotted for
this purpose, however, steps were taken to secure the means by pri-
vate subscription, and it is with pleasure that the secretary an-
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

nounces that a sum sufficient for the purpose, $3,500, was contributed
by the Telluride Association of Provo, Utah, and Ithaca, N. Y.

The expedition is under the direction of Mr. John Koren, an ex-
plorer of experience. He is accompanied by Mr. Copley Amory, jr.,
who made collections for the Institution in 1912 along the Alaskan-
Canadian boundary, and by Mr. Benno Alexander, of Tolt, Wash.,
who is the special representative of the Institution.

The chief object of the expedition, so far as the Institution is con-
cerned, is to secure remains of the Siberian mammoth, the woolly
rhinoceros, and the mastodon; it is also desired to secure skulls,
tusks; hair, skin, flesh, and anything to indicate the contents of the
stomach and the nature of the food. Other much desired remains
are those of the bison, musk ox, camel, and bear. In addition to the
above, collections will be made of geological, mineralogical, and
paleontological material likely to be of interest to the Museum.

The expedition sailed from Seattle on June 26, 1914, and touched
at Nome on August 1, since which date no word has been received
from the party. It-is expected that they will return to Seattle by
the end of September, 1915.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1915.

18618°—sm 1915——9
ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the Generat Appenpix to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1915.

130
REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY FOR THE YEAR 1913.1

By P. PuIsEux,

Member of the Institute, Astronomer at the Observatory of Paris.

STUDY OF PLANETS AND COMETS.

The increasing knowledge of the phenomena of the globe that

carries us puts us in a position to interpret more surely what we
observe in the celestial bodies. The astronomer, who gives to the
mariner and the geodecist the means for determining their time and
precise position, hopes some day to receive some recompense for these
services. He is examining now the facts which come from the scien-
tific stations established at diverse latitudes. One of the least ex-
pected among these facts is a small annual variation in geographic
latitude. This variation had not been predicted by dynamical theory.
It takes place as though the center of gravity of our globe were
displaced alternately about 3 meters toward the North, and then
toward the South Pole. Several explanations come to mind, but have
to be abandoned under closer analysis. For instance, the melting of
the ice, taking place alternately each six months in the region of
the two poles, acts in the right direction, but in order to correspond
with the magnitude of the observed change, would have to affect
masses of ice very improbable in size. The most-favored opinion,
developed by the recent studies of Kimura, Ross, and Biske, assumes
that the isobars (lines of equal pressure) of the air vary with the sea-
son, oscillating about a mean configuration. There would result, for
a series of stations at the same latitude, a variation in the same man-
ner of the atmospheric refraction, and an annual, purely apparent
oscillation would be mixed with the one of 430 days, the reality of
which we have no reason for doubting.

The movements of the magnetic needle show bizarre caprices which
would seem to escape all prediction. However, in a long series of
means, each magnetic element is seen to be affected by four super-
posed fluctuations the periods of which are the day, the year, the
synodic rotation of the sun, and the sun-spot-cycle period. From this
we conclude that the sun acts upon the earth’s magnetism, not only
through the unequal heating to which it subjects our globe, but also
through a direct action, doubtless the restricted emission of electrified

1 Translated, by permission, from: the Reyue générale des Sciences, vol. 25, p. 746, 1914.

131
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

particles. According to the calculations of Chapman, the moon also
possesses this power in much less degree but nevertheless surely. ‘To
it are due several oscillations the most marked of which has a period
of half a lunar day.

We are not yet in the position for studying the distribution of
magnetism on the moon. But in lunar topography we are making
progress. The valuable collection of plates collected at the Observa-
tory of Paris furnished the basis to Le Morvan of a new 48-plate
atlas of our satellite. One half of this work had appeared in 1913.
This chart, less expensive and more manageable than the great atlas
of this observatory, is well conceived, admirably executed, and will
be of great. value to observers.

The planetoid Eros, which so held the attention of astronomers in
1900, had at that time surprised them by its rapid variations in
brightness. Now we find that its orbit is contracting more than we
would have predicted. There will result far more favorable condi-
tions for a new determination of the solar parallax. In 1931 the dis-
tance of this planetoid from the earth will be decreased to almost one-
half of the smallest value reached in 1900.

The system of planets which revolve about the sun, and the two
systems of moons which keep company with Jupiter and Saturn, re-
spectively, have always attracted calculators in a search for numerical
analogues. The well-known law of Bode serves as the point of de-
parture for such calculations, and its aspect is changed slightly,
according as weight is attached to the exactness of the verifications,
the absence of discontinuities, or the small number of parameters.
Miss Blagg has made a marked advance over her predecessors, includ-
ing the three series of distances in one formula, analogous to one
which connects the reciprocals of the wave-lengths in the spectra of
simple bodies. The existence of this relation between such apparently
different systems makes us feel that we are dealing with some mysteri-
ous physical law imposed in the formation of the planets as well as
of the satellites. Such grouping could not be the effect of fortui-
tous and successive aggregations, as the theory of capture would have.
It rather forces us to require in each system a unity of origin, retaining
the general idea of the cosmogony of Laplace.

None of the laws derived from that of Bode would have foretold
the existence of the distant and retrograde moons which both Jupiter
and Saturn possess. In studying these two exceptional cases, which
have been considered by certain authors as irreconcilable with the
ideas of Laplace, Jackson found that these anomalous moons could
be considered as the remains of a nebulous ring, the component parts
of which possessed confused movements, and sufficiently vast to have
expanded beyond the sphere of effective attraction of the planets.
Certain distances from the planets and certain angular velocities are
REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY—PUISEUX. 133

more favorable to stability and are just such as correspond to the
distances and velocities of the retrograde satellites.

An analogous conclusion is drawn by Eddington from the statistics
of the elements of the comets. The positions of their aphelia, as a
rule, group about two directions which seem to depend in no way
upon the general movement of the solar system. These directions
rather reveal the direction of the elongation of the one or two primi-
tive rings at the expense of which the comets were formed. The
short-period comets form an exception possibly because they are
endowed with a shorter longevity. They are to be considered as
revolving in their actual orbits through the intervention of the
greater planets. Thus the comet Neujmin (1918c), discovered
the 6th of September, 1913, was the third member of the cometary
family of Saturn. It was remarkable for its almost constant stellar
aspect. The Westphal comet (1852, IV), refound September 26,
1913, by Delavan, underwent in October a considerable and unex-
plained decrease in brightness.

In comparison with the planets and the stars the comets are doubt-
less ephemeral. What becomes of the matter—tenuous, to be sure,
but in time abundant—which is left in their wake? Fessenkoff con-
siders that it must expand in the region of the ecliptic in the form of
a vast flattened, lens-shaped mass centered about the sun and de-
creasing in density with increasing distance from the sun. All the
well-known traits of the zodiacal light could thus be explained.
Fessenkoff believes that certain unsymmetrical and changeable fea-
tures which have been noted are due to insufficient allowance for the
effects of atmospheric absorption. The total mass of the zodiacal
matter is certainly very small compared with that of the principal
planets, indeed compared with that of the comets and meteors.

We may suppose that certain meteors are efficacious for troubling
the surface of the sun because they are subject to closer approaches
to it. Turner was led to adopt the idea, formerly held by J. Herschel,
while trying to represent the variable frequency of sun spots by a
series of periodical terms. For a course of years certain constant
values may be adopted for the coefficients of these terms, and then
these values have to be altered. The epochs of all these perturba-
tions, according to Turner, fall close to the time of the perihelion
passage of the Leonides. It is true the distance of the Leonides
from the sun, even at perihelion passage, is somewhat great and
necessitates recourse to a secondary stream derived through the inter-
vention of some planet. This theory finds a certain degree of con-
firmation in the Chinese Annals, which record ancient increases in
the number of sun spots at epochs when the Leonides swarm must
have passed close to Saturn.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.
STUDY OF THE SUN.

Is the periodic increase in the number of sun spots definitely con-
nected with the flux of heat which we receive from the sun? The
question has been answered in various senses, and it must still be con-
sidered as under litigation. The discordance of the statistics, when
they are not coordinated in point of time, may result from a general
variation in the transparency of the earth’s atmosphere. For in-
stance, the greater or less diffusion of volcanic dust suffices to explain
this discordance. And it seems quite certain that the eruption of
Mount Katmai (Alaska) in 1912, as well as that of Krakatoa in 1883,
have had effects of this nature. At any rate the passage of this
atmospheric disturbance does not occur simultaneously in widely
separated countries and the parallelism of the solar-constant values
found by the methods of Dr. Abbot in California and in Algeria,
Africa, prove that very perceptible variations can be imputed to the
sun. These variations up to the present appear rather irregular than
periodic.

Fabry and Buisson have found that the solar spectrum is cut off at
the violet end by an absorption band due to ozone. The presence of
a layer of ozone, formed in the upper part of our atmosphere by the
action of the ultra-violet hght of the sun, is not improbable. It
would in that region somewhat alter the laws of absorption and
(slightly) alter the value of the solar constant.

The micrometric examination of the numerous plates ian at
the Observatory of Zo-Sé (China) under the direction of P. Cheva-
lier, shows that the sun underwent, from 1905 to 1909, a measurable
and somewhat variable elongation along the polar diameter. It is
not the first time that such a change has been suspected, but it is as-
serted now, it seems to us, with an imposing train of evidence. The
mean photographic diameter surpasses by 0.6’’ that which is gener-
ally admitted on the authority of Auwers. An indication pointing in
the same direction, results from the discussion by Simonin of the
plates of the eclipse of April 17, 1912.

The documents resulting from the last solar eclipse still furnish
material for interesting publications. Father Cortie gives the de-
scription of several limited bundles of rays, each one issuing from a
spotted region of the sun and showing marked effects upon terrestrial
magnetism. In the American photographs of the flash spectrum
taken at Daroca in 1905, Mitchell found the whole counterpart of the
Fraunhofer spectrum. The only differences occur in the relative in-
tensities of the lines. Neither Mitchell nor Evershed are disposed
to consider the presence of radium as established in the sun’s chromo-
sphere.

The powerful spectroscopes continue to give numerous results rela-
tive to the velocities which rule at the various levels in the sun. But
REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY—PUISEUX. 135

their interpretation is complicated and the results change according
as we consider some special spectrum line or the diverse parts of the
same line. For Evershed the dominant fact is the general expanding
out of the metallic vapors as they leave the border of each spot. St.
John finds that the centripetal tendency again becomes predominant
above a certain elevation. The analogies which have been attempted
between sun spots and cyclones or the whirlpools in water currents
give little satisfaction.

The ascending movements which the spectroscope records toward
the center of the disk of the sun are not as rapid as the horizontal
movements, but it is not a rare occurrence for them to be accelerated
as if the weight was opposed effectively by a repulsive force. These
vertical velocities, in every case, are sufficiently great to make us
consider very hazardous the attempt of Schulz to revive the former
theory of Kirchhoff concerning the general constitution of the sun.
According to that theory the sun is liquid up to the level of the spots
und the latter are floating scum. Every difficulty is removed by
that theory relative to the existence of a continuous spectrum but
not relative to temperature and velocities. Fowler prefers to admit
the existence in the sun of some unknown physical agent capable of
maintaining certain refractory elements in a pulverulent state at
temperatures above 6,000° C., the temperature above which pyrhelio-
metric measures show that the sun must be. We must resign our-
selves for a long while yet perhaps to see Nature use in the stars far
more powerful sources than those at our disposal in the laboratory.

Deslandres and d’Azambuja continue to devote themselves to the
isolation of the light of the central parts of the strongest lines of
the solar spectrum and its use in their solar photographs, and that
choice is justified by the striking originality of the photographs ob-
tained. The astronomers at Meudon, despite the doubts raised by
A. Buss, maintain an essential distinction between “ filaments” and
“alignements.” The latter, fainter but more prolonged, are char-
acteristic of the upper layers. They appear as far as the greatest
latitudes and are not dependent upon the Schwabe cycle.

The existence of the Zeeman phenomenon at the border of the
spots, shown by Hale, as we know, has furnished him with a means
of measuring the local magnetic fields. We see no other probable
origin for these magnetic fields except the motion of electrified par-
ticles, but one would suppose that electricity would be conducted
with great difficulty in as rare a medium as that which surrounds
the sun. This objection has been very much weakened, although
not nullified, by the recent experiments of Harker, who found that
a rarified gas becomes an effective conductor for electricity in the
neighborhood of a body at a very high temperature.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.
STARS AND NEBULZ.

The observatory at Greenwich has undertaken the task during re-
cent years of the redetermination of the precise positions of all the
bright stars of the corona borealis, stars already included by Car-
rington in a catalogue which is now half a century old. It has thus
become possible to study and classify a great number of proper mo-
tions. The discussion made by Dyson gives a result favorable to
the views held by Schwarzschild that the existence of a single pref-
erential direction for stellar motions is probable. In measure as
we consider a direction differing from this, the number of stars
having this different direction diminishes regularly. From the re-
lation between the brightness of a star and its apparent motion,
it may be deduced that the distribution of stars in space is neither
uniform nor fortuitous. The greatest frequency is found in the
constellation of Gemini at a distance which is small compared with
the dimensions of the Milky Way. When we depart from this central
region the frequency of the stars diminishes without limit, so that
we may speak of the stars visible in meridian instruments as a
limited system of definite structure.

Analogous conclusions were derived by Eddington from the study
of the catalogue of Boss, in which are collected the most accurate
data concerning the bright stars in all parts of the sky. It is espe-
cially in high galactic latitudes that the density is found to decrease
most markedly. We must therefore regard the stars connected with
the Milky Way—that is, the great majority of the visible stars—as
forming a globular cluster with a very marked flattening.

At each point of such a cluster the Newtonian attraction must pro-
duce a field of force. <A star, obedient to this field of force and
sensibly untroubled by neighboring bodies, would complete its revo-
lution about the center in about 300,000,000 years, and we would
expect a definite, dominant direction in each region of space.

The researches of L. Boss and of Messrs. Hertzsprung and Plum-
mer have definitely revealed the existence of several groups or fami-
lies of stars, all the members of which travel with equal and parallel
velocities and having a yet further kinship in the character of their
spectra. These stars thus preserve a trace of their common origin
and move freely or under the action of a common field of force, and
resemble very little the final state of bodies intermingling with
diverse velocities. It is therefore necessary to abandon the com-
parison of the Milky Way to a gaseous mass where the velocities of
the molecules result from multiple collisions in every direction and
with velocities showing definite relationship to the masses, but
no regularity as to direction. Jeans, starting with the stellar density
calculated as existing in the neighborhood of our sun, has found
REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY—PUISEUX. 137

that the dispersion of a swarm, once formed, would require billions
of years—a time much greater than the probable life of a star as a
bright star.

Results well worthy of attention have been obtained lately through
the formation of tables having as headings the principal character-
istics of the stars, spectrum class, annual parallax, magnitude of mo-
tion, intrinsic brightness. Thus, Campbell has shown that the white
stars (A and B of the Harvard classification) are more numerous than
other stars near the Milky Way, have small velocities, great distances
from the sun, and great brightness. The red stars are, on the average,
nearer the sun and have greater velocities. There is reason for con-
cluding, according to Stratton, that the stars have their birth close
to the plane of the Milky Way and depart from it with time with
increasing velocities. H.N. Russell thinks that he can go yet further,
laying stress upon the fact that statistics separate the red stars into
two classes—one much brighter intrinsically than the sun, and the
others decidedly fainter. The former (giant stars) are less advanced
in their evolution. Their destiny is to contract, and consequently
become warmer and whiter, losing in size and gaining in velocity.
They again become red before their final extinction. These correla-
tions are valuable for guiding researches, but it will without doubt
be necessary to wait until their degree of generality is better estab-
lished.

The existence of a particularly close analogy between certain stars
and the sun results from the work of the observers at Potsdam. They
have found that in the spectra of Arcturus and Aldebaran we can
observe the partial reversal of the H and K lines, that is to say, the
formation of a brilliant central line in them such as those seen in the
troubled regions of the sun.

The category of spectroscopic double stars, enriched continually
by the work of the Lick and Allegheny observers, presents on the
other hand a phenomenon of which we find no analogy in the sun.
We know now several instances of the fact, noted first in 3 Orionis,
that the calcium lines do not follow the periodic oscillations of those
due to hydrogen and helium. Possibly clouds of calcium, unconnected
with the stars, are interposed in the line of sight. In the Cepheid
variables, compared with one another, Ludendorff has noted the
existence of a proportionality between the amplitudes of the varia-
tions which the brightness and radial velocities respectively undergo.

Tt will be useful, in order to interpret these and similar laws, to be
able to reach greater precision in the measure of faint magnitudes.
All methods, in which the judgment of the eye is utilized, involve a
certain inaccuracy of physiological origin. Attempts are being made
to substitute for the operator’s eye an apparatus of rigorously im-
personal measures, indefatigable and of a superior sensitiveness.

138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Stebbins uses for this purpose the variable resistance which selenium
offers to the passage of the electrical current when the selenium is
more or less exposed to light. But the results do not appear to be
regular except when the selenium is kept at low temperatures.
Messrs. Elster, Geitel, and Guthnick have utilized the property which
certain alkaline metals, such as sodium and calcium, offer of emitting,
under the influence of light, corpuscles capable of acting upon an
electrometer. They have thus obtained a sensitiveness of one part in
a thousand in estimating the brightness of faint stars.

The photographie study by Prof. Bailey of the cluster Messier 3
has shown the existence in this single group of 137 variable stars, all
of the same type and having periods of about a half a day. Stars
showing such rapid changes are rarely found outside of clusters.
There has, however, meanwhile been found a new example in the star
RR Lyra, investigated by Mess.

Tn order to establish a homogeneous system of magnitudes in a
photographic catalogue there has been used with success at the
Greenwich Observatory a diffraction grating formed of metallic wires
stretched across the front of the objective of the telescope. Each
star then furnishes a central image with a series of secondary images
on either side. The ratio of the brightness of the successive members
of each series can be calculated with precision if a micrometrical
study is made of the grating and the widths of the wires and spaces
are made very uniform. Each bright star thus will give in the field
of the telescope a scale of magnitudes to which the fainter stars may
be referred. Messrs. Chapman and Melotte have thus been able to
make a complete catalogue of the stars down to the fifteenth magni-
tude and within a radius of 25’ of the pole.

The examination made by Reynolds of the distribution of bright-
ness in the great Andromeda nebula makes it seem as though a great
part of that nebula’s brightness were due to a central star too envel-
oped and obscured in the diffused matter for us to see it. In the
spectrum of this same nebula, generally held to be continuous with a
few absorption lines, Messrs. Fox and Max Wolf have found bright
lines, and in the spectrum of the Wolf-Rayet stars, characterized by
bright lines, Max Wolf finds also the lines of gaseous nebule. We
are thus forced to believe that bright lines are a general characteris-
tic of true nebule, which do not shine by reflected stellar light, and
that the Wolf-Rayet stars show a transition type between such nebule
and ordinary stars.

How is the evolution from one to the other effected? Nicholson
has tried to determine it by a subtle analysis of the numerical values
of the wave lengths. The only terrestrial elements known with cer-
tainty as existing in the nebule, and accordingly in the Wolf-Rayet
stars, are hydrogen and helium. The other lines which are in the
REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY—PUISEUX. 139

spectra, and as yet unreproducible in the laboratory, are distributed
in series, and the structure of these series allows us to attribute to
them modified forms of these simple elements. The passage takes
place by discontinuous steps, corresponding to successive whole num-
bers of electrons. The transmutation of the nebula into the star
results less from a concentration of visible matter than from new
intraatomic configurations, the reverse of that which radioactive
matter undergoes in our laboratories and which has helium for its
final product.

Nicholson, faithful to the traditions of Laplace, considers the
nebula as the primal form of matter in preference to the star, which
seems to him on the track toward a more complex structure. One is
tempted to regard the reverse route as probable if we consider two
incontestable facts: The practical irreversibility of the radioactive
transformation and the constant evolution of new stars toward the
nebulous state. The artificial production of the nebula spectrum, if
it ever becomes possible, will of course throw light upon this problem
of the utmost importance to cosmogony. May we live long enough to
be witnesses of this conquest, the object of so much of our striving!
ne Seat as eh abe pb fi d seis ade y

Bai oenceoey alts icy tia ollie

: Bese bloslae elena OF, ia Hass OR ENTE V ac posbeae st | WAR
Jog taco dd: “theatre atl oubete leaaees an itederrae Lier Rl ERT rec Irae

vee wera | nel 10 ann alsin Tor eth y cates

Fel cite Teper earnny iti imma bain

tye serey Bee sea barf aren Bt

siricanir try

y ut
)

COR MB EOTL Sethe

as
—
a
ce
—
~
=
ue
—
>
=
=:
=
a

fa Ses OT UP] 2S ATES Oe RAE Oe hl ae hae ‘wihaead

of pebieinan: chile bokas Wee oii ive) ald or of itn at
Centar Gra tnt: alt) cade DoakoeR ae ati eu vented cee Fevupcgy inks baniirte) jae pant abr
eidirl), ‘sobeenta ied if ii apsrteo oye u ee ae beneyrod i: ah te enh pds ee 19):
meas Sak hey e Eeultey fel oral ghd cf
4 , Sonothen, duty ko gitar nih teeta a sii i ts hehe
7 oti binvot, vente reat Yb inoritave dantenos. sil} nia parser: obes

Tt dpb disicletnimddecko cio warkineeseclobs Wittdaradt tl saa

yuk

Os ‘pobigation WAY Te) BLE

(olan pis thd (TOURER ItPQe> Pres eae 2 oe pa) PEt pat uidicueidt awe
QE dagqse yur arrh ove Mh Quah yortgatits oo Bev EV ei

t'%; ‘tee 4 Lads ie a be j
+ EN Vict Thay CDR A LSS teen Pay Ane
ca
,
i
¢ Vi
?
i
Se
a
if
;
13) >
i
:
i
7 >
a
'.
; \ ‘ f
f
i ’ ie
i , a
; af
A
: p ite
ne Pena
i if f
bo u ; ‘ ¢
, i i
~
ue he ORS trop

F it bey 4%
AON a eo. os cr ht a a
4 ‘ae angi sth we

THE UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY.

By A. S. E. ACKERMANN,
B. Sc. (Engineering), A. C. G. I., M. Cons. E., A. M. Inst. C. E.

[With 6 plates. ]

As it has been justly said that the play of Hamlet without the
Prince of Denmark is somewhat dull, perhaps it will be well to devote
a few words to the principal actor in all schemes for the utilization
of solar energy, viz, the sun. He is no longer regarded as a monster
fire, burning in the manner of fires in our grates. Great as is his
mass, it would be comparatively rapidly consumed if such combustion
were taking place. Another reason why this old idea was given up
is that the temperature of the sun has been determined by several
experimenters, and all agree that it is about 6,000° C. This is far too
high to permit of the formation of most chemical compounds, and
for the production of heat by combustion it is necessary for such com-
pounds to be formed. Briefly, such a temperature decomposes nearly
all compounds into their elements and prevents their reuniting and
the consequent production of heat.

Seientists are by no means certain how the sun’s heat is produced,
but one theory is that it is due to radioactivity; and another, due
to Helmholtz, that the energy to keep up the radiation could be sup-
plied by a relatively microscopic contraction of the sun’s volume,
though even this theory is not a complete success, as it implies that the
age of the sun is 17,000,000 years. Great as is this lapse of time,
geology indicates that our earth is considerably older; but as the
earth can not very well be older than the sun, we must conclude that
the sun is older than 17,000,000 years.

As to what the structure of the sun is there is also doubt; but the
inner portion is spoken of as the nucleus and the outer portion as the
atmosphere, and as the outer layers of the atmosphere get relatively
cooled they sink to a lower level, and their place is taken by hotter
layers. Thus there is a continual circulation of the sun’s atmosphere.

The specific gravity of the sun is only about a quarter of that of
the earth, whose specific gravity is 5.538. A cubic foot of water weighs

1 Reprinted, by permission, from the Journal of the Royal Society of Arts, London,
April 30, 1915,

141
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

624 pounds, and hence an average cubic foot of the sun weighs 864
pounds, while an average cubic foot of the earth weighs 345 pounds.
For comparison it may be mentioned that a cubic foot of granite
weighs 165 pounds. The density of the sun being so small, it is
concluded that it can still go on contracting, and hence that it is
probably getting hotter instead of cooler, as is popularly supposed.
If this be so, it is a hopeful feature for future workers in the field of
solar energy.

The diameter of the sun is 863,600 miles, or about one hundred
times the diameter of the earth, and an earthly pound weight at its
surface would weigh 274 pounds. The glowing surface which the
sun presents to us, even considering him as a flat disk, has the enor-
mous area of 585,750,000,000 square miles, each square foot of which
emits the enormous amount of about 12,500 horsepower, and the
radiant energy received at the outer surface of the earth’s atmosphere
is equivalent to 7,300 horsepower per acre. Of this about 70 per
cent (say, 5,000 horsepower per acre) is transmitted to the land sur-
face of the earth at noon on a clear day, and less in the morning and
evening, owing to the greater thickness of atmosphere through which
the radiation has to pass.

The quantity of solar heat per unit area which arrives in unit time
at the outer surface of our atmosphere is called the solar constant,
and its value, as determined in 1913 by C. G. Abbot, of the Smith-
sonian Institution, after making 696 experiments in different parts
of the globe, is 1.93 calories per square centimeter per minute (equal to
7.12 B. t. u. per square foct per minute). Its value given by various
experimenters between 1881 and 1909 was considerably higher, and
this makes it all the more remarkable that John Ericsson, the engineer
and inventor, who spent some £20,000 on experiments with solar
energy, when writing in 1876 a record of his life’s work, gave the
value of the solar constant as 7.11 B. t. u. per square foot per minute
and said, “In view of the completeness of the means adopted in
measuring the energy developed and the ample time which has been
devoted to the determination of the maximum intensity, it is not
probable that future labors will change the result of our determina-
tion,” and, as shown above, his confidence was justified.

Perhaps the most remarkable things about solar radiation are that
it passes through the 93,000,000 miles (1,000,000 is 2,740 a day for a
year) of space between the sun and the earth, the temperature of
which is nearly absolute zero (i. e., it is about —263° C.), and that
only three-fifths of it produces any impression on the eye. It is not
till the radiant energy impinges on some material body that it is con-
verted into heat. The best body for causing such conversion is a dead-
black one.
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 143

The absorption of solar energy by the atmosphere is about 20 per
cent greater in summer than in winter. This may be due to there
being a larger total quantity of water vapor in the atmosphere in
summer than in winter. It has long been known that the greater the
humidity of the atmosphere the greater the amount of heat stopped

SUN POWER PLANT AT MEAD/, ECYPT, 1913
Curves showing effect of humidity on steam fuoduclion

ny
i=}

figure X 1025 gives the heat cation DUK Uo ths total reight of steam produced per hour by the whole absor bor
8

VALUE FIGURE FOR THE STEAM. NOTE: The value

Ps Ac ae
HUMIDITY PER CENT

Fig. 1.

by it; but the author believes that his experiments in Egypt in 1913,
with the Shuman-Boys sun-power plant, were the first which de-
termined the quantitative effect of humidity, especially on so large a
scale. The curves on figure 1 record the results, from which it is
seen that when the humidity decreased 20 per cent the quantity of
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

steam increased about 30 per cent, thus showing the great importance
of humidity in connection with this subject.

The great possibilities of this field of work, and the obvious fact
that there is a limit to our supphes of coal and oil, have naturally
attracted many workers, of whom the following is a chronological list.
Some of them, however, have not been engaged in the practical
utilization of solar energy, but in determining the solar constant and
atmospheric absorption which tell us the theoretical quantity of heat
available for power purposes.

Date of | Date of | Date of

Name. birth. death. Arsh Sol
Solomon de. Caux (Erance)~.- 2-2... 2.t once eee == = 4: pen eee OSE. Ck 1576 1626 1615
HB. de'Saussure: (Sweden). 400. 8 ce ce eee oe bee eee 1740 1799 1766
Sir Johnstierscheli (Hing and) ee see ce oe eee sce ns ee eee ee 1792 1871 1836
GCG. SSM. Pouilleb:(hrance) 422-2 --cs2s sn odes Son eed aoee nape eine me 1791 1868 1838
Gat Al thans (Germany )icciee nan seer ee ace ese eee eee eee (?) (?) 1853
GanliGuntner CAUStha) ace. -2 ae eoe= = Perea eee ae SEPT E Ae acest (?) (?) 1854
PAqreustiMoOmehot (RTANCG) ae= er pessee ab oe ee la aes ee ea eee (?) (?) 1860
John Eriesson; (United StatesiotvAumenica)) = =< 522). ose see ape eerie 1803 1889 1864
@2H. Pope (United’Statesot America) t=. 22 -- a> --- 2 aeeeemn a. ae (?) (?) 1875
WilliamrAdams (Hneland))2 See ecc: aoe ena) eee tee ea ae a (?) (?) 1876
INO ISt (Oe aC) Loe Geer sb onecses 53 SoeRorensenos soasoonSSeeceescesce (?) (?) 1878
SoP. Langley (Umited States'of America)=. 27-22 52- anaes =p eee 1834 1906 1881
Tig Sa brige lines (Gdn bw) ane oats one soeee ee rae: Heer o = Sos Be Ae aee ees (?) (?) 1883
Chas couis7Abelonellier Ultram Ge) sot mee ectee ee = i eae ee ie ee (?) 1913 c. 1884
ASG: Eneas (United States of America)o. 222" 2-2. -- 4-0 -----2----5--=-- (Giyid hy eeeinee ce 1900
FIM Willl siosaaas. 2. ede ee ae See De phan Pieret 94 na ee) hie hl aee eae 1902
@xG= Abbot (United States(of America) 22. = sere ee ee ee IS 726 ils eee 1905
Frank Shuman (United States of America) .---.....-.----------- ene 18624 adtcseseecer 1906
Ch? Héry; (Erance)s-2----e22--- 5 et ie ol | OE 2 A ae eres oe sem Set 3 1865;0 bose eeere 1906
Ga Millochaui@Brance) as .p sss. - ese 2 eee ne es ee TSC He. SAE eS 1906

Now, although the theoretical power value of the heat reaching the
surface of the earth is no less than 5,000 horsepower per acre, 1t must
not be thought that anything like this amount can be converted into
mechanical power any more than can all the heat, of coal be converted
into its theoretical equivalent of mechanical power. For example,
the heat value of good coal is about 14,500 B. t. u. per pound, equal
to 12,760 horsepower hours per ton, but in fact the best result, even
under test conditions, ever obtained from a ton of coal by means of a
boiler and steam engine is only about 1,470 brake horsepower hours,
or 11.5 per cent of the heat value, while in the case of a gas engine the
corresponding figure is 25.5 per cent, and of a Diesel oil engine 31 per
cent. The chief loss is in converting the steam into mechanical energy,
and most of the loss is inevitable for thermodynamic reasons. With
this fact in mind, you will not be so surprised to learn that the best
overall thermal efficiency obtained from the Shuman-Boys plant in
Egypt was only 4.32 per cent, the chief reasons for this being so much
less than 11.5 per cent being that the steam pressure was so low, and
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 145

that the best efliciency of the sun-heat absorber was only 40.1 per cent,
compared with 75 per cent for the best coal-fired boiler. But it has
taken boilermakers many years to attain this efliciency, so that 40.1
per cent is not a bad result when the number of sun boilers that have
been made is taken into account. Thermal efficiencies of engines are
materially affected by the heat fall of the steam, just as the efficiencies
of water turbines are affected by the height of the waterfall. The
larger the fall in either case the better the efficiency.

It is interesting to realize from the foregoing figures that the value
of 24 acres of bright sunshine for an hour is 1 ton of coal. This fact
is more readily realized in Egypt in the summer. With this we may
compare what Mr. J. C. Hawkshaw said in his presidential address
to the Institution of Civil Engineers in 1902, viz, that the wood fuel
produced by an acre of land in Europe is equivalent to at least 1
ton of coal a year.

With so much heat generated at the surface of the earth it might
be thought that the temperature of the earth would rise. So it would
do were it not for the fact that the earth radiates into space as much
heat as it receives, though some of it may be stored on earth for a time
in the form of vegetable growth (including coal) or water raised to
high levels.

Coal has been called “ bottled sunshine,” but the cork of the bottle
must be a leaky one, for Abbot says (The Sun, p. 860): “ it appears
from such investigations as have been made that plants may store up
as chemical energy in round numbers 1 or 2 per cent of the energy
of solar radiation which shines upon their leaves.” With regard to
the earth’s own heat, it has been estimated that the continuous supply
coming from the interior to the surface is equivalent to 1,280 horse-
power per square mile, or only 2 horsepower per acre.

Having now considered the nature of the source and the quantity
of heat available, we will give a brief description of the plants which
have been constructed by various experimenters for the purpose of
utilizing solar heat. They are given in chronological order as regards
their solar work so far as the author has been able to discover the
facts.

At one stage the author thought he had discovered the earliest
worker at the subject when he came across a record of Sir John Her-
schel’s experiments in 1836, but further research disclosed that Buf-
fon, the celebrated French naturalist, was at work in 1747, and on
April 10 of that year he succeeded in setting fire to a plank of tarred
wood, at a distance of 150 feet, by solar rays reflected from a combina-
tion of flat mirrors. He did this to show the possibility of the legend
that Archimedes set fire to the fleet of Marcellus at Syracuse in
212 B. C,

18618°-—sm 1915——10
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Other early workers were Roger Bacon, an English Franciscan
monk, who died in 1294; Solomon de Caux (1576-1626), a French
engineer, who, in 1615, invented and described the first machine for
raising water by solar heat and the expansion of air; Ducarla; and
H. B. de Saussure, the Swiss geologist, physicist, and naturalist, who
made (in 1787) the second ascent of Mont Blanc. To de Saussure the
credit is due for inventing the “ hot box” (1. e., an insulated air-tight
wooden box, black inside, and covered with two layers of plain glass
with an air space between them), which has since been such a favorite
with other workers. It was he, too, who found that a cover of two
sheets of glass gave the best results.

Next in the field was Sir John Herschel, F. R. S., who in 1887 took
the temperature of the surface soil near Cape Town, and for dry earth
recorded temperatures varying from 120° F. to 162° F., the latter
having been obtained on December 1, 1837, at 0.36 p. m., in a sand heap
sheltered from the wind in a small garden inclosure, the soil being
moist 3 inches or 4 inches below the surface.

He also experimented with a “small mahogany box, blackened
inside, covered with windowglass fitted to size, but without putty,
and simply exposed perpendicularly to the sun’s rays.” In this box
he recorded a temperature of 152° F., but “ when sand was heaped
around the box to cut off the contact of cold air, the temperature
rose on December 3, 1887, to 177° F. And when the same box, with
its inclosed thermometer, was established under an external frame of
wood well sanded up at the sides, and protected by a sheet of win-
dowglass (in addition to that of the box within), the temperatures
attained on December 3, 1837, were—

Time (p.m.). Pernt
Sehe
AUS SOL eB a tats 207
MSO eae Ser ee 217.5
be Cones Se 218

and that with a steady breeze sweeping over the spot of exposure.
Again, on December 5, under a similar form of exposure, tempera-
tures were observed :

Mime (p.m. |a soe
or
HabEvoe att. ean
pmol te nea 230
TID ast os stent 239
Toil 248
Jib ae fs el 240. 5

As those temperatures far surpass that of boiling water, some amusing experi-
ments were made by exposing eggs, fruit, meat, and in the same manner (Dec,
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—-ACKERMANN. 147

21, 1887, et seq.), all of which, after a moderate length of exposure, were found
perfectly cooked, the eggs being rendered hard and powdery to the center; and
on one occasion a very respectable stew of meat and vegetables was prepared,
and eaten with no small relish by the entertained bystanders.

Sir John then described his method of determining the solar con-
stant by means of a tinned iron vessel 3? inches diameter, and 2.4
inches high filled with inked water, upon which he allowed the nearly
vertical rays of the sun to play through a 3.024-inch-diameter hole
for 10 minutes and noted the rise in temperature, of course allowing
for cooling losses. The mean of six experiments, made between De-
cember 23, 1836, and January 9, 1837, inclusive, gave a rise of 0.38° F.
per minute, the quantity of water being 4,638 grains. Allowing for
the obliquity of the sun’s rays, the mean area of the normal cross-sec-
tion of the beam of sunlight was 7.01 square inches. From these par-
ticulars we are able to calculate that Herschel’s value of the solar
radiation reaching the earth’s surface was 1.38 calories per square-
centimeter-minute, while if we assume the coefficient of atmospheric
transmission to have been 0.70, his value of the solar constant was
1.98, agreeing well with 1.93, the value now accepted as correct.

From these experiments he deduced that a cylindrical rod of ice,
45.3 miles in diameter, and of indefinite length, continually darted
into the sun with the velocity of ight (186,000 miles per second),
would barely suffice to employ the whole radiant heat for its fusion,
without at all reducing the temperature of the sun.

For comparison with Herschel’s sand temperatures recorded above,
the author gives the following similar readings, which he obtained at
Meadi, Egypt:

Reading Wi
of ther- | Reading fat Het. ind,
mometer) ofther- | with |. Shade: | Humid-
‘ under |mometer ig : =
Date. Time. tans meioe blacked | tempera-| ity per
lamp- anahane bulb ture. cent. Velocity in | Direc-
Dineiand weed y Fyne on miles per hour.| tion.
: sand.
sand.
1913 Sone Id ee 0 De |
Tliyed 4. a hee tce 4530) psy. |swisos ous: 110) |p reek 93 37 Fair breeze.
i ee D3 ie Tals see eee oe 120) Paste e ee 90 Biol eect ete Bae
ieee ees AY biytrieiien ee ae eae 120 ali = sects ge, 2 924 1
45 ind.
ia 2 pa ae ii Chenapeti 923 || : aoa
CN 0 aih Sa | PS ee a a! 128) pases ee 97 34 | Slight wind.
‘19k 2.2 UP Ag 016,016 es A 1A Sl eatin Me = 94 33 Slight breeze.
2, ee YA ae 11.45 a. m. 107 Lh | Saeeee 894 40 2h Th Ns
YS 0) ip gaan Mite, inesehe 122 132 144 894
12 noon... 127 138 145 914 33 2.9
h3i pare 127 125 128 94
} NW.
4p.m.... 120 115 123 94 i aby
5yp: ise or 105 103 105 91 ;
TAT aD ag 11.10 a. m- WG lieeectrat cs 143 99
12 noon... ZZ eae eee 144 102
2.45 p. m.. 126) | Seow cers, 3 TET ol aaeeaenet e 19) Ne
4.22 p.m... L5H Roe set ee L2G Mbt ee tas

148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Almost contemporaneous with the work ef Herschel was that of
M. C. 8S. M. Pouillet, a record of which, on the determination of the
solar constant, appears in Comptes Rendus, Vol 7, 1838, pages 24-65.
His value of the solar constant was 1.763 calories per square-centi-
meter-minute.

Carl Giintner was at work experimenting with reflectors in Lai-
bach in 1854, and in 1873 he exhibited one at the Vienna Exposition.
Giintner wrote in the Scientific American Supplement of May 26,
1906, pages 25, 409-412:

This reflector possessed, however, the disadvantages common to all sheet-metal
reflectors—that to maintain the surface in proper condition when exposed to all
sorts of weather requires careful and costly attention.

Being convinced, however, that the exploitation of solar heat will come more
and more into vogue, even in spite of the disadvantageous periodicity of this
source of warmth, I have taken the trouble to put aside the evil mentioned above
and overcome it by an entirely new method of reflector construction. * * *
This plane reflector consists of a large number of long, narrow mirrors placed
at suitable distances from one another, and which, when upon level ground, lie
parallel with each other horizontally, extending either from north and south or
from east to west. >

Each one of these mirrors revolves about a horizontal axis, and by means of
a simple parallelogram motion may be made to follow the sun in such a manner
that all the sun’s rays falling upon the plane mirrors may be reflected on the
surface of a tube or boiler, the long axis of which les also in the plane of the
mirror axis * * *, By a simple movement of a hand lever, all the mirrors
may be simultaneously turned through an are of 180°, which means that all the
mirrors may thus be made to look toward the ground and be in this way pro-
tected from the destructive action of sudden falls of hail.

He claimed that the reflector could be made at a cost of 8s. 6d. per
square yard of reflecting surface, and that it required “ but 200 square
feet of surface to generate steam sufficient for 1 horsepower.” He
proposed to construct the reflectors of thin corrugated steel plates,
faced with lead and then coated with tin.

Hence it is necessary to discover the value of e (the amount of useful heat
dispensed per unit of surface per minute) which affords the unit of heat that
ean be made available for effective service from a square foot of catching sur-
face per minute.

Being deprived of the experience of any former experimenter in this direction,
I myself made appropriate trials with reflectors * * *. The two opposite
sides, each 3 feet long, of a wood right-angular frame, having a width of 1 foot
and a length of 3 feet, were hollowed out to correspond with a previously de-
signed parabolic template, and upon the parabolic curve thus established two
sheets of white tin were nailed. Four supports, which were fastened to the
sides of the frame, carried a 34-inch tube erected in such a manner that its axis
coincided with the burning axis of the reflector * * *. The catching surface
presented a superficial area equal to 8 square feet * * *. The boiler was
not lagged with glass or anything.
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 149

He then gives a table of four tests of one hour each, varying from
9a.m.to4 p.m., and goes on to say:

From these experiments it has been deduced that the amount of heat given
off per square foot per minute is about equal to 1.8 (major) calories (equal to
1.4 minor calories per square-centimeter-minute). For our zone [probably
Laibach, Austria], then, the mean value of e may be set down as 1.3.

The work of August Mouchot in connection with the utilization of
solar energy was certainly of great importance. It is recorded in his
book entitled “ia Chaleur solaire et les Applications industrielles,”
second edition, 1879; but, as with other workers in this field, he gives
extremely meager information as to results of experiments.

Mouchot started his solar work in 1860 and tock out his first patent,
No. 48,622, on March 4, 1861. In the first edition of his above-named
work (p. 281) he stated that theoretically, on an average, 86 square
feet of reflecting surface are required for 1 horsepower. Then, to
allow for losses, he doubled the area, thus making it 172 square feet.
It is to be noted that he referred to reflecting surface and not the area
of radiation collected, which would almost certainly be a smaller
quantity.

On page 195 he described one of his boilers as having a capacity of
34 pints. It consisted of two cylindrical concentric copper vessels
with domed tops and the water space between them. The vertical
height of the outer vessel was 16 inches. The boiler was covered by
a bell glass and placed at the focus of a reflector. The water boiled
in one hour from an initial temperature of 50° F.

In August, 1866, Emperor Napoleon LIT of France saw Mouchot’s
first solar engine at work in Paris, and in 1872 Mouchot (with the
monetary assistance of the French Government) constructed another
sun boiler. This was described by M. lL. Simonin in the Revue Des
Deux Mondes of May 1, 1876, as follows:

The traveler who visits the library of Tours sees in the courtyard in front a
strange-looking apparatus. Imagine an immense truncated cone, a mammoth
lamp shade, with its concavity directed skyward. This apparatus is of copper,
coated on the inside with very thin silver leaf. On the small base of the trun-
cated cone rests a copper cylinder, blackened on the outside, its vertical axis
being identical with that of the cone. This cylinder, surrounded as it were by a
great collar, terminates above in a hemispherical cap, so that it looks like an
enormous thimble, and is covered with a bell glass of the same shape.

This curious apparatus is nothing else but a solar receiver—or, in other words,
a boiler—in which water is made to boil by the heat rays of the sun. -This
steam generator is designed to raise water to the boiling point and beyond by
means of the solar rays, which are thrown upon the cylinder by the silvered
inner surface of the conical reflector. The boiler receives water up to two-
thirds of its capacity through a feed pipe. A glass tube and a steam gauge
communicating with the inside of the generator, and attached to the outside of
the reflector, indicate both the level of the water and the pressure of the steam.
Finally, there is a safety valve to let off the steam when the pressure is greater
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.
than desired. Thus, the engine offers all desirable safety and may be provided
with all the accessories of a steam boiler.

The reflector, which is the main portion of the generator, has a diameter of
2.60 meters at its large and 1 meter at its small base, and is 80 centimeters in
height, giving 4 square meters of reflecting surface or of insolation. The in-
terior walls are lined with burnished silver, because that metal is the best
reflector of the heat rays; still, brass with a light coating of silver would also
serve the purpose. The inclination of the walis of the apparatus to its axis
measures 45°. Even the ancients were aware that this is the best form for this
kind of metallic mirrors with linear focus, inasmuch as the incident rays par-
allel to the axis are reflected perpendicularly to the same and thus give a focus
of maximum intensity.

The boiler is of copper, which of all the common metals is the best conductor
of heat; it is blackened on the outside, because black possesses the property of
absorbing all the heat rays, just as white reflects them; and it is inclosed in a
glass envelope, glass being the most diathermanous of all bodies; that is to say,
the most permeable by the rays of luminous heat. Glass further possesses the
property of resisting the exit of these same rays after they have been trans-
formed into dark rays on the blackened surface of the boiler.

The boiler proper of the Tours solar engine consists of two concentric bells
of copper, the larger one, which alone is visible, having the same height as the
mirror, i. e., 80 centimeters, and the smaller or inner one 50 centimeters. Their
respective diameters are 28 and 22 centimeters. The thickness of the metal is
only 8 millimeters. The feed water lies between the two envelopes, forming an
annular envelope 8 centimeters in thickness. Thus the volume of liquid is 20
liters, and the steam chamber has a capacity of 10 liters. The inner envelope is
empty. Into it pass the steam pipe and the feed pipe of the boiler. To the
steam pipe are attached the gauge and the safety valve. The bell glass covering
the boiler is 85 centimeters high, 40 centimeters in diameter, and 5 millimeters
in thickness. There is everywhere a space of 5 centimeters between its walls
and those of the boiler, and this space is filled with a layer of very hot air.

Mechanism was provided whereby the reflector was adjusted by
hand to follow the movement of the sun.

On May 8, 1875, u fine day, 20 liters of water, at 20° C., introduced into the
boiler at 8.30 a. m., produced steam in 40 minutes at 2 atmospheres (380 pounds)
of pressure to the square inch, i. e., a temperature of 121°, or 21° above boiling
water. The steam was then raised rapidly to a pressure of 5 atmospheres (75
pounds to the square inch), and if this limit was not exceeded it was because
the sides of the boiler were only 3 millimeters thick, and the total effort sup-
ported by these sides was then 40,000 kilograms. It would have been dangerous
to have proceeded further, as the whole apparatus might have been blown to
pieces.

Toward the middle of the same day, with 15 liters of water in the boiler, the
steam at 100°—that is to say, at a pressure of 1 atmosphere—rose in less than
a quarter of an hour to a pressure of 5 atmospheres, equal to a temperature of
153°. Finally, on July 22, toward 1 p. m., an exceptionally hot day, the appa-
ratus vaporized 5 liters of water per hour, which is equal to a consumption of
140 liters of steam per minute, and one-half horsepower. For these experiments
the inventor used an engine which made 80 strokes per minute under a con-
tinued pressure of 1 atmosphere. Later on it was changed for a rotative
engine—that is to say, an engine with a revolving cylinder—which worked
udmirably, putting in motion a pump to raise water, until the pump, which
was too weak, was broken.
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 151

In 1878 Mouchot used a boiler made of many tubes placed side by
side (pl. 1) and having a capacity of 100 liters (70 for water and 30
for steam).

Mouchot seems to have been the only inventor of a solar plant, with
the exception of Shuman, who has had his apparatus tested by inde-
pendent engineers. The following refers to Mouchot’s plant. In
Comptes Rendus, Vol. 94, 1882, pages 943-945, M. A. Crova reports
that—

The minister of public works appointed two commissions, one at Constantine
and the other at Montpellier, to make experiments with two identical mirrors
of 5.22 square meters in section normal to the sun’s rays and to evaluate their
practical utility.

The commission of Montpellier was composed of MM. Duponchel, engineer in
chief of Ponts et Chaussées, as president; Col. Fulcrand, R. E.; Guibal, and
myself.

The experiments (at Montpellier) lasted from January 1 to December 31, 1881,
and were made from hour to hour every day during which the sun was bright
and the observations possible.

The solar rays concentrated at the focal line of the mirror were received on
a black boiler placed at the axis and which was inclosed by a glass shade.

The number of major calories utilized, divided by those incident, received in
one hour upon 1 square meter of surface normal to the rays, gives the efficiency
of the apparatus.

Here are the principal results obtained during 176 days which gave 930 ob-
servations, during which 2,725 liters of water were distilled.

Moyenne générale des valeurs mesurées pendant Vannée 1881 et rapportées a
14, et & 1h,

= akc Maximum

Calories. ators Date.
WhaleuUMTecueldirecteMeNnt sce ohne ee mek ler lye Akay oe ea acini 616.1 945 25 Avril.
Chalenmiutilisée par apparels. asec see a= op agen es tee esse 258.8 547.5 15 Juin
OVenno des Tenn GMIGMtS. eee oe ne ee eee enon ete see asia - 491 .854 | 14 Juin.”

The author has purposely not translated the last five lines for fear
of making a mistake. He is unable to interpret the results; but as
they represent an important and independent investigation lasting
a year, they are given in the hope that some of his audience may be
able to throw some light on the matter.

Next came that versatile engineer and successful inventor, John
Ericsson, a Swede by birth and an American by adoption. He made
an immense number of experiments, extending over 20 years, with
costly apparatus, to determine the solar constant, and later on made
apparatus for the practical utilization of solar radiation. All these
experiments were made at his own expense, and he tells us they cost
him £20,000; and having done all this work, the conclusion he arrived
at was:

The fact is, however, that although the heat is obtained for nothing, so ex-
tensive, costly, and complex is the concentration apparatus that solar steam is
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

many times more costly than steam preduced by burning coal. (Letter dated
Sept. 21, 1878, to R. B. Forbes.)

We have already referred to his remarkably accurate determination
of the solar constant; but he was not so happy in deducing the tem-
perature of the sun, which he made to be 723,000° C., the present
accepted result being only 6,000° C.

He tried hot-air engines, as well as steam engines, for utilizing solar
energy, and claimed that the steam engine which he constructed in
New York for this purpose in 1870 was the first one driven by the
direct agency of solar radiation. The diameter of its cylinder was
44 inches. He afterwards modified his solar hot-air engine so that
it might be used as a small pumping engine, using gas as its heat
supply.

The profits upon this chip from his workshop are already estimated at several
times the amount of the £20,000 expended by Ericsson upon the solar investiga-
tions leading up to this invention. (Vol. II, p. 275 of his ‘“ Life,” by W. C.
Church.) Mouchot claimed, apparently correctly, that his engine was the first,
and Ericsson admits that, ‘Some time previous to 1870, Mouchot made a small
model engine, a mere toy, actuated by steam generated on the plan of accumula-
lation by glass bells * * *,

Ericsson gives full details of all his apparatus for determining the
solar constant in the record of his life’s work, entitled, “‘ Contribu-
tions to the Centennial Exhibition,” New York, 1876; but unfortu-
nately he did not describe in detail therein the solar boilers, explain-
ing that “experienced professional men will appreciate the motive,
viz, that of preventing enterprising persons from procuring patents
for modifications.” He does, however, give us the following amount
of information:

On grounds already fully explained, minute plans of my new system of ren-
dering sun power available for mechanical purposes will not be presented in
this work. The occasion, however, demands that I should present an outline
of the concentration apparatus before referred to. It consists of a series of
polished parabolic troughs, in combination with a system of metallic tubes
charged with water under pressure, exposed to the influence of converging solar
rays, the augmented molecular action produced by the concentration being
transferred to a central receiver, from which the accumulated energy is ¢om-
municated to a single motor.

Thus the mechanical power developed by concentrated solar heat is imparted
to the solar steam engine without the intervention of a multitude of boilers,
glass bells, gauges, feeders, ete. Moreover, the concentration apparatus, unlike
the instrument of Mouchot, requires no parallactiec motion, nor does its manage-
ment call for any knowledge of the sun’s declination from day to day. Its
position is regulated by simply turning a handle until a certain index coincides
with a certain bright line produced by the reflection of the sun’s rays.

His boilers seem to have been exceedingly efficient, for he claims that
“the mechanism which I have adopted for concentrating the sun’s
radiant heat abstracts, on an average, during nine hours a day, for
all latitudes between the Equator and 45°, fully 3.5 units of heat per
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—-ACKERMANN. 153

minute for each square foot of area presented perpendicularly to the
sun’s rays.” Three and five-tenths B. t. u. per square-foot-minute
=0.95 calories per square-centimeter-minute. The mean transmis-
sion of solar radiation by the atmosphere over a zenith distance from
45° EB. to 45° W. is 67.5 per cent when the sky is clear. Thus
0.675 X1.93=1.31 calories per square-centimeter-minute are available
at the earth’s surface. Hence the efliciency of Ericsson’s boiler was
9 95100=72.5 per cent, which is remarkably high.

In 1872 Ericsson built his hot-air solar engine, which had a reflector
the shape of which was approximately a portion of a sphere and
which concentrated the solar radiation onto one end of the cylinder.
The power of both these engines was evidently very small. On July
9, 1875, Ericsson wrote that he had up to that time constructed and
started seven sun motors.

Kricsson wrote in Nature of January 3, 1884, an illustrated article
describing another of his sun motors which he erected in New York
in 1883, in spite of his opinion as to the cost of solar steam (previ-
ously quoted) expressed in 1878 (pl. 1). His description was as fol-
lows:

The leading feature of the sun motor is that of concentrating the radiant
heat by means of a rectangular trough having a curved bottom lined on the
inside with polished plates so arranged that they reflect the sun’s rays toward
a cylindrical heater placed longitudinally above the trough. This heater, it is
searcely necessary to state, contains the acting medium, steam or air, employed
to transfer the solar energy to the motor, the transfer being effected by means
of eylinders provided with pistons and valves resembling those of motive engines
of the ordinary type. Practical engineers, as well as scientists, have demon-
strated that solar energy can not be rendered available for producing motive
power, in consequence of the feebleness of solar radiation. The great cost of
large reflectors and the difficulty of producing accurate curvature on a large
seale, besides the great amount of labor called for in preventing the polished
surface from becoming tarnished, are objections which have been supposed to
render direct solar energy practically useless for producing mechanical power.

The device under consideration overcomes the stated objections by very
simple means, as will be seen by the following description: The bottom of the
rectangular trough consists of straight wooden staves, supported by iron ribs of
parabolic curvature secured to the sides of the trough. On these staves the
reflecting plates, consisting of flat window glass silvered on the under side, are
fastened. It will be readily understood that the method thus adopted for
eoncentrating the radiant heat does not call for a structure of great accuracy,
provided the wooden staves are Secured to the iron ribs in such a position that
the silvered plates attached to the same reflect the solar rays toward the heater.

Referring to the illustration, it will be seen that the trough, 11 feet long and
16 feet broad, including a parallel opening in the bottom, 12 inches wide, is
sustained by a light truss attached to each end, the heater being supported by
vertical plates secured to the truss. The heater is 64 inches in diameter, 11
feet long, exposing 180 X9.8=1,274 superficial inches to the action of the reflected
solar rays. The reflecting plates, each 3 inches wide and 26 inches long, inter-
cept a sunbeam of 180*180=23,400 square inches section. The trough is sup-
ported by a central pivot, round which it revolves. The change of inclination
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

is effected by means of a horizontal axle, concealed by the trough, the entire
mass being so accurately balanced that a pull of 5 pounds applied at the extrem-
ity enables a person to change the inclination or cause the whole to revolve.
A single revolution of the motive engine develops more power than needed to
turn the trough, and regulates its inclination so as to face the sun during a day’s
operation.

The motor shown by the illustration is a steam engine, the working cylinder
being 6 inches in diameter, with 8-inch stroke. The piston rod, passing
through the bottom of the cylinder, operates a force pump of 5 inches diameter.
By means of an ordinary crosshead secured to the piston rod below the steam
cylinder, and by ordinary connecting rods motion is imparted to a crank shaft
and fly wheel, applied at the top of the engine frame, the object of this arrange-
ment being that of showing the capability of the engine to work either pumps or
mills. It should be noticed that the flexible steam pipe employed to convey the
steam to the engine, as well as to the steam chamber attached to the upper
end of the heater, have been excluded in the illustration. The average speed of
the engine during the trials last summer was 120 turns per minute, the absolute
pressure on the working piston being 35 pounds per square inch. The steam
was worked expansively in the ratio of 1 to 8, with a nearly perfect vacuum
kept up in the condenser inclosed in the pedestal which supports the engine
frame.

In view of the foregoing, experts need not be told that the sun motor can be
earried out on a sufficient scale to benefit very materially the sun-burnt regions
of our planet.

From the particulars given it is easily calculated that the “ con-
centration ” of this absorber was 9.

The Rey. C. H. Pope has produced a useful little book entitled
“Solar Heat,” the second edition of which was published in 1906.
In it he tells us he started his experiments (which do not appear to
have included the conversion of solar radiation into mechanical
energy) in 1875. He used a modification of Mouchot’s truncated
cone reflector formed of many plane mirrors, the plan adopted about
the same time by Adams. Pope has fallen into the same error re the
connection between temperature and concentration of radiation as
did Adams, for he says (p. 17):

That the degree and amount of heat at the focus will be proportionate to the
area of the opening of the lens or mirror, and that thus the only limit to the

temperature which may be reached is the size to which such lenses and mirrors
may be constructed and revolved.

And. (p. 93):

These rays may, therefore, be gathered together and made to unite, as if they
became one denser, stronger, hotter ray, so that the temperature of the con-
densed rays will be raised in proportion to the number of rays blended, and
we can thus cause the heat to increase to any degree our apparatus can be
enlarged.

W. Adams, deputy registrar, High Court, Bombay, seems to be the
sole Englishman who has worked on the practical side of the prob-
lem of the utilization of solar energy. His work was done in India,
.and is recorded in his interesting book, Solar Heat (Bombay,
Smithsonian Report, 1915.—Ackermann. PLATE 1.

MoucHot’s MULTIPLE TUBE SUN-HEAT ABSORBER OF 1878.

ERICSSON’S SUN-POWER PLANT OF 1883.
Smithsonian Report, 1915.—Ackermann. PLATE 2.

PIFRE’S SUN-POWER PLANT OF 1878 DRIVING A PRINTING PRESS.
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 155

1878). He started on the work in 1876, and his experiments led him
to conclude, as did Buffon, that silvered-glass mirrors were superior
to polished-metal ones. This is no doubt true for ordinary use,
though for laboratory experiments the polished-metal ones give better
results, as there is then no absorption by the glass (pl. 2).

In two particulars Adams was much at fault—(1) in believing
that the solar rays which reach the earth are not practically parallel,
and this in spite of the opposite opinions of the many physicists
whom he quotes, and (2) in believing that the temperature attained
at the focus of a lens or mirror is directly proportional to the con-
centration of the rays. As a consequence, he stated that if a lens 85
feet 4 inches in diameter concentrated the radiation onto a circle one- °
half inch in diameter the temperature would be 73,400,320° F. This is
equal to 40,780,000° C., while the temperature of the sun itself is only
6,000° C., and no amount of such concentration could produce a
temperature in excess of this. This error on the part of Adams and
Pope seems to be due to a confusion of “temperature” with “ quan-
tity of heat.”

His experiments were all made with plane or flat glass mirrors,
the use of which he strongly advocated in preference to curved metal
ones, which Mouchot used. Sometimes he used groups of 18 mirrors,
each 17 by 103 inches, and sometimes of 32, each 9 by 6 inches. The
latter he arranged in a concave wooden frame in 4 tiers of 8 in each
tier. Such a group of 32 formed 1 unit, of which he had 16, all
focused onto one boiler. When placed together the 16 units formed
a portion of the surface of a hollow sphere 40 feet in diameter. One
of his boilers was of copper one-sixteenth inch thick, 16 inches diam-
eter, 2 feet 7 inches high, and held 9 gallons of water, which boiled
in 30 minutes and evaporated 32 gallons in an hour.

His next boiler was also of copper one-fourth inch thick, and of
the same design and external dimensions as Mouchot’s, but with a
water space between the inner and outer shells of 3 inches instead
of 3 centimeters, and containing 12 gallons of water as compared
with Mouchot’s 44 gallons. The 12 gallons of water were boiled and
the pressure raised to 10 pounds to the square inch in the half hour
from 7.30 a.m. to 8 a. m., and by 8.30 a. m. the pressure was 70 pounds
to the square inch, when the safety valve opened, whereupon he goes
on to say:

A gentleman present kept the valve down by placing his foot on it, till the
steam, escaping from several leaks in the joints of the fittings made the position
untenable. The weight on the safety valve was then supplemented by a brick
suspended from the lever by a piece of string, when suddenly the packing and
red lead at the top of the dome under the socket of the steam pipe (which had

been fixed by my butler, who professed to have formerly been a fitter) gave
way, and, with a terrific noise, the whole volume of steam rushed out of the
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

opening. On turning off the solar rays and examining the boiler it was found
to be dry. All the water had either been evaporated or blown out.

When this boiler had been properly fitted up by professional fitters, a steam
pump was hired, said to be of 23 horsepower, and it was connected with the
steam pipe. At 7.30 a. m. fire was opened on the boiler from the whole battery of
16 mirrors at a range of 20 feet, the boiler containing 12 gallons. At 7.45, i. e., a
quarter of an hour there was a pressure of about 2 pounds and at 8.30 a, m. 55
pounds. The steam was then turned into the cylinder of the pump, and the
pump was kept working at a uniform pressure of about 30 pounds to the square
inch.

This pump, the first steam engine ever worked in India by solar heat, was kept
coing daily for a fortnight in the compound of my bungalow at Middle Colaba,
in Bombay, and the public was invited, by a notification in the daily papers, to

- witness the experiments.

Adams also made a solar cooker, the reflector of which was formed
of eight sheets of plane glass arranged so as to form a hollow truncated
octagonal pyramid 2 feet 4 inches in diameter at the larger end. The
food was placed in a cylindrical copper vessel, at the axis, covered
with an octagonal glass shade. With this he and others cooked many
meals, both stews and roasts, and he records that both he and Mouchot
found (p. 98) that animal fat—

When exposed to the direct or reflected rays of the sun was converted into
butyrie acid, a substance having such an offensive odor and taste as to render
the roast unpalatable. Mouchot then discovered that a sheet of red, pink, or
yellow transparent glass interposed between the roast and the reflector had
the effect of preventing this fermentation, as those colors have the curious
property of absorbing, neutralizing, or eliminating the rays by which it is
caused.

Adams also states (p. 36) that—

When the sacred fire that burned in the Temple of Vesta? became extinct,
the ancient Romans used to rekindle it by placing a piece of dry wood in the
linear focus of the conical reflector * * * To bring fire from heaven, by
supernatural aid and a metal reflector was, no doubt, one of the most ancient
miracles of priestcraft.”

He suggested many uses for solar heat, among others (p. 96), “ for
the cremation of deceased Hindus and others.”

Taking into account the facts that he did not expend much money
on his experiments, and that he did the whole of his solar work in
18 months, it will be admitted his was a most creditable piece of work,
especially as he was neither an engineer nor a physicist. To make this
amply clear, he says:

I have neither the capital, the time, nor the practical knowledge required to
conduct any business in which steam machinery is used. I know now that the
“ vovernors ” of a steam engine are the two iron globes which revolve about it,
and not, as I had supposed, the two men who lubricate the machine and feed the
boiler with coals. This is nearly the extent of my knowledge of steam machinery.

1 Vesta, the Goddess of the Hearth.
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. HO

In coneluding this brief account of Adams’s work you will be
pleased to learn that he was awarded the gold medal of the Sassoon
Institute of Bombay for his essay on The Utilization of Solar Heat,
which he submitted in March, 1878.

In Comptes Rendus, Volume 91, 1880, pages 388-389, M. Abel Pifre
claims an efficiency of 80 per cent for his apparatus when he says he
obtained a rate of absorption of 1.21 calories per square-centimeter-
minute. If such a rate were obtained we now know it would mean an
efficiency of 89.7 per cent, which is improbable. Pifre used a para-
bolie reflector (instead of a truncated cone), and reduced the surface
of the boiler, thus increasing the concentration. The capacity of his
boiler was 11 gallons, and he collected 100 square feet of solar radia-
tion so the diameter of his reflector was about 11 feet 4 inches. He
used a rotary pump, and raised 99 liters of water 3 meters in 14
minutes, which is equivalent to 0.065 horsepower. He ran a printing
press with his sun-power plant, and claimed that if he had collected
216 square feet of radiation he could have produced 1 horsepower,
which is quite likely (pl. 2).

Next in order we have Langley’s work, which consisted of many ex-
periments to determine the value of the solar constant, the value of
which he gave as 3 calories per square-centimeter-minute.

Langley experimented with de Saussure’s “ hot box,” and was the
leader of the expedition to Mount Whitney, where some of his best
work wasdone. He gave a preliminary account of this trip in Nature
of August 3, 1882, pages 314-317, and a full record of it under the
title “ Researches on solar heat” in the United States of America
War Department, Papers of the Signal Service, 15, 1884. He also
referred to it in the New Astronomy (1900).

In Nature (p. 315), he said:

As we still slowly ascended and the surface temperature of the soil fell to the
freezing point, the solar radiation became intenser, and many of the party pre-
sented an appearance as of Severe burns from an actual fire, while near the sum-
mit the temperature in a copper vessel, over which were laid two sheets of plain
window glass, rose above the boiling point, and it was certain that we could boil
water by the direct solar rays in such a vessel among snow fields.

In Volume 73 of the Proceedings, Inst. C. E., 1883, page 284,
is described a plant designed by J. Harding, M. Inst. C. E., for dis-
tilling water by solar radiation.

This plant was erected at Salinas, Chile, 4,300 feet above sea level,
and had 51,200 square feet of glass arranged in sections 4 feet wide,
and in the form of a very flat A, forming the roof of a shallow water
trough. The sun evaporated the water, and the resulting vapor con-
densed on the glass, for the temperature in the box was far higher
than that of the atmosphere, and hence of the glass. The pure water
trickled down the sloping glass and dripped from its lower edge into
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

a small channel on the top of each side of the box. These channels
delivered into larger ones, and thus the distilled water was collected.
The plant yielded 5,000 gallons of pure water per day in summer, i. e.,
1 pound of water per square foot of glass. Allowing for interest on
capital, cost of repairs, etc., the cost of the pure water is said to have
been. less than one-half penny per gallon. The chief item of expense
was the breakage of glass by whirlwinds. Distillation started at 10
a.m. and continued to 10 p.m. The maximum temperature of the
water in the troughs was 150° F. The total cost of the plant, includ-
ing pumps, windmills, and tanks, was $50,000, or 1s. 6d. per square
foot of glass.

It is not clear when the solar energy problem first engaged the atten-
tion of C. L. A. Tellier, a French refrigerating engineer, but in 1889
he published his book, “Elévation des Eaux par la Chaleur Atmos-
phérique,” in which he gave many drawings and details, and a very
full description of his plant. He may have been the first to use the
lamellar boiler, but the United States patent No. 230323, of July 20,
1880, of MM. Molera and Cebrian, shows that they proposed this form
of boiler. The dimensions of each section of Tellier’s boiler were
3.5 by 1.12 meters. They were made of thin plates of iron,
so riveted together as to give them a quilted formation. They
were filled with ammonium hydrate, which, he says, when heated
by the sun produced gaseous ammonia at a pressure of “several
atmospheres.” The ammonia gas was used in a small vertical engine,
and was then liquefied in a condenser and used again. The boilers were
fixed in a sloping position so as to “ face the sun,” and two somewhat
fanciful illustrations show them used as roofs of verandas. The
boilers were insulated on their lower or shade sides to prevent loss of
heat, and were placed in shallow boxes with only one layer of glass to
form the cover. He experimented with different colored glass, and
found, as might be expected, that colorless glass gave the best results.
He also gave complete details of his invention as apphed to the manu-
facture of ice. With so much detail it is disappointing that the au-
thor could not find the results of a single experiment with the plant.
In fact, he is not sure whether Tellier ever constructed one.

In his work La Conquéte Pacifique de VAfrique Occidentale
(1890), Tellier discussed social and economical questions, and showed
how improvements might be made by rendering the deserts of Africa
productive by means of his sun-power plants.

A. G. Eneas, in the United States, used the popular truncated,
cone-shaped reflector, collecting about 700 square feet of solar radia-
tion. The weight of the reflector was 8,300 pounds.

The boiler was formed of two concentric steel tubes, the two together
being incased in two glass tubes with an air space between them and
another air space between the inner glass one and the outer steel tube.
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 159

The water circulated up between the inner and outer steel tubes and
down the inner tube. The boiler was placed at the axis of the cone.
Its length was 13 feet 6 inches, its water capacity 834 pounds (13.4
cubic feet), and steam space 8 cubic feet. Hence the diameter of
the outer tube appears to have been 1 foot 2 inches and the concen-
tration of radiation 13.4; i. e., 13.4 square feet of sunshine were con-
centrated on each square foot of the external surface of the boiler.

C. G. Abbot (The Sun, p. 369) states that Eneas gave him the
following particulars:

February 14, 1901—Pasadena, Cal., 11.80 a. m.—0.30 p. m.; 642 square feet
sunshine. Temperature of air, 61° F. Steam pressure, 145-151 pounds per
square inch. Steam condensed, 123 pounds.

October 8, 1903.—Mesa, Ariz., “about midday”; 700 square feet sunshine.
Temperature of air 7 4° F. Average steam pressure, 141 pounds per square inch.
Steam condensed, 133 pounds.

October 9, 1904.—Willcox, Ariz., 11 a. m.—12 a. m.; 700 square feet sunshine.
Steam pressure, 148-156 pounds per square inch. Steam condensed, 144.5
pounds.

The temperature of the feed water is not given, but, assuming it
to be the same as the temperature of the air, we can deduce the rate
of absorption per square foot of radiation and the thermal efficiency
of the absorber. This being done, we obtain the following table:

Rate of
Mean absorption
Weight of | pressure of Der alee pectial
: steam steam in oot 0 efficienc
Place and date. Period. produced | pounds per} radiation of the 7
in pounds. | square inch] collected, | absorber.
ofabsorber.| B.t.u.
per hour.
Per cent.
Pasadena, Feb. 14, 1901...... 11.30 a. m. to 0.30 p. m-.. 123 163 223 74.6
Mesa, Octy3; 1903! sone ses2-0- “ About midday’”’....... 133 156 219 SS CRS}
Willcox, Oct. 9, 1904........-. Wat tone i= esas 144.5 167 238 79.6

1 For a maximum transmission of radiation through the atmosphere of 70 per cent.

Eneas refers to his “nine different types of large reflectors,” and

found that he obtained better results when he concentrated the re-
flected rays “on two parts of the boiler instead of its entire length,
as in the Pasadena machine.” The unexposed portions of the boiler
then appear to have been lagged.

Eneas said, “TI find 3.71 B. t. u. per square foot per minute as the
greatest amount of heat obtainable during the trial runs.” This
gives a maximum efliciency of 74.5 per cent, which agrees with the
result given for his Pasadena plant in the foregoing table.

Eneas also stated that “the interposition of a single thin glass
plate in a beam of sunlight diminishes the intensity about 15 per cent.
This decrease is owing principally to reflection.” On page 466 of
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

Preston’s Treatise on Heat, it is stated that “mirror glass 2.6 milli-
meters thick transmitted 39 per cent of the radiation that fell on it
from a Locatelli lamp, while rock salt transmitted 92 per cent.” The
diathermancy of each substance varies with the nature of the source
of heat, so the result just given is not comparable with that given by
Eneas.

Abbot found the following percentages of heat were transmitted
through sheets of glass, each from 1.5 to 2 millimeters thick. In
one set of experiments the glass was normal to the rays and the other
at 45°.

Percentage transmis-
sion.

Number of
sheets |
of glass. | Raysnor-| Rays at
mal to 45° to
glass. glass.
1 86.5 85
2 74.5 71.8
3 63.5 60
4 53.3 49

The sun-power plant known as the Pasadena! one was described
and illustrated in the August, 1901, issue of Cassier’s Magazine by
Prof. R. H. Thurston, LL. D., D. E., and on page 103 of the Railway
and Engineering Review of February 23, 1901. It is stated to have
been designed by, and erected at the expense of, “a party of Boston
inventors whose names have not been made public.” It consisted of
a truncated cone reflector, 33 feet 6 inches in diameter at the larger
end and 15 feet diameter at the smaller, with a boiler 13 feet 6 inches
long, having a capacity of 100 gallons (U.S. A.) plus 8 cubic feet
of steam space (pl. 3).

The article in the Railway and Engineering Review states:
“According to newspaper accounts, the all-day average work per-
formed by the engine is 1,400 gallons (U. 5S. A.) of water lifted
12 feet per minute, which is at the rate of 4 horsepower.” It is more
nearly 44 horsepower; thus, this plant required 150 square feet of
radiation per horsepower, and the concentration appears to have
been 13.4.

The Pasadena plant is said to have cost £1,000, and Willsie, writing
of it in 1909, says it was “the largest and strongest of the mirror
type of solar motor ever built.”

H. E. Willsie and John Boyle, jr., started their work in America
in 1902. The method they adopted was to-let the solar radiation pass
through glass and heat water, which in turn was used to vaporize

1 There appear to have been several plants erected at Pasadena by different experi-
menters. Probably Eneas designed the plant above described.
Smithsonian Report, 1915.—Ackermann. PLATE 3.

THE PASADENA SUN-HEAT ABSORBER OF 1901.
“LL6OL ‘ANOOVL ‘YaaHosay NVWNHS SHL SO LSSAA SHL WOYS MA3lA IWY3N35)

“bp ALV1d "UURLUAYDY—'G 16] ‘Hoday ueiuosy}iWws
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 161

some volatile fluid such as ammonium hydrate, ether, or sulphur
dioxide, the vapor being used to drive an engine.

Willsie thinks he was the first to propose this two-fluid method for
the utilization of solar energy, and, so far as the author knows, his
claim is correct. Their first sun-heat absorber was built at Olney,
TlL., and consisted of:

A shallow wooden tank tightly covered with a double layer of window glass.
The sides and bottom were insulated by inclosed air spaces filled with hay.
The tank was lined with tar paper, well pitched, to hold water to the depth of
3 inches. Although the weather was cold and raw, even for October, with occa-
sional clouds, the thermometer in the water showed temperatures higher than
were needed to operate a sulphur dioxide engine.

The next solar heater was built at Hardyville, Ariz. Sand was used for
insulation. Three tests for the amount of heat gave these average results in
December :

Heat units
absorbed per
Test No. square foot

per hour.
1 120
2 122
3 148

An estimate showed that 50 per cent of the heat reaching the glass was
absorbed into the water.

In 1903 some further heater tests were made, patent applications filed, and to
carry on experiments on a more extensive scale the Willsie Sun Power Co.
was incorporated.

In the spring of 1904 a complete sun-power plant was built at St. Louis.
In this installation a 6 horsepower engine was operated by ammonia. 'The
heater consisted of a shallow wooden basin coated with asphalt and divided
by strips into troughs. It was covered by two layers of window glass and
insulated at the sides and bottom by double air spaces. Hach trough of the
heater formed a compartment. The troughs were inclined so that a thin layer
of water flowed from one trough to the next. In this heater was collected and
absorbed into the water from the sun’s rays 211,500 heat units per hour at
noon, or 3877 heat units per hour per square foot of glass exposed to the sun.
As, according to accepted solar observations, about 440* heat units per hour
reached a square foot of glass, this heater was showing the surprising efficiency
of 85 per cent, and collecting nearly twice as much solar heat per square foot
per hour as did the apparatus of Ericsson. Of the lost heat I estimated that 40
heat units were reflected and absorbed by the glass and that 23 heat units were
radiated. On cloudy days the water could be heated by burning fuel. A de-
scription of this plant appeared in a St. Louis paper and in a New York paper,
but, so far as I know, it has not been mentioned in any technical publication.

It was then decided to build a sun-power plant on the desert, and some land
about a mile from The Needles, Cal., was purchased for a site.

1No; only 299. Note: 0.70X1.93=1.352 calories per square-centimeter-minute=299
B. t. u. per square-foot-hour,

18618°—sm 1915 iat}

162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

This Needles plant used sulphur dioxide, and its results decided
them to build a larger plant, which Willsie speaks of as their third
sun-power plant, and describes as follows:

A 20-horsepower slide-valve engine was connected to an open-air water-drip
condenser and to a fire-tube boiler 22 inches by 19 feet having fifty-two 1-inch
tubes. The solar-heated liquid flowed through the tubes giving up its heat to
the sulphur dioxide within the boiler. Boiler pressures of over 200 pounds were
easily obtained. The engine operated a centrifugal pump, lifting water from a
well 43 feet deep (sic), and also a compressor, in addition to two circulating
pumps.

Their fourth plant was a rebuilding of the third, and they tried
the expedient of covering the heat-absorbing water with a layer of
oil, but the results were not so good as when a heat-absorbing liquid
(water, or oil, or a solution of chloride of calcium) was rapidly
circulated in a thin layer. The sun-heat absorber for this plant was
in two sections, one covered with one layer of glass and one with
two layers, and both on a slope, the liquid running from the first to
the second, and its temperature in the two sections being 150° F. and
180° F., respectively. The liquid at 180° F. was distributed over a
“heat exchanger” consisting of horizontal pipes about 38 inches in
diameter, arranged in a vertical plane, something like an air con-
denser. The pipes contained sulphur dioxide, and the heat-absorbing
liquid lost about 100° F. in its descent. The cooled liquid was
returned to the two sections of the absorber to be reheated. The heat
exchanger was inclosed in a glass-covered shed. Willsie says:

The engine used in this experiment was a vertical automatic cut-off, which
at times, with a boiler pressure of 215 pounds, probably developed 15 horse-
power. The two-heater sections exposed an area of about 1,000 square feet to
the sun, but as the heat was taken from storage and not directly from the
heater, it is not fair to assume the above proportion of heater surface to horse-
power developed.

The condenser consisted of 6 stacks of horizontal pipes, 12 pipes to the
stack. The cooling water, pumped from a well 48 feet deep, had a temperature
of 75° F. Only enough water was allowed to drip over the pipes to keep them
wet, and so great was the evaporation in the dry desert breeze that the cooling
water left the lower pipes at 64°. By using the cooling water over and over,
the condenser gave very satisfactory results. A shade of arrow weed, a straight
willowlike shrub abundant along the Colorado River, kept the sunshine from
the condenser pipes and permitted a good air circulation.

Willsie estimated the cost of his sun-power plant, complete with
engine, at £33 12s. per horsepower.

With regard to Willsie’s results, it is to be noted that 377 B. t. u. per

317X100
60 070 X7.12
know that a maximum of only about 299 B.t.u. per square foot per
hour penetrate the atmosphere. The author agrees with the 50 per
cent efficiency given a little earlier by Willsie.

hour means an efficiency of =126 per cent, for we now
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 168

Frank Shuman, of America, started on the problem in 1906, and
in 1907 he had a plant running which developed about 34 horsepower;
1,200 square feet of sunshine fell onto a fixed, horizontal water box
with a glass top. In the water there were rows of parallel horizontal
black pipes containing ether, and exposing 900 square feet of surface
to the solar radiation. The water also became heated and conveyed
heat to the under sides of the pipes. The ether boiled, and its
“steam” drove a small vertical, simple, single-cylinder engine. The
exhaust ether vapor passed into an air surface condenser, and the
liquid ether from this was pumped back into the tubes of the “ boiler ”
already described.

This plant, Shuman says, ran well even when snow was lying on
the ground. This at first seems very remarkable, but though in the
winter the number of solar rays falling on a given horizontal area is
smaller than in summer, the permeability of the atmosphere is about
20 per cent greater in winter than in summer, which counteracts the
other effect; but of course the loss of heat by conduction from the
boiler is greater in winter than in summer.

In 1910 Shuman constructed an experimental] unit of an absorber
measuring 6 by 9 feet. This unit combined the lamellar boiler of
Tellier and the “ hot box” of de Saussure, for it consisted of a shallow
black box with double glass top, with 1 inch of air space between
the two layers of glass, another air space of an inch between the lower
glass and the boiler, which was 6 feet long (up the slant), 2 feet 6
inches wide, and + inch thick over all. The box was so sloped that
at noon the rays of the sun were perpendicular to the glass. The box
was not moved to follow the sun, but it was adjusted about every three
weeks, so that the condition just named was complied with. The
remarkable thing about the absorber was that there was no concentra-
tion of any kind of the sunshine by mirrors, lenses, or other means,
and yet the author on one occasion recorded a temperature of 250° F.
in the box. The best run of an hour’s duration produced steam at
atmospheric pressure at the rate of 74 pounds per 100 square feet of
sunshine falling on the box. The author’s tests of a Shuman 100
horsepower low-pressure engine at Erith showed the steam consump-
tion to be 22 pounds at atmospheric pressure per brake-horsepower-
hour. Hence, with an absorber of the type just described, it would
be necessary to collect solar radiation to the extent of 300 square feet
per brake horsepower, which is a much larger area than any named
by other workers. The maximum thermal efficiency of this absorber
was 24.1 per cent.

In 1911, with the aid of some English capitalists, Shuman con-
structed his third absorber at Tacony (a suburb of Philadelphia),
which was almost identical with the one just described, except that it
had two plane mirrors, one at the upper edge of the “hot box” and
164 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

one at the lower, so arranged that 6 square feet of sunshine were con-
centrated onto 3 square feet of “ hot box ”; 1.e., the concentration was
2to1. Its position was adjusted about every three weeks. This time
the total quantity of solar radiation collected was many times as large
as the largest collected by any previous worker, for the total area
was 10,296 square feet. In the best run of one hour this plant pro-
duced 816 pounds of steam at atmospheric pressure. This is at the
rate of 9 pounds per 100 square feet of sunshine, and therefore equiva-
lent to an allowance of 245 square feet of sunshine per brake horse-
power. The maximum thermal efficiency of this absorber was 29.5
per cent (pl. 4).

Toward the end of 1911 the Sun Power Co. (Eastern Hemisphere),
(Ltd.), requested their consulting engineers (Messrs A. 5. IK. Acker-
mann and C. T. Walrond) to select and invite some distinguished
physicist to join them in a consultative capacity. Hence Prof. C. V.
Boys, F. R. S., became associated with the work, and he suggested
a vital change in the design of the absorber, viz, that the boilers should
be placed on edge in a channel-shaped reflector of parabolic cross
section, so that solar radiation was received on both their surfaces,
instead of one being worse than idle, as it was when the boilers were
placed side on to the sun. The design immediately received the
hearty approval of the consulting engineers and Shuman, and at the
time we all thought the arrangement was novel, but the author has
since found and recorded herein that Ericsson used a very similar
reflector and boiler.

An absorber of this design was constructed and erected at Meadi on
the Nile, 7 miles south of Cairo, in 1912, but the boiler was constructed
of thin zine and failed before the official tests could be made. This
boiler was replaced by a cast-iron one in 1913, and the author (accom-
panied by his old pupil, G. W. Hilditch, A. M. Inst. C. E., as his chief
assistant, now Lieut. Hilditch of the Divisional Engineers, Royal
Naval Division) spent two most interesting months with the plant in
July and August, 1913. He went out in time to tune up the Shuman
engine (a 100-horsepower one) taken out from Tacony, and make all
the necessary preparations for the trials, of which there were over 35.

In addition to the alteration of the shape of the reflectors, another
very important change was made. Their axes were placed north and
south, and they were automatically heeled over from an eastern aspect
in the morning to a western one in the evening, so as to follow the
sun. Thus the same number of solar rays were caught all day long,
and the small decrease in steam production in the morning and even-
ing was almost entirely due to the greater thickness of atmosphere
through which the rays had to pass. The total area of sunshine col-
lected was 13,269 square feet (pls. 5 and 6).
‘OL6L ‘lava ‘Yaayossy SAOG-NVYWNHS SHL SO HLNOS SHL WOUS MZIA IWYSN35

VAAL

ni aes

"G ALV1d *UURWUaYSY—'G1 6] ‘HOdey uRlUOsY}ILUS
"HLYON SHL WOU ‘YSayOSSYY SHL 4O NOILOSS 3NO ‘EL6] ‘lavaiN ‘YaauOsay SAOG-NVWNHS

a ee

‘9 ALV1d ‘UUBWUaYOY—'GL6| ‘Hodey ueluosyyIWS
UTILIZATION OF SOLAR ENERGY—ACKERMANN. 165

The boilers were placed at the focus of the reflectors and were
covered with a single layer of glass inclosing an air space around the
boilers. Each channel-shaped reflector and its boiler was 205 feet
long, and there were five such sections placed side by side. The con-
centration was 44 to 1. The maximum quantity of steam produced
was 12 pounds per 100 square feet of sunshine, equivalent to 183
square feet per brake horsepower, and the maximum thermal efficiency
was 40.1 per cent. The best hour’s run gave 1,442 pounds of steam at
atmospheric pressure, hence, allowing the 22 pounds of steam per
brake-horsepower-hour, the maximum output for an hour was 55.5 -
brake horsepower—a result about 10 times as large as anything pre-
viously attained, and equal to 63 brake horsepower per acre of land
occupied by the plant. <A pleasing result was that the output did not
fall off mutch in the morning and evening. Thus on August 22, 1913,
the average power for the five hours’ run was no less than 59.4 brake
horsepower per acre, while the maximum and minimum power on that
day were 63 and 52.4 brake horsepower per acre, respectively.

The work of MM. G. Millochau and Ch. Féry was started in 1906 to
determine the solar constant and the temperature of the sun. Their
work is recorded in Comptes Rendus for 1906 and 1908, and in the
Revue Scientifique of September 7, 1907. They give the absolute
temperature of the sun as 6,042° C., and the value of the solar constant
as 2.58 calories per square-centimeter-minute. This latter value was
the result of experiments they made on the summit of Mont Blane
in 1908.

The article in the Revue Scientifique of September 7, 1907, is by
Millochau, and in it he gives the following list of experimenters and
the results of their determination of the solar constant, after reading
which some may consider the word “ constant” a misnomer :

Rouiule pl Somes a eee eee ee ee 1. 793
SEQ OTD CSE LS 4 5 is Ee apa ae Se Pen aad EE 2. 82
OMA cenae SOS Set. a Ae eee eA es cee 1.9
AVOUT eS etl Sey eater ates a ed ee a be pa yak Ss 2.28 to 2.37
MancleyameliS G4 ie: «esis ee ee ee SR ee 3. 068
RSEPAASUIIGI Es dots} Ne SS ee i er eer eee ve 3. 47
VE CSVEY AVE» ~ TUSES] Se cal ok a Sa ea Se PE PEERS 3.05 to 3.28
Ze (ES (PAO, TSG Vp eee Ae he er 4
EDS Kayan 0) een cee a OL i ee 3. 29

To these we may add:
EICESCh Eley So eeeeee eee tae ne DA ht ee ae 1. 98
FIPICSSOn ee SiGe ee en RRR Se TN. alee Mes LOS
Wi GNMIOYS MEN TeE NEL Ney TC Oi = ee ee Pm De ee 2.38
Ja} 0) 0X0 re gl ROB Us Were el Pe Et 8S er, es ee Se 1. 93

In spite of this history of comparative failures, the author is of
opinion that the problem of the utilization of solar energy is well
worthy of the attention of engineers, for even now it is very nearly
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

a solved problem where there is plenty of sunshine and coal costs
£3 10s. a ton. It is fortunate that where coal is dear sunshine is often
plentiful, and it is to be remembered that coal will gradually get
dearer while the cost of manufacture of sun-power plants should
decrease. Sun-power plants are admirably suitable for pumping in
connection with irrigation, for where there is most sunshine there
is need for most irrigation, and the slight variation in the quantity
of water pumped throughout the day does not matter. Also, when
temporarily there is no sunshine (due to clouds), probably little or
‘no irrigation is required.

In conclusion, the author would refer those who are interested in
the subject to his paper (8vo, 86 p., 22 illus.), bearing the same title
as this one, presented to the Society of Engineers on April 6, 1914.
Therein he dealt fully with the whole of Shuman’s work from
1910-1913, inclusive, and gave details of the results of the 62 trials
of the plant made by the author in England, the United States,
and Egypt.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MATTER AND THE EVOLUTION
OF THE ELEMENTS.

By Prof. Sir Ernest RUTHERFORD, F. R. 8.

[With 5 plates. ]

Speculations as to the constitution of matter have occupied an
important place in the development of scientific knowledge. The
idea that all matter was composed of minute particles called atoms
was put forward long ago by the Greek philosophers and was ad-
vanced again with varying degrees of confidence by philosophic
men at the dawn of the scientific age. For example, Newton sug-
gested that matter was composed of atoms which were likened to
“hard massy balls,” while Robert Boyle regarded a gas to consist
of atoms which were in brisk motion. The first definite formula-
tion of the atomic theory as a scientific hypothesis was given by Dal-
ton, of Manchester, in 1803 in order to explain the combination of
atoms in multiple proportion. The necessity of distinguishing be-
tween the chemical atom and the chemical molecule was soon recog-
nized, while the famous hypothesis of Avogadro that equal volumes
of all gases at the same temperature and pressure contain equal num-
bers of molecules still further extended the usefulness of the theory.
The whole superstructure of modern chemistry has been largely
reared on the foundations of the atomic theory. The labors of the
chemist have revealed to us the presence of more than 80 distinct
types of elements, each of which has a characteristic atomic weight,
and in most cases sufficiently distinct physical and chemical proper-
ties to allow of its separation from any other element by the applica-
tion of suitable methods.

It has been generally assumed that all the atoms of one element
are identical in shape and weight, and until a few years ago were
supposed to be permanent and indestructible. The close study of
the variation of chemical properties of the elements with atomic
weight led Frankland and Mendelief to put forward the famous
“periodic law,” in which it was shown that there was a periodic

1The William Ellery Hale Lecture, delivered at the annual meeting of the National
Academy of Sciences, Washington, D. C., 1914. Reprinted by permission.

167
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1915.

variation in the chemical properties of elements when arranged in
order of increasing atomic weight. This empirical generalization
has exercised a wide influence on the development of chemistry, and
the periodic law has been considered by many to indicate that all the
atoms are composed of some elementary substance or protyle. It is
only within the last few years that our knowledge of atoms has
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable

periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7
reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
periodicity.
= Sa A RAEN S50, Nap a einen, Te Re 7

reached a stage to offer a reasonable explanation of this remarkable
