coevererre

anal
& ares hed 4 Ml
es sol ni i ll
fgll 20
ral s.
PER 4
Saw Call iil
*, tay SON. 1h | /
Nl wae fhe sOnek

“INGTON
IEE Oe en eee

D - =~ r a

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

FOR THE

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1905

erst) gas

OF THE

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
EO OGy.
UnItTep States Natrona Museum,
- UNDER DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, October 1, 1905.
Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum, and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1905.

Very respectfully,
RicHARD RATHBUN,

Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U.S. National Museum.
Mr. S: P. LAncLey,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

III
CONT EN PS:

Page.
errRm Ome RAN GMI EAD, cx. 1 Sates oe neces See oe es tA Be ee II
CONTENTS, Sel s 2E EA A Sa et ae ee ae Re LA eM: dee ae, Se ek are eee v

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
PAR PASI ISOUUmANOECOLG Smee oa 2 tes ss fxs oe UU eae ee ee I a Y 4
AC REEn SEU OfMRESCALCHES == p= sua e See ae ep RR Rey Whe canes 5
NS, Qin, CCIE TCT Tea 0c ee ne ee Se rhs aE ca dies A ea 6
Pear Reuse MEDI o's 2 LS A Be Ee ere eae ae 6
Wirecntimmecdsvolthewmnuseums 252° 5 2 os eee ee ek he eee os ene 8
SOMowmMportantreayente Ok tho-years 2225 a2 aeons aes See ee ae neers = 9
SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR.

AppLoprlanions and expendisureas® st... Laem era ase ane see on ele 11
FEet ci taes ane en eeY B kes t . y\ MR en oe, Bees ST Rea ee caste 12
NUGCIinOnSS COLE TCOMECHIONS ase | Meme me Dey Ue ee Ate Ld ee 15
fererliworcupom une collections: _ 20.2 252. sen Sf So. Soe Se en 2 30
Eremen aidRCOUOCHIONSS 2m ax oe ee eS See Lo a 34
INGS@RMCO Ge a Se A Aes eae ee eee Re Ean ee haan eee te bag Mls ae ee 37
PS OTAMOUS.-. 32-25 See Rp ae See Sere Pe, Soho st oe eee ees 2 = ots 47
Bimamounion and exchange of specimens: /2.. <2..-202-. 2522-522 224. glee. 22. s ee 50
TiO mere Ree eee ae ee, Poa ye Sept eee eee oe SB 51
[eecume SENG peo ui Ss wn ee sh se sf 2) Fee eee eae veneer Settee dB foe 03
cEmnespoldence wan Gedo CunieM Lge it 540), ne ue emia eee ee She 54
LP LaLa eT CICS SE Are Nee eee See, ee ee ee ee ea tae aatehs 2 ee 54
LAV Saray 2 Ue Se a ey Ie SE EE ee NN Se ea Lean se ON gl ee Deer SR ee 58
REE GiN Ree he meee Sit od Sete CN Neh aT he ee 58
Cooperation of the Executive Departments.........-.....-.-...--.:------+----- 59
TES o PSH layMlS 5 et Sa SAAS See eg ee Nard ae ee ae ER ee a ee 59
Iienunonal MC ORPTESSeS” 2)224. 6 213 $2 32s tele c ns. eo Dl eeek Saal 2 Maen eedae 60
SEA Olen Css Ga tier = sere eee ere eee a ENS ate Sse Ses eee 62
YE GINS/SCTTET SEES AER pret a tne yg a ae A ee a 63
LDISIE OW CHOCBSSTOINE Aer oe Ee mR es es Re ee a SP a a 67
Pane IBI CORIO eee riers eye ke Me WD ee eee oss 111
fe, Oe

UPON

THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1905,

By Ricuarp Ratrusun,

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U. S. National Museum.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

The establishment of a museum for this Government, which was
intended to embrace all of the national collections, was provided for
in the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, founding the Smithsonian
Institution, as follows:

Whenever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their reception, all
objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United States, which may be
in the city of Washington, in whosoever custody they may be, shall be delivered to such
persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them, and shall be so
arranged and classified in the building erected for the Institution as best to facilitate the
examination and study of them; and whenever new specimens in natural history, geology,
or mineralogy are obtained for the museum of the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate
specimens, which the Regents may in their discretion make, or by donation, which they
may receive, or otherwise, the Regents shall cause such new specimens to be appropriately
classed and arranged.

The Smithsonian fund at the time it was turned over to the United
States in 1838 amounted to about $515,000, but by 1846 interest had
accrued to the extent of about $240,000 additional. The latter sum
was made immediately available for the construction of a building
and for other purposes incidental to the first equipment of the Insti-
tution, but the principal, invested by the Government, was to
remain intact, only the interest therefrom to be applied to future
operations. For the period in question this endowment was, with
perhaps one or two exceptions, larger than that of any other learned
establishment in America, and Congress was led to believe that the
income would be sufficient to meet all the requirements it had
imposed. Events which soon followed showed, however, that this
view was not justified, and in 1857, when the completion of the
Smithsonian building rendered possible the transfer of the specimens
from the Patent Office, Congress found it necessary to aid the Insti-

1
2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

tution by small appropriations for constructing cases and caring for
the collections, and some twenty years later the entire expense
on this account was assumed by the Government.

Jt should be explained, however, that beginning as early as 1850
important materials for a museum were being assembled by the
Smithsonian Institution, at its own cost, through the activities of
its assistant secretary, Prof. Spencer F. Baird, whose personal bent
was toward the collection and study of natural history specimens.
With the approval of Secretary Henry he put into operation exten-
sive plans for accomplishing this purpose, which were soon yielding
abundant returns. Professor Baird’s own vacations were spent in
field work. Officers of the Army and Navy and of other branches of
the Government service, fishermen, fur traders, private explorers,
and such powerful organizations as the Hudson’s Bay Company and
the Western Union Telegraph Company were enlisted in the work
and rendered valuable assistance. The influence exerted by these
beginnings has, moreover, been lasting and widespread, as shown in
the extensive natural history operations of subsequent national and
State surveys, the organization of the Bureau of Fisheries .and
Bureau of Ethnology, and the support given to scientific collecting
by many other bureaus of the Government.

The discussion of plans for the organization of the Smithsonian
Institution, which devolved upon the first Board of Regents, led, in
January, 1847, to the unanimous adoption of the following resolu-
tion expressing approval of the museum feature as one of its impor-
tant functions:

Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress establishing the Institution, and
in accordance with the design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will, that one of the prin-
cipal modes of executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of collections of speci-
mens and objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of a library
of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge, to the end that a
copious storehouse of materials of science, literature, and art may be provided, which shall
excite and diffuse the love of learning among men, and shall assist the original investiga-
tions and efforts of those who may devote themselves to the pursuit of any branch of

andro - re
Baw Warten

In 1879, when most of the existing Government surveys, whose
work included the collecting of specimens in the field, had been estab-
lished, Congress deemed it important to practically reenforce the
provisions of the act founding the Institution, in order that there
might be no doubt as to the proper disposition of the material derived
from these sources, by the following item in the sundry civil appro-
priation act for 1880:

All collections of rocks, minerals, soils, fossils, and objects of natural history, archeology,
and ethnology, made by the Coast and Interior Survey, the Geological Survey, or by any

other parties for the Government of the United States, when no longer needed for investi-
gations in progress shall be deposited in the National Museum.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 3

Although the name ‘‘ National Museum’”’ was sometimes used in
- the earlier reports of the Smithsonian Institution, it did not appear
in any of the laws of Congress, until 1875. Its general employment
may be said to date from the time of the Philadelphia Centennial
Exhibition of 1876, the first exposition in this country in which the
- Government participated, and the first to make known to vast num-
bers of the people of the United States the existence of national col-
lections at Washington, as well as new methods of installing and
exhibiting museum materials, differing radically from the older
cabinets of college or local museums, which had prevailed up to that
period. After its close the Government exhibits brought back to
Washington, together with the extensive gifts made to the United
States by private persons and foreign governments, rendered neces-
sary the early erection of a new and separate building, devoted
entirely to museum purposes.

The scope of the National Museum as defined by law comprises
practically all branches of science and of the arts which admit of
museum treatment. With exceedingly limited means for making
purchases, and therefore almost entirely dependent as to the char-
acter of its collections upon Government explorations, personal dona-
tions, and exchanges, its different departments have had a very
unequal growth. - The subjects best represented are ethnology and
archeology, geology, zoology, and botany. A fair beginning has
been made in the exceedingly important branches of the industrial
arts and American history, and scarcely more is required to place
these two departments on a proper basis than sufficient room to dis-
play the necessary collections, which are certain to be received, in
greater part through gratuitous contributions, when it is known
that the Museum is prepared to care for them. In the department
of the fine arts the collection is still very small, but the subject is
one which must sooner or later receive earnest consideration by the
Government.

The specimens in all branches are classified in two series—one,
generally comprising the bulk of the material, being arranged for
the purposes of scientific research and reference in laboratories and
storerooms; the other, selected with regard to its general educa-
tional value and public interest, and accompanied by descriptive
labels, being displayed in glass-covered cases in the public halls.
The duplicate specimens not required for exchanges are made up
into sets for distribution to schools and colleges, as opportunity
offers. Papers descriptive of the collections, both technical and
semipopular, are published for gratuitous circulation to the extent
of three or more volumes yearly, and, finally, the Museum has come
to be regarded as a bureau of information in respect to all subjects
4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

with which it is concerned, the correspondence which this involves
now constituting one of its heaviest tasks.

The late Dr. G. Brown Goode divided the history of the Museum
into three epochs, corresponding in a general way with successive
additions to its purposes, which he described as follows:

First, the period from the foundation of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, during
which time specimens were collected solely to serve as materials for research. No special
effort was made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize them, except as a foundation
for scientific description and theory.

Second, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of the “National
Cabinet of Curiosities,” to 1876. During this period the Museum became a place of deposit
for scientific collections, which had already been studied, these collections, so far as con-
venient, being exhibited to the public and, so far as practicable, made to serve an educa-
tional purpose.

Third, the present period (beginning in the year 1876), in which the Museum has under-
taken more fully the additional task of gathering collections and exhibiting them on account
of their value from an educational standpoint.

During the first period the main object of the Museum was scientific research; in the
second the establishment became a museum of record as well as of research, while in the
third period has been added the idea of public education. The three ideas—record,
research, and education—cooperative and mutually helpful as they are, are essential to
the development of every great museum. The National Museum endeavors to promote
them all.

It is a museum of record in which are preserved the material foundations of an enormous
amount of scientific knowledge—the types of numeraus past investigations. This is
especially the case with those materials that have served as a foundation for the reports
upon the resources of the United States.

It is a museum of research, which aims to make its contents serve in the highest degree
as a stimulus to inquiry and a foundation for scientific investigation. Research is neces-
sary in order to identify and group the objects in the most philosophical and instructive
relations, and its officers are therefore selected for their ability as investigators as well as
for their trustworthiness as custodians.

It is an educational museum, through its policy of illustrating by specimens every kind
of natural object and every manifestation of human thought and activity, of displaying
descriptive labels adapted to the popular mind, and of distributing its publications and
its named series of duplicates. i

AS A MUSEUM OF RECORD.

The record collections of the Museum have had an unprecedented
growth, due mainly to the rapid exploration and development of a
rich and extensive country, under the liberal and progressive policy
of the Government, though much material has been derived from
other sources. The total number of specimens of all classes now
in the Museum is above 6,000,000, but this includes a very large
quantity of material which has not yet been studied. As fast as
the latter is worked up, it is placed with the record series.

The principal sources of the record as well as of the unclassified
collections have been as follows:

The earlier explorations carried on by or in conjunction with the
Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5

The United States Exploring Expedition around the world from
1838 to 1842, the North Pacific or Perry Exploring Expedition from
1853 to 1856, and many subsequent investigations by the Navy.

The activities of the members of the United States diplomatic and
consular service abroad. .

The Government surveys at home, such as the Pacific Railroad
surveys, the Mexican and Canadian boundary surveys, and the sur-
veys carried on by the Engineer Corps, the Signal Corps, and other
branches of the U.S. Army.

The explorations of the U. S. Geological Survey, the U.S. Bureau
of Fisheries, several bureaus of the Department of Agriculture, the
Bureau of American Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution, and
other scientific branches of the Government.

Donations and purchases in connection with the several expo-
sitions at home and abroad in which the Museum and Bureau of
Fisheries have participated since 1876.

Exchanges with foreign and domestic museums and _ with
individuals.

AS A MUSEUM OF RESEARCH.

In order to permit of their examination and study, as provided in the
act of establishment, the collections of the Museum are, to the extent
of its accommodations, arranged systematically and in a manner
convenient for reference. Access to the reserve or study series, so
called, consisting of the main body of the collections and as com-
plete in all the groups as the accessions have made possible, is given
to all properly qualified persons engaged in original research. The
opportunities thus afforded are widely availed of, the Museum being
visited every year by many investigators, some of world-wide dis-
tinction, coming from the scientific centers of Europe and other
foreign countries, as well as from all parts of the United States.
Material is also occasionally sent to representatives of other institu-
tions having the means of providing for its safe-keeping, when required
in the Sage up of special subjects or for comparison with their
own collections.

The custodianship of the collections being the first and most imper-
ative duty devolving upon the scientific staff of the National Museum,
its members find comparatively little time for advancing knowledge,
though they are selected with special reference to their ability to
identify and classify the specimens under their charge, and in fact,
every year prepare many important contributions. A number of
assistants employed by other scientific bureaus have laboratory room
in the Museum in which to conduct investigations on material kept
here in their care, and in whose results the Museum shares. Many
collections have from time to time been transferred to the Museum
6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

by the Geological Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Department
of Agriculture, and other branches of the Government in advance
of their final working up, in order to provide for their safe storage
and to secure the better facilities for study thus afforded. Under
this arrangement the amount of research work carried on in the
Museum buildings has been greatly increased. .

With practically no funds to expend in explorations, the members
of the Museum staff are mainly dependent upon the opportunities
offered by other Government bureaus and private expeditions for
such occasional field work as is carried on. In this connection special
researches may be conducted, though the chief advantage results
from the acquisition of new and valuable material and a knowledge
of the conditions under which it occurs in nature.

AS AN EDUCATIONAL MUSEUM.

The educational side of the Museum comprehends primarily the
instruction and enlightenment of the visiting public by an extensive
exhibition of representative specimens illustrating the different sub-
jects, so installed and labeled that they may be examined and under-
stood without special direction. Lack of room has prevented this
feature from being fully carried out in recent years, but better condi-
tions will prevail upon the completion of the new building. Through
the participation of the Museum: in all of the expositions since 1876,
the people in many parts of the country have also received the bene-
fits of this educational system of exhibition, which has generally
been produced on a large scale, and the formation of new museums
has been greatly stimulated.

Another popular educational feature, having for its purpose the
promotion of scientific teaching, has been the distribution to schools
and colleges throughout the country of duplicate specimens, properly
identified and labeled, and put up in carefully selected sets. Several
hundred thousand specimens have already been disposed of in this
way.

Though mainly technical and most useful to the investigator, the
publications of the Museum may be classed, in a general way, as
belonging to its educational side, being the medium through which
the nature and extent of its collections are made known. They con-
sist of the Annual Reports, the Proceedings, and the Bulletins.

THE NEW MUSEUM BUILDING.

Just previous to the beginning of the fiscal year to which this report
relates, or, to be more exact, on June 15, 1904, the work of excavating
for the foundations and basement of the new building was begun.
The ground was found to be firm and dry over nearly the entire site,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7

thus furnishing exceptionally good conditions for the massive struc-
ture to be erected. The excavation was completed during the sum-
mer, a considerable undertaking, since the area covered is larger than
that occupied by any other Government building in Washington
except the Capitol. The laying of the heavy concrete foundations
immediately followed and was finished on November 9, 1904.

By September 1, however, the working plans had been sufficiently
advanced to invite proposals for all the granite required, both for
the exterior faces of the building and for the courses in the courts.
There were nine bidders, though a larger number of quarries was
represented, and their proposals were opened on October 1. Sam-
ples of the granite accompanied the bids, and these were examined
with reference to the durability of the stone as well as its fitness for
best expressing the architectural design of the building and for secur-
ing harmony with the generally Saati | principle that the
exterior walls of the public buildings in Washington should be of a
light color. The material finally selected, with the approval of the
building committee of the Board of Regents, was as follows: For
the basement the warm gray, usually called pink, granite from the
quarries at Milford, Massachusetts; for the first. and second stories,
which compose the greater part of the fronts, including also the main
south central feature to the roof of the dome, the pure white granite
from the recently opened quarries at Bethel, Vermont; for the upper
story, the white granite from Mount Airy, North Carolina. The two
interior open courts, each measuring 128 feet square, will be faced
with a light-colored brick, relieved by courses and window arches
of stone. For the latter has been chosen the same variety of gran-
ite from Woodstock, Maryland, that was used in the courts at the
Library of Congress. Before the close of the fiscal year the quarry-
ing and cutting of the granite, especially for the basement, was well
under way.

During the early part of the winter a narrow section in wood of
the front of the building, to the full height of the stonework, was
erected on the foundations for the purpose of studying the proportions
as worked out on the plans. This resulted in a decision to increase
the height of the building to the extent of 3 feet, which was accom-
plished by raising the level of the basement floor 14 feet, and adding
the same amount to the height of the basement. Among incidental
advantages following this change was the opportunity for raising
the numerous pipe trenches, insuring a greater fall for the drainage
system, and for obtaining a level grade line around the building with
an architecturally better base course of stone. The -change also
permits the transfer of the lecture hall to the rotunda basement,
removing it from the center wing, which will become available for
exhibition purposes.
8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Contracts were entered into during the winter and spring for the
heavy steel framework for the main story floor and for much of the
inside building materials which were soon to be required.

URGENT NEEDS OF THE MUSEUM.

The Museum’s interests have been most retarded during the past
two decades by the excessive crowding of its buildings, but this con-
dition will soon be remedied in so liberal and effective a manner as
to excite the pride of the whole country. In another direction, how-
ever, there exists an almost equally important emergency, which
has so far failed to be appreciated. It relates to the. activities of
the Museum, its maintenance, and its duties toward the Government
and the public. The Museum is undermanned and the members of
the staff are to such an extent underpaid that the force can not be
held intact. It-makes no difference how large, how small, or how
crowded its buildings may be, the work must go on, and in such
degree as it is neglected is the Museum dead and useless. To the
ordinary mind a museum is a house filled with curiosities. A true
museum of modern times is never such, and the Museum of this
country has been honored by Congress with functions of a high and
important character. As the custodian of the national collections,
it is preserving material records secured through the expenditure of
many millions of dollars. So interested have the people become i
their own Museum that they have swelled these records to the extent
of a large proportion of its contents. The general public shares in
the benefits through the large and attractive, but at the same time
instructive, displays made in the several exhibition halls. Educa-
tional interests throughout the country are advanced through the
distribution to schools and colleges and the smaller museums of
the hundreds of thousands of duplicates released with the progress
of investigations. But it should not be forgotten that the collec-
tions here assembled and the researches here carried on form the
basis of some of the most important economic achievements of the
Government.

The hundreds of thousands ot visitors to the Museum obtain no
idea of the real activities going on. They see only the attendants.
They do not know that the three or four acres of floor and the 2,000
exhibition cases are cleaned every day. They have no opportunity
for learning that the display collections require unceasing care and
are always changing, for their special benefit, upon the receipt of
new material. They are not aware that behind the scenes, in labora-
tories and storage rooms, there is a multitude of work in progress—
work required by law, and work that advances both science and the
public good. If only these facts could be fully comprehended, the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 2

Museum would undoubtedly receive that support from the Govern-
ment which its history justifies and the promotion of its usefulness
demands.

SOME IMPORTANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR.

The past year has been especially signalized by the amount of
material added to the collections, which has never before been
exceeded in any one year except at the close of the Philadelphia
~ Centennial Exhibition. The bulk of this material was obtained at
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition through the liberality of exhib-
itors, both foreign and domestic, whose contributions amounted in
the aggregate to over 30 carloads. Two or three of these carloads
consisted of specimens pertaining to the ethnology of several coun-
tries and to certain miscellaneous subjects, but the contents of
all the remainder were illustrative of mineral resources, chiefly of
the United States, and their manufacture. With the view of pro-
viding for the oversight of the latter a new department of the Museum,
entitled Mineral Technology was constituted under the curatorship
of Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Director of the U.S. Geological Survey,
who has also for a long period had an honorary connection with
the Museum staff. There is at present no place in which such an
extensive collection could be displayed, and it has therefore been
stored in bulk pending the completion of the new building.

Not taking into account the objects in mineral technology, since
they could not be unpacked and counted, the total number of speci-
mens received during the year amounted to about a quarter of a
million. Next in importance to the donations at St. Louis was the
generous gift by Capt. John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore, of his pri-
rate herbarium of over 100,000 plants, mainly from tropical America,
and of his choice botanical library of about 1,600 volumes. Another
benefactor was Dr. William L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, an accom-
plished naturalist, who for some seven or eight years has lived in the
Far East, devoting his time to the collection of specimens and infor-
mation in the fields of zoology and ethnology. The region he has
covered, mainly the Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Sumatra, and many
near-by islands, has heretofore been practically unrepresented in this
Museum. Mention should also be made of the important field-work
done in the Philippines, especially on the island of Mindanao, by
Maj. Edgar A. Mearns, surgeon, U.S. Army, who discovered a practi-
cally new fauna on the upper slopes of Mount Apo. His valuable
collection, presented to the Museum, contains many new forms which
are now being studied.

The collections in ethnology and archeology have been greatly
enriched by explorations in the southwestern United States and by
contributions from Japan, Australasia, South Africa, Mexico, Peru,
10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

and Argentina. The curator of birds, as the result of a trip to Costa
Rica, brought back with him over 1,800 choice specimens—a notable
addition to his division. From the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries were
transmitted large quantities of fishes and marine invertebrates, in-
cluding many types and many undescribed forms, obtained during
recent explorations, and from the U. S. Geological Survey a large
number of rock specimens, minerals, and fossils.

Over 28,000 duplicate specimens were used in making exchanges
and in the distributions to educational establishments, and above
14,000 specimens were lent to specialists for study.

Some changes were rendered possible in the exhibition halls by
replacing certain of the older collections with recent accessions,
especially on the subject of the ethnology of Malaysia and the Philip-
pines. Two noteworthy additions were the cast of a sulphur-bottom
whale, about 80 feet long, which has been suspended from the roof of
the south hall, and a skeleton of the immense fossil Dinosaurian rep-
tile, Triceratops prorsus, installed in the southwest court.

StveviArRY OF LHe OPHRATIONS OF THE
PVA Et:

APPROPRIATIONS AND. EXPENDITURES.

The amount appropriated by Congress for the maintenance of
the National Museum during the year covered by this report was
$267,580. In the same act an additional sum of $6,500 was made
immediately available for transporting from St. Louis to Washing-
ton the large number of exhibits presented to the Government. The
appropriations for the regular expenses were the same as for the
preceding year, except that the item for the purchase of specimens
was omitted and the item for printing and binding increased by
$8,000. There was also an increase of $180 in the amount allowed
for the rent of workshops. The sum of $255,017.90 was expended
from this appropriation up to July 1, 1905, leaving a balance of
$19,062.10 to cover outstanding liabilities. Disbursements have
also been made from the unexpended balance of the previous year
amounting to $14,163.75, and from the balance for the year 1903
amounting to $141.44.

In the following statement the expenditures under each item of
the appropriation for 1904—5 are shown.

Appropriations and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1905.

: Balance
F Appro- Expendi- | P
Object. priations. tures, | June 30,

1905.

Preservation of collections
Furniture and fixtures

Seo tO PRE AEA ARR Aen te Peer $180,000.00 | $173,354.66 | $6,645.34

Deh ae MeI AS re Sr en os om SHEE toe ocetce 22,500. 00 19, 730. 01 2,769. 99

Heating and lighting.........--- So ASE See ee eke nae es 18,000. 00 | 16, 530. 60 1, 469. 40
TBA GALYTT a fee lin sy ofs hs] Bae oe ge Sm eee Nee ee ee ee Ses 15,000.00 | 13,199.10} —_ 1,800. 90
ERENGIWAN reer aha a tee Ss yee a eile naan 33 So oa ee enz oe 2,000. 00 1,034. 04 965. 96
Rent of workshops.....-- Re Re Sere see naam ain se nares 4,580.00 | 4,579.92 | 08
2 5T LE cod, Sees CARA pea We Ore ene Pe See nea 500.00 | CUA Og Same pee
Printing and binding......... RPE SS ee ee en 25,000. 00 24,824. 69 | 175.31

Transportation of exhibits acquired from the Louisiana Pur- ;
GHASea ROSE DLOM 2 cer case a eemiSo oer ote Reiss ose see senses 6,500. 00 1, 264. 88 | 5, 235. 12
gL GLE no eR a ee SS RO eS ae fees tee 274, 080. 00 255,017. 90 19, 062. 10

NAT Mus 1905——2 11
1 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905,

Disbursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1904.

Onject. Peecmpece Wie c!
|

Preservationvot colleehons.~_-. 2-222 s-a see eee ee $6, 139.99 | $5,941. 00 $198. 99
Rurnituneand fixtures 2 a2=- se Sasso ees cee ee eee ee ee 3, 431.98 3,425.04 6.94
Heating am@ligh tines. sc once ss See sn a eee em eee 815. 58 761.10 54. 48
Building repairs. 22 tess eck hose se oe eee tee eae 2, 468. 32 2,414.98 53. 34
1 E10) 0) (cl eas Aare a Re oe ete ee ates eet nc SE 772. 40 754. 08 18.32
Prirchase-oMspecimenGy-ac- s-sen aes ose ae se ne ee 1, 482. 27 867.55 614. 72
Rent: Of WOLkShOps sacwenens ocean See ee oe epee en ee eee OGY Sonne seem oesy - 08

otal extgens sean ster se oe Sate ote fade cecn arin onemcens 15, 110. 62 14, 163. 75 946. 87

— == <= <3 7

From the unexpended balances of the appropriation for 1903
disbursements were made as follows: Preservation of collections,
$39.42; books, $31.02; purchase of specimens, $71, leaving bal-
ances of $360.81, $18.74, and $279.18, respectively. These balances,
with the unexpended balances of other appropriations for the same
year, amounting in all to $787.20, have reverted to the Treasury.

The appropriations for the regular expenses of the Museum
during the year ending June 30, 1906, are the same as those for the
preceding year, the items being as follows:

PM umniture anid tic res= See rets eae yes sit Seg eee re ag 2 pe er a $22. 500
Heating'andlighting---> «toes as ed eS REAR Behe ee eee a eee 18, 000
‘Breservationiolicollections 22. ase ess tae 2 ea ee ee 180, 000
Books, ;pamphiets, and periodicals =). 25.2) 5 2: sd i eed ae 2, 000
Buunldingimeparrs: Bae: as ae sae cee eg a ee SP lg ea oh ee 15, 000
Rient-of workshopss <2 = 22 Aas Se ee a ce ne 4, 580
Postaped Se sirs = Na re ae Yee Sey 5 eset 2c neg ttre ene em «oe lee Senn re 500
Printing sind binding. 2022 beep. i le DU ee Fs eee ee ee 25, 000

dW FE eee py are Anes i hae oe Me See A 28 Cdn eer ee Mg feat 267, 580

A special appropriation of $1,500,000 was made for continuing
the construction of the new building for the National Museum.

BUILDINGS.

An account of the work done in connection with the erection of
the new Museum building on the north side of the Mall has been
given on a previous page. The excavation of the site, begun June
15, 1904, was finished during the summer, and the laying of the
heavy concrete foundations in the autumn. Before the completion
of this work the contracts for the granite had been awarded, and
contracts for other classes of material were let at intervals during
the remainder of the fiscal year. The heavy snows which every-
where prevailed during the winter interfered with quarrying and
prevented the delivery of stone in sufficient quantities to begin build-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13

ing operations until after the close of the year. There is every
prospect, however, of better progress hereafter.

In the matter of repairs to existing buildings, the roofs of the
Museum building have, as usual, demanded most attention. Con-
structed a quarter of a century ago at so low a cost as to necessitate
the strictest economy in material and workmanship, they have given
trouble almost from the beginning, and on a few occasions some of
the main sections have threatened to collapse from the weight of
snow. The temporary strengthening a few years ago of the sup-
porting framework over the main halls has continued to be effective,
but the covering, especially where of slate, has so far deteriorated as
to act almost like a sieve during heavy rains. In the last report
mention was made of an experimental trial in the direction of stop-
ping the leaks by placing over the slate of the east hall a coating of
asphalt, burlap, and slag. Having answered the purpose through
one season, the corresponding roofs over the three other main halls
were treated in the same manner during last year. The roofs of the
rotunda and southeast pavilion were also covered with asphalt and
burlap, the slag being omitted.

The slate roof over the northeast pavilion was renewed with a bet-
ter quality of slate. The window ventilators in the clearstories of
the main halls were provided with gearing to permit of their being
handled from the floor, some additional skylights were inserted over
four of the ranges, and much of the metal work, as well as of the
woodwork facing upon the roof, were painted. Several worn-out
floors in the Museum building were replaced by cement, tiles, or
wood, the men’s toilet room was entirely renovated, and many wall
surfaces defaced by leaks or time were touched up or repainted.

The 20 large windows in the archeological hall, which have for
some time been in such poor condition that a heavy storm might
crush them in, were completely repaired, reglazed, and painted, a
long and tedious work, since they are cut up into small panes set
diamond shape. The workshops and storage sheds called for a small
amount of repairs.

The trenches under the building, in which are located the steam
pipes and electric wires, were thoroughly renovated, all dead wires
being removed and the live ones placed in steel conduits. Those on
the north side of the building were found to be exceedingly damp,
caused by the seepage of water through the adjoining walls. This
condition it has been arranged to correct by the construction of a
cement platform or walk along the outside of the wall.

In view of the crowded condition of the halls only a few exhibi-
tion cases were constructed, but in order to accommodate new col-
lections, of which many were received during the year, especially
from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, a number of cases of old
14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

patterns were remodeled to meet the requirements. The woodwork
of the mahogany cases in the north hall was refinished, and that of
the black cases in all the other exhibition halls was given a fresh coat
of paint. The old pine alcove cases of the bird hall in the Smith-
sonian building, which have been a constant source of trouble, were
made as dust-proof as possible, and the public reading tables,
formerly a feature of the exhibition halls, but temporarily removed,
were refinished and replaced.

To supply the increasing demands for storage facilities in all
departments, of a character to permit of the convenient arrange-
ment of specimens, cases to the number of 213 and drawers to the
number of 1,032, besides storage racks and shelving, were constructed
during the year. A quantity of old furniture was also remodeled
for the same purpose. Minor items to be mentioned in this connec-
tion are articles of furniture for the offices, including file and card
catalogue cases; a large number of frames for the descriptive case
labels in the exhibition halls; packing boxes for the distribution of
duplicate specimens and for field outfits, and a considerable number
of crates and cases for the storage in bulk of material for which at
present there is no place among the classified collections.

The heating of the Smithsonian and National Museum buildings
and of the three small adjacent buildings on the Mall by the steam
plant located in the basement of the Museum building was accom-
plished more satisfactorily during last winter than ever before.
Steam was first raised on October 8, 1904, and was discontinued on
May 2, 1905, being maintained on an average about sixteen hours a
day. The heating capacity in the exhibition halls of the Museum
was increased by installing two 100-foot Bundy radiators in the ves-
tibule at the north entrance and four additional ones on the east
and west sides of the north hall. The steam and return pipes from
the Smithsonian building to the western workshop were relaid in a
more perfect manner, their old covering having caused a too rapid
condensation of steam.

The total amount of fuel used in the main furnaces was 830 tons
of coal and 43 cords of wood.

At the beginning of the fiscal year a new arrangement of telephones
was adopted, whereby the cost of this service was very materially
reduced without affecting its efficiency. As an additional precau-
tion in the event of fire breaking out among the cases and other fur-
nishings, six standard alarm boxes, of the pattern used in_the District
of Columbia, were installed in as many different parts of the galleries
in the Museum building. The system connects with the office of the
superintendent, where the location of a fire would be immediately
indicated by the number of the station. :
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 15
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

The principal source of accessions during the past year was, as a
whole, the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. The exhibition made in
that connection by the Museum itself contained many important
objects acquired through the Government appropriation for the
exposition, which, at its close, were incorporated in the exhibition
series here, excepting such as were sent to the Lewis and Clark Expo-
sition at Portland, Oregon.

Besides these, however, and much more noteworthy, were the gifts
made to the national collections by several foreign governments, by
many States of the Union, and by a large number of individuals
having exhibits at St. Louis. So extensive in fact were these contri-
butions that they amounted in bulk to about 30 carloads, all of
which were brought to Washington in apparent safety, though, in
view of the crowded condition of the Museum, only a relatively small
amount of the material could be cared for in the exhibition halls or
with the study series, it being necessary to place the greater bulk of
the collections in storage in the boxes in which the specimens were
*packed. In addition to specimens there were also about five car-
loads of exhibition cases donated by exhibitors.

The Department of Biology profited very little from these gifts,
much the larger part being illustrative of ethnology, geology, and the
arts and industries. As the collections did not reach Washington
until late in the year and could only be partially unpacked and
examined, it is quite impossible at this time to give even a satisfac-
tory general account of them.

Reference is made elsewhere to the establishment of a Department
of Mineral Technology. The object in recognizing such a department
at this time was that intelligent direction might be given to the selec-
tion of objects at the St. Louis Exposition, where exceptional oppor-
tunities existed for obtaining material relating to the subject. The
spirit of liberality displayed by those having exhibits of this character
resulted in donations to the extent of 25 out of the 35 carloads above
referred to, representing many different parts of the world, and com-
prisivs the natural products, models or actual examples of the appli-
ances of manufacture and the finished products in many departments
of mineral industry. As it was understood that this material would
have to go into storage, it was packed at St. Louis with this object in
view, and, accordingly, no detailed inventory of the specimens can
be made for some time.

- The Department of Geology received many important additions,
especially in the way of large masses and pieces, for most of which
appropriate places have already been found in the exhibition halls.
The collections for the Department of Anthropology, next in extent
16 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

to those for mineral technology, were exceedingly varied and inter-
esting, since they illustrate the customs and industries of several peo-
ples, and will richly supplement the existing exhibition series.

The following brief and incomplete summary of the contributions
from St. Louis must suffice for the present.

From the exhibit of the government of the Philippine Islands there
was obtained a large and comprehensive collection illustrating the
arts and the social and domestic life of the natives of the Philippines,
and the resources of the islands in agriculture, forestry, mining, and
the fisheries. With this addition the Philippine collection of the
National Museum probably becomes the most important and diver-
sified of its kind in the country. Through the generosity of the Goy-
ernment of Siam a large share of its very instructive and attractive
exhibit at St. Louis was presented to the National Museum. This
collection, illustrative of the arts and industries of the Siamese, is
especially rich in the implements used in the manufacture of textiles,
and in agriculture and the fisheries, the larger objects being repre-
sented by models. It also contains a large series of mats, specimens
in mineral technology, and the skins and heads of a number of native
animals. Through the Japanese commission were secured the inter--
esting exhibit of the Red Cross Society of Japan, which had been dis-
played in the Imperial Japanese Pavilion; examples of the technical
work of the higher schools, prehistoric implements, and a very
extensive collection of mineral téchnology, comprising the exhibits
of the Imperial Geological Survey and the Bureau of Mining, and of
22 private exhibitors. Miscellaneous exhibits were also received
from other countries, as follows: Great Britain: Chemicals and other
articles used in the arts, illustrations, quarry and mining products,
from 15 exhibitors; and publications and mining charts of the Geo-
logical Survey of India. France: Contributions from 15 exhibitors
in mineral technology, book illustrations, geographical maps, ete.
New Zealand: Native woods and illustrations of the native people.
Mexico: A large variety of ores and minerals presented by 60 differ-
ent exhibitors, a series of maps of the Republic and works on ethnol-
ogy. Brazil: A dugout canoe 57 feet long, two characteristic fishing
craft with their complete outfits, and ores and minerals from the
States of Minas Geraes and Espirito Santo. Argentina: A collection
of native woods.

Besides the above, collections in geology and mineral technology,
some of large extent and great value, were obtained from the Govern-
ments or individual exhibitors of Germany, Italy, Portugal, Austria,
Belgium, Canada, Cuba, and Peru. Especially noteworthy in this
connection were the very complete exhibit of the Goldschmidt
Thermit Company of Essen-Ruhr, Germany, illustrating the processes
of chemical-welding and manufacture of steel-hardening alloys, and
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. iL

the Tonwerk Shippach exhibit of clays, metallurgy, and crucibles.
Much the greater bulk of material in geology and mineral technology,
however, came from the exhibits of at least 12 States and 84 private
exhibitors of the United States, by whose generosity the Museum
becomes possessed of a substantial nucleus for the building up of
its technical branch along important and useful lines. All of these
collections are important, and some were prepared at considerable
expense.

A few small purchases were also made at St. Louis. The principal
one, from the Ceylon Commission, consisted of an exceedingly
interesting collection, quite unique in its character and completeness,
illustrating the important pearl fishery of Ceylon, and also the
fisheries for the chank and béche de mer in the same waters. The
products of these industries are represented by many specimens,
including the shells and soft parts of the oyster with a few pearls,
and specimens of the associated corals and starfishes, together with
examples of all the appliances and boats employed, either of actual
‘size or as models; the sieves, scales, and weights for sorting and
valuing the pearls; the drill for heen an’ equipment for polishing
gems, etc. From the same commission there was also purchased a
small but very instructive collection illustrating chiefly the native
palm and bamboo industry of the island of Jaffna, off the northern
end of Ceylon.

Mention may here be made of a notable gift to the United States
by the Government of China, consisting of a large oil portrait of the
Empress Dowager of China executed by Miss Katherine A. Carl,
which had been exhibited in the art department of the St. bane
Exposition. The presentation, which took place at the White
House with appropriate ceremonies, was made to the President by
the Chinese minister resident in Washington. The painting, encased
in its heavy and elaborately carved frame of camphor wood, was
immediately transferred to the National Museum, where it is now
installed.

The number of accessions received by the Museum during the year,
including only such from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition as
could be placed on record before the close of the year, was 1,692,
comprising approximately 245,384 specimens. Making allowances
for the material used in exchanges and the preparation of educational
sets, it is estimated that the total number of specimens now in the
possession of the Museum is about 6,141,990, classified as follows:
Anthropology, 986,964; biology, 4,409,135; geology, 745,891.

The additions to the Department of Anthropology comprised
10,862 specimens, obtained in large part through the medium of
the St. Louis Exposition, as explained above, the countries mainly
represented from this source being Siam, the Philippine Islands,
18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Japan, New Zealand, Brazil, and Ceylon. Besides these the most
noteworthy acquisitions in ethnology consisted of collections pre-
sented by Dr. W. L. Abbott and Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U.S. Army.
Both of these gentlemen, whose names have been so often mentioned
as benefactors, have a thorough appreciation of the true purpose of
scientific field-work, and whatever is received from them can be relied
upon to meet in all respects the requirements of research. Doctor
Abbott’s collection consisted of 755 objects from the islands off the
southeastern coast of Sumatra and from the Mergui Archipelago of
Lower Burma, selected as far as possible to represent complete
ethnographic series of each of the peoples visited. The collection of
Doctor Mearns comprised 134 objects from the Moros of Mindanao,
where he had been stationed as chief surgeon with the army under
Gen. Leonard Wood. Through the kind offices of Baron P. Paum-
gartten, chancellor of the Austro-Hungarian embassy in Washington,
exchanges were arranged with Baron Ludwig Ambrozy of Vienna,
from whom five complete peasant costumes of the Wallachians, of
South Hungary, were received during the year.

The more important American collections in ethnology were the
result of three Government investigations, one by the National
Museum and two by the Bureau of American Ethnology. During
his excavations in western Socorro County, New Mexico, in the
summer of 1904, Dr. Walter Hough, assistant curator of ethnology,
secured 863 specimens consisting of ancient sacrificial objects,-stone,
bone, and shell implements and carvings, pottery, basketry, bows,
arrows, etc., from pueblos, cliff houses, and caves of a region inhabited
by prehistoric people of Pueblo stocks. Dr. Ales Hrdlitka, assistant
curator of physical anthropology, while on an expedition to Southern
Arizona for the Bureau of American Ethnology, gathered several
hundred specimens in ethnobotany, basketry, stone implements,
pottery, etc., from among the San Carlos Apaches, the Mescalero
Apaches, and the Pimas. The second collection from the Bureau of
Ethnology, consisting of over 500 specimens, was the result of recent
investigations at the pueblo of Zuni by Mrs. Matilda Coxe Stevenson.
It is rich in ceremonial objects, such as fetishes and paraphernalia of
a character most difficult to obtain; ethnobotanical specimens,
pigments, ceramics, agricultural implements, etc. Also interesting
to note are a complete set of horse trappings of the South American
Gauchos and a number of Philippine objects from the President of
the United States; and an ancient basket shield and feather fur
garment, from the Canyon de Chelly, Arizona, transmitted by the
U.S. Department of the Interior.

The division of physical anthropology received a large amount of
material relating to the natural history of several races of man,
especially the American Indians, Negroes, Slavs, and Filipinos. For
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19

comparative studies there is also being assembled in this division a
collection of the brains of animals, the principal accessions during
the past year having come from the National Zoological Park, Mr.
E. S. Schmidt, of Washington, and Dr. W. L. Abbott.

The most important additions in historic archeology consisted
of 21 Arabic manuscripts and prints, presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns,
U.S. Army, who obtained them among the Moros of Mindanao, and
23 coins and 18 pottery lamps and jars from the Orient, deposited by
Hadji Ephraim Benguiat. 3

The division of prehistoric archeology received two collections
from Japan in exchange. One comprised 160 specimens of flint and
obsidian arrow points, chipped and polished stone hatchets, and
fragments of pottery, which had been exhibited at the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition by the College of Science of the Imperial Japa-
nese University; the other, 76 stone implements and ornaments, from
Mr. Y. Hirase. Other collections from abroad obtained by exchange
consisted of 39 stone implements from North Australia, New South
Wales, Victoria, and Tasmania, through Mr. E. S. Anthony, of
Hobart, Tasmania; 345 specimens of stone implements and frag-
ments of pottery, mainly from kitchen-middens and caves in Cape
Colony, through the Albany Museum, of Grahamstown, South Africa,
and an important series of stone hatchets from Thuringia, Germany,
and of bronze dress-ornaments, bracelets, finger-rings, and neck
chains from Etruscan graves at Belmonti, Italy, through Dr. Max
Verworn, of the University of Géttingen. Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr, of
Wimbledon, England, presented two polished stone implements from
Bundelkund, India.

The greater number of important accessions in prehistoric arche-
ology represented American countries. From the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology there were transferred a cache of 152 rhyolite flaked
blades, found by Henry Rogers in 1893 in a crevice between two
large rocks in the Pigeon Hills, near Hanover, York County, Pennsyl-
vania; 20 large flint blades, part of a cache obtained from a mound
in Montezuma Village, Pike County, Illinois; a collection of flint
implements, hammer stones, flakeage, refuse of blade manufactures,
ete., obtained by Mr. Gerard Fowke in aboriginal quarries and work-
shops in Illinois, Tennessee, and. Missouri, and about 750 stone
implements and fragments of pottery, secured by Dr. AleS Hrdlitka
in the ancient ruins of the San Carlos River Valley, Graham County,
Arizona, on the grounds of the Rice Station Apache school, not
heretofore explored.

Of Mexican antiquities there were several accessions, including
227 pieces of pottery, objects representing three different culture areas,
constituting the Bauer collection; 13 casts of interesting stone
objects, from the American Museum of Natural History; an ancient
20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

stone statue, from Dr. Carl Lumholtz; casts of three carved stone
yokes, from the National Museum of Mexico; five models of remark-
able specimens of Aztec art, from Dr. Antonio Pefiafiel; casts of
three sculptured panels from the ‘‘Temple of the Sun,” Tikal, and of
two lintels from the ‘‘Temple of Quetzalcoatl,” Lorillard City, both
in Yucatan, from Desiré Charnay, Paris. From the Royal Museum
of Ethnology of Berlin were obtained casts of carved stone yokes
and figures, ‘‘palmas,”’ carvings, images, etc., of Mexican and Peru-
vian origin.

A most interesting donation was a large collection of Inca and pre-
Inca pottery and textiles brought together some years ago by Mr.
Charles A. Pope, while residing in Peru, besides other ancient pottery
and a stone ax from Colombia. Mr. Felix F. Outes, of Buenos
Aires, presented 250 specimens of pottery and stone implements from
Indian cemeteries and camping places in several districts of Argen-
tina; while the Museo de la Plata forwarded, in exchange, a series of
casts of South American stone objects, some with animal and other
designs, elaborately worked out, forming striking examples of
aboriginal art.

‘Three of the working models of the Langley aerodrome, all of
which have made successful flights, were placed on exhibition in the
east hall, devoted to technology, being suspended from the frame-
work of the roof above the level of the tops of the cases. They have
naturally attracted much attention.

The additions to the collection of watches and watch movements,
both by gift and loan, have been many and interesting, acknowledg-
ments being due to Mr. Frederick Leach, of New York; Mr. John
Hansen and Mr. Carl A. Doubet, of Washington, and the Elgin
National Watch Company. <A sundial and gnomon cast in one
piece, and bearing the date 1760, has been lent by Mr.W. F. Fisk, of
Washington City.

To the War Department the Museum is greatly indebted for the
deposit of numerous pieces of ordnance, among them having been
two examples of the United States Army magazine rifle of the model of
1903, first issued to the Army in January, 1905; a Ferguson breech-
loading rifle, formerly belonging to Gen. John Watts de Peyster, a
type used by at least one of the British regiments in the War of the
Revolution; a gatling gun of the pattern used by the United States
Army about 1870; a number of projectiles, such as were employed
between 1860 and 1870, and a collection of antique and obsolete
cannon and mortars, military rifles, carbines, and revolvers, of many
makes, captured from the Spaniards and insurgents in the Philip-
pine Islands. Other firearms obtained through loan and gift were a
Chinese four-man gun, 8 feet 10 inches long, from Col. W. H. Carter,
U.S. Army; a rare double-barrel, 20-shot revolver, of Irish make,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 21

from Mr. Ernst Moeckel, of Crookston, Minnesota; a pair of single-
barrel pistols of very fine workmanship, made by Crawley & Co.,
London, from Capt. J: T. Ord, U. S. Army; a pair of fine English
flintlock, silver-mounted pistols, captured during the War of the
Revolution, from Dr. C. W. Hickman, of Augusta, Georgia, and a
vest pocket pistol, from Mr. Paul Beckwith, of the National Museum.

The General Electric Company, of Harrison, New Jersey, donated
a number of typical incandescent lamps, showing their development
during the past ten years.

There have been several important additions to the collection
illustrating telegraphic invention and development, through the
courtesy of the Delaware and Hudson Company; the Western
Union Telegraph Company; Mr. A. E. Roome, superintendent. of
telegraphs of the Southern Pacific Railroad; the U. S. Weather
Bureau; Col. William A. Glassford, U. S. Army; Mr. Edward L.
Morse, of Washington, District of Columbia, and Mrs. Columbia N.
Payne, daughter of Capt. O. W. Berryman, U.S. Navy, who made
the surveys between Newfoundland and Ireland for the first trans-
Atlantic cable.

The division of graphic arts is chiefly indebted for its additions to
the contributions of foreign exhibitors at the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition, which are numerous and of great interest, but there has
been no time as yet to classify and arrange them. The photographic
section obtained two pictures taken by Daguerre.

Among the noteworthy accessions in ceramics were a very beauti-
ful and typical collection of glassware, prepared especially for the
Museum by Mr. Julian de Cordova, president of the Union Glass
Works at Somerville, Massachusetts; a large green vase of Teco
ware, of tasteful design and coloring, presented by the Gates Pot-
tery Company, of Chicago; several specimens of the pottery made
by the Van Briggle Pottery Company, of Colorado Springs; a collec-
tion of typical Japanese and Chinese porcelains and pottery and of
Japanese lacquer work, lent by Mr. Harold I. Sewall, of Washington.

There were 13 accessions in the division of medicine, and the collec-
tion of musical instruments was increased by 15 accessions.

Of the 6 accessions in the division of historic religions, 1, con-
sisting of 165 objects of Jewish ceremonial, deposited by Hadji
Ephraim Benguiat, is especially noteworthy, both intrinsically and
artistically. With the collections previously lent by the same well-
known collector, the exhibit of Jewish ceremonial in the National
Museum is now unrivaled in completeness and artistic merit.

The number of accessions to the collection of history amounted to
89, comprising 768 objects, mostly loans, many being of great value
and interest. Among those especially worthy of mention are per-
sonal military relics of the late Maj. Gen. Judson Kilpatrick, U. S.
22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Army, from his widow and daughters; the uniform and articles of
equipment of the late Alexander Macomb Mason (Bey), who, after
serving in the navies of the Confederate States and Chile and the
navy and army of Egypt, held high civil positions under the Khe-
dive, from Mrs. M. B. Wheaton, of Washington; the silver-mounted
sword of Gen. Simon Bolivar, of Venezuela, given to him in 1828,
and a sword of Gen. José Antonio Paez, presented to him by King
William IV of England, from Mr. José Antonio Paez, of Staten
Island; the fatigue uniform coat and cap worn by Capt. Charles VY.
Gridley, U. S. Navy, at the battle of Manila, from Mrs. Gridley;
many examples of the wearing apparel of the Colonial period in
Maryland, from Miss Bayard Smith, of Baltimore; and a collection
of early wearing apparel, arms, coins, and other objects, from Gen.
John Watts De Peyster, of New York.

The Department of Biology as a whole received about 217,000
specimens, the principal increases as regards number of specimens
being in the divisions of plants, insects, and mollusks, though in
other divisions the additions were no less important.

The division of mammals received two collections from Dr. W. L.
Abbott, the results of his own field work, the first consisting of 471
specimens, coming from the west coast of the Malay Peninsula and
adjacent islands and the Mergui Archipelago, the second of 517
specimens from Banka, Billiton, and the Karimata Islands. They
contain many species new to science. Next may be mentioned a
collection presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, the product
of his explorations in the Philippine Islands, chiefly on Mount Apo,
in southern Mindanao, which is sufficiently elevated to support a
fauna largely distinct from that of the remainder of the island, as
may be inferred from the fact that a study of the material disclosed
6 new genera and 25 new species, which have been described by
Doctor Mearns in the Proceedings of the Museum. Other note-
worthy additions comprised specimens from Switzerland, France,
and northern Italy, collected by Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., and Dr.
Leonhard Stejneger, of the Museum staff; from Sao Paulo, Brazil,
through Mr. A. Hempel; from Japan, through exchange with Mr. T.
Tsuchida; from the Kamerun district of west Africa, through Mr.
G. L. Bates, and from Bewean Island, Java Sea, through Mr. C. G.
Veth, American consular agent; a specimen of Potamogale velox, a
rare African insectivore, through Dr. Paul Matschie, of the Royal
Zoological Museum, Berlin; specimens from the Dismal Swamp, Vir-
ginia, and the Adirondack region of New York, collected by Dr. W. L.
Ralph. Many important species have also been obtained from the
National Zoological Park.

The additions in the division of birds comprised much of impor-
tance, due, as in the case of mammals, to the receipt of several col-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23

lections from especially interesting regions. Most prominent was a
series of 615 Philippine birds presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S.
Army, and obtained by him on the islands of Mindanao, Dinagat,
Basilan, Cagayan Sulu, and Sulu, the most noteworthy specimens
coming fon Mount ook The Balle on as a whole contains prob-
ably three new genera, about 19 new species and subspecies, a num-
ber of topotypes, and several other forms not previously represented
in the Museum. Doctor Mearns also brought 3 fine specimens of
the Nicobar pigeon as a gift from Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood, U. S.
Army, which the latter collected on an islet near Mindanao and
prepared himself. The W. L. Abbott collections contained 316 speci-
mens of birds obtained in the Mergui Archipelago and on the islands
of Banka, Billiton, and Karimata, between Sumatra and Borneo,
which add several rare species to the Museum series.

The Philippine Museum at Manila sent in exchange over 150 well-
prepared skins, including topotypes of some recently discovered
species. A specimen of the very rare Philippine monkey-eating
eagle was presented by Mr. Fletcher L. Keller, and 2 specimens of
the equally rare Celebes giant swift were given by Dr. Daniel G. Beebe.
Mr. George A. Goss and Mr. H. D. Dodge, of Waterbury, Connecticut,
donated a small collection from Mount Kinabalu, British North
Borneo, consisting mainly of topotypes of species described within
the last ten years and also containing one new species. Another
small but choice collection obtained in the interior of China during a
geological reconnoissance by Mr. Bailey Willis and Mr. Eliot Black-
welder, under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution, was contrib-
uted to the Museum.

A very important series of over 750 Costa Rican birds, contributed
by the National Museum of that country, furnishes the curator, Mr.
Robert Ridgway, with much desired material for his work on the
Birds of North and Middle America. Mention should also be made
of a collection of birds from Jamaica, obtained by Mr. W. R. Maxon,
of the Museum staff, and one from South Carolina and New Hamp-
shire, presented by Mr. Nathan Clifford Brown, of Portland, Maine.
Mr. Homer Davenport, of Morris Plains, New Jersey, has generously
continued to send specimens of rare pheasants, geese, ete. Among
the specimens turned over by the National Zoological Park a Calh-
fornia condor and a cassowary are especially noteworthy.

The additions to the section of birds’ eggs, comprising 129 nests
and 665 eggs, contained some interesting material, the most valuable
coming an Mexico. The principal contributors were Dr. W. L.
Ralph, Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army, Dr. J. C. Call, and the members
of the Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture.

The more important accessions in the division of reptiles were a
collection of 561 specimens from Japan, Formosa, and adjacent
24 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

islands, containing several undescribed species and a large number
new to the Museum, obtained through Mr. Alan Owston, of Yoko-
hama; 584 specimens from the Philippine Islands, including 4 new
species, presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army; 33 specimens
from the Malay Peninsula and adjacent islands, the gift of Dr. W. L.
Abbott; specimens from China, collected by Mr. E. Blackwelder, and
donated by the Carnegie Institution; from France and Switzerland,
collected by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr.;
from Jamaica, collected by Mr. W. R. Maxon; from Guatemala,
collected by Mr. Maxon and Mr. Robert Hay; from California and
Indiana, transferred by the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries; from Mani-
toba, presented by Mr. Ernest Thompson Seton; and from Louisiana,
collected by Mr. Andrew Allison.

The division of fishes received by transfer from the U.S. Bureau of
Fisheries a large amount of material of exceptional value, as follows:
A collection from Samoan waters, made in 1902 by Dr. D. 8S. Jordan
and Prof. V. L. Kellogg, of Leland Stanford Junior University, and
containing the types of 100 new species; an extensive series of
specimens from the explorations of the steamer Albatross in Hawaiian
waters in 1901—2, including many deep-sea forms and the types and
cotypes described; a great number of fishes resulting from investiga-
tions on the Pacific coast of North America from Bering Sea to
California, and on the Atlantic coast from Nova Scotia to Florida.
Type specimens from other localities were also received from the
Bureau of Fisheries and from Prof. C. H. Gilbert, of Leland Stanford
Junior University.

The Bureau of Fisheries was the largest single contributor to the
division of mollusks, having transferred to the Museum, from the
dredgings of the steamer Albatross on the coast of California in the
spring of 1904, about 5,000 specimens, many of which are of special
interest and value. Next may be mentioned an accession from the
Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture, consisting
mainly of land and fresh-water shells from Texas, California, and
Montana. Scientifically, the most important addition of the year
was a series of about 1,500 specimens of Philippine shells from the
collection of the late Herr Mollendorff, obtained by purchase, many
of the species being cotypes. This acquisition will prove extremely
useful in the future working up of material from the Philippine
Islands, especially in view of the fact that many of Mollendorff’s
species were never figured and can, with difficulty, be identified from
his descriptions. Among other noteworthy additions were about
400 marine mollusks collected in Alaska by Dr. T. W. Stanton, of the
U.S. Geological Survey; about the same number of mollusks and
brachiopods obtained in the same region many years ago by Dr. W. H.
Dall, and comprising numerous types of species described in the Pro-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 25

ceedings of the California Academy of Sciences; a small but interest-
ing collection made in Central America by Dr. Edward Palmer, of
the Department of Agriculture, containing a remarkable new genus,
Hendersonia, and a number of new species; many nudibranchs from
the coast of California, including 15 types of species recently described
by the donor, Dr. M. F. McFarland, of Leland Stanford Junior
University, in the Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington; some 300 specimens of shells from the Philippine Islands,
presented by Brig. Gen. A. W. Greely, U.S. Army. From Mr. Henry
Suter, of Auckland, New Zealand, there was received a pair of Trigonia
margaritacea, in alcohol, containing the soft parts well preserved;
from Mr. W. Moss, of Ashton-under-Lyne, England, an interesting
lot of small but attractive shells from the Loyalty and Lifu islands
of the Indo-Pacific; and from Mr. and Mrs. T. S. Oldroyd and Mr.
C. H. Hansen, a quantity of material from the coast of California.

While no single large collection was received during the year, yet
the additions to the division of insects were as a whole of average
importance, comprising between 34,000 and 35,000 specimens from
many parts of the world. It would be impossible in this connection
to adequately note the principal accessions, but among the more
important gifts and exchanges may be mentioned: Hymenoptera,
from Maj. C. G. Nurse, of Quetta, India, and the Museo de Ciencias
Naturales, Madrid, Spain; Cuban parasitic Hymenoptera, from
Dr. George Dimmock, of Springtield, Massachusetts; Cuban beetles,
from E. A. Schwarz, of the Bureau of Entomology of the Department
of Agriculture; types and cotypes of New Zealand Cicadide, from
Dr. F. W. Goding, American consul at Newcastle, New South Wales,
Australia; a collection of Chinese beetles, from Mr. Eliot Black-
welder; types of Lepidoptera, from Mr. W. D. Kearfott, of New Jersey;
types and cotypes of bees, from Mr. J.C. Crawford, of the Bureau of
Entomology; types and cotypes of Rhipiphoride, from Mr. W. D.
Pierce, of the Bureau of Entomology; Orthoptera, from Mr. F. B.
Isely, of Wichita, Kansas; and miscellaneous collections from Rev.
Robert E. Brown, 8. J., Manila; Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, Boulder,
Colorado; and Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the Bureau of Entomology.

The division of marine invertebrates received, through transfers
from the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, 300 lots of foraminifera from the
region about the Hawaiian Islands, the basis of a report to the Bureau
by Mr. Rufus M. Bagg, jr.; a duplicate set of the sea urchins obtained
on the cruise of the steamer Albatross to the Panamic region in 1891,
and described by Dr. Alexander Agassiz in the Memoirs of the Museum
of Comparative Zoology; a large collection of crustaceans from the
Albatross cruise of 1904 off the southern coast of California, which
have been distributed to specialists for study, as noted under the head
of ‘‘ Researches,” and the samples of ocean bottom taken on the same
26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

cruise. Some of the principal smaller accessions were as follows:
From the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France, 7 cotypes of
species of crabs, chiefly of the family Potamonide described by Miss
M. J. Rathbun, and cotypes of Cambarus digueti Bouvier, from Guana-
juato, Mexico; from the Zoological Museum at Copenhagen, Den-
mark, 4 species of Sphzromide, a cotype of Uca oerstedi Rathbun,
and a series of specimens, showing the different stages of growth of
Sergestes atlanticus Milne Edwards; from the Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology of Harvard University, 4 species of isopods new to the
collections, 2 being cotypes of species described by Dr. Harriet Rich-
ardson; from Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale University, fragments of the
type specimens of 5 species of corals described by him; from the
University of Pennsylvania, types of Tanais robustus H. F. Moore;
from the Carnegie Museum, cotypes of Cambarus monongalensis
Ortmann; from Prof. James H. Stoller, of Union College, 2 species of
isopods new to the collection; from Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army,
specimens from the Philippine Islands; from Dr. W. lL. Abbott,
specimens from the Malay Peninsula; from the U. S. Biological
Survey, crustaceans from Mexico and Texas.

To the helminthological collection were added 857 specimens, the
most important accession consisting of a series of parasites from
Egypt, sent by Prof. Arthur Looss, of the Medical School at Cairo.

The past year has been especially noteworthy as regards the in-
crease of the collection in the division of plants, the additions having
been very much greater than in any previous year in the history of
the Museum, embracing 750 accessions and 143,690 specimens. The
ereater part of this increase was due to the acquisition of the very
valuable herbarium of Capt. John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore, which
alone contained 100,889 specimens from different regions, but chiefly
from tropical America. This large and important collection, the
work of many years in assembling, was most generously donated to
the Smithsonian Institution by Captain Smith and now forms a part
of the national collections. In connection with the plants, Captain
Smith also presented his botanical library of about 1,600 volumes, as
noted elsewhere. The next important contribution was by transfer
from the U. S. Department of Agriculture of 13,965 specimens,
8,963 of these constituting the herbarium of the Bureau of Forestry.
These specimens came from many parts of the United States including
Alaska, and from Greenland, Canada,-Mexico, Guatemala, Europe,
and India. The U.S. Bureau of Fisheries transmitted several hun-
dred plants obtained in Alaska, Indiana, and Tennessee. The other
accessions contained representatives of the flora of many different
countries, more especially of the United States, but their number and
variety preclude an adequate account of them in this connection.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27

Some of the larger collections were from the Philippines and from
Jamaica and other West Indian Islands, Mexico, Chile, and British
Columbia. The principal gifts, in point of number of specimens,
came from Dr. Edward L. Greene, Mr. William E. Safford, Mr. F. V.
Coville, Mr. M. B. Waite, Mr. E. S. Steele, Mrs. L. H. Earll, Mrs.
Laura O. Talbot and Mr. F. J. Tyler, all of Washington, D. C., and
Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army.

The additions to the Department of Geology numbered 16,984
specimens, of which 16,231 were paleontological. The division of
systematic and applied geology acquired by gift through the Loui-
siana Purchase Exposition an important series of ores of nonmetallic
minerals from Brazil, a large collection of tin, copper, and gold ores
from Siam, a fine series of crude and refined graphite from Ceylon,
a large pedestal of Thessalian marble from the Verde Antico Marble
Company of London, and a quantity of economic products from the
State commissions of Colorado, Kentucky, Alabama, and New Mexico.
A collection of rocks and ores from New Zealand was obtained in
exchange from the Waihi School of Mines at Auckland. Mention may
also be made of five large masses of zinc ores from Arkansas, five large
slabs of onyx marbie from Arizona and Wyoming, a large block of
serpentine with veins of asbestos from Canada, a nugget of native
copper with native silver from upper Michigan, a fine specimen of
Alaskan tin ore, large masses of selenite and gypsum from Oklahoma,
and of bauxite from Arkansas, a block of diatomaceous earth measur-
ing 40 cubic feet from California, a large quantity of coquina from
Florida, rocks of the Silverton quadrangle, Colorado, through the
U.S. Geological Survey, and a nearly complete cone of a hot spring
from southern Wyoming.

To the division of mineralogy, Dr. W.S. Disbrow, of Newark, New
Jersey, contributed a fine series of zeolites from New Jersey, as did
also Dr. W. F. Hillebrand, of the U. S. Geological Survey. Other .
interesting additions of minerals consisted of specimens of pyrite with
dodecahedral faces, and one of datolite from Westfield, Massachusetts;
examples of the recently discovered thorianite; a fine beryl of
unusual form and color from Utah, an exceptionally large nodule of
josephinite, molybdenite from Cooper, Maine, and tourmalines from
southern California. One meteorite of iron from Rodeo, Mexico, was
received, and the following cut gems purchased for the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition have been added to the Museum exhibition
series: Australian matrix opals, California tourmalines, beryls from
Connecticut, a fine specimen of peridotite from Arizona and a deep
colored amethyst from North Carolina.

The collections of fossil invertebrates in the division of strati-
graphic paleontology were mainly increased through transfers from

NAT Mus 1905——3
28 - REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

the U. S. Geological Survey, which consisted principally of large col-
lections of Niagaran fossils from Tennessee, of Ordovician fossils from
the slates at Arvonia, Virginia, and of Devonian and Carboniferous
fossils from Colorado, the last collection having served as the basis
of Dr. George H. Girty’s work on the Carboniferous formations and
faunas of that State. A very valuable acquisition was the gift by
Mr. E. O. Ulrich and Dr. R. 8S. Bassler of the type and figured speci-
mens of 65 species, 25 being of Paleozoic origin and 40 Tertiary
ostracoda. Among other important additions were 400 specimens
of Cretaceous bryozoans from Denmark; about 70 species of corals
from Germany; a series of European Tertiary fossils; Cretaceous and
Tertiary fossils from South Carolina; Ordovician fossils from Ken-
tucky, and the reverse side of the types of 8 species of fossil nsects
from Mazon Creek, Illinois.

The section of vertebrate paleontology received two large collec-
tions from the U. S. Geological Survey, one made in the Wasatch
Eocene of the Big Horn Basin, Wyoming, by Mr. C. A. Fisher,
and containing remains of Coryphodon, Phenacodus, Eohippus,
Crocodilus, and Oxyxna; the other from the Oligocene of Oelrichs,
South Dakota, and including remains of Merycoidodon, Hyracodon,
Daphznus, a Cameloid, Cenopus, Titanothervum, etc. Mr. A. G. Mad-
dren, who visited Alaska on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution
during the summer of 1904, brought back from the Yukon basin a
collection of Pleistocene fossils, comprising the bones and teeth of
Elephas primogeneus and of two extinct species of both the bison and
the horse. Among other noteworthy material received were remains
of Triceratops from Elephant Butte, New Mexico, and from the
collection at Yale University; and fossil fishes from Pennsylvania,
Wyoming, and Brazil.

In the section of paleobotany the most important additions were
about 400 specimens from the States of Sao Paulo and Santa Cath-
arina, Brazil, collected by Mr. I. C. White during an official explora-
tion of the Brazilian coal fields, and presented by him to the National
Museum; about the same number of specimens from the higher beds
of the anthracite series in the vicinity of Pottsville, Pennsylvania,
from Mr. C. W. Unger, of Pottsville; 70 specimens, including 9 new.
species obtained from the Upper Eocene at Kukak Bay, Alaska, by
the EK. W. Harriman expedition of 1889.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29

The approximate number of specimens received by the Museum
during the year, and the total number in the possession of the Museum
at the close of the year, are recorded in the following table:

Number
of speci-
Department. mens Total.
received
in 1904-5.
Anthropology:
MSE LEREA LN) Pete sg cre ers hae A tN 8 Cet aa et tet eS ee AS ee EG NS 5, 542 485, 998
PERSPOTICATCHCOLO RY nas cae see ee eee ee Sea. RE ee Says rate 65 2, 403
[SSSR CS Rc ee i ee Ree er Or tt eC ee Be | 170 2,939
area IRE EAU ESTA C OO 20) eet iso ae a ne een eS ee oe ne eS 2 3,074 390, 529
BREN SIREYIOT OU Pree Ato een aa ete Bae Ao men os ee ae ee TN ae Ee 371 | 32,390
iraphic) arts sss= 255: .-3- A ae Ra tN Ie are AS Rie oS ome eee er ee 415 | 9,311
TRING: Se Se ee ie nes Ser ne ieee 2 oe NN Rae ee hg b13 | 5,016
History...... ee ety ass hs eA Se NDT | a ere Se eee ane a | 768 | 44,708
Payetealaninropology;...-..<.2<22---5222 0555-8 Seiad eee See aie See tee eae | 196 5,340
MELATHICR ee cee coe es 2s eS ee aes > Se see ee erro ee a eee 216 | 4,828
eR Tran CPUS isons nes ea ee nS Roe Ne oe ere Se ee ee 8 | 1,836
“FAT ks Ree Oe OG eee eg A IN ee pita ae ee gt af b24 1, 666
Biology:
LUSSIER ea OR ee eee ee a 2 ereeaN Re tee ORS AEN Se SORA eet VIS ee 2,008 ¢ 86, 653
2 Ei ee Ae re a ee eae Oe ys eee a SE 4,652 | 140,878 ©
77 Le eed ar gh RE RE IN Ce Doreen sete Be ic atv =O, ci eee Cee ee eye 793 | 65,923
Peles ec Geb atracChiange toa. 68 02. ooo. 5s eee en ee eee oe Bie eo 61,763 | © 48,496
“AE ae ie Att 8S AOR Me a ee Roma gs Teh bd. Eo) 5,295 | ¢166,796
i ELI TEPSUSEE Ree a eee ee eS ed Be ee es IER cae as 2 16,194 | ¢978,849
Mc ee: eee eee ae soe ee Ae Bee rs Ne Se ite ee OP | 937,684 | 1,620,321
Mipsertine er inher atese 3 pte ar pee el AS oe 4,537 | 525,728
TECHIES Tan AI) Kove ee ee coe ee ee ee | b857 | ¢6,751
PaPSTER IS ChE eE GV SRE A ONINY, Serer ees aya ee a ee ee Se = SER Re BU Ses 65 16,096
TET SANS Tie oy 2 APE pan eee ae ae ee pee ee eal, AAO eee 143,690 | © 751,895
RT MG IaC ee ag Sa See By an eee et ER a RE dati chte oes SES akan seen | 749
Geology:
Ply sles ana Chemical <o2. ns... 952 ahe aan ose eee eee en ge eek ane ee 5381 | ©80,657
WIE LHL O Sve. Set secs aa css on eee Se eee Be ec IE ays eee 372 | 37, 270
EVAR Ln ae aL COMLOLOM. = ins oe" oe nee eee ape eee me ee eats | ¢15,000 |
Mere piale: paleOncolop yen nce to. -pacfhtn aon he eins ene ee a ee a SE | 6231 | 627, 964
PHU COMOURINY ates <8 re ine we oe ay a Den ots FD AS Aone See rae | ¢€1,000
Tell 1c Bee eS Oa Re ig Sea ieee er nee Deere wae | 245,384 | 6,141,990

@1,887 specimens rejected as worthless from total of last year.
b Catalogue entries.
c Estimated.

The number of entries made in the catalogue books of the various
departments was 33,123.
30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

The number of accessions received annually since 1881 is as follows:

{
Year. ae a accessions
(inclusive). capes
1:10 Dee fA ee eg eat NE TR a Ba TY et en on ie 2 9890-11000 1,111
DBS ZI 3k eset ciated Ae erecta nie = Sts tc ais eS eS a ae ee ee ae 11001-12500 1,500
LES IG CORDS CHOor snd cee SBS oe ss ae eens tee sel ann Men eaae-eny haa nara 12501-13900 1, 400
ASB Arie os Misa ence came Nemrde Ss Seer ee Bee sae ony oan ae eee ann a 13901-15550 1, 650
1885 January Co,June) 226 sa ock Jocnen ce cou ence ae eee ae Poke ae ae eee 15551-16208 658
USSG sect acs cee ockL Beet ng occe ata See meets Mone ae ne See ete ee ee ee 16209-17704 1, 496
ISS ie eae cee een eres Sa oH SSS Sa One Ones Sane eign ee = Soa se 17705-19350 1,646
1 aR See OMe Cen Senne en Ion eee een ee es ee tis Geers ada, 2 19351-20831 1,481
1889 cn0. Seon eat elaine oe eee eee = eee aa Sb CHARLO RenoRUeotoanaeceeeeoane 20832-22178 1,347
TBQO sian chs crore, Sots a Sateiatata fo ee erste SSE Sree Ste Sys fale eee ect nena es ee aye eS reer 22179-23340 1,162
LEQ Te mies jcseis setae Ciale ert ae Sore SSS te ie ee STN ee ec I rr aaa ee 23341-24527 1, 187
13 eA Tees Bie eA Bee Meee oe eed OS re are nae 24528-25884 1,357
1808 cir ete en ct ache ata eee ese ees ee 2 PEE ee a apeeieincree eee 25885-27150 1, 266
POO 4 ee eral ESE CAE tte eters eateeilarele = eiete s sisi ae eleanor ae nie mene eee 27151-28311 1,161
BOD yoeiart care ete Ge eee aie eee en ee oer Bb dads ODS OOS ERE OCOD SSCL ASOF 28312-29534 1, 228
BOG a toch a Se She Sse rcraats atone a) ln Pletal Shs ee a 29535-30833 1, 299
TBO Tier A ste cecie re cteetee Scie Rei eate o Sates eae See ee OSE coe ee cee 30834-32300 | 1, 467
TSO8 2h o8, Shoe Se Sas ISS ee ee awa een nae See ae eee eae ee eee 32301-33741 | 1, 441
1 Ct ae I eae Seni or aS BSR RE CREE St Te aemie a OE Ge God Sn SE eames Gen 33742-35238 | 1,497
AQQO ais See wear a Siac tat ls shal a oie sisigelcioale alee Sse ae eee 35239-36705 1, 467
2S 0) Nee pie Seen aa RS te eS ne ere EE AP es eS oon -----| 36706-38175 | 1, 470
DOO Diam nee he 2 se Tere NNSA a ate coca rae Sap agey Sts eee eases geal pe a 38176-39584 1,409
LOOSE cio rynsyetee eee ee eam aiepe eiatetois erento Ries ojerataye iat- einisic CRE eros aie ae ese eee 39585-41227 1,648
TGQ 4 ease Saye erence Sina le minora stare Sis e aso elaieie slate ae wees ee are ree Bee 41228-42930 1,703
LOOSE soe Be paeines ae eice sis terclereeicleivcremie-meniae ciao ete eee eee ee eee 42931-44622 1,692

GENERAL WORK UPON THE COLLECTIONS.

It is difficult to differentiate between the several classes of work
upon the collections since they gradate one into the other. The
subjects of classification or research and the installation, of the
exhibition series are treated of under their respective headings.
This chapter relates to the general care of the collections, the prepa-
ration and preservation of specimens, their arrangement in reference
or study series and in safe storage, their labeling, recording and
cataloguing, the sorting out and packing of duplicates, all of which
involve an endless amount of patient labor.

Of the reserve collections in the two main buildings it may be said
that, in a general way, they are in as fair and safe condition as the
circumstances permit. In large part they are moderately easy of
access, but the quarters in which they are stored are mostly crude,
antiquated and dark, very inconvenient and very greatly over-
crowded. It is, however, to be remembered that for a very large
proportion of the national collections there is no room in the main
buildings, and they have to be packed away in several insecure
rented structures, which are already filled to the roof timbers and so
compactly that no particular object could be found or removed.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 31

Each lot of specimens as received is accessioned, and its contents are
distributed to the several divisions to which they belong and in
which they are subsequently cared for. They are cleaned and
poisoned, if need be, and are catalogued chronologically under suc-
cessive numbers, by which, eombined with appropriate labels, they
may always be iHentinea nd their history ascertained. After they
have been studied and classified they are entered on catalogue cards,
arranged in systematic order so as to constitute a descriptive list of
the objects in each class, the basis of future research. This work
progresses steadily in all the divisions, and naturally consumes a
great deal of time.

The above illustrates the processes with new collections, and
their incorporation in the several series to which they belong. But
there is another branch of work, equally necessary and fully as
arduous, the maintenance of the collections, now grown to proportions
far beyond the facilities for their accommodation. All of the several
millions of specimens except those in general storage, are expected
to be examined at least once a year to insure their continued safety.
Alcohol is added to the jars and vials to replace that lost by evapora-
tion, dried specimens are cleaned of insect pests, which are ever
present, and a general house-cleaning takes place to remove the dust,
dirt, and dampness which everywhere accumulate. This relates to
practically all of the divisions, though with some kinds of collections
the difficulty is much greater than with others. Following are some
of the principal items of work under this heading:

Probably in no former year have the reserve collections in the
Department of Anthropology been so thoroughly overhauled and
renovated. The collectians in the extensive series of drawers in
Eskimo hall have been entirely rearranged in systematic order, and
a finding catalogue of their contents has been prepared. A large
number of cupboards and frames with drawers have been installed
above the wall exhibition cases in the Pueblo court for the storage of
ethnological objects; the storage accommodations in the graphic
arts court have been extended for the keeping of the Philippine
collection, and the storage cases on the west balcony, with their
contents, have been greatly improved.

In the recently established division of physical anthropology there
has been great activity, owing to the many accessions, and the
necessity of overhauling the ae collection, which had not for some
years been given supervision. The eel belonging to this divi-
sion is of such a character as to require much attention, in the clean-
ing of skeletons and crania, and the liquid preparation of the soft
parts of the body. The quarters assigned for laboratory and storage
purposes are altogether too small, and only by close crowding can
the material already on hand be accommodated in the cases.
32 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

A gallery has been built and partly fitted up in the west-north
range for the storage of historical material, and the extensive collec-
tion of portraits is now in process of arrangement and classification.
The study series in graphic arts has been transferred to unit drawers
and is also being rearranged and catalogued.

In the division of mammals 15 quarter unit cases were added for
the storage of small skins, but a larger number will soon be required
to. properly arrange this class of objects, and also the larger skins,
many of which are now kept in ordinary boxes. The collection of
mammal skulls comprises many thousands of specimens, for which
the accommodations have been very crude and inadequate. The
rearrangement of the large skulls, mentioned in last year’s report,
and of a-majority of the small ones, has been completed. New
cases have been provided for skulls of medium size, and before the
close of another year all of the material of this character now on
hand should be in excellent order for reference.

The work of cleaning skulls, which requires much dexterity and
patience, has been done mainly by contract instead of the employ-
ment of a preparator for the purpose. The new method has proved
much more economical and will be continued. The number cleaned
was 9,595 as compared with 6,760 during the previous year. The
entire collection of skulls was numbered and labeled.

Sixty-eight large and medium mammal skins for the reserve series
were tanned by contract. The taxidermist attached to the division
made over about 60 small skins, which had been deteriorating,
besides skinning 57 fresh mammals, making up a large number of
flat skins, and cleaning and repairing 78 mounted heads belonging to
the exhibition series. After extended experimentation a large tank
was successfully constructed for extracting grease from skeletons by
the use of naphtha and steam. It has been installed in the Zoological
Park, in a place not resorted to by visitors.

All the bird skins received during the year were catalogued, labeled,
and distributed to their proper places in the study series, and the
rearrangement of the birds of prey was nearly completed. The
quarters occupied by this division for laboratory and storage are
now especially overcrowded. The very extensive series of birds’ eggs
has been kept in excellent condition.

The collection of reptiles and batrachians has for some time been
undergoing a systematic rearrangement in order to make the speci-
mens more accessible, and the entire study series is in a good state
of preservation.

In the division of fishes the majority of the large accessions was
catalogued and much material labeled and installed. Four large
zinc-lined tanks, of a special pattern, were constructed for the larger
fishes, and to these were transferred the contents of seven barrels,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33
besides many specimens from the smaller tanks. Twenty-five sets of
duplicates, each comprising 60 specimens, were put up for distribu-
tion to educational establishments. A card catalogue of the contents
of the many tanks of fishes is in course of preparation.

The many accessions in mollusks required much attention from the
assistants in this division in sorting, labeling, and cataloguing the
specimens. About 9,000 entries were made. A part of the land-shell
collection was rearranged in accordance with modern classification.

In the division of insects much progress was made in the arrange-
ment of all the orders, except the Rhynchota and a few minor orders.

A special cataloguer was employed in the division of marine inverte-
brates for preparing the systematic card catalogue of crustaceans
recently identified, the Hawaiian corals from the explorations of tho
Bureau of Fisheries, the sea urchins from the cruise of 1891 of the
Fisheries steamer Albatross, identified by Dr. Alexander Agassiz, and
a large part of the sertularian hydroids, identified by Prof. C. C. Nut-
ting. Anumber of improvements were made in the laboratory equip-
ment. The rack system of installing specimens was adopted for the
entire study series of the helminthological collections. This system
has been shown by experience to make the specimens readily accessi-
ble and to permit the employment of unskilled persons in putting
specimens in place. Seven hundred bottle racks were purchased for
this purpose, and a number of Marlatt slide cases were also obtained
for the microscopic mountings.

In the division of plants 50 standard herbarium cases, 12 half-unit
cases, and 15 special cases were added during the year. The entire
set of cases now comprises 10,043 compartments or pigeonholes for the
storage of mounted plants. With the exception of a portion of the
lower cryptogams, the entire herbarium is now in insect-proof cases,
and little trouble has been experienced during the year from plant
pests. Herbarium sheets to the number of 28,088 were stamped and
incorporated in the regular series, making the total number so treated

since 1894, 274,475. Prior to their incorporation all plants are regis-
tered in the regular chronological catalogue books, of which there are
now 72, 39 being filled and 33 still open. ‘The specimens currently
received are still entered geographically, all Mexican plants being in a
separate volume, all Alaskan in another, etc. This was impracticable
for the older, unentered parts of the herbarium, which are grouped by
families. The number of plants mounted, partly by contract, partly
by preparators, was 22,327. During the year the rearrangement of
the herbarium in accordance with the system of Engler and Prantl
progressed from family 246, Gentianacex, to family 266, Acanthace.

The reserve collections in all the divisions of the Department of
Geology are in fair condition, though the systematic card catalogues
are still incomplete. In the division of geology proper the collection
34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

has grown so large that there is no longer storage space for it except in
gross, in packing boxes, in unsafe buildings. In this division during
the year over 3,550 specimens have been trimmed, labeled, and
wrapped for the educational series of duplicates.

In the division of stratigraphic paleontology the collections have
heretofore been divided into an exhibition and a study or strati-
graphic series. The stratigraphic series, in which the faunas of par-
ticular horizons and regions are kept together, is naturally incom-
plete, but growing rapidly. With the purchase of the Ulrich and
Rominger collections it was decided to inaugurate a new series with
these two collections as a basis, one in which the various groups of
invertebrate fossils were arranged biologically. Up to the time of his
resignation, September 1, Mr. Charles Schuchert, assistant curator of
the division, was mainly occupied in the preparation of school collec-
tions and in duties connected with the Louisiana Purchase Exposi-
tion. For the school collections over 60,000 specimens were used,
and made up into 500 sets, some of which have already been sent out.

Mr. R.S. Bassler succeeded Mr. Schuchert, and during four months
was occupied with the preparation, editing, and proof reading of the
Bulletin on the type specimens in the collection. This also required
te labeling and placing in final museum condition of the types of over
1,000 species of invertebrate fossils, represented by over 5,000 speci-
mens. Besides putting into final shape the various accessions of the
year, all of the pelecypods and a considerable portion of the gastro-
pods and brachipods of the biologic series have been registered,
labeled, and numbered. They occupy 45 standard drawers and com-
prise 2,294 species, represented by 16,710 specimens. The number of
cards added to the systematic catalogue was 1,500. Thirty-four
boxes of unstudied material were removed from storage and their
contents classified and properly arranged.

In the section of vertebrate paleontology a very satisfactory advance
has been made in the appointment of two preparators and one assist-
ant preparator, whose work has resulted in the completion of the
mount of the skeleton of Triceratops, the first one ever prepared, and
one of the most conspicuous additions to the exhibition series. A
large amount of material stored in boxes has been overhauled and the
collection partly systematized.

The principal work in paleobotany has consisted in cleaning, assort-
ing, and systematizing the collection, and in preparing card and type
catalogues.

THE EXHIBITION COLLECTIONS.

A part of the Polynesian collection of ethnology, obtained mainly
during early expeditions, which has been on exhibition in the north
gallery of the west hall, was removed to one of the laboratories for
study and fuller iden‘ification, and in its place was installed a large
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECKETARY. 35

representation from the Malaysian ethnological collection of Dr. W. L.
Abbott, and the Philippine collection of Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army.
The collection of basketry was rearranged, and eight recently pre-
pared busts of Indians and some exceptionally fine examples of the
work of the Northwest coast Indians have been placed on exhibition.
The latter consist of two large totem posts, four large carved wooden
slabs, and a large painted room partition from Alaska. The exhibits
returned from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition were, as far as pos-
sible, assigned places in the public halls, though it was necessary to
put most of this material in storage.

To the exhibition of historic archeology, which chiefly occupies the
eastern end of the west hall, were added a collection of Biblical gems,
coins of Bible lands, the oriental manuscripts of Mr. S. S. Howland,
a Greco-Egyptian portrait of great interest, and several papyri. In
consequence of the addition of many articles of Jewish religious cere-
monial, through the valuable deposit made by Mr. Benguiat, the
entire section included under this subject was rearranged, as was also
the adjoining Mohammedan section. Additions involving changes
in arrangement were also made to the Greco-Roman and Buddhist
sections, and the display of amulets was reinstalled.

Following the extensive repairs recently made in archeological hall
the entire exhibition collection of prehistoric archeology is being sub-
jected to a thorough overhauling, which is not yet completed, and the
hall is therefore still closed to the public. It is proposed to make
this exhibit as attractive as it is valuable and interesting, though it
must for a time remain chiefly in the old-fashioned cases constructed
over thirty years ago. The many stone mortars and soapstone ves-
sels from California and the stone chairs from Ecuador have been
arranged on the tops of the wall cases. Recent accessions from Mex-
ico and Central America have replaced the collections from the
ancient ruined pueblos of Arizona and New Mexico, which have been
removed to the Museum building. Of six new cases installed in the
center of the hall, four are devoted to casts of large stone sculptures
from Mexico and the other two to material from Brazil and the West
Indies.

Lack of space has made it impossible to develop an exhibition series
in physical anthropology, but there are now ready for this purpose
10 complete Indian busts, over 20 masks from which busts can be
prepared, and photographs and skeletal material for representing all
anthropological varieties.

The exhibits in technology have been greatly: enlarged and im-
proved, requiring the addition of a number of cases. The most note-
worthy increases and changes have been in the sections of electrical
apparatus, firearms, and railroad appliances. The historical collec-
tion of railroad locomotive models was entirely rearranged. No
36 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

changes were made in the hall devoted to the graphic arts, but in the
gallery of ceramics the collection of purely artistic ware in porcelain,
glass, lacquer, and metal work was arranged by countries in a series
of separate cases along the west side and the inner edge of the gallery.

The historical collection which occupies the north hall has been
maintained in good condition, the principal addition being a case
assigned to the National Society of the Dames of 1846 for the
exhibition mainly of relics of the war with Mexico.

The most conspicuous additions to the exhibition collections in the
Department of Biology resulted from the Louisiana Purchase Exposi-
tion. This was especially the case in regard to the mammals, of
which specimens of several large and interesting species hitherto either
unrepresented or only poorly so in the Museum halls, were prepared
for St. Louis in accordance with the latest advances in taxidermy and
the preparator’s art. Their transfer to Washington unfortunately
found the mammal hall so overcrowded that many could be given
only a temporary position, and for the most part without cases. The
new additions consist of a polar bear, black bear, giraffe, hippopota-
mus, zebra, gnu, musk ox, Sandbur stag, Olympie elk, and the cast
of a sulphur-bottom whale. The great amount of labor entailed in
securing and preparing the last mentioned object has been referred
to in a previous report, and it may be stated that the result has much
more than justified the effort. The whale, about 80 feet long, was
grounded at a whaling station on the coast of Newfoundland, where
a sectional mold was made of the exterior of the body and the entire
skeleton removed. The cast, appropriately colored, is now suspended
from steel trusses connected with the framework of the roof in the
mammal hall. The skeleton was at the close of the year being
installed in the adjoining hall of osteology.

Besides the above, 35 mammals, mounted by the taxidermists of
the Museum, were added to the exhibition collection. They con-
sisted, besides a tiger, chiefly of rodents and other small forms from
the African, Oriental, and Palearctic regions, including such impor-
tant species as the large aquatic African insectivore, Potamogale, the
Tasmanian marsupial wolf, Thylacinus, the jerboa, dormouse, mar-
mot, Philippine Island rats, paradoxure, ermine, Java porcupine, etc.
The South American forms comprised a paca, capabara, and aguto.
All of these specimens were mounted separately, but chiefly with
some indication of natural environment. The collection of heads of
East African antelopes, on deposit from the Hon. William Astor Chan-
ler, and other smaller heads placed with them, were thoroughly
cleaned and repoisoned, and the panel to which they are attached
was extended the entire length of the east gallery. The contents of
the large east wall case were partly rearranged, and many temporary
bases on which the specimens were mounted were replaced by perma-
nent ones.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37

The birds exhibited at St. Louis, mostly taken from the regular
Museum series, were returned to their proper places, and the collec-
tion of game birds, which now includes 10 groups, was reinstalled.
Many specimens of valuable species which had been mounted long ago
were also made over with very satisfactory results.

In the range devoted to reptiles and fishes a few interesting addi-
tions were made from the Museum exhibit prepared for St. Louis.
They consist of casts of snakes, among the larger forms repre-
sented being the python, rattlesnake, and boa, in special cases, and
a fine set of models of deep-sea fishes.

The American faunal exhibit of insects was nearly completed
during the year, but the series of Lepidoptera shown at St. Louis
and intended to be placed in the insect hall has been withheld from
exhibition pending experiments looking to some provision for
protecting their colors. The synoptic series of marine invertebrates,
enlarged and improved for use at St. Louis, has been returned to its
place in the west hall of the Smithsonian building.

In the biological exhibit as a whole many new and revised labels,
both for the specimens and the cases, were prepared and installed.

In the hall devoted to systematic and applied geology a number of
large pieces of interesting rocks and ores, obtained at the St. Louis
Exposition, were added to the exhibition collection. The wall cases
in the mineral hall were repainted and their contents, including the
specimens of meteorites, were rearranged. The larger meteorites
were also supplied with new descriptive labels. Lack of space pre-
vents any material increase in the exhibit of invertebrate fossils, but
the hall of vertebrate paleontology has received a most noteworthy
addition in a complete skeleton of Triceratops prorsus, one of the
large Dinosaurian reptiles of the Cretaceous period of the Western
States. This is the first preparation of this form yet made, and con-
sists chiefly of the actual bones of the most complete specimen in the
collection, supplemented by pieces from other specimens and by
restorations in plaster. The skeleton measures 19 feet 8 inches in
extreme length by 8 feet 2 inches high, and is mounted on a base of
artificial matrix designed to represent the color and texture of the
Laramie sandstone in which the remaims of this animal are found.
This unique and stiiking object is certain to attract very widespread
attention.

RESEARCHES.

The systematic classification and arrangement of the collections
which are so rapidly increasing from year to year demand a very
large amount of scientific study and research, which the caretakers
are expected to be qualified to carryon. The present staff is wholly
inadequate in numbers to accomplish all that is required in this
38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

direction, especially since its time must be chiefly occupied in pro-
viding for the safety of the collections, in maintaining the exhibition
series, and in other routine and administrative duties. The research
work accomplished each year has, however, always been creditable,
both in amount and character, and during the past year it was
especially noteworthy in several particulars. Much assistance has
also been received at all times from outside, and a large proportion
of the classificatory results have been secured through this means,
specialists both in this country and abroad gladly taking advantage
of the opportunity to advance their studies through the new material
placed at their disposal. The researches of the year may be briefly
summarized as follows:

Doctor Hough has about completed a comprehensive report on
the Hopi Indians of Arizona, based upon several years’ experience
among these interesting people. He has also begun upon a detailed
study of the Pueblo material with which the Museum is very richly
supplied, has continued his studies upon the primitive uses of fire,
and has nearly finished a paper on the manufacture of pulque and
palm wine. Of persons not connected with the Museum who made
use of the collections in ethnology were Mr. Ole Solberg, of Christi-
ania, Norway, who spent some time in photographing the stone
implements of Alaska for comparison with similar implements of the
Eastern Eskimo preserved at Copenhagen; Mr. W. F. Andrews, of
the U.S. Bureau of Immigration, and Mr. Charles S. Sloane, of the U.
S. Census Office, who conducted inquiries to aid in the classification
of immigrants entering the United States; Mrs. W. Markland Molson,
of Montreal, who studied the imbricated basketry of the State of
Washington and British Columbia, with the object of definitely
locating the large collections by tribes, and Mr. George Iles, of New
York, who investigated the subject of survivals in invention.

The collections in prehistoric archeology were extensively con-
sulted by Dr. J. W. Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
who has in preparation a report upon his recent explorations in the
West Indian region.

Dr. AleS Hrdhéka, assistant curator in charge of the division of
physical anthropology, conducted investigations on the weight of the
brain in man and animals, the behavior of the brains of mammals
in various preserving solutions, the California mainland crania in
the Museum collection, and the cranial fosse. A number of visiting
Indians were also measured at the laboratory.

In the preparation of the important work entitled ‘Handbook of
the Indians,” soon to be issued by the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy, very material assistance was rendered by several members of
the Museum staff, especially Prof. O. T. Mason, Dr. Walter Hough,
and Dr. AleS Hrdlicka. The Museum collections were also utilized
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39

by others in the same connection, as the basis both for descriptive
matter and for illustrations.

A description of the Howland collection of Buddhist religious art
was prepared by Dr. I. M. Casanowicz, assistant curator of historic
religions, and a catalogue of the collection of Grant relics, by Mr.
Paul Beckwith, assistant curator of history.

Mr. George C. Maynard, assistant curator of technology, continued
his inquiries relative to early steam railroading in the United States,
paying most attention to the historic locomotive Stourbridge Lion,
which was brought to this country near the end of the third decade
of the last century, and of which the principal parts are now preserved
in the National Museum. Important records concerning this engine
were obtained from several sources, but mainly from the Delaware
and Hudson Company of New York, whose pioneer efforts in intro-
ducing and establishing steam railroads are being worked up by Mr.
Maynard as a contribution to this interesting subject.

A new genus and species of sea lion, based upon a fossil skull from
Oregon, was the subject of a paper by Dr. F. W. True, head curator
of biology, who has also begun upon a revision of the American
species of fossil cetaceans, of which he collected many specimens in
Maryland during the year, and an account of the Museum collection
of ziphioid whales.

The assistant curator of the division of mammals, Mr. Gerrit S.
Miler, jr., spent most of the year in Europe, mainly at the natural
history museums of Paris, Berlin, and Leiden, and the British
Museum in London, where he accomplished very important results
in the direction of completing his work upon several large collections
of the National Museum, which could not have been properly studied
in any other way. The foreign museums named are very rich in
type specimens from the Malayan and other Asiatic regions and
from South America, with which it was desired to make comparisons,
especially in regard to the extensive East Indian collections con-
tributed by Dr. W. L. Abbott and to recently acquired material
from tropical America. These investigations have greatly advanced
the position of the National Museum as a place of research respecting
oriental and other exotic mammals through the authenticity thus
given to their classification.

Besides his general work on the Abbott collections, not yet in final
shape for printing, Mr. Miller prepared revisions of the Malayan
tree-shrews, chevrotains, and squirrels, and a key to the genera of
Viverride and the civet family. He also completed a new classi-
fication of bats, which has been in progress for two or three years,
keys to all the genera being rewritten and diagnoses of nearly 60
species prepared, and a revision of the South American free-tailed
bats. While at Leiden Mr. Miller studied the principal museums
40) REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

there and made an important report upon their buildings, installa-
tion, and administration.

A study of the bats of the genera Glossophaga and Hemiderma was
begun by Mr. Walter L. Hahn, aid in the division of mammals.

The collections in this division were utilized by the Biological]
Survey of the U. 8S. Department of Agriculture, and specimens were
lent for study to Mr. Knud Andersen, of the British Museum; Dr. Paul
Matschie and Dr. M. Hilzheimer, of the Royal Zoological Museum,
Berlin; M. Charles Mottaz, of Geneva, Switzerland; Dr. C. I.
Forsyth Major, of the British Museum, London; Mr. Glover M. Allen,
of the Boston Society of Natural History; Mr. Outram Bangs, of
Boston; Prof. F. W. Putnam, of the Peabody Museum of Harvard
University; Dr. John M. Ingersoll, of Cleveland, Ohio; and Dr.
Franklin P. Mall, of Johns Hopkins University.

Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, on sick leave from the Philippines,
spent about four and one-half months in this division, working up
the material obtained by himself in those islands and completing the
first part of his report on the mammals collected on the Mexican
Boundary Survey.

Volume 3 of Bulletin No. 50, entitled the Birds of North and Mid-
dle America, by Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, was com-
pleted and published during the year, and about one-half of the
manuscript for volume 4 was finished. The latter volume will com-
prise the families of thrushes, mocking birds, starlings, weaver birds,
Jarks, sharp bills, tyrant flycatchers, manakins, and chatterers. Mr.
Ridgway also published descriptions of new species of birds from
tropical America. During his visit to Costa Rica, elsewhere referred
to, he made extensive studies on the collection of birds in the
National Museum of that country, the results of which will be
embodied in his work.

The assistant curator of birds, Dr. Charles W. Richmond, continued
the study and determination of the birds collected by Dr. W. L,
Abbott on several islands off the west coast of Sumatra, and added
several thousand cards to the general catalogue of genera and species
of birds for reference purposes in the division. Three papers by him
on nomenclature and a description of a swiftlet were published during
the year. Mr. J. H. Riley, aid in the division of birds, was mainly
employed in making measurements of specimens and compiling refer-
ences for the use of the curator, but he also reported on a collection
of birds from the islands of Antigua and Barbuda and on the birds
of the Bahama Islands, the latter while serving as an assistant on
the expedition of the Geographical Society of Baltimore. Mr. H. C.
Oberholser, of the Biological Survey, completed studies on the birds
cbtained by Dr. W. L. Abbott in Kilimanjaro, East Africa, and has
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 4]

taken up other collections made by Doctor Abbott on islands in the
China Sea and neighboring regions.

The collections and opportunities for research offered by the
division of birds were utilized by the Biological Survey, the com-
mittee on nomenclature of the Ornithologists Union, Dr. Jonathan
Dwight, jr., of New York, and Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, the
last mentioned giving much time to the identification of the Philip-
pine birds of his own collecting. Among those to whom specimens
were sent for study were Dr. J. A. Allen and Mr. Frank M. Chapman,
of the American Museum of Natural History; Mr. Herbert O.
Jenkins, of Leland Stanford Junior University, and Dr. Louis
Bishop, of New Haven, Connecticut.

Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of the division of fishes,
identified the collection of fishes made by himself and others in
Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina, in 1904; prepared papers on the
history of the whale shark (Rhinodon) and the adult of the goblin
shark (Mitsukurina), and, conjointly with Dr. C. H. Eigenmann,
of Indiana University, worked up the collection of Amazon River
fishes made by Prof. J. B. Steere in 1901. The specimens of Characins
belonging to the Museum and the small collection of fishes obtained
in Patagonia some time since by the late Mr. J. B. Hatcher were turned
over to Doctor Eigenmann for study and report. A number of speci-
mens in several groups of fishes were sent to Leland Stanford Junior
University for examination by Dr. C. H. Gilbert, Dr. J.C. Thompson,
and Mr. E. C. Starks. Among many experts who have worked upon
the collections of fishes in the Museum may be mentioned Dr
Theodore N. Gill, an associate of the Museum; Dr. B. W. Evermann
and Dr. W. C. Kendall, of the Bureau of Fisheries; Dr. T. H: Bean,
and Mr. E. W. Gudger, of the State Normal School, Greensboro,
North Carolina. The investigations of Doctor Evermann had refer-
ence mainly to the preparation of a joint report with Dr. D. S.
Jordan on the fishes of Hawaii. Dr. C. H. Gilbert came to the
Museum in June, 1905, with the expectation of remaining through
the summer, for the purpose of working up the Pacific deep-sea
fishes represented in the collection.

Dr. William H. Ashmead, assistant curator of the division of insects,
has been mainly occupied in finishing his work on the superfamily
Formicoidea, or ants, with which will be completed his classification
of the entire order Hymenoptera. His monograph on the North
American Braconide, on which he has been engaged for a number
of years past, will next be taken up for completion. Mr. D. W.
Coquillett, custodian of the Diptera, has spent much time in the
preparation of a monograph of the North American mosquitoes
(Culicidee). More than forty papers by members of the staff of
this division were published during the year. Specimens represent
42 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

ing several groups of insects have been sent for study to a number of
persons, including Sir George Hampson, of the British Museum,
London; Mr. W. D. Kearfott, and Prof. Raymond Osburn, of New
York City; Mr. Charles Schaeffer, of the Museum of the Brooklyn
Institute; Mr. J. F. McClendon, of the University of Pennsylvania;
Prof. A. D. MacGillivray, of Cornell University; Mr. W. A. Hooker,
of Amherst, Massachusetts; Mr. Frederick Blanchard, of Tyngsboro,
Massachusetts; Mr. E. C. Van Duzee, of Buffalo, New York, and
Prof. H. C. Fall, of Pasadena, California.

The revision of the land and fresh-water shells of North America
north of latitude 49°, by Dr. W. H. Dall, curator of mollusks, men-
tioned in the last report, was completed and in type at the close of
the year, forming a paper of about 200 pages with two plates in
the series of the Harriman Alaska Expedition. Among other papers
finished by the same author were a review of the classification of the
American Cyclostomatid, printed in the Proceedings of the Mala-
cological Society of London, and reports on land and fresh-water
shells collected in the Bahamas by Mr. Owen Bryant and on land
shells obtained in central Mexico by Dr. Edward Palmer, printed
in the Quarterly Issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Work stated by Dr. Dall to be nearing completion includes the
extensive report on the Pyramidellide, begun some time ago, in
joint authorship with Dr. Paul Bartsch; a paper on certain exotic
Pyramidellide lent by the Zoological Museum at Berlin, Germany,
and reports on the mollusca collected by the Bureau of Fisheries
steamer Albatross at the Hawaiian Islands and on the voyage of
1905 to the southern Pacific Ocean under the direction of Dr. Alex-
ander Agassiz. The total number of papers on recent mollusks
published during the year by Dr. Dall was 12 and by Doctor Bartsch
4. Mr. Ralph Arnold has continued his studies on the Pectinide.
In June, 1905, Doctor Bartsch visited Detroit, Michigan, and New
Philadelphia, Ohio, for the purpose of consulting the large collection
of Mr. Bryant Walker at the former place and that of Dr. V. Sterki
at the latter. Both of these gentlemen have offered to furnish speci-
mens for filling gaps in the Museum collection.

The studies of Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of marine
invertebrates, on the Anomuran crustaceans were interrupted by
his assignment to duties in connection with the Louisiana Purchase
and the Lewis and Clark expositions. Miss M. J. Rathbun, also
assistant curator, prepared for the Bureau of Fisheries a compre-
hensive report on the Brachyuran and Macruran crustaceans of
Hawaii, containing descriptions of 80 new species, ulustrated with
24 plates and 78 text figures, and a report on the specimens of the
same groups obtained during the Alaska salmon investigations of
1903. She continued her investivations ou the fresh-water crabs
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43

(Potamonidz), based mainly upon the collection of the Natural
History Museum of Paris, the results being incorporated in the
second part of her monograph, which is being published by that
museum. She also described a new species of Pinnotheres from the
collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and
published three other short papers.

Dr. Harriet Richardson, collaborator, reported upon the Isopod
crustaceans from Alaskan explorations of the Bureau of Fisheries,
has nearly completed a manual of all the North American forms of
this group, containing descriptions and figures of each species, and
has prepared descriptions of a new genus and two new species of
Tanaide and of a new Livoneca from Panama. Dr. T. Wayland
Vauchan, custodain, has continued his studies upon the collection
of living stony corals, especially those recently obtained at the
Hawaiian Islands, and has about completed a report on the latter.
Prof. W. P. Hay, of Howard University, continued, as opportunity
offered, his work on the crayfishes represented in the Museum, having
in progress a comprehensive report upon the species represented.

The collections of marine invertebrates were consulted by Dr. K.
Mitsukuri, director of the School of Science of the Imperial Univer-
sity of Tokyo; Dr. Carlos Moreira, of the National Museum of
Brazil, Rio de Janeiro; Mr. C. A. Shore, of Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, and Dr. H. V. Wilson, of the University of North Carolina.

The crustaceans collected by the Fisheries steamer Albatross in the
eastern Pacific Ocean during the cruise of 1904-5 were deposited
in the National Museum by the Bureau of Fisheries, with the arrange-
ment that they be distributed to specialists for the preparation of
reports for publication by the Bureau of Fisheries. The several
groups have been assigned as follows: Decapoda, to Miss M. J.
Rathbun, U. S. National Museum; Alpheide, to Dr. H. Coutiére,
Ecole Supérieure de Pharmacie, Paris, France; Schizopoda, to Dr.
A. E. Ortmann, Carnegie Museum; Stomatopoda, to Dr. R. P.
Bigelow, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Isopoda, to Dr.
Harriet Richardson, U. S. National Museum; Amphipoda, to Dr. S.
J. Holmes, University of Michigan; Cumacea, to Dr. W. T. Calman,
British Museum; Cirripedia, to Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, Philadelphia
Academy of Natural Sciences; Copepoda, to Dr. K. W. Genthe,
Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut; Ostracoda, to Mr. R. W.
Sharpe, New Trier High School, Wilmette, Illinois; Pyenogonida,
to Dr. Leon J. Cole, Harvard University.

The marine invertebrates from the Hawaiian Islands, obtained by
the Bureau of Fisheries in 1891 and 1901 and by Mr. H. W. Hen-
shaw, were sent to the same workers as the larger collection of 1902,
as follows: Sponges, to Dr. F. Urban, K. K. Zoolocisches Institut,
Prag, Austria; starfishes, ophiurans and holothurians, to Walter

NAT Mus 1905——4
44 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

K. Fisher, Stanford University; Actinians, to Dr. J. E. Duerden,
University of Michigan; Stomatopoda, to Dr. R. P. Bigelow;
Schizopoda, to Dr. A. EK. Ortmann, and Alpheide, to Dr. H. Coutiére,
Paris, France.

To Mr. Walter K. Fisher, of Stanford University, who has been
studying the echinoderms of the Pacific coast and Hawaii, secured
during recent expeditions of the Bureau of Fisheries, has been
assigned the working up of the entire and very extensive collection
of starfishes from the north Pacific Ocean in the possession of the
Museum. This material has been derived from many sources, but
is mainly the result of the explorations of the steamer Albatross,
beginning in 1888.

In addition to the above, through arrangements made in previous
years, the pedate holothurians of the Museum collection are being
worked up by Prof. Charles L. Edwards, of Trinity College; the
apodal holothurians by Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, of Olivet College ;
the hydroids by Prof. C. ©. Nutting, of the University of Iowa; the
parasitic copepods by Dr. Charles B. Wilson, of the State Normal
School, Westfield, Massachusetts, and the free-swimming copepods
by Dr. K. W. Genthe, of Trinity College.

No investigations in helminthology have been conducted in the
Museum, but from the researches in the Marine-Hospital Service
by Dr. ©. W. Stiles, in the Bureau of Animal Industry by Mr. B. H.
Ransom, and elsewhere by others, the collections in this section are
being rapidly increased and becoming of exceptional importance.

The associate curator of the division of plants, Dr. J. N. Rose, in a
paper entitled ‘Studies of Mexican and Central American Plants,
No. 4,” published in the ‘‘Contributions from the National Her-
barium,’ has given descriptions of many new species, revisions of
several genera, and notes on many rare forms. In conjunction
with Dr. N. L. Britton, of the New York Botanical Garden, he
completed a Revision of the Crassulacez of North America. His
researches on the Cactacee have resulted in extensive additions to
this branch of the collection, which seems destined to become the
largest and richest in the world. The importance of the work on
the Crassulacee may be judged by the fact that when the joint
authors began upon their investigations 5 native genera and about
120 species were recognized as belonging to the flora of North America,
while at present the number of genera has been increased to 24 and
of species to 283. In the beginning the Museum collection contained
only about 80 species, and now it has 270 species, of which 115 are
represented by actual types.

Mr. W. R. Maxon, assistant curator, division of plants, has made
good progress in the study of the ferns, having prepared and issued
several papers on this group. During six months of the year he was
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ; 45

transferred to the Department of Agriculture to assist in the cotton
investigations in Guatemala, which gave him the opportunity to
make an interesting collection of the plants of that country. In
addition to editorial work, Mr. E. S. Steele spent much time in the
identification of miscellaneous lots of plants, mainly sent to the
Museum for that purpose by the Department of Agriculture; and
Mr. J. H. Painter, appointed aid near the close of the year, gave
some attention to the Mexican species of Meibomia.

Capt. John Donnell Smith, an associate in botany, reports that
during the year he continued his studies of plants collected in Cen-
tral America by himself and others at his instance. Cards were in
course of printing for the seventh distribution of these plants and
for Part VII of ‘‘Enumeratio Plantorum Guatemalensium necnon
Salvadorensium Hondurensium Nicaraguensium Costaricensium quas
edidit John Donnell Smith.” The twenty-seventh continuation of
his articles entitled ‘‘Undescribed Plants from Guatemala and
other Central American Republics” was submitted to the Botanical
Gazette for publication.

During the year Dr. Edward L. Greene, also an associate in botany,
began the preparation of an important paper under a grant from the
Smithsonian Institution, to be entitled ‘‘Landmarks of Botanical
History,’ which he expects to complete in the course of about two
years.

The total number of papers by the staff of the division of plants
issued during the year amounted to 39. The collections in the
division have been consulted by the botanists of the Department of
Agriculture, by Dr. N. L. Britton and Dr. M. A. Howe, of the New
York Botanical Garden, by Prof. E. L. Morris, of the Washington
High School, and many others.

Over 2,000 sheets of plants were lent for study to some eighteen
institutions and specialists, the larger sendings having been to the
Gray Herbarium, Cambridge, Massachusetts; the New York Botan-
ical Garden; the Ames Botanical Laboratory, North Easton, Mas-
sachusetts; the Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts;
President Ezra Brainerd, of Middlebury College; Mr. B. F. Bush, of
Courtney, Missouri; Doctor Fedde, of the Royal Botanical Museum,
Berlin; Fr. Buchenau, of the Natural History Society of Berlin, and
the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, England.

The head curator of geology, Dr. George P. Merrill, has given much
time to the preparation of two general papers, one a contribution to
the history of American geology, the other a history of American
public scientific surveys. The former was completed during the
year and is in course of publication in the Annual Report for 1904.
He also conducted observations on the origin of asbestiform ser-
pentine and the weathering of building stone.
46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Researches in the division of mineralogy were mainly confined to
the study of the structure of meteorites by Mr. Wirt Tassin, assistant
curator, involving the devising of methods and apparatus for sepa-
rations, new methods of analyses, and improvements in methods of
photographing opaque objects under high powers.

During the early part of the year the assistant curator of strati-
graph‘c paleontology, Mr. R. S. Bassler, then an assistant in the
U.S. Geological Survey, completed reports on the paleontology and
stratigraphy of the Ordovician rocks of the Lehigh Valley, Pennsyl-
vania, and on the cement resources of the valley of Virginia, both
of which are published by the Survey. During the same period he
also prepared an article on the James types of Ordovician and Silu-
rian bryozoa, which is now being printed by the University of Chicago.
Subsequently he submitted to the Museum a paper on the Bryozoa
of the Rochester shales, which are treated monographically, the
correlation of American and European Silurian strata being indi-
cated. The monograph of American fossil Ostracoda by Mr. E. O.
Ulrich and Mr. Bassler is still in course of preparation, little progress
having been made during the year owing to the press of other duties.
Mr. Bassler is also engaged upon a somewhat extended paper on
the stratigraphy and paleontology of the valley of Virginia.

The catalogue of type specimens of fossil invertebrates in the
Department of Geology went to press before the close of the year.

As explained in a previous report, the specimens of Paleozoic
insects in the Museum collection were sent for study to Dr. Anton
Hand irsch, of the K. K. Naturhistorische Hofmuseum of Vienna.
His paper on this interesting material was received during the year
and is being translated from the German under the supervision of
Prof. Charles Schuchert, of Yale University. Other loans of fossil
invertebrates for study purposes comprised specimens from the
Devonian of Canada and representatives of Hurystomites virginiana
Hyatt to Dr. John M. Clarke, of the New York State Museum;
specimens from the Maryland Devonian and the stratigraphic series
of New York Medina fossils to Prof. Charles Schuchert, of Yale Uni-
versity, and the Troost collection of fossil crinoids to Miss Elvira
Wood, of the U. S. Geological Survey. Among specialists who vis-
ited the Museum were Mr. E. F. Burchard, Mr. S. H. Ball, and Mr.
R. W. Stone, of the U. S. Geological Survey; Mr. L. N. Stephenson
and Mr. W. F. Prouty, of Johns Hopkins University; Mr. Walter
Granger, of the American Museum of Natural History, Mr. T. H.
Aldrich and Col. T. L. Casey.

Dr. William H. Dall reports the completion by himself of a review
of the relations of the Miocene beds of Maryland with other Ameri-
can Miocene and the Miocene of Europe, which was published in the
Miocene volume of the Maryland State survey. A monograph of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47

the fauna of the Coos Bay Miocene Empire beds of Oregon is now in
progress.

The division of paleobotany, which contains the collections of
both the Museum and the Survey, has remained, as heretofore,
under the supervision of the paleobotanists of the U. S. Geological
Survey. Prof. L. F. Ward completed his monograph on. ‘The
status of the Mesozoic floras of the United States, Part II,” which
will soon be issued by the Survey. Mr. David White made exten-
sive use of the Lacoe collection in the preparation of a report on the
stratigraphic succession of the Pottsville floras in the basins of the
Appalachian trough, while Dr. F. H. Knowlton was occupied with
the flora of the Laramie group and with material from Alaska.
The type-specimens of the genus Myrica were the subject of study
by Mr. E. W. Berry, secretary of the Torrey Botanical Club, of Pas-
saic, New Jersey, and the type specimens of the genera Eucalyptus
and Casuarina by Mr. Henry Dean, president of the Linnzan Society
of New South Wales.

EXPLORATIONS.

Members of the Museum staff have little opportunity to engage in
field work, owing to the very limited funds available for the purpose,
and all expeditions undertaken by them are naturally restricted to
obtaining material not already represented in the collections. The
principal sources of additions to the collections are the Government
surveys and explorations, such as are conducted by the Geological
Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, several bureaus of the Department
of Agriculture, and the Bureau of American Ethnology, all of which,
under the law, are required to deposit their collections in the Museum
as soon as they have been studied, though these transfers are often
made without awaiting this result.

Individuals collecting in a private capacity are sometimes among
the most liberal contributors, and two such cases are especially note-
worthy in the history of the past year. Dr. W. L. Abbott, whose
generosity has so often been mentioned in these reports, continued
his work in the Far East and has sent home large series of specimens
in anthropology, mammalogy, and _ ornithology. Twenty-eight
cases of ethnological objects, comprising his last shipment for the
year, illustrate investigations on Sumatra, the Mergui group, and
the islands of Nias and Engano. | His studies in this subject have
been extensive and exhaustive and the results naturally most instruc-
tive and important. The field covered by his labors in collecting
mammals and birds included mainly the Malay Peninsula and adja-
cent islands and the islands of Banka, Billiton, and Karimata,
between Sumatra and Borneo, from which he has sent many hun-
dreds of interesting specimens.
48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Maj. Edgar A. Mearns, Surgeon, U. S. Army, stationed with the
troops in Mindanao, gave largely of his time to collecting in the same
lines as Doctor Abbott, and his collection, presented to the Museum,
is very rich in ethnological objects of the Moros and in well-preserved
specimens of the mammals and birds of this interesting region.
Besides the large island, Doctor Mearns also visited Dinagat, Basilau,
Sulu, and Cagayan Sulu. His most important discoveries of ani-
mals were made on the upper slopes of Mount Apo, whose zoological
novelties have been described elsewhere.

Several expeditions sent out by the Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy have served to enrich the collections to a very material degree.
Dr. Ales Hrdlitka, detailed by the Museum, spent about ten weeks
among the Apaches and Pimas of southern Arizona and New Mexico,
and while conducting physical and physiological studies of the Indian
children and completing medical researches previously begun, found
opportunity for making a large collection of archeological and eth-
nological objects. Continuing his researches to determine the
range of Antillean culture, Dr. J. Walter Fewkes actively prosecuted
his studies during the winter at the sites of ancient Totonac semi-
civilization in the State of Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mrs. Matilda Coxe
Stevenson spent the greater part of the year in continuing her inves-
tigations among the Zufi Indians of New Mexico, in the course of
which a large and valuable collection was made.

On the Ist of June the assistant curator of ethnology, Dr. Walter
Hough, took the field in Arizona and New Mexico to conduct the
Muscum-Gates Expedition of 1905, with the object of further deter-
mining the distribution of the ancient pueblo peoples in the Tulerosa
region, a work begun in 1903. This expedition promises a large
collection.

As elsewhere noted, the assistant curator of mammals, Mr. Gerrit S.
Miller, jr., and the curator of reptiles, Mr..Leonhard Stejneger, spent
most of the summer of 1904 in field investigations in Europe. After
some collecting in the vicinity of Genoa, Italy, Mr. Miller proceeded to
the region of the Alps for the purpose of instituting comparisons
between the vertical distribution of life in that area with the life zones
of the mountains of eastern North America. A large number of speci-
mens, mainly of mammals, birds, reptiles, and plants, were secured,
and many photographs were taken. Headquarters were established
successively at Aix-les-Bains, Geneva, St. Cergue, Chamonix, Zermatt,
Grindelwald, Vitznau, and Goschenen, from which places trips were
made up the neighboring slopes.

The head curator of biology, Dr. F. W. True, made a number of
excursions near the close of the year to the Calvert Cliffs and points
on the Patuxent River, Maryland, and also to Virginia, for the pur-
pose of collecting specimens of fossil cetaceans and observing their
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49

mode of occurrence. Much new material was obtained at the Calvert
Cliffs, some of which throws an important light on the relation of the
American forms to those described from the Tertiary formations of
Europe.

In the autumn of 1904 Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, pro-
ceeded to Costa Rica, where he remained several months studying the ©
collection of birds in the national museum of that country, collecting
in various places to supply desiderata in the museum here, and inves-
tigating the distribution and natural environment of many species.
The results of this expedition have been of material aid to Mr.
Ridgway in continuing his work on the birds of North and Middle
America and also to the national collections. In the beginning recon-
naissances were made in the San José Valley, on the surrounding
mountains, and about Turrucares, on the Pacific Railroad, at Santo
Domingo, the present terminus of the railroad, about the voleano of
Poas, and at Pigres, an Indian village at the mouth of the Rio Grande
de Tarcoles. At the latter place ten specimens were obtained of the
rare humming bird, Arinia boucardi, previously only known from the
single type-specimen. Later a trip was made to the hacienda Monte
Redonde, on the south side of the Cerro de la Caudelaria. After the
arrival of the collecting outfit, which had been delayed, Mr. Ridgway
revisited Pigres, stopping at several places on the way from San José,
and collected at Turrialba, on the railroad connecting with the Atlantic
side; at Bonilla, a stock farm situated about 1,000 feet above the
railroad; at Coleblanco, between the volcanoes of Irazu and Turrialba,
elevated about 7,000 feet, and on the volcanoes themselves. The
total number of specimens of birds obtained, not including those pre-
sented by the national museum of Costa Rica, was 1,359.

Birds and reptiles were collected in Jamaica and Guatemala by
Mr. W. H. Maxon, of the division of plants. The division of birds
was benefited by the explorations in China of Messrs. Willis and
Blackwelder, in North Borneo of Mr. G. A. Goss and H. D. Dodge,
and*on Kyska Island, Alaska, of Dr. J. Hobart Egbert, of the U.S.
Coast Survey. The investigations in Cuba of Mr. E. A. Schwarz, of
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and also custodian of the Coleop-
tera in the Museum, resulted in the acquisition of a large and impor-
tant collection of insects, especially rich in Coleoptera. Mr. H. S.
Barber, aid in insects, collected extensively in the Dismal Swamp
region in the spring.

The explorations of the Bureau of Fisheries have added much mate-
rial in the line of fishes and marine invertebrates. The most impor-
tant expedition was by the steamer A/batross, which under the scien-
tific direction of Dr. Alexander Agassiz made extensive investigations
in the eastern Pacific Ocean between October, 1904, and March, 1905.
The vessel touched at Panama, the Galapagos, Callao, Easter Island,

°
50 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Manga Reva, and Acapulco, making large collections especially of
pelagic material between these points, the vertical tow net being used
to a depth of 300 fathoms. A small amount of deep-sea dredging and
shore collecting was also carried on. :

Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of fishes, made a collecting
trip to Carroll County, Maryland, and Mr. Owen Bryant, of Boston,
secured large numbers of mollusks at the Bahama Islands, which he
shared with the Museum.

Among botanical expeditions sent out by the Department of Agri-
culture, two were under officers of that Department, who are also con-
nected with the Museum; Mr. F. V. Coville, who visited Texas, Ari-
zona, and New Mexico, and Prof. O. F. Cook, who was detailed to
Guatemala. Mr. W. R. Maxon, assistant curator of plants, returned
from his second trip to Jamaica in July, 1904, bringing a large number
of specimens of plants. Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator of plants,
left Washington on June 21, 1905, for field work in Mexico, which will
occupy him during the summer.

In cooperation with the U. S. Geological Survey and by direct
detail from the Museum, three members of the staff of the Depart-
ment of Geology were enabled to take the field for short trips. The
head curator, Dr. George P. Merrill, visited Florida and the Thetford
Mines region of Canada, securing good exhibition samples of coquina
and of soft limestone from the former, and a fine large block of ser-
pentine, with veins of so-called asbestos from the latter. The assist-
ant curator of stratigraphic paleontology, Dr. R. 8S. Bassler, made
explorations in Virginia, South Carolina, and Kentucky, during which
he made extensive collections of fossil invertebrates, while Mr. C. W.
Gilmore, preparator in vertebrate paleontology, collected in that line
in New Mexico. Mr. A. G. Maddren, under a grant from the Smith-
sonian Institution, spent the summer of 1904 in Alaska, mainly in
search of remains of the larger mammals, found fossil in that region.
The results of his expedition have been described under the heading
of researches. ®

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS.

Of the regular series of duplicate specimens which are prepared,
as the occasion offers, for the use of educational institutions, 34 sets
of fishes, 31 of marine invertebrates, 46 of fossil invertebrates, and
19 of material illustrating rock decomposition and soil formation, a
total of 130, besides 60 special sets, containing from a few to several
hundred specimens each, were distributed during the year. The
total number of specimens so disposed of was 14,103, of which 9,573
were biological, 4,248 geological, and 282 ethnological. Over a ton
of mineral and rock fragments was also divided among 11 colleges,
in lots of approximately 200 pounds each, for the use of students
in blowpipe analysis.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51

In making exchanges with scientific establishments and_ indi-
viduals, for which a corresponding equivalent is received, 14,129
duplicate specimens were used, in 224 lots, of which 156 were biolog-
ical, with 9,618 specimens; 22 geological, with 3,637 specimens, and
46 anthropological, with 874 specimens. <A total of 14,615 speci-
mens were also sent to specialists for study, in 139 lots, 119 being
biological and 20 geological. References to many of these trans-
actions will be found under other headings, but as an indication of
the extensive relations of the Museum abroad it is interesting to
note here the sources of foreign exchanges for the year.

The establishments from which specimens were received were
the British Museum of Natural History, London, England; the
University Museum of Zoology, Cambridge, England; the Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, England; the Museum of Natural History,
Paris, France; the Royal Botanical Museum, Berlin, Germany;
the Royal Zoological and Anthropological-Ethnographical Museum,
Dresden, Germany; the University of Leipzig, Germany; the Zoo-
logical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark; the K. K. Naturhistorisches
Hofmuseum, Vienna, Austria; the Museo de Ciencias Naturales,
Madrid, Spain; the Royal Botanical Garden, Calcutta, India; the
College of Science, Tokyo, Japan, through the Imperial Japanese
Commission at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition; the Albany
Museum, Grahamstown, South Africa; the Museo Nacional, City
of Mexico, Mexico; the Museo de la Plata, La Plata, Argentina; the
Museo Paulista, S40 Paulo, Brazil, and the Museo Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

The individuals were as follows: M. Jean Miguel, Barroubio,
Herault, France; M. Pissaro, Paris, France; M. F. Canu, Ver-
sailles, France; Dr. Max Verworn, of the University of Géttingen,
Germany; Prof. G. M. R. Levinsen, of the University of Copen-
hagen, Denmark; Dr. J. Matiegka, of the University of Prague,
Austria; Dr. Gustay Mayr and Baron Ludwig Ambrézy, Vienna,
Austria; Prof. S. Brusina, Zagreb, Croatia; Mr. Robert Meusel,
Ujpest, Hungary; Mr. A. Berger, La Mortola, Italy; Rev. R. P. L.
Navas, of the Colegio del Salvador, Zaragoza, Spain; Mr. T. Tsuchida,
Misaki, Japan; Mr. Y. Hirase, Kyoto, Japan; Mr. Charles M. Maple-
stone, Eltham, Victoria, Australia; Mr. E. S. Anthony, Hobart,
Tasmania; Mr. H. Pittier, San José, Costa Rica; Sefor Don Anas-
tasio Alfaro, director of the Museo Nacional, San José, Costa Rica,
and Mr. F. H. Wolley Dod, Millarville, Alberta, Canada.

VISITORS.

The visitors to the Museum building during the year numbered
235,921, an increase of 15,143 over the previous year, and an aver-
age daily attendance of 753. The Smithsonian building was visited
52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

by 149,380 persons, 5,392 more than the previous year, the daily

average being 477.

The following tables show the attendance by months during the

past year and for each year since 1881:
Number of visitors during the fiscal year 1904-5

Year and month. building: eae
1904.
ib db gies eR SS ere SO NS ee RANE Rae See Foie tS Reet ryt tet 14, 716 9,174
PEND Ted 5 E:) Pee el ce Re a ed a ee Se ee MN ee Pee ea hse = 21, 473 14, 625
Hep Lem bern s aectetrassti ae eee ae ee aA Soe oe ee ea eae en arr 22, 553 14,114
October. ao ee ees ease ee Sora Me ene Be SSE EE Ore ree RAE ae Bye rete 19, 601 12,741
Noweniber’ (202335 seta tl ie das eo RES Ee ors ae = 14, 268 8, 881
Decembenswes sess eeeeee 5 ete A oon Bex DE tie ena ae etree ee = en eee 13, 211 7, 680
1905.
JANUATY <5 so aoscie See ane eee tase renee ae seeds Sate oS paceiaee= se ores seee 10, 699 6, 368
February... -- -- LLL E Sas Eee See e ee ess SACRE Nao ey ieee 12, 273 7,175
MarGhis:52. 28. .-Gie as Mt aelee doe stile? oeectine See stedcs> teary ee ee eae 49, 100 31, 681
ADT c-Fos. 3 Shc teh t Werden ais Sas oi eee atoll ee moe Since Bk a eae eee 26, 074 16, 087
Bs (hearer es SRE i een oe TS OPS ry eave he HE hay OE PI eect AES dees S Bir 17, 947 11, 611
JUNE sess 2S oes RRS Leen c he x2 ee Be poe as Ae nce eee ey eee 14, 006 9, 243
Total. 2b hae ee se ee Se eee S, we oe eS EEE SEP ee peers : 235, 921 149, 380
Average) daily:attendance-2-2 2226.52 5252 8k ae sete ei oct see ee oa eee Eee 753 477

Number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the opening of the former

an 1881.

Year. cca ae

USBI. 2 ohis Sc Gece Saat eras Se ae en ne Ded Oe ae oe ae eee eee 150, 000 100, 000
ISS Se Ne Se se Me iret RN area Sonu Pde coche oh ayy aid Mena ler 167, 455 152, 744
WSSS i slios Pe eos Sa ee Oe oe ae Oe a ee ees EE eee oe ena SON OSE ee 202, 188 104, 823
1884s (allificy ean yale cee Ee ee oy eee sO Shel ae ee eee osha aay eee 97, 661 45,565
DBR4—G5 Oe Be eee ar tere hs ol pare ak a nn oes ME of SE fe at ere aie a Re oe Me ae 205, 026 105, 993
L885 86 cee aS iio Oe Re oe ee ee ete se Re ee ee ee Merete Sere ee 174, 225 88, 960
USS GHB T Seis, Pee ee as ae re RES te re RS RNS ete ST oe 216, 562 98, 552
VES TH BS 2 sa tease See ge se a eft hatte CEN Bl pts ood ene le eee ee 249, 665 102, 863
ARSG™ROIAeAE nom, eee hs ay eae au Mahe Lhe Reon ae fine age ok OT ee 374, 843 149, 618
TBRO=<O() Regt etter eee ect el en ee CRE gor ent RR ee 274, 324 120, 894
Ne ee Lee Ae Se a er iS eee ae ee Pe nan Si eee oe CA Ait Ie Se SOS 286, 426 111, 669
189K 92 oe ae cea ee a tee eee 2k RUSS bee he ee Se ees 269, 825 114, 817
TSO D=O3 Rete oe NE chy Ace Senet eek Nee ae See a8 ARE cee Pee See Cp Ser eae 319, 930 174, 188
OOS 0 4a Et ae ts Es oe Na Oe acetate ce aS Soe eee, coe pee at ae = eS 195, 748 103,910
BB ft re es ca me See aA ie Ooo Ie NE em eR SN As he Ve ee 4 A hey Bee ed Ble 201,744 105, 658
1895 OG Ratan cas ee ene Jae = eee Se ORR Lee on one oe eee 180, 505 103, 650
SOG 9 7 eae ee = homers ee eee eae ee 229, 606 115, 709
1897-98. eee eee ee cee eer ee OC a ene ee RN Oa 177, 254 99, 273
1 foe ay reer ee ae ee, eee ee ee i ere os ee ee eens eset a noe 192, 471 116, 912
1899-1900 wi ~ 7 obo ee a Se Se Se ee Ee ee ee 225, 440 133, 147
AY Uae 0) BC ne Se ee ee ee et aes a ae ees oe es ney ABO oO 216, 556 151, 563
DOQT 2 = a oe eels etre kya bee ote scate e S are Be lst ae ae ae eee ee Peete 173, 888 144, 107
AQ) ZEB in cca snt Sthore chaps aise aaa See are re eR rn Re ena Ea RE Re eae CE 315, 307 181, 174
1s Sa eS eee Seen ee ee Meee te tara on Na Seep Se a riceeL 220,778 143, 988
TOOSES Gs RA eee ce EES NED, es ee Naa ele ne eee ee 235, 921 149, 380
No} 12) Ieee parte SS RM REE RY aM ete EES ne A SON ae EEL 2 he 5, 553, 348 38, 019, 157

a Years of Presideatial inaugurations.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53

LECTURES AND MEETINGS.

The lecture hall was used for lectures and meetings during the
year as follows:

On March 9, 1905, the Hon. Andrew D. White, several times the
representative abroad of the United States, both as minister and
as ambassador, delivered the first lecture under the Hamilton fund
of the Smithsonian Institution, his subject being ‘‘The diplomatic
service of the United States, with some hints toward its reform.’
A distinguished audience was present, the Secretary of the Insti-
tution presiding.

On March 25 the U. S. Naval Medical School held its annual
commencement exercises here. The diplomas were presented to
the graduates by the President of the United States, and addresses
were made by Dr. W. H. Welch, of Johns Hopkins University, and
Medical Director R. A. Marmion, U. 8. Navy, the director of the
school.

The following Saturday afternoon lectures were delivered under the
auspices of the Biological Society of Washington, the attendance
ranging from about 300 to 600:

March 18, “‘Diatoms: The jewels of the plant world,” by Dr.
Albert Mann.

March 25, ‘‘ Mosquitoes,” by Dr. L. O. Howard.

April 1, ‘‘ Forest insects and their destructive work,’ by Dr. A. D.
Hopkins.

April 8, ‘‘ Beneficial bacteria,’ by Dr. George T. Moore.

April 15, “‘Bruno, the black bear; a strange story of the north
woods,” by Mr. William L. Underwood.

April 22, ‘‘The life of a whale,” by Dr. F. W. True.

The National Academy of Sciences held its annual session in the
Museum building from April 18 to 20, the lecture hall being used for
the public meetings and the office of the assistant secretary for busi-
ness purposes.

On May 3 the American Institute of Mining Engineers held one of
its sessions in the lecture hall. The delegates were received by the
assistant secretary, who spoke of the relations of the Institute to the
National Museum. Doctor Merrill, head curator of geology, dis-
cussed the division of applied geology in the Museum, after which the
members of the Institute visited the Department of Geology.

Special facilities were afforded the delegates to the seventh session
of the International Railway Congress and the Exhibition of the
American Railway Appliance Association, held in Washington from
May 4 to 15, 1905, to study the technological exhibits, some of which
had been expressly assembled for the purpose, and an informal meet-
ing of some of the deiegates was held in the mineralogical labora-
tory to discuss metallographic methods.
54 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

On September 20, 1904, a special exhibition of electrical apparatus
was arranged in the lecture hall for the convenience of the forcign
electrical engineers, who were in the city as guests of the American
Institute of Electrical Engineers.

CORRESPONDENCE AND DOCUMENTS.

There has been a large increase in the correspondence during
recent years, as may be judged by the fact that, while five years ago
the total number of letters written filled about 4,500 pages of letter-
press, during last year nearly 8,000 pages were required for this pur-
pose, besides over 2,000 pages of memoranda bearing upon th» cor-
respondence. This growth is chiefly due to the increased demands of
the public for information on scientific subjects, and all requests of
this character made in evident good faith are cheerfully complied
with. This is in accordance with long-established custom for the
diffusion of knowledge under the terms of the bequest of Smithson.

In the Museum, however, this task has in many respects become
onerous, in view of the relatively small force employed and of the
fact that the time of both the scientific and the clerical staff is involved.
Specimens in lots of a single object to several hundred are received
for identification, the number of such lots during the year having
been 1,051. While the Museum has no facilitics for making quantita-
tive analyses, yet the qualitative examinations of the many mining
products received annually generally suffice for the purposcs of the
sender.

There has been a notable increase in the inquiries regarding
museum administration, the building of cases, the installation of col-
lections, their labeling, etc., indicating greater activity in museum
work throughout the country and the establishment of new museums.

A large part of the information furnished by the Museum is accom-
plished through its publications, of which not less than 25,000 volumes
and pamphlets were distributed from the office of correspondence
during the year to institutions and individuals named on the regular
mailing list, while about 18,000 additional publications were fur-
nished in response to special requests.

PUBLICATIONS.

The publications of the past year comprised the Annual Report of
the National Museum for 1903, issued May 17, 1905; the third vol-
ume of Mr. Robert Ridgway’s work on the ‘‘Birds of North and
Middle America,”’ issued December 31, 1904; part 4, of volume 8, of
‘Contributions from the National Herbarium,” entitled “‘Studies of
Mexican and Central American Plants, No. 4,’ by Dr. J. N. Rose,
issued April 20, 1905, and volume 9 of the same scries, entitled ‘‘ The
Useful Plants of the Island of Guam,” by Mr. William E. Safford, of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Bo

the Department of Agriculture. Most of the edition of volume 27 of
the Proceedings was distributed in July, 1904, although a small num-
ber of copies were sent out on June 30, the last day of the previous
fiscal year. :

The Annual Report for 1903 contained, besides the administrative
report of the assistant secretary and the reports of the head curators,
with the usual appendices, a paper by the assistant secretary, entitled
“The United States National Museum: An account of the buildings
occupied by the national collections,’ and a translation from the
German of three papers combined as one by Dr. A. B. Meyer, of
Dresden, entitled ‘‘Studies of the museums and kindred institutions
of New York City, Albany, Buffalo, and Chicago, with notes on some
European institutions.’”’ The paper by Doctor Meyer, so far as it
related to the United States, was based chiefly on personal observa-
tions during the summer and autumn of 1899.

Volume 27 of the Proceedings is composed of papers numbered
from 1350 to 1381, inclusive. Papers 1382 to 1406, inclusive, forming
the greater part of volume 28 of the Proceedings, were published
during the year, and it is expected that this volume will be completed
during the summer of 1905.

The third volume of Mr. Ridgway’s work on the ‘‘ Birds of North
and Middle America”? contains 821 pages and covers the wagtails
and pipits, swallows, waxwings, silky-flycatchers, palm-chats, vireos,
shrikes, crows and jays, titmice, nuthatches, creepers, wrens, dip-
pers, wren-tits, and warblers. It is illustrated with nineteen plates.
The manuscript for volume 4 is well advanced.

The papers published as part 4 of volume 8, and volume 9 of the
‘Contributions from the National Herbarium,” already mentioned
by title, are among the most useful that have appeared in this series.
There is considerable activity among American botanists in the
study of Mexican and Central American plants, and Doctor Rose’s
contribution will no doubt be a welcome addition to the literature
on this subject.

The paper by Mr. Safford on the Island of Guam has elicited much
favorable comment and is a very important contribution. Mr.
Safford, until recently a lieutenant in the U. S. Navy, served as
assistant governor of Guam from August, 1899, to August, 1900.
He is, therefore, especially well equipped for preparing such a work,
which includes an interesting account of the physical characteristics
and natural history of the island, the character and history of its
people and of their agriculture, and also a descriptive catalogue of
the plants.

These two papers are the only ones from the ‘‘Contributions from
the National Herbarium”’ available for distribution by the National
Museum, excepting reprints of volumes 2 and 7, entitled, respectively,
56 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

‘‘Botany of Western Texas,’ by John M. Coulter, and ‘‘Systematic
and Geographic Botany, and Aboriginal Uses of Plants,’’ by Messrs.
Coulter, Rose, Cook, and Chesnut.

Owing to the continuous demand for certain papers issued in past
years, the first editions of which had become exhausted, the following
have been reprinted: ‘‘Cradles of the American Aborigines,’ by
Otis T. Mason, from the Report for 1887; ‘‘The Extermination of
the American Bison, with a sketch of its Discovery and Life History,”
by William T. Hornaday, from the Report for 1887; ‘‘The Expedi-
tion to Funk Island, with Observations upon the History and
Anatomy of the Great Auk,” by Frederic A. Lucas, from the Report
for 1888; ‘‘Fire-making Apparatus in the U. S. National Museum,”
by Walter Hough, from the Report for 1888; ‘‘White-line Engraving
or Relief-printing in the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries,’ by
S. R. Koehler, from the Report for 1890; ‘‘Japanese Wood-cutting
and Wood-cut Printing,” by T. Tokuno, from the Report for 1892;
“Contributions to Philippine Ornithology—Part I, A list of the
birds known to inhabit the Philippine and Palawan Islands, showing
their distribution within the limits of the two groups,” by Dean @.
Worcester and Frank S. Bourns; ‘“ Part II, Notes on the distribution
of Philippine birds,’ by Dean C. Worcester, from volume 20 of the
Proceedings.

In addition there were also reprinted Parts B, @, D, E, F, J, K, L,
O, P, of Bulletin 39, containing, respectively, directions for collecting
recent and fossil plants, birds’ eggs, reptiles and batrachians, insects,
fossils, scale insects, dragon flies, stone flies, and May flies; and also
notes on the preparation of rough skeletons, instructions for obtaining
information concerning the aboriginal uses of plants, and directions
for collectors of basketry.

In the list of publications on page 111 will be found the titles of
those papers published during the year which are based, directly or
indirectly, on the collections of the Museum. The list includes 246
titles, the number of authors represented being 90. The following
table shows the subjects to which these papers relate:
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 57

| Papers | Papers
Classified list of subjects. Se Mshcat Py otues Total.
officers. | gators.

Geolopwvandsymineralo gy te see ee Cen we eas ae ee Seen clan Das om Ca ae oe 4
IPR LGOITLOLO pyre Ree eae eo ee nla en ees TE CREAR ol RO oy | 13 | 6 19
SOLAN Sen toe tan rs eee Set er: Se cae ey Sak ee ee | 33 | 7 40
NAGS STEER oe ey SRA Pees ge OL GN BP eee ee Amiel Pere A ae | 15% Bi nee Lee 15
ROM RUA COATES Ve sper = hes se tae yO N aND SR Ree re Ne oe Oe eA <2 | 9 3 12
LISS POU ts SO ee ee a ra es eee a Ae ee rats ee ene | 27 | 20 47
EATSEY OL OU 6 UC ae le gee ee ee nae NE, ee iret ee Ee EL I ne ac ee a [ee 2 2
MinecellIneousimVverlLebrates’.- 295s. ee seks Spee ey ee. ae eee 17 ] 18
UU USLUDE Gee eS ASE tc CRONE ete Ace ieee eee ie ap Acne = anya ee tS 13 4 17
Hepoesvandnbatrachians: = <4. 250. seo oe sna e  eas ee eEeees 5 1 6
Ein ChE epee RS crn oe Sey Save Mes wore te See ae ate ates RAO ee eee nce Soe 14 21 35
NVRSITIINT BS cee ete ieo eos raiclac terials cian ei = sete Bee ae Be ee rane 2 5 | 7
General zoology.........-- SO ae es ee eT ose es ele Sti ate Ly Sece teases 1
Ted any Scull fairalt al eo] 0X0) ove ay een oe a ee aes RE eee Ee oye eS ee Hl beocscenes| 5
JAIRO DOO MyERYS 5 oy Oe SEEMS ee ae eee eS Se aa ee ee BN eassseieieisiste | 4
SE RESTIOLO PROM seen ge eta eek rate thee iad sere eae ee ee om ene ees 3 1 4
ETD GARG TED CIENT Ak aw a ESE OM ty A Gee ego e sae see ro ae | 11D ae eee | 1
Muscum history.and administration— .. -.. 2-55-28 es- sea a ee ne ee | 8 1 9

Pietetbaeee (Eg Wiehe. 5 fhe tebe EES. Ocean Me ed cee | 174 72 246

Permission was granted by the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution during the year for printing the following papers, based
on Museum material, in publications other than those under the
control of the Institution, all of which, excepting one, were issued
before June 30:

Basser, R. S.:
Cement materials of the Valley of Virginia. Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. No. 260, 1904,
pp. 531-544, figs. 23, 24. (June, 1905.)
House, Homer D.:
Notes on New Jersey violets. Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxm, no. 5, May, 1905,
pp. 253-260, pls. 16-18.
Further notes on the orchids of central New York. (Not yet published.)
Maxon, Witu1aM R.:
A new Asplenium from Mexico. Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxx1, no. 12, Dec., 1904,
pp. 657, 658. (Jan. 9, 1905.)
On the names of three Jamaican species of Polypodium. Bull: Torrey Botan. Club,
XXxu, no. 2, Feb., 1905, pp. 73-75. (March 22, 1805.)
A new Botrychium from Jamaica. Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxu, no. 4, April,
1905, pp. 219-222, pl. v1. (May 6, 1905.)
Adenoderris, a valid genus of ferns. Botan. Gazette, xxxrx, no. 8, May 20, 1905,
pp. 366-369, text figs. 1, 2.
MERRILL, GEORGE P.:
On the origin of veins of asbestiform serpentine. Bull. Geol. Soc. America, xv1, 1905,
pp. 131-136.
STEJNEGER, LEONHARD:
A snake new to the District of Columbia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvim, Feb. 21, 1905,
pp. 75-78.

Besides the publications, the editorial office has also had charge
of all the miscellaneous printing for the Museum, a very consider-
58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

able task, since it includes many thousand labels, blanks, blank
books, letter heads, etc. The total number of forms under this
heading was 2,790 and the total number of items 355,413.

LIBRARY.

The library of the National Museum now includes 24,170 bound
volumes and 38,643 unbound papers. The additions during the
year consisted of 3,573 books, 3,048 pamphlets, and 563 parts of vol-
umes. There were catalogued 1,952 books, 3,755 pamphlets, and
12,216 parts of periodicals. The number of cards added to the
authors’ catalogue was 5,942, exclusive of 847 cards for books and
pamphlets recatalogued.

Fifteen sets of periodicals in which parts were missing were com-
pleted wholly or in part. The total number of volumes bound was
1,371, and by the close of the year several hundred additional vol-
umes had been made ready for the bindery.

The number of books, pamphlets, and periodicals borrowed from
the general library amounted to 40,400, including 9,192 which were
assigned to the sectional libraries.

One sectional library, consisting of works relating to physical
anthropology, has been added during the year, the list of these
libraries being now as follows:

Administration. Geology. Parasites.
Administrative assistant. History. Photography.
Anthropology. Insects. Physical anthropology.
Biology. Mammals. Prehistoric archeology.
Birds. Marine invertebrates. Reptiles.
Botany. Materia medica. Stratigraphic paleontology.
Children’s room. Mesozoic fossils. Superintendent.
Comparative anatomy. Mineralogy. Taxidermy.
Editor. Mollusks. Technology.
Ethnology. Oriental archeology.
Fishes. Paleobotany.

PHOTOGRAPHY.

In illustrating Museum objects, largely for reproduction in the
publications and in copying plans, diagrams, etc., required in con-
nection with the work of the Museum, there were made in the pho-
tographic laboratory during the year 1,771 negatives, 322 platinum
prints, 2,467 silver prints, 3,289 cyanotypes, 478 velox prints, 26_
bromide enlargements, and 103 lantern slides. The chief photog-
rapher, Mr. T. W. Smillie, has also supervised most of the photo-
graphic work for other bureaus of the Smithsonian, as well as for
the parent institution, a special assistant for this purpose being
employed under his direction. He was detailed in October, 1904,
to make the official photographs of the Smithsonian exhibits at the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. oo

Louisiana Purchase Exposition, and has continued, as in previous
years, to conduct the examinations in photography for the U. S.
Civil Service Commission. -

COOPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS.

The Museum has, as usual, received important assistance from
several of the Departments and bureaus of the Government. Its
relations to the United States Geological Survey, the Bureau of
Fisheries, the Biological Survey and Divisions of Entomology and
Botany of the Department of Agriculture, and the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, especially in regard to the transfer of collections,
have been referred to elsewhere.

Officers of the Army and Navy stationed in the new possessions
have made several valuable contributions, and the Army Medical
Museum has continued its cooperation in promoting the welfare of
the division of physical anthropology.

Special acknowledgments are due to the Quartermaster’s Depart-
ment of the Army for many courtesies in connection with the trans-
portation of specimens and outfits to and from distant points, and
to the Treasury Department for the prompt admission and _ ship-
ment to Washington of specimens received from abroad at several
of the customs-houses.

EXPOSITIONS.

Louisiana Purchase Exposition—The exhibits of the National
Museum for this exposition were prepared under the general direc-
tion of Dr. F. W. True, who represented the Smithsonian Institution
and the Museum on the Government Board. Dr. Marcus W. Lyon,
jr., Was appointed to assist him in the capacity of chief special agent.
The exhibits were classified under anthropology, biology, and geol-
ogy, and were assembled under the supervision of the head curators,
Prof. O. T. Mason, Doctor True, and Dr. George P. Merrill, respec-
tively. A brief description of them was given in the Smithsonian
Report for 1904. The exposition closed on December 2, 1904, and
the exhibits were returned to Washington early in 1905, with the
exception of those which it was decided to send to the Lewis and
Clark Exposition.

Lewis and Clark Exposition.—The bill providing for the celebra-
tion of the one hundredth anniversary of the exploration of the
Oregon country by Capts. Meriwether Lewis and William Clark
was approved on April 13, 1904, and the sum of $200,000 was appro-
priated for the expenses of a Government exhibit. The exposition
opened June 1, 1905, to run for a period of five and one-half months,
or until October 15, 1905. Doctor True and Doctor Lyon acted in
the same capacities as for the preceding exposition. The sum of

NAT Mus 1905 5

60 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

$12,000 and a rather small, but otherwise satisfactory, space in the
Government building were allotted for the exhibits of the Institu-
tion and Museum. These, in accordance with law, were selected as
far as possible from the collections displayed at St. Louis, but a few
other objects were added. Among the latter the most important
were skeletons of a Dodo, of a Great Auk, and of an adult Piked
Whale.

The largest objects in anthropology sent from St. Louis were four
of the models of ancient Mexican temples; and in geology, the res-
torations of the extinct reptiles Triceratops and Stegosaurus. From
the large game series the rhinoceros, lion, tiger, Norway elk, chamois,
mouflon, and Marco Polo’s sheep were selected for exhibition in
Portland. The collections of birds and minerals-were arranged in
wall cases, with light backgrounds, and presented an especially
attractive appearance.

The exhibits of the other bureaus of the Institution, and of the
Institution itself, were substantially the same as at St. Louis, though
the installation was necessarily modified to meet the requirements
of the more restricted space. In the case of the National Zoological
Park, however, the large aviary was abandoned, the work of the
bureau being illustrated by maps and photographs of the park and
of the cages and other enclosures for animals. The reproduction of
the children’s room was also omitted for lack of space.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES.

At the Sixth International Zoological Congress, held in Berne,
Switzerland, from August 14 to 19, 1904, under the presidency of
Prof. Th. Studer, the National Museum was represented by Dr. Leon-
hard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians, Mr. Gerrit S.
Miller, jr., assistant curator of mammals, and Dr. C. W. Stiles, custo-
dian of the helminthological collections, all of whom were also dele-
gates on behalf of the United States Government. Doctor Stejneger
served as one of the vice-presidents at the second general session, and
Mr. Miller and Doctor Stiles in the same capacity at the fourth gen-
eral session. The total number of delegates from the United States
in attendance was 22, 6 of whom read papers, as follows: Prof. H. F.
Osborn, of the American Museum of Natural History, ‘‘ Ten years’
progress in the mammalian paleontology of North America” and
‘‘ Evolution of the horse—Recent discoveries and studies;’’ Prof. W.
B. Scott, of Princeton University, ‘‘ The mammalian fauna of the
Santa-Cruz beds of Patagonia;”’ Prof. J.C. Merriam, of the University
of California, “A new group of marine reptiles from the Triassic of
California;’’? Prof. Bashford Dean, of Columbia University, ‘“‘Some
embryological evidence as to the position of Chimera;’’ Dr. Charles
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61

S. Minot, of the Harvard Medical School, ‘The changes in the animal
cell during rejuvenation and severance,” and Dr. R. G. Harrison, of
Johns Hopkins University, ‘‘ New investigations and observations on
the development of the peripheral nerves of vertebrates.”

Mr. William H. Holmes, chief of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, besides visiting some of the principal European museums
in behalf of the National Museum, attended the Fourteenth Inter-
national Congress of Americanists at Stuttgart, Germany, from
August 18 to 23,1904, as the representative of the Museum and Insti-
tution and of the Government. Other official American delegates
were the Duc de Loubat, a patron of American archeological
research; Dr. Paul Haupt, of the National Museum and Johns Hop-
kins University; Dr. Franz Boas, of the American Museum of Natu-
ral History, and Rev. C. W. Currier, of the Catholic University of
America. A number of papers were read dealing with questions of
American history, ethnology, and archeology. Mr. Holmes presided
at a meeting of the Congress on August 20, and on the same day deliv-
ered an address on ‘‘Contributions of American archeology to the
science of man.’ Dr. Franz Boas read a paper on the ‘‘Influence of
the social foundation of the Kwakiutl Indians upon their culture;”’
and Rey. C. W. Currier one on ‘‘The Indian languages of the United
States.’ The Smithsonian Institution presented to the Congress,
through its representative, a set of 75 bound volumes relating mainly
to American archeology and ethnology, published by the Institution
and two of its bureaus—the National Museum and the Bureau of
American Ethnology—as well as a set of photographs of American
Indians, furnished jointly by the Bureau and the Museum.

Dr. Paul Haupt, associate in historic archeology, was a delegate of
the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum at the Second
International Congress for the General History of Religions, at Basle,
August 30 to September 2, 1904, and again at the Fourteenth Inter-
national Congress of Orientalists, held in Algiers during April,1905.
Dr. Cyrus Adler, of the Institution and Museum, acted as the repre-
sentative of the United States on the committee on organization for
the latter Congress.

The Institution, the Museum, and the Government were repre-
sented at the Second International Botanical Congress, held in Vienna,
Austria, from June 11 to 18, 1905, by Mr. Frederick V. Coville, curator
of the division of plants, Mr. William F. Wight, of the Department of
Agriculture, also being present as a delegate from the Museum.

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger attended, on behalf of the Institution and
Museum, the Fourth International Ornithological Congress at Lon-
don, from June 12 to 17, 1905, and will also act for the Institution at
the Convention on the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture to be held in London on July 25, 1905.
62 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

The Institution was represented at the meeting of the International
Congress on Education, held in St. Louis, from June 28 to July 1, 1904,
by Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., of the Museum staff.

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF.

Upon the completion of the new building, it is proposed to take
advantage of the additional space afforded to reorganize and place
upon a proper basis that branch of the Museum which is best compre-
hended under the title arts and industries. The Louisiana Purchase
Exposition, however, furnished such an exceptional opportunity for
obtaining material illustrative of mineral technology that a depart-
ment under this name was established in the autumn of 1904, in
order that the selection of specimens at St. Louis might be judiciously
supervised. Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Director of the U.S. Geological
Survey, has accepted the curatorship of this department.

Dr. Cyrus Adler has been made curator, and Dr. I. M. Casanowicz
assistant curator of historic archeology, and Dr. Paul Haupt, of
Johns Hopkins University, an associate in the same division.

Four other associates, this being an honorary title, were also desig-
nated during the year, as follows: In zoology, Dr. W. L. Abbott, of
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; in botany, Capt. John Donnell Smith, of
Baltimore, Maryland; in mineralogy, the Rev. L. T. Chamberlain, of
New York City, and in paleobotany, Prof. Lester F. Ward, for many
years associate curator of the collection of fossil plants.

Dr. J. N. Rose has been advanced to associate curator in the divi-
sion of plants, and Mr. W. R. Maxon to assistant curator. Mr. J. H.
Painter was appointed aid in the same division, and Mr. Homer D.
House served in a like capacity during five months of the year.

Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of the division of marine
invertebrates, has had direct charge of the exhibits in biology.

Mr. Herbert S. Barber was made an aid in the division of insects
to fill the vacancy caused by the transfer of Mr. R. P. Currie to the
Department of Agriculture, and Mr. B. H. Ransom has been
appointed assistant custodian of the helminthological collections.
The appointment in 1903-4 of Mr. C. A. McKnew as aid in the division
of fishes, and Mr. E. J. Horgan as aid in the section of birds’ eggs,
failed to receive mention in the last report.

Mr. Charles Schuchert, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleon-
tology, resigned during the year to accept the position of professor of
paleontology in Yale University, and was succeeded by Dr. Ray S.
Bassler, of the U. 8. Geological Survey. Mr. W. H. Newhall, aid in
the division of systematic and applied geology, died on May 21, 1905,
and his place has been temporarily filled by the appointment of Mr.
W. O. Snelling. Vacancies in the section of fossil vertebrates were
filled by the selection of Mr. James W. Gidley and Mr. Charles W.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

Gilmore as preparators, and of Mr. Norman H. Boss as assistant
preparator.

Mr. David White, of the U. S. Geological Survey, has been desig-
nated associate curator of paleobotany in the place of Prof. Lester F.
Ward, now an associate.

Dr. Frederick W. True, head curator of biology, was designated the
representative of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum
on the Government Board for the Lewis and Clark Exposition at
Portland, Oregon, and Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., chief special agent
in the same connection.

Mr. W. I. Adams, chief clerk of the Bureau of International
Exchanges, has been appointed disbursing agent of the Smithsonian
Institution for its several bureaus, including the National Museum.

Under the provisions of the act of Congress, approved March 3,
1905, prohibiting the employment of volunteers by the Government,
it has been necessary to discontinue the gratuitous services of Dr. T.
H. Bean as honorary curator of fishes and Dr. B. E. Fernow as hon-
orary curator of forestry, as these gentlemen are no longer connected
with the Government service. It may also be mentioned in this con-
nection that the title of ‘“honorary,” as applied to curators and sub-
ordinate positions on the scientific staff, has been discontinued as
superfluous, since hereafter all persons actively connected with the
staff, whether paid from the appropriation for the Museum or not, must
be in the employ of the Government. :

A list of the officers constituting the scientific and administrative
staff follows:

THE Museum STAFF.

[June 30, 1905.]

S. P. Lanatey, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper Ex-officio.
Ricnarp Rarusun, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U.S. National Museum.
W. peC. RaveneEt, Administrative Assistant.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY:

Otis T. Mason, Head Curator.

Division of Ethnology: Otis T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant Curator; J. W.
Fewkes, Collaborator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: AleS Hrdlicka, Assistant Curator.

Division of Historie Archeology: Cyrus Adler, Curator; I. M. Casanowicz, Assistant
Curator.

Division of Prehistoric Archeology: William H. Holmes, Curator; J. D. McGuire,
Collaborator.

Division of Technology: George C. Maynard, Assistant Curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: Paul Brockett, Custodian.
Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian.

Division of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U.S. Navy (retired), Curator.
64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY—Continued.
Division of Historic Religions: Cyrus Adler, Curator.
Division of History: A. Howard Clark, Curator; Paul Beckwith, Assistant Curator.
Associate in Historic Archeology (Honorary): Paul Haupt.
DEPARTMENT OF BroLoGy:
Frederick W. True, Head Curator.
Division of Mammals: Frederick W. True, Curator; Gerrit S. Miller, jr., Assistant
Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, jr., Aid; Walter L. Hahn, Aid.
Division of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assistant Curator;
J. H. Riley, Aid.

Section of Birds’ Eggs: William L. Ralph, Curator; E. J. Horgan, Aid.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, Curator; R. G. Paine, Aid.

Division of Fishes: Barton A. Bean, Assistant Curator; C. A. McKnew, Aid.

Division of Mollusks: William H. Dall, Curator; Paul Bartsch, Aid; William B. Mar-
shall, Aid.

Division of Insects: li. O. Howard, Curator; W.H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator; H.S.
Barber, Aid.

Section of Hymenoptera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, Custodian.

Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: EK. A. Schwarz, Custodian.

Section of Lepidoptera: Harrison G. Dyar, Custodian.

Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Richard Rathbun, Curator; J. E. Benedict, Assistant
Curator; Mary J. Rathbun, Assistant Curator; Harriet Richardson, Collaborator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian; B. H. Ransom,

Assistant Custodian.

Division of Comparative Anatomy: .

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Curator; J. N. Rose,
Associate Curator; W.R. Maxon, Assistant Curator; J. H. Painter, Aid; Homer
D. House, Aid.

Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, Assistant Curator.

Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, Custodian.

Section of Lower Algae.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian.

Associates in Zoology (Honorary): W. L. Abbott, Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam,
R. E. C. Stearns.

Associates in Botany (Honorary): Edward L. Greene, John Donnell Smith.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:

George P. Merrill, Head Curator.

Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied): George P. Merrill,
Curator; W. O. Snelling, Aid.

Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assistant Curator.

Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Curator; R. S. Bassler,
Assistant Curator.

Section of Vertebrate Fossils:

Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, R.S. Bassler, in charge; Carboniferous,
George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton, Custodian; Cenozoic,
W.H. Dall, Associate Curator; Madreporarian Corals, T. Wayland Vaughan,
Custodian.

Section of Paleobotany: David White, Associate Curator; A. C. Peale, Aid; F. H.
Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants.

Associate in Mineralogy (Honorary): L. T. Chamberlain.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGy—Continued.
Associate in Paleontology (Honorary): Charles A. White.
Associate in Paleobotany (Honorary): Lester F. Ward.
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL TECHNOLOGY:
Charles D. Walcott, Curator.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.

Chief of Correspondence and Documents, R. I. Geare.
Librarian, Cyrus Adler.

Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder.

Disbursing Agent, W. I. Adams.

Superintendent of Construction and Labor, J. S. Goldsmith.
Editor, Marcus Benjamin.

Photographer, T. W. Smillie.

Registrar, S. C. Brown.

Property Clerk, W. A. Knowles.

65
LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS DURING THE FISCAL
YEAR 1904-5.

Except where otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented to the Museum or transferred in
accordance with law.]

ABBE, CLEVELAND, U. S. Weather Bureau,
Department of Agriculture: 4 mollusks
(Polygyra albolabris var. major Binn.)
from Mount Weather, near Bluemont,

Va. (44153); 8 mollusks (Linnza and |
Planorbis); concretion of ocher and a

fossil pebble (44270).

Asporr, Wiiuiam L., Singapore, Straits |

Settlements, Malay Archipelago: 19 boxes,

containing a collection of rare and valu-

able mammals, birds, birds’ nests and
eggs, reptiles, mollusks, marine inverte-
brates, skeletons of mammals and birds,
brains of animals; also ethnological mate-
rial, collected in Singapore, Mergui

Archipelago, German New Guinea, and |
Lower Siam (43017); large collections of |

natural history material and ethnological
specimens from Banka, Billiton, and
Karimata (44559). (See also under C.
Boden Kloss.)

Apkins, WittrAmM H. (See under Chicka-

hominy Tribe.)
ApLER, Cyrus, Smithsonian Institution:

Facsimile of Thomas Jefferson’s Bible |

(44113).

Arro-AMERICAN TRADING AND NAVIGATION
Company, New York City (received
through Department of Agriculture):
Plant from East Africa (43586: deposit).

AGRICULTURE, U. S. DEPARTMENT oF, Hon.
James Wilson, Secretary.

Biological Survey, C. Hart Merriam,

chief. 132 birds’ eggs and 21 nests, ob- |

tained in different sections of North
America (42997); 2 crabs and 3 cray-
fishes, collected by E. W. Nelson and
EK. A. Goldman at Tuxtla, Mexico
(42999); 9 eggs of Mexican birds (43028) ;
egg of Curassow, Crar globicera, and
nest of humming bird (Lampornis
prevostii) (43131); 36 birds’ eggs and 6
nests, collected in Arctic America by E. A.

Preble (43657); 5 mollusks, collected by
E. A. Goldman in California (44021); 20
mollusks from Texas, received through
Vernon Bailey (44022); 300 fresh-water
and land shells from Great Falls, Mont.,
through Vernon Bailey (44111); 2 cray-
fishes from Sour Lake, Texas (44142);
land and fresh-water mollusks, collected
by J. H. Gaut at Sour Lake, Texas
(44154); 19 birds’ eggs, collected in Lower
Californa by E. A. Goldman (44281); 5
birds’ eggs and nest of Scissor-tailed fly-
catcher, Milvulus forficatus, collected in
Texas by J. H. Gaut (44284); 7 birds’ eggs
(44287); 12 land snails from Coronado
Islands, near San Diego, Cal., collected
by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman
(44377); nest and 4 eggs of Parula

Warbler, Compsothlypis americana, col-

lected by H. W. Henshaw at Glen Echo,
Md. (44380); nest and 4 eggs of Grass-
hopper sparrow, Coturniculus savannarum
bimaculatus, collected in Nebraska by
Merritt Cary (44401); 8 birds’ eggs, col-
lected in Lower California by E. W. Nelson
and E. A. Goldman (44402); 40 land
shells, collected in Texas by J. H. Gaut
(44447); 5 cacti, collected in Texas by
J. H. Gaut (44572); 45 shells from Pyra-
mid Lake, Utah, collected by Vernon
Bailey (44620).

Bureau of Animal Industry, D. E. Sal-
mon, chief. Skull of a fox terrier (43351).

Bureau of Entomology, L. O. Howard,
chief. 124 Lepidoptera and 25 Orthoptera
from Cuba, collected by E. A. Schwarz
(42944) ; isopod crustaceans (44122) ; sow-
bug from Berkeley, Va. (44262).

Bureau of Plant Industry, B. T. Gal-
loway, chief. About 1,000 plants, reptiles,
insects, birds’ eggs, mammals, and fishes
from Guatemala, collected by W. R.
Maxon (44279).

67
68

Weather Bureau, Willis L. Moore, chief.
Set of marine repeaters, pocket relay, and
Swift’s lightning-cable arrester (48626).

Material deposited in the National Her-
barium: 12 plants collected in Colorado

by Miss E. Catheart (42935); 4 plants |

collected in Oregon by C. V. Piper
(42938); 8,963 plants of the late A. B.
Langlois collection (48043); 31 plants
from Colorado, collected by Miss E. Cath-
cart (438171); 38 plants from Colorado,
collected by Vernon Bailey (43181); 18
ferns from Europe (43344); 3 plants col-
lected by H. P. Chandler in California
(43357); 2 plants from Indiana, collected
by J. W. Whiteman (43369); plant from
South Carolina, collected by J. S. New-
man (43°70); specimen of Aristolochia
from  attles Wharf, Ala., received
through R. H. True (48406); 2 plants
from Mexico (43457); plant from Cali-
fornia, collected by C. Hart Merriam
(43506); 219 plants from Greenland
(43565); 11 plants from Canada, obtained
by John Macoun (43566); 411 plants
from the herbarium of F. Lamson-
Scribner (43589); 1,450 plants collected
by David Griffiths in the southwest sec-
tion of the United States (48650); 5
plants collected in Washington by C. V.
Piper (43682); 68 plants collected in
Washington (43689); 20 plants from
Texas (43764); 496 plants from Alaska,
collected by C. V. Piper (48805); 3 plants
from Oklahoma and New Mexico, col-
lected by J. H. Gaut (43878); 513 plants
collected by C. V. Piper in Oregon, Cali-
fornia, and Arizona (43899); 4 specimens
of Cactacee from California and Arizona,
collected by W. T. Swingle (43938); 62
plants collected by Chester Washburne
in Alaska (43963); specimen of Juncus,
collected by B. E. Fernow in New York
(43964); 43 sheets of plants, collected by
W. H. Osgood in Alaska (43966); 10
plants, collected by A. and A. W. Greely
in Alaska (43967); 2 specimens of grasses
from Alaska (44010); orchid from Cascade
Mountains (type of Listera caurina Piper),
from C. V. Piper (44086); 29 plants
from California and Oregon, collected by
C. V. Piper (44087); 9 plants from Oregon,
collected by M. A. Crosby (44088); 3
specimens of Cyperacere from California,

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

collected by H. P. Chandler (44089); 6
plants from North America (44090); 111
plants from the District of Columbia and
vicinity, collected by L. H. Dewey
(44093); 26 sheets of Junci, collected by
C. V. Piper and J. S. Cotton in Oregon and
Washington (44118); 2 specimens of
Carex, collected by Byron Hunter in
Washington (44134); 384 plants from
Canada, collected by E. A. Preble (44182) ;
cactus from Texas, collected by J. H.
Gaut (44201); 10 specimens of cacti from
California, collected by W. T. Swingle
(44202); 8 plants collected in Texas by
J. H. Gaut (44312); 300 living cacti from
Mexico, collected by Edward Palmer
(44345); 2 plants from Alaska, collected
by J. H. Egbert (44364); 54 plants
from Desert Botanical Laboratory, Tuc-
son, Ariz. (44400); 166 plants from E.
Hackel, Gratz, Austria, from various
localities (44431); 231 plants from E.
Hackel, from various localities (44482);
57 plants from D. J. Litwinon, St Peters-
burg Academy of Sciences, collected in
various localities (44433); 18 type speci-
mens of plants from D. J. Litwinon, of the
St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences, ob-
tained in various localities (44484); plant
collected by J. K. Small in Georgia
(44466); 275 plants from various locali-
ties, sent by E. Hackel (44509); 2 living
plants, collected in Lower California by
E. W. Nelson (44511); 51 plants, eol-
lected in Canada by John Macoun (44521);
5 plants, collected in the District of Co-
lumbia and vicinity by E. S. Steele
(44522); 13 plants, collected in Mexieo
by T. S. Brancegee (44523); 15 plants
from Washington State, collected by J. S.
Cotton (44524); plant from Arizona, col-
lected by J. J. Thornber and D. Griffiths
(44525); 4 plants, collected in Texas by
F. J. Tyler (44526); 37 plants, collected
by E. O. Wooton in Colorado and New
Mexico (44527); plants collected in Wash-
ington by C. R. Ball (44528); plant col-
lected in Florida by 8. M. Tracy (44529) ;
plant from Washington State, collected
by Messrs. J. H. Sandberg and J. B. Lei-
berg (44530); 7 plants, collected in South
Africa by W. M. Longden (44531); 5 .
plants, collected in Oregon by W. C.
Cusick (44532); 14 plants, collected in
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

69

Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona by David | ALrammrano, FERNANDO, Instituto Medico
Griffiths (44533); 6 plants, collected in |

Texas by C. W. Warburton (44534); 87
plants, collected in Washington and Ore-
gon by Byron Hunter (44535); 5 plants,
collected in Maine by J. C. Parlin (44536) ;
specimen of fern, Ophioglossum vulgatum,
from the District of Columbia (44571);
received through Biological Survey 5
cacti collected in Texas by J. H. Gaut
(44752). (See also under Afro-American
Trading and Navigation Company; A. J.
Collier; A. A. Girault; J. H. Gaut; Ha-
wailan Experiment Station; J. Jermy;
Lloyd Brothers; Manila, Bureau of For-
estry; J. B. S. Norton; A. Rea; E. T.
Seton; F. W. Thurow; E. P. Van Duzee;
H. Weigel.)

ArrKen, J. B., Widnes, England (received
through British Royal Commission at the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition): Sam-
ples of chemicals, ete. (44554: from the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition).

| AMBROSETTI, JUAN B.

Nacional, City of Mexico (received
through J. N. Rose): ‘‘ Walking-stick,”
Pseudosermyte truncata Caudell (42955).

AxterR, N. Berton, Fort Hunter, N. Y.:
Human bones and objects found in an In-
dian burial place near Fort Hunter; also
collection of prehistoric relics from village
sites in the same locality (48533, 44495).

(See under Argen-
tina Department of Agriculture.)

AmpBrozy, Lupwiec, Vienna, Austria: Col-
lection of Wallachian costumes and house-
hold utensils from the southern part of
Hungary (44098: exchange).

| AMERICAN INsTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS, Wash-

AvsBers, Aucust, Cincinnati, Ohio (received |
through R. S. Bassler): 25 Ordovician |

fossils from Ohio and Kentucky (43531).

Atcock, Maj. A. (See under Calcutta,
India, Indian Museum.)

ALDRICH, CHARLES. (See under Iowa, His-
torical Department of.)

Aupricu, T. H., Washington, D. C.: 2 speci-
mens of Somatogyrus walkeriana Aldrich
(from type lot) collected in the southern
part of Alabama (44209).

Atraro, ANAsSTASIO, director, Museo Na-
cional, San José, Costa Rica: 117 birds’

skins from Costa Rica and Guatemala |

(43221: exchange); 7 birds’ skins from

Costa Rica (44592: gift); 636 birds’ skins |

from Costa Rica (44609: gift).

ALLEN, J. I., Columbus, Mont.: Indian hair- |

brush made from a strip of porcupine
(43859).

ALLIson, ANDREW, Lake Charles, Belair, and
New Orleans, La., and Bay St. Louis,
Miss.: 77 plants from Louisiana (42937:
collected for the Museum); reptiles, 4 skins
and skulls of mammals, and water lilies
from Louisiana (42951: collected for the
Museum); 5 mammals from Louisiana
(42992: collected for the Museum); 317
plants from Louisiana (43008: gift); 36
birds’ eggs (43029: collected for the Mu-
seum).

ington, D. C. (received through Glenn
Brown, secretary and treasurer): Gold
badge or pin of the American Institute of
Architects (43501).

AMERICAN Museum or Natura History,
New York City: 227 pieces of Mexican
pottery, collected by William Bauer,
L. P. X. (438630: purchase); 2 ants (AMa-
cromischa elegans Wheeler) (43771: gift);
Peruvian textiles (43854: exchange);
casts of objects in the American Museum
(43893: exchange); 4 plaster busts of In-
dians (44017: exchange); 4 crabs (44107:
gift).

AmerIcAN ReEcorD Company, New York
City (through J. O. Prescott): 24 gramo-
phone records made by native Hawaiians
(44335).

AMERICAN SociETY oF Crvit ENGINEERS,
New York City (through Charles Warren
Hunt, secretary): Badge of the society
(43723).

Ames, Oakes, North Easton, Mass.: Orchid
(Lelia albida) from the Ames Botanical
Laboratory (43638: exchange).

Anperson, J. P., Lamoni, lowa: Plant from
Towa (43299).

AnpERsON, Rey. R. W., Eagle Pass, Tex.:
2 Sphinx moths, or ‘’Tomato-sphinx,”’
Phlegethontius (Sphinx) quinquemaculatus
Haworth (43373).

AnpreEws, A. H. Chicago, Ill. (through Brig.
Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S. Army, retired):
Fossil wood from Chicago (43802).

ANGELL, J. P., Pine Bluff, Ark.: Beetle
(Calosoma scrutator Fabr.) (44444).

Antuony, E. S., Hobart, Tasmania: 7
chipped flints, finely chipped spearhead
70

3 polished axes; dilly-bag, and chippings |
from New South Wales (43027: exchange). |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

cularia, and 40 specimens of V itrea drapar-
naldi from Chicago (44023).

Arcuer-Burton, L. J.G., Berlin, Md.: Cop- | Baker, Frep., San Diego, Cal.: 2 marine

per penny of Edward VII, 1902 (43144).
ARGENTINA, SourH AMERICA, DEPARTMENT |
oF AGRICULTURE OF (received through
Juan B. Ambrosetti): Samples of Argen-
tine forestry collection (44594: from the

Louisiana Purchase Exposition).
ArmstronG, R. B. (See under Treasury |
Department.) |
Asucrart, G. B., Montrezl, Canada: Plant
(Epipactis viridiflora (Hoffm.) Reichb.) |
from the vicinity of Montreal (43098).
ATKEISON, RicutE, Atkeison, Ala.: Wheel-
bug, Prionidus cristatus L. (43245).
Atkinson, G. W., D. W. CUNNINGHAM and
C. E. Doo.ey, Charleston, W. Va.: Moon-

shells from California and a marine shell
from Japan (43266).

BatpripGE, Mrs. Maria, Los Angeles, Cal.:
10 mollusks and 2 ostracods (43766).

| Bavpwin, J. E., Chadds Ford, Pa.: 2 com-

posite plants, Troximon pomiferum Raf.,
from Pennsylvania (43761).

Bags, E. N., Washington, D. C.: Covered
jar and a brass metric rule, obtained from
the military pharmacy in the old walled
city, Quartel Mesa, Philippine Islands
(10349: loan).

| Baxi, C. R., Washington, D. C.: 22 speci-

shiner’s still, with cap and worm, seized in |
the Flat Top Mountains of West Virginia |

(43856).

Austin, GeorcE M., Wilmington, Ohio: 20
specimens of Lichenocrinus from the Rich-
mond group of Ohio (43837).

Ayes, L. H., U.S. consul, Para, Brazil: 6
eggs of Hoatzin, Opisthocomus hoatzin
(43147); turtle-shaped pottery object |
from the island of Marajo, Brazil (43768).

Bascock, Mrs. P. H., Hudson, Ohio: Basket

made from long pine needles by an aged |

colored woman in South Carolina (43461).
Bacute.i, W. L., Joplin, Mo.: Large calcite
crystal (42965: purchase); example of
marcasite radiation (43349: gift).
Bartty, M. A., New Orleans, La.: Luna
moth, Actias luna Linn. (44584).

= = 2 ]
Batty, VERNON, Department of Agricul-

ture: 26 plants from Arizona, Colorado,

New Mexico, and Texas (43152, 43205, |

43278, 43375, 43426, 43427, 43537). (See
also under Department of Agriculture.)
Bain, H. T. (See under J. Morgan Clem-

ents.)

Baker, C. F., Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba:
120 cryptogamic plants from Nicaragua
and California (43020: purchase); 46
plants from California (43261: purchase);
39 Lepidoptera (43468: gift); 31 Diptera
from Cuba (43569: gift); 38 shells from
Cuba (43705: gift); 4 plants from Cali-
fornia (43924: gift); crustaceans (44266:
gift).

Baker, C. F., Chicago Academy of Sciences,
Chicago, Ill.: 3 pond snails, Linnxa auri-

mens of American willows (44048).

under Department of Agriculture.)
Baty, Mrs. Maupr M. (See under Interior

Department, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Batt, W. P. (See under Interior Depart-
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Bannon, T. M., Phoenix, Ariz.: 8 plants
from Arizona (44152).

Barser, A. W., Washington, D.C.: Wooden
arrow shaft with obsidian head (43894);
coprolites from Mount St. Helen, Oregon
(43901); 3 skulls and archeological ob-
jects from the sand mounds of Florida
(44219). (See also under Peter Rauler-
son.)

BarBer, C. A. (See under W. L. McAtee.)

Barper, H. S., U. S. National Museum:
Plants and mollusks from Texas and in-
sects from Virginia (42950, 43175, 44587:
collected for the Museum; 44109, 44133:
gift). (See also under R. P. Currie and
E. A. Schwarz.)

Barser, Manty D., Knoxville, Tenn.:
Fresh-water and land shells (48737).

Barsour, THomas. (See under Museum of
Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.)

Barciay, J.C. (See under Western Union
Telegraph Company.)

Bartow, Gen. J. W., U.S. Army (retired),
New London, Conn.: 445 birds’ eggs from
North America (42998).

Barnes, Wrti1AM, Decatur, Ill.: 92 insects
(44269).

Barrett, O. W., Porto Rico Experiment
Station, Mayaguez, Porto Rico: 3 hymen-
opterous parasites from Cemiostoma cof-
Seella (Chrysocharis livida Ashm.) (43216)
3 chaleidoid flies (43677); 4 parasitic

(See
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Hymenoptera (43977); parasitic Hymen-
opteron (Chalcis annulata Fabr.) (43997).
Bartscu, Paur, U. S. National Museum:
60 mollusks from Iowa (48088: gift); 5
specimens of prickly pear (Opuntia) from
Illinois (44591: collected for the Museum).
BassLer, R. S., and E. O. Utrica, U. S.

National Museum and U. S. Geological |

Survey: Types of 40 species of Tertiary
ostracoda (43718).

Basser, R.S.
Interior Department, U. S. Geological
Survey; R. R. Rowley; E. O. Ulrich).

Bates, G. L., Galesburg, IIl.: 30 small mam-
mals (43813: purchase).

(See under August Albers; |

Bares, Mrs. MarGaret, Washington, D.C.: |

Glass sponge (Euplectella). Received
through O. T. Mason (44360).

Baver, Witiiam. (See under American
Museum of Natural History, New York
City, and Smithsonian Institution, Bu-
reau of American Ethnology.)

Beacu, Maj. Witt1am D., U. S. Army.
(See under War Department.)

Bean, B. A., U.S. National Museum: Fishes,
crustaceans, mollusks, and reptiles, col-
lected for the Museum in the western part
of Maryland (43077).

Bean, GeorGe T. (See under Department
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish-
eries. )

Beckwitu, Pau, U. S. National Museum:
Moro mouth-harp, Igorot earring, and
Kaffir bracelet (42969); United States $10
gold piece of the issue of 1893 (43064:
exchange); gilt G. A. R. official badge
used at the Boston encampment in 1904
(43161); musical instrument  ‘“‘zobo-
phone” (43190); English vest-pocket pis-
tol (43388); printed portraits of promi-
nent members of the Society of the
S. A. R. (43398); 4 complete clips, from
Cuba, of fixed ammunition for a Lee rifle
(43580); programme of ceremonies at the
unveiling of the statue of Frederick the
Great, November 19, 1904 (43623); Ro-
man coin (44057); invitation to the inau-
guration reception of President Grant and
Vice-President Colfax, March 4, 1869
(44248); Spanish Mauser rifle of Argen-
tine pattern (44451).

Beckwitu, Tuomas, Charleston, Mo.: 10

photographs of the archeological collec-

tion of the donor (43581).

Mel.

BEEBE, D. G., Minneapolis, Minn.: 2 speci-
mens of Celebes giant swift, Chetura
celebensis, a species rare in collections
(43925).

Breve, E. L., Drewsey, Oreg. (received
through George F. Kunz): Opalized wood
(43148); impure opal and other material
(43405); specimens of obsidian from Ore-
gon (43742).

BreMENT, CLARENCE S., Philadelphia, Pa.: 2
specimens of pyrite (showing dodecahe-
dral planes), from Colorado, and a speci-
men of datolite from Westfield, Mass.
(44465).

Benak, Mrs. R. H., New York City: 2 Cock-
roach parasites, Evania appendigaster
Linn. (43135).

Benver, Harry, Walters Park, Pa.: Pho-
tograph of Frank Bender and his family
(43219).

Benepict, J. E., U. S. National Museum:
Crustaceans and insects from Vancouver
Island, British Columbia (44285: col-
lected for the Museum); crustaceans and
diatoms from Portland, Oreg. (44292:
collected for the Museum); larve of
Caddis-flies and mosquitoes (44299: gift);
isopods and shells from Portland, Oreg.
(44393: collected for the Museum); insect
galls (44518: gift); invertebrates from
Vancouver Island (44577: collected for
the Museum).

Benouiat, H. E., Aanp Son, San Francisco,
Cal.: Jewish ceremonial objects (10128:
loan).

Beneurat, Hapsr Epnrar, San Francisco,
-Cal.: Metal tray with Hebrew inscriptions
(10177: loan).

Bennett, B. J. (See under Thetford Mines,
Quebec, Canada.)

Bere, L., Custodian of the Department of
Ichthyology, Zoological Museum of the
Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Peters-
burg, Russia: 2 parasitic Hymenoptera
from Syr-Darya, Russian Turkestan
(44226).

Bercer, A., La Mortola, Italy:
from Italy (43432: exchange).
Beriry, GERMANY, Royat Borantcat Mu-
sEUM(UNIvERSITATS-INSTITUTE) (received
through A. Engler, director): 5  speci-
mens of Polypodium setosum (Kaulf.)
Mett, from Brazil (43528: gift); 4 plants

from Mexico (44081: exchange).

2 plants
12

Berry, S. S., Redlands, Cal.; 4 shells from
California (42966).

BEsSELIEVRE, Sidney I., chief clerk, Bureau
of Construction and Repair, Navy Depart-
ment, Washington, D. C.: 3 plans of the
old frigate Constitution (44359).

Bivet-Asucrorr MANUFACTURING
PANY, Poplar Bluff, Mo.: 2 pieces of wood
containing the larva of a ‘‘Golden-eyed

fly,” Chrysopa (43418).

Brxpy, Maynarp, Salt Lake City, Utah: |

Specimen of pink beryl from Dugway dis-
trict, Utah (44059).

Brack, E. W., Soldiers’ Home, D. C.: Speci-
men of fulgurite from near North Loup,
Nebraska (42940).

Biacksurn, J. W., Washington, D. C.:
Snake, Cemophora coccinea, from Anacos-
tia, D. C (48693).

BLACKFORD, C. M., Bivalve, Va.: Gall and |

larva of Gelechia gallx-solidaginis Riley
(42954).

Buackiston, A. H., Spokane, Wash.: Pot-
tery from Chihuahua, Mexico (10050:
loan); 45 specimens of pottery and stone
objects from Arizona, West Virginia, and
Mexico (10287: loan).

BiacKweLperR, Exvror, Morgan Park, IIL:
20 birds’ skins from Illinois, including a
specimen of Kirtland’s Warbler, Dendro-
ica kirtlandi (43507); 448 beetles from
China (43929). (See
Institution. )

Buiake, Lapy Eprirn, Kandy, Ceylon: 3 un-
mounted photographs, 3 by 10, of native
Veddos, Province of Una, Ceylon (43073).

Buiatcutey, W. S., Indianapolis, Ind.: 4
Orthoptera (43469: gift); 2 Orthoptera,
Xiphidium attenuatum (43957: exchange).

BronT, = Hs W.
Giles.)

Bocue, Rut, Pomona, Cal.: 8 plants from
Cal. (42933).

under Carnegie

Bonsatt, SaraH W., Philadelphia, Pa.: |

Basket made by Cassie Price, an inmate

of the Pennsylvania Industrial Home for |

Blind Women (43912).

Boone, Gossetr. (See under Smithson-

ian Institution, Bureau of American Eth- |

nology.)

Boutencer, G. A. (See under London,
England, British Museum, Natural His-
tory.)

Com-

(See under Miss Mary

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Bouvier, E. L. (See under Paris, France,

Museum of Natural History.)

Bowers, SAMUEL, Bisbee, Ariz.: 6 case-

worms (43235).

| Bowers, SrerHen, Los Angeles, Cal.: Al-
bite, tourmaline, topaz, and quartz from
near Ramona, San Diego County, Cal.
| (48722).
| Bowes, Rev. A. C., Gloucester, Mass.:
| Moths, Noctua clandestina Harris (43412).
Bowman, J. J., Lancaster, Pa.: Single-bar-
| reled shotgun made by James Golcher
(44513).

Brackett, Mrs. Rose McHENrRy. (See un-
der National Society of the Dames of
1846.)

Braprorp, ALrrep, Brightwood Park, D.
C.: 32 hand-made horseshoe nails (48799).

| Braprorp, G. M., Bay City, Mich. (received
through David White): 18 fossil plants
from Bay City (43902).

BraprorD, Miss M. M., Avery Island, Ala.:
2 unfinished Chetimacha Indian: baskets
(43075).

Braprorp, Mrs. S., Charenton, La. (re-
ceived through Smithsonian Institution,
Bureau of American Lthnology): Plant
from Louisiana (43012).

BranpDEGEE, T. S., San Diego, Cal.: 170
plants from Mexico, collected by C. A.
Purpus (43006); 4 plants (with photo-
graphs) from Mexico (44519: exchange).
(See also under Department of Agricul-
ture.)

BraNnner, J. C., Leland Stanford Junior
University, Stanford University, Cal.: 6
photographs of travertine quarries at
Bagni, near Rome, Italy (44543).

| Braunton, Ernest, Waterman, Cal.: 31
plants from California (42934; 43201 4;
43298; 43455; 438894; 43896; 44308).

BraAziILI1AN COMMISSION AT THE LOUISIANA

Purcuase Exposition: Dugout canoe,

fisherman’s raft, fisherman’s boat with

sail, etc. (44419).

Brear ey, W. H., Tombstone, Ariz.: Plant

(48420); 2 cacti from Arizona (43428).

| Bripces, T. M., Idaho Falls, Idaho: Imma-

ture cockroach, probably N. holosericea
| Burmeister (44244).

| Brimtey Broruers, Raleigh; N. C.: Cole-
optera, Neuroptera, Hemiptera, and Lepi-
doptera (44146).

a Exchange.
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

British Museum (Naturat History).
(See under London, England.) |

Brivis Royat Commission AT THE Louts-
i1ANA PurcHASE Exposition. (See under
J. B. Aitken; Walter Carson & Sons;
Chamber of Commerce; Chance & Hunt,
Limited; H. C. Fairlie & Co.; Royal Geo-

graphical Society; Sheppey Glue and |

Chemical Works, Limited; South Metro-
politan Gas Company, and Spencer Chap-
man & Messel, Limited.)

Brrrron, N. L. (See under New York Bo-
tanical Garden.)

Brirvon, W. E., State entomologist, New
Haven, Conn.: Types of mealy-winged fly,
Aleyrodes actee Britton, with larve and
pupe (43797).

Brrvvs, J. H., Clinton, Mo.: 6 Carbonifer-
ous fossil plants (43890).

Brockway, WILLIAM, Oaxaca, Mexico: 8
plants from Mexico (43109).

Brooks, ALtLan, Okanogan Landing, Brit-
ish Columbia: Cyprinoid fish, with para-
site—the larval form of the cestoid worm
(Ligula simplicissima), commonly found
with these fishes (44448).

Brooks, Luis, Santiago, Cuba: Head of a
Cuban Long-eared owl, Asio  stygius
(44019).

Broruerton, W. A., Rochester,
Plants from Michigan (43279).
Brown, A. J., Sulphur City, Ark. (received
through M. W. Lyon, jr.): Fossil plant
representing the species Lepidodendron

Mich.:

obovatum Sternberg, from the lower part
of the Upper Carboniferous formation
(43454).

Brown, Miss E. L., Landore, Idaho: Ho-
mopterous insect, Clostoptera xanthoce-
phala Germar (42981).

Brown, GLENN.
stitute of Architects.)

Brown, Mrs. Joun Crosspy, Metropolitan
Museum of Art, New York city: Violin

and bow made by the Texcoco Indians of |

Mexico (44173); cast of Peruvian stone
syrinx (44462: exchange).

73

from the Philippine Islands (43125;
43157); parasitic Hymenoptera (43513);
hymenopterous parasite and a moth
(43409); parasitic Hymenoptera, Hymen-
optera, Diptera (43774; 44066; 44157;
44362; 44515).

Browne, Auice Key, Esrare or (received
through William D. Hoover, Trust Office,
National Safe Deposit Savings and Trust
Company, Washington, D. C.: 2 chairs of
rosewood inlaid with brass, formerly the
property of Chief Justice John Marshall
(44461).

Brusuya, S., Zagreb (Agram), Croatia, Aus-
tria-Hungary: About 2,500 mollusks, a
bird, and specimens of the crustacean
Brachiella thynni (43458: exchange).

Bryan, J. M., Dania, Fla.: Orchid from
Florida (44126).

Bryan, Capt. R. B., U.S. Army, Fort Grant,
Ariz. (received through Brig. Gen. T. E.
Wilcox (retired): 3 plants from Arizona
(43584).

Bryant, Owen, Boston, Mass.: 3 specimens
of Ceciloides acicula from Bermuda
(43701); 7 specimens and 3 eggs of Py-
ramidula striatella Anth., from Massachu-
setts (44355; 44619); egg of Red-eyed
vireo, Vireo olivaceus (44488).

Bryant, THeopore, Wellington, British
Columbia: Lepidoptera (44263). _

BucuaNan, Cuartes H. (See under Mrs.
J. P. Platt.)

Bucuanan, W. R., Washington, D. C.:
White fetus (43393).

Butsttey, L. C., Avalon, Alden Bridge, Bos-
sier Parish, La.: Indian hematite plum-
met or sinker (43145).

_ BuNNELL, CHAr-Es E.,Valdez, Alaska: Skull

(See under American In-

of Steller’s Sea lion, Humetopias jubata
(44375).

: Burmetster, W. L., Chicago, Ill.: Stone axe

Brown, NATHAN CLirForD, Camden, S. C.; |
Portland, Me.; Graham, N. H.: 17 birds’ |

skins from South Carolina (43933; 44155) ; |

35 birds’ skins from Coos County, N. H.
(44617).

Brown, Rev. Rosert, Philippine Weather |

Bureau, Manila, Philippine Islands: Lepi-
doptera and Odonata (43105); insects

|

|
|

from Davenport, Iowa (43239: exchange).

Buscx, Auaust. (See under Edward Mey-
rick.)

Busu, B. F., Courtney, Mo.: 10 specimens of
grasses from Missouri (43440: gift): 12
plants from Texas (43740: exchange) ; 511
plants collected by J. Reverchon in Texas
(44127: purchase) ; 25 plants from Arkan-
sas (44291: gift).

BusHneE.Li, D. I. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol-

ogy.)
74

Butter, CHartes M., Morenci, Mich.: 2

skins of Virginia rail, Rallus virginianus,
|

from Michigan (44320).

Butter, F. W. A., Edgefield, S. C.: Plant
from South Carolina (43207).

Burron, Frep. L., Oakland, Cal.: 3 marine
shells from San Pedro Bay, Cal. (43607).

Buysson, Ropert pu, Paris, France: 4 Chal- |
cid flies from Céres, Argentine Republic |

(44104).

Catcutra, InprA, InpIAN MusEum (received
through Maj. A. Alcock, superintendent) :
Crab, Lambrus echinatus (43404: ex-
change).

CaucuTra, Inpra, Royat BoranicaL Gar-
DENS: 172 plants from India (43116: ex-
change).

CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, San |

Francisco, Cal.: 225 plants from California
(43015); plant from California (44197).
Exchange).

CALIFORNIA STATE MininG Bureau, San

Francisco, Cal.: Large mass of diatoma- |

ceous earth (44193: from the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition).

CaLirorniA, UNIvERsity oF, Botanical Gar-
den, Berkeley, Cal.: Plant from California
(43178: exchange).

Catt, S. J., Steamer Thetis, Sausalito, Cal.:
45 birds’ eggs and a bird’s nest from Una-
laska (44188).

CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND, UNIVERSITY MusEUM

or Zoo.iocy (received through S. F. |

Harmes, superintendent): 2 birds (Tur-
nagra_ crassirostris) from New Zealand
(44140: exchange).

Canapian Nationa Hersparium, Ottawa, |
Canada: 100 plants from Canada (43610: |

exchange).

Cansy, W. M., Wilmington, Del.: 14 plants
from the United States and
(48031).

Cannon, W. A., San Diego, Cal., and Tucson

Mexico

Ariz.: 9 plants and some seeds from Ari-—
zona and California (43431 ; 43477; 43521; |

43637).
Canu, Mon. F., Versailles, France: About

1,000 specimens (150 species) of Creta- |

ceous and Tertiary bryozoans (44065: ex-
change) ; 300 specimens of fossil ostracoda
(44351: purchase) ; about 300 specimens of
European Tertiary fossils (44352: pur-
chase).

CaRNEGIE InstiTuTION, Washington, D. C.;

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Collection of vertebrates from Eastern and
Central China, collected by Mr. Eliot
Blackwelder, under the auspices of the In-
stitution (43892).
| Carneciz Musevo, Pittsburg, Pa. (received
through Douglas Stewart, assistant di-
rector): Model of the earliest type of pas-
senger car used on the Pennsylvania Rail-
road; model of a passenger car used in the
year 1857, with a section of track, and
model of a car used by the Mohawk and
Hudson River Railroad Company, with
track (43055); (received through A. E.
Ortmann), 3 cotypes of Crustacean, Cam-
barus monongalensis Ortm. (43684).
Carson, WALTER, & Sons, London, England
(received through the British Royal Com-
mission at the Louisiana Purchase Expo-
sition): Samples of colors, varnishes, sau-
cers, plates (44559: from the Louisiana
Purchase Commission).
Cary, Merrirr. (See under Department of
Agriculture.)
_ Case, A. B., Alamos, Sonora, Mexico: 9 liy-
ing specimens of Cactacee from Mexico
| (44569: purchase).
| CasHai, WitiiaM C., Centralia, Kans.: Old-
| style bayonet (44356).
_ Catucart, Miss E., Cassells, Colo.: 4 plants
| from Colorado (42948; 42970). (See
under Department of Agriculture.)
CaupeE.L, A. N., Department of Agriculture:
300 insects from Ocean View, Va. (44251).
(See under H. G. Dyar.)
| CEYLON COMMISSION AT THE LOUISIANA
| Purcuase Exposition: 5 brass Ceylonese
lamps (44416); Jaffna collection of ethno-
logical specimens (44421); large collection
of objects illustrating the pear! fisheries of
Ceylon (44578) ; edible birds’ nest, 2 birds
and accessories (44600). Purchase.
_ CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (received through
British Royal Commission at the Louisi-
ana Purchase Exposition): Photographs of
people and scenery in Jamaica (44418).
| CHAMBERLAIN, E. B., Chamberlain Center,
Me.: 356 plants from Maine and Rhode
Island (43127; 43692: exchange).
| CHAMBERLAIN, F. M. (See under Depart-
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of
Fisheries.)
Cuance & Hunt, Limited, Oldbury, Eng-
land (received through the British Royal
| Commission at the Louisiana Purchase

|

75

della Ckll.) and 30 other insects (438770);

land, fresh-water, and marine shells from

various localities (48875); 27 insects, in-

_ cluding 3 types (44252).

Cocke, J. W., Kaslo, British Columbia: 10

moths and a moth larva (43958).

_Cotitapay, W. E., Treasury Department,
Washington, D. C.: Larva of butterfly
(Papilio troilus Linn.) (48268).

_ Cotuier, A. J., Washington, D. C. (received

through Department of Agriculture): 12

LIST OF AC@ESSIONS.

Exposition): Samples of chemicals, etc. |

(44553). |

CuANDLER, H. P. (See under Department |
of Agriculture.) |

Cnapman, E. M., Washington, D. C.: Skele-
ton excavated near Tottenville, Staten
Island, N. Y. (48952).

CorcKAHOMINY TRIBE (received through
Chief William H. Adkins, Bradley’s Store,
Va.): Piece of old Indian pottery (43038).

Cuoureau, Prerre, St. Louis, Mo.: Silver

medal struck in commemoration of the |

battle of Islinga (43617).

Curist, H., Basel, Switzerland: Fern (Po-
lypodium) from Brazil (43527).
Curistiant, Frirz, Washington, D.C.: Para-
sitie wasp (Dasymutilla orientalis Linn.)
(44025).

Curisti£, Mrs. Cora A., Washington, D. C.:
Mexican and Norwegian ethnological ob-
jects (43849).

Ortey, Henry, U.S. Pension Office, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Sword and scabbard of Jona-
than Cilley, first lieutenant and adjutant,

CoLoNIAL MusEeum.

cryptogams from St. Matthews Island,
Alaska (43442).

Cotirs, F. S., Malden, Mass.: 50 alge

(43250); 50 plants (48903: purchase).
(See under Welling-
ton, New Zealand.)

_CommERCE AND Lapor, Department of,

Hon. Victor H. Metcalf, Secretary.
Transferred from Bureau of Fisheries:
Collection of fishes made by the steamer
Albatross in the Straits of Magellan and
northward (42990); crustaceans and mol-
lusks collected by the Albatross in 1902 at

First Battalion, Forty-third U.S. Volun-
teer Infantry (44007).

Orarr, G. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: 3 cotypes of
Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp from Wetumpka,
Ala. (43251); cotypes of 2 species of
mollusks (43652).

Ciare, B. W., Lordsburg, N. Mex. (received
through Walter Hough): Samples of gold-
copper ore from the Empire State Mining
Company’s mines, Cochise County, Ariz.

the Hawaiian Islands, and in Alaska in
1903 (43016); invertebrates and mollusks
from the coast of California, collected by
the Albatross and transmitted by C. H.
Gilbert (43026); types and cotypes of
Hawaiian fishes collected by the Albatross
(43076); 164 plants from Indiana col-
lected by J. T. Scovell (43123); specimen
of angler (Lophius piscatorius) from near
St. Johns, Newfoundland, and specimens

(44567). of foraminifera from the Hawaiian Islands
Crark, H.W. (See under F. L. Ransome.) collected by the Albatross (43265); 82
Ciark, H.W. (See under Department of plants from Indiana (43331); alcoholic

Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish-
eries.) |
CLarkeE, F. W. (See under Isador Wise.) |
CLarKe, Joun M. (See under Geological |
Survey of New York.) |
Cements, J. Morcan, New York City (re- |
ceived through H. T. Bain): 17 specimens |
of Jurassic(?) invertebrates from Cerro del |
Paso, Peru (43451).
CLEMENTS, Percy. (See under Verde An- |
tico Marble Company.)

Crowry, R.C. (See under Western Union
Telegraph Company.)

CocKERELL, Prof. T. D. A., Boulder, Colo.:
Type specimen of hymenopterous insect
(Mutilla cockerelli Melander); type speci-
men of dipterous insect (Diplosis colora-

NAT Mus 1905——6

specimen of a three-legged frog (43363);
type specimen of shark (Catulus brunneus)
taken in the Pacific Ocean, south of San
Clemente Island, by the Albatross (43364) ;
invertebrates transmitted from Woods
Hole by Vinal N. Edwards (43397); rep-
tiles and batrachians collected by B. W.
Evermann in California (43439); 3 lizards
and a frog, collected by J. W. Titcomb in
South America (43486); 60 turtles from
Lake Maxinkuckee, Indiana (43511); 4
negatives of the monument erected to
Captain Cook, the Hawaiian explorer
(43512) ; received through B.W. Evermann
33 turtles, 6 snakes, 18 frogs, 7 toads, a
salamander, 28 crawfishes, and 131 mol-
lusks, principally from the vicinity of

78

Dawson, C. C., Cafion City, Colo.: Piece of a
Navajo blanket (44165).

Day, C. L. (See under Interior Depart-
ment, Office of Indian Affairs.)

Day, Davin T. (See under Interior Depart-
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Deam, C. C., Bluffton, Ind.: Plants from
Indiana and Guatemala (43301: gift);
(43401: exchange); (43639: exchange) ;
8 plants from Guatemala (44033: ex-
change); 43 specimens of Orthoptera
(44158: gift).

DeAN, Basnrorp, Columbia University,
New York City: Fishes from the Nile
River, Africa, collected by the Senff Ex-
pedition of Columbia University in July
and August, 1899 (43618).

DELAWARE AND Hupson Company, Albany,
N. Y. (received through T. W. Crowley,
superintendent of telegraph): 2 Morse
telegraph registers (48184; 43583).

Demoxiporr, K., St. Petersburg, Russia:
53 Russian Hymenoptera (43567); speci-
mens of 6 species of parasitic Hymenop-
tera (43711); 37 specimens (7 species) of
hymenopterous parasites (44361).

Denton, E. S., West Point, N. Y.: 10 living
plants (44475).

Desert BoranicaL Laporatory, Tucson,
Ariz. (See under Department of Agricul-
ture.)

Dewey, L. H.
Agriculture.)

Dickerson, Miss M. C., Providence, R. IL.:
Frogs from California (43824);
chians (44105).

Dickinson, A. E., Maltby, Minn.: Fossil
tooth (43104).

Dickinson, G. V. (See under Elgin Nation-
al Watch Company.)

Drimmock, GrorGE, Springfield, Mass.: 56
beetles from Cuba (44385); hymenopte-
rous parasites (44445).

Disprow, W. S., Newark, N. J.: Minerals
from New Jersey (44333: exchange).

Dirmars, R. L., New York Zoological Park,
N. Y.: Lizard, Sceloporus, from California
(43576).

(See under New York Zoological Fark.)

Don, F. H. W., Millarville, Alberta, North-
west Territory, Canada: 99 Lepidoptera
(43809: gift); 65 moths (44138: ex-
change).

(See under Department of

batra-

Doneer, Byron E., Davison, Mich.: Grooved |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

stone ax (9510); 4 archeological speci-
mens (9713); wedge-shaped stone, prob-
ably a  water-worn quartzite pebble
(9887); 2 prehistoric stone implements
from Michigan (10121: loan).

Doves, C. K., Port Huron, Mich.: 9 plants
from Michigan (42973; 43003: gift;
43209: exchange); 4 plants from On-
tario (43231: gift).

Dover, G. M., Louisiana, Mo.: 3 Lepidop-
tera (Thanaos) (43910); 3 butterflies
(43981). ;

Dott, Jacos, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 26 moths
(43519: gift); 16 specimens of Lepidop-
tera (44024: exchange).

Dots, C. F., Cincinnati, Ohio: Crab-spider,
Acrosoma gracile Walck (43078).

Donatpson, Mrs. Lucy Orp. (See under
Mrs. M. M. Kempter and Capt. James T.
Ord, U.S. Army.)

Donne, T. E. (See under New Zealand,
Government of, Louisiana Purchase Expo-
sition.)

Dootey, C. E. (See under G. W. Atkinson.)

DoouirrLe, A. A. (See under Department
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish-
eries. )

Dorman, Louts, U. S. Weather Bureau,
Department of Agriculture: Ammonites
from Linden, near Hanover, Germany
(43348).

Dovuset, C. A., Washington, D. C.: 5 watch
movements (43913).

Doucuerty, H. M., Charleston, S. C.: Sam-
ples of condemned stone intended for dry
dock at Charleston (44622).

Doucias James, New York City: Pottery
bowl and specimen of Indian carbon-

corn (43815). (See under H.. J.
Simmons. )

Douatas, Mr., Curio Department, Boer War
Company, Louisiana Purchase Exposition:
2 photographs of Kaffirs and album of

of ethnological objects

ized

photographs
(42977).

Dow, Capt. J. C., Coast and Geodetic Sur-
vey, Washington, D. C.: Hindu double
figurine of bronze, dredged from the bot-
tom of New Harbor, Manila, Philippine
Islands (44428).

Dow, Mrs. Mary, Mount Vernon, Ill : Ab-
normal egg of a hen (43061).

DoweE LL, Putte, Port Richmond, N. Y.: 52
plants from Maryland, Virginia, and vicin-
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

19

ity, and from Staten Island, N. Y. (43183; | geological material, and a human skull

44240: gift and exchange).
Drake & Srratron Company, Washington,

D. C.: 2 specimens of silicified wood |

(43554).

DresDEN, GERMANY; Royat ZooLoGicaL
AND ANTHROPOLOGICAL-ETHNOGRAPHICAL
Musevm (received through A. B. Meyer,
director): Cast of a large ax made of
jadeite (43050: exchange).

Dusss, W. H., Limeport, Penn.: Stone im- |

plement (43678).
Duprey, J. H., Hoquaim, Wash.: Katydid

(Tropidiachira xanthostoma Scudder) |
(43590).
Ducrs, A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Eared

trogon, Euptilotis neorenus, from Zuru-
muato, Guanajuato, Mexico (43062); 5
plants from Mexico (43297; 43362);

seeds of a plant from Mexico (43400) ; |
5 plants (43434; 43504); insects (43661) |

Tanager (Piranga bidentata) from Tepic
(43932).

Duncan, W. J., Snelling, S. C.: Long-eared |

owl, Asio wilsonianus (43578).

Dury, Cuar.es, Cincinnati, Ohio: 9 insects
(44317).

Durron, CLARENCE. (See under Interior
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Dyar, H.G., and A. N. Caupett, U.S. Na- |

tional Museum: 260 insects from Florida
(44225).

Ear, Mrs. L. H., Chevy Chase, Md.: 489
plants from various localities (43346).
Eastwoop, Miss Aricr, San Francisco, Cal.:
8 plants (42971); sedge, Cyperus virens
Michx., collected by C. E. Jenney in Cali-
fornia (43114); 6 living plants from Co-

ahuila, Mexico (44003: exchange); fern |

(Pellza
(44574).

Expert, Maj. R. G., U. S. Army, Vancouver
Barracks, Wash.: Plants from Vancouver
and Washington (44076; 44196).

Wrightiana), from California

Epwarps, Col. C. R., U. S. Army. (See
under War Department.)
Epwarps, J. J., Wailesboro, Ind.: 25

archeological specimens (43715).
Epwarps, V. N. (See under Department
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish-
eries. )
Eespert, J. Hopart, U. S. Coast and
Geodetic Survey, Washington, D. C.:
Collection of natural-history specimens,

from Kiska Island, Alaska (43808).
under Department of Agriculture.)

Eccieston, W. W., New York City: 350
plants from northern New England and
Quebec (44123; purchase).

Expripce, GreorGe H. (See under Interior
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.)
Ever Nationa Watcu Company, Chicago,
Ill. (received through G. V. Dickinson):

Small watch movement (43302).

Exits, E. B., Granite Company, Northfield,
Vt. (received through T. Starrett): Speci-
men of Bethel granite (43465).

Emmons, Lieut. G. T., U. S. Navy, Prince-
ton, N. J.: Arbutus-wood club used in
killing seals, from western Vancouver
Islands; and pouch with set of gambling
sticks used by the Stikine River In-
dians of British Columbia (44143). (See
under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of
American Ethnology.)

EnoGier, A. (See under Berlin, Germany,
Royal Botanical Museum.)

apps, Miss Emity, City Point, Va.: Plant
from India (43571).

Ervine, R. M., Intervale, N. H.: 13 speci-
mens of lower cryptogams from New
Hampshire (44550).

Esunaur, Mrs. W. H., Terminal, Cal.: 3
mollusks, Crepidula nivea, var. ¢lottidi-
arum Dall, on Glottidia albida 1<4s., from
San Pedro, Cal. (44256).

EvermMann, B. W., Bureau of Fisheries,
Department of Commerce and Labor:
4 plants from California (43112). (See
under Department of Commerce and La-
bor, Bureau of Fisheries.)

Ewrn, J. L., Washington, D. C.: Austrian
letters-patent (43214).

Fannestock, Mrs. Louts,Washington, D. C.:
West African Love-bird, Agapornis pul-
laria (43834).

Farrurm, H. C., & Co., Camelon, Scotland
(received through the British Royal Com-
mission at the Louisiana Purchase Expo-
sition): Samples of chemicals,

(44556).

Farisu, W. F., Washington, D. C.: Score of
“My Blackbird,” as sung by the donor
(44026).

Fartow, W.G. (See under Harvard Uni-
versity, Cryptogamic Herbarium, Cam-
bridge, Mass.)

(See

etc.
80

FARMVILLE LirniA SpRINGs
Farmville, Va.: Sample of lithia water
from Farmville (42983).

Faxon, Water. (See under Museum of
Comparative Zoology, Cambridge Mass.).

Ferx, J. (See under Leipzig, Germany.)

Fer, E. P., State entomologist, Albany,
N. Y.: Parasitic Hymenoptera (43951).

Fercuson, A. D., Kingsville, Tex.: 5 living
plants from Texas (43696).

Frercuson, J. M., Kingsville, Tex.: 6 plants
from Texas (43570, 43503); a cactus
(Echinocactus) from Texas (43619).

Frernap, H. T., Amherst, Mass.: 3 cotypes
of a dipterous insect (Entomobrya albicollis
Franklin) (44102).

FERNEKES, Val., Milwaukee, Wis.: 28 moths |

(43453).
Frernow, B. E.
Agriculture.)
Fretp Co_tumpiran Museum, Chicago, III.
(received through F. J. V. Skiff, director):
6 sections of silicified bones of a Dinosaur
(44583: exchange).
FisHer, C. A.
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)
FLercuerR, JAMES. (See under Rey. J. H.
Keen.)

FLower, F. G., Seattle, Wash.: Spider
(Coriarachne brunneipes Banks) (48843).
Forrstg, A. F., Dayton, Ohio: Ordovician

fossils from Kentucky (44289).

Foster, Witson, St. Louis, Mo.: Copy of |
“Gold Fields,’ a newspaper printed on |

asbestos fiber (44097).
Fowkk, GERARD.
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy.)
Fox, M., Vernon, Tex.: Toad, Bufo wood-
housei, from Texas (48575).

FraiLe, M., Washington, D. C.: Plants |

(43082, 43013).

FraAnceB, F. E., Platteville, Wis.: Cave mate-
rial from a mound near Platteville (44265).

Francescul, F., Santa Barbara, Cal.: 2
plants from California (44384).

Frazier, A. H. (See under Winthrop,
Gov. Beekman.)

FRENCH COMMISSION AT THE LOUISIANA
PurcHasE Exposition (received through

Mons. E. Terquem): Collection of illus- |

trations (44417).

(See under Department of |

(See under Interior Depart- |

(See under Smithsonian |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Company, | Frenou, G. H., Carbondale, Ill.: 8 Lepidop-

tera and 2 Odonata from the Philippine
Islands (43270).

Frrepuoim, A. G., Waco, Tex.: Cacti from
Texas (43804).

Frrerr, W. S., Los Angeles, Cal.: Spring-
tails or Podurids, of the genus Achoreutes
(43415).

Futcner, WitL1AM, London, England: Sec-
tion of an oak beam taken from the chapel
of Newgate Prison, London, burned by the
Gordon Rioters in June, 1780 (44395).

Furniss, H. W. (See under Alvaro Gui-
meraes. )

GalLtaRD, Maj. D. D., U. S. Army, St.
Louis, Mo. (received through Brig.
Gen. T. E. Wilcox, retired): 2 plants

| (Larex occidentalis) from British Columbia

(43196); plant from South Carolina

(43305).

| Ganrer, A. F., West Lafayette, Ind.: 5

birds (43180).

GarDNER, W. J., Washington, D. C.: 41
plants, collected by F. G. Taylor in Texas
(43443).

Garman, H., Agricultural Experiment Sta-
tion, Lexington, Ky.: evening primrose
(Anogra) from Kentucky (44483).

Garrett, A. O., Salt Lake City, Utah:
Aster (Petradoria pumila (Nutt.) Greene)
from Utah (43113).

Garroway, R. & T., Glasgow, Scotland
(received through British Royal Commis-
sion at the Louisiana Purchase Exposi-
tion): Samples of chemicals, ete., used in
the arts (44452).

Gates, E. D. (See under Gates Pottery
Company.)

| Gates Porrery Company, Terra Cotta, II.
(received through E. D. Gates): Speci-
men of Teco pottery (43222).

GatuirF,J.H. (See under Henry Suter.)

Gaut, J. H., Biological Survey, Department
of Agriculture (received through Biolog-
ical Survey): 3 unios from Indian Terri-
tory (43194); 3 plants from Oklahoma
(43462) ; living cactus from Texas (44034) ;
3 living plants from Texas (44474). (See
under Department of Agriculture. )

Gee, N. Gist, Soochow, China: 2 nests of
Swift (Tachornis infumatus and Micropus

| subfurcatus) (438930); 4 insects (43943).

LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

GENERAL Execrric Company, Harrison, |

N. J. (received through A. D. Page): 20
incandescent lamps (43120); 17 incan-
descent lamps with fittings and with
shades for one (43304).

GEoLocicaL Survey or New York, Albany,
N. Y. (received through John M. Clarke):
2 models of the crustacean genus Hugh-
milleria, showing the dorsal and ventral
anatomy (43118).

GERMAN AMBASSADOR.
sonian Institution).

Gipson, R. C., Agana, island of Guam;
2 jew’s-harps (43421).

Giteert, Mrs. A. P., Logan, Okla.: A
burrowing locust (Stenopelmatus oculatus
Scudder) (43423).

Gitgert, C. H. (See under Department
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of
Fisheries, and Leland Stanford Junior
University.)

Gitpert, G. K., U. S. Geological Survey:

tone implement (43191). (See under
Interior Department, U. S. Geological
Survey.)

Gites, Miss Mary, Hagerstown, Md. (re-
ceived through H. W. Blunt): Bomb
found at the ford below Shepherdstown,
W. Va., near Antietam (43494).

Grrautt, A. A., Paris, Tex.: 4 specimens
of pteromalid hymenoptera and speci-
mens of Apanteles (42958) (received
through Bureau of Entomology, Depart-
ment of Agricul.ure); Braconid hymenop-
tera (43413).

Gmrty, G. H., U. S. Geological Survey:
2 eggs of snake (Diadophis), from Penn-
sylvania (43376). (See under O. F.
Hershey and Interior Department, U. S.
Geological Survey.)

GuassrorD, Maj. Witi1am A., U. S. Army,
Signal Service: Morse telegraph relay
(44145).

Gieason, T. W., Bessemer, Ala.: Beetle
(Phengodes laticollis Leconte) (44329).
Gopine, F. W., American consul, New-
castle, New South Wales: 48 specimens
of Cicadidz and 18 miscellaneous insects
(43561); stone ax which belonged to
the Ourimbah tribe, once located about
40 miles south of Neweastle (44075).
Gotpman, E. A., Biological Survey, Depart-
ment of Agriculture: 311 plants from

(See under Smith-

Mexico (43023); 184 eggs of Mexican —

81

birds (43130); 60 plants from Mexico
(43534). Purchase. (See under Depart-
| ment of Agriculture.)

Go.tpsporouGH, E. L. (See under Depart-
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau
| of Fisheries.)
| Gotpscumipr THermir Company: A series

of products and processes illustrating the
use of mineral mixture (44580: from the
Louisiana Purchase Commission).

Go.psmitH, M., Newport, Ky.: Drawing on
Ross paper, a lithographic drawing and a
specimen illustrating the three-color proc-
ess (44163).

Goopa.t, O. B., Department of Commerce
and Labor: Spider ( Argiope argentea Fabr.)
(43234).

Goope, Mrs. Saran, Middletown, Conn.:
Antique muff and collar (43706).

GorDON, JOHN, Smiths Ferry, Mass.: 3
photographs of archeological collection
of the donor (43683: gift); 64 archeolog-
ical specimens (43708: exchange).

Gorman, Rocer, Manila, P.I.: 2 brains of
Filipino natives (44358: purchase).

' Gorman, R. W. (See under C. V. Piper.)

Goss, G. H., Waterbury, Conn.: Insects,
birds, birds’ eggs, mammals, and mollusks
from Mount Kina Balu, Borneo (43119).

Goutp, C. N., University of Oklahoma,
Okla.: Selenite

gypsum from Taloga, Dewey County,
Okla. (44192: from the Louisiana Pur-
chase Exposition).

GOVERNMENT LABORATORIES.
Manila, P. I.)

GRAHAMSTOWN, SourH Arrica, ALBANY
Musevo (received through S. Schénland,
director): Stone implements from South
Africa (43544: exchange).

Grant, C. V., Irving College, Tenn. (re-
ceived through E. S. Steele): 3 plants
(43083).

Grant, G. B., Pasadena, Cal.: Plant from
California (42947).

Gray,’ A. P., jr., Middleway, W. Va.:
Hymenopterous insect (Thalessa lunator)
(44386).

Gray Herpartum, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.: 2 plants from Brazil
and Guatemala (43169: exchange).

| Greecy, A.,and A.W. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture.)

Norman, and massive

(See under
82

GREELY, Gen. A. W., U. S. Army, Chief
Signal Officer, War Department, Wash-
ington, D. C.: About 300 marine shells
from the Philippine Islands (43336).

GREENE, EK. L., Catholic University of
America, Washington, D. C.: 21 plants
from Australia, collected by Baron Ferd.
von Miller (43230: gift); 585 plants
principally from the United States (43273:

gift); 3,688 plants (43407: gift); her- |

barium consisting of more than 60,000

mounted sheets from various localities, a |

collection rich in types of new species and
regarded as one of the most important
Doctor
Greene’s botanical library has also been
deposited in the National Museum (43884:
deposit) ; 88 plants from British Columbia,

private herbaria in existence.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish-
eries.)

| GuImmERAES, Sefior ALVARO (received through
_ H.W. Furniss, American consul, Bahia,
Brazil): Fossil fish (43695).

collected by J. Macoun (44183: gift). |

(See under S. B. Parish.)

GripLEy, Mrs. A. E., Washington, D. C.:
Coat and cap of Capt. Charles V. Gridley,
worn by him on board the U. S. Flagship
Olympia just before the battle of Manila
Bay, May 1, 1898 (43164).

Grirrin, Miss M. E., Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Sword, belt, and bridle used by Col.
Emeric
(43759).

Grirrirus, Davin, Department of Agri-
culture: 3 plants from Arizona (43246;
43280). (See under Department of Agri-
culture. )

Griees, R. F., Victoria, Tex.: 6 plants
from Texas (43068: exchange).

Gricspy, A. D., Campo, Cal.: Specimen of
hyacinth from Lone Jack Mine, San Diego
County, Cal. (43452).

GRINNELL, Forpyce, Jr., Palo Alto, Cal.:
type specimens of butterflies (43918); 2
living larve of moth (/llice nexa Bd.)
(43984).

GRINNELL, JosEPH, Pasadena, Cal.: 2 king-
lets (Regulus calendula cineraceus) (44234).

Grout, A. J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 25 mosses

Szabad during the civil

«€
~

y
0

(438267); 30 North American mosses
(44435). Purchase.

Gruss, L. D., Wheeling, W. Va.: A beetle
(Coptocycla aurichalcea) (44585).

Grusss, Dr. R. B., U. S. Army, Fort
Wright, Wash. (received through Brig.

war |

Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S. Army, retired): |

Plant (Stapelia) from Washington (44260).
GupceEr, E. M.

(See under Department of |

Guiick, Appison, Cambridge, Mass.: 28

_ pulmonate mollusks from Bermuda
(43330).

Gunn, D. A., Waco, Tex.: 3 cotton boll
weevils and an acorn weevil (43598).

| Hackei, E. (See under Department. of

Agriculture.)

| Hacur, ARNOLD. (See under Interior De-

partment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

| Hann, W. L., U. S. National Museum:

Plant from Indiana (43485); small col-
lection of mammals (43539: collected for
the Museum.)

_ Hamitron, A. (See under Wellington, New
Zealand, Colonial Museum.)

Hamitton, J. M., Cadereita, Queretaro,
Mexico: Grasshopper (Daciylopus varie-
gatus Thomas) (43738).

Hater, Capt. O. C. (See under Treasury
Department.)

Hammerstein, H. L., Tsingtau, China:
Marine mollusks from China (43663);
echinoderms and mollusks (44083).

Hancock, Prof. J. L., Chicago, Il.: Coceid
insect from a pine tree (43224).

Hantey, D. T. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol-
ogy.)

Hansen, C. H., Tropico, Cal. (received
through Otto Heidemann): Isopod crus-
tacean (Livoneca vulgaris Stimpson) from
San Pedro Channel, taken from the gill of
a fish (438258); 46 marine shells from
California and 100 fossils from San Pedro,
Cal. (43335).

Hansen, H. J., Zoological Museum, Copen-
hagen, Denmark: 9 crustaceans (Spxro-
mid) (44379: exchange). (See under
Copenhagen, Denmark.)

| Hansen, Joun, Washington, D. C.: 2 watch
movements (43333).

Harpison, J. A., Wadesboro, N. C.: Frag-
ment of a sea-urchin of the genus Oligo-
porus from the subcarboniferous rocks
(44323).

Harmes, S. F. (See under Cambridge,
England, University Museum of Zoolo-

gy-)
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Harper, R. M., College Point, N. Y.:

Plants from Georgia (42956: gift; 43356, |

43926: purchase).

Harrman, E. H. (received through C. Hart |

Merriam, Chief, Biological Survey, De-
partment of Agriculture): Collection of
fossil plants made by the Harriman Ex-
pedition in Alaska (42980).

Harris, Mrs. H. M. S., Winchester, N. H.:
A viola (43289).

Harris, J. V., Key West, Fla.: 3 cocoons
of spiders (Argiope trifasciata Forsk)
(43429).

Harris, W. A., Hartline, Wash.: Solpugid
or jointed spider (Eremobates pallipes
Say) (43099).

Harrison, Miss Carrie, Department of
Agriculture: Fern (Cardiomanes reni-
forme) from the Hawaiian Islands
(43338).

Harr, C. A., Urbana, IIl.: 2 dragon-flies
(44250).

Harrman, Carv, Austin, Tex.: 14 Hymen-
optera (43379).

Hartwe tt, M. V. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol-

ogy.)
Harvarp University, Cryptogamic Her-
barium, Cambridge, Mass. (received

through W. G. Farlow): 88 fungi (43691:
exchange).

Harvey, Frep. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Eth-
nology. )

Hasse, H. E., Soldiers’ Home, Cal.: 4 plants
from California (43094); 4 cacti from
Arizona and California (43177); speci-
men of Opuntia from California (43940);
living plant from California (44002).

Hassett, Groree, Cowiche, Wash. (re-
ceived through Edward Tobin): Diato-
maceous earth from Yakima County,
Wash. (43730).

Hastinos, G. T., Ithaca, N. Y.: 481 plants
collected in Chile (43122: purchase).

Hawauan Experiment Srarion, Hono-
lulu, H. I. (received through Department
of Agriculture): 4 plants from Hono-
lulu (43058).

Haw ey, Asuvitte D., Soldiers’ Home,
Washington, D. C.: Mollusk (Pomaular
undosus Wood) from San Pedro, Cal.
(48368).

83

Hawtey, E. H., U. S. National Museum:
Unmounted photograph of “The Black-
bird’’—a song (43306).

Hepecock,G.G. (See under P. L. Ricker.)

HeEiDeMANN, Orro, Department of Agricul-
ture: 7 mollusks from Aurora, W. V.
(43117). (See under C. H. Hansen.) ©

Heicuway, A. E. (received through G. P.
Merrill): 2 eggs and a bird’s nest from
Cuba (42996).

Hetier, A. A., Los Gatos, Cal.: 5 plants
from California (42957: gift); 290 plants
from California (43232: purchase); 3
plants (43332: gift); 139 plants from Cali-
fornia and Porto Rico (43602: purchase);
5 specimens of a Stone-crop, Dudleya,
from Lower California (44366: exchange);
5 living plants from California (44477:
gift).

Hempet, Aportr, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 78
small mammals from Brazil (44545: pur-
chase).

Henpiey, H. W., U. S. National Museum:
Specimen of covellite from Albany De-
velopment Company’s Albany
County, Wyo. (44464).

Henry, N. G., Interior Department, U. S.
Geological Survey: 2 skulls found in In-
dian graves at “Sandy Hill,” near Cam-
bridge, Md. (44463).

Hensen, Joun, Washington,
watches (10171: loan).

Hensuaw, H. W., Bureau of American
Ethnology, Washington, D. C.: Spoon
made from a Patella shell found in Kau,
Hawaii (43921); sling-stone from Hono-
mou, Hawaiian Islands (43941); 2 Ha-
waiian birdskins (Lozioides  baillerii)
(44373). (See under Department of Agri-
culture, and E. E. Lyman.)

Herre, C. J., Paramaribo, Surinam, Dutch
Guiana: Rattle from a snake (43146).

Hersuey, O. H. (received through G. H.
Girty), University of California, Berke-
ley, Cal.: Ordovician fossils (44315).

Hester, L. G., Houston, Tex.: 5 copper
coins (44427).

Hickman, C. W., Augusta, Ga. (received
through Mr. Nathan Spering, Philadel-
phia, Pa.): Pair of pistols captured dur-
ing the War of the Revolution from Gen.
William Cunningham (“Bloody Bill’)
of the British Army, near Mount Willing,
S.C., by Gen. William Butler (9965): loan.

mines,

De Ca G
84

HivpersHEIM, Hanover, Germany (Die |
Direction des Roemer-Museum): Cast of |
ammonite (Pachydiscus seppenradensis)
(43945: purchase).

HitLtesranD, W. F. (See under W. A. |
Roebling.) |

Hinxtey, A. A., Dubois, Ill.: 300 land and |
freshwater shells from various localities _
in the United States (43253: exchange).

Hirase, Y., Kyoto, Japan: 76 ancient |
stone implements from Japan (43611: ex-
change).

HocuverrFer, George, Flagstaff, Ariz.: 20
plants, principally cacti, from Arizona |
(44184; 44215; 44242: 44310).

Hopces, Commander H. M., U. S.. Navy.
(See under Navy Department.)

Hoxzincer, J. M., Winona, Minn.: 125
mosses (43651); 26 mosses from North
America (44151: purchase).

Hoover, W. D. (See under Browne, estate |
of Alice Key.) |

Horxins, F. H., Meeker, Colo.: Cretaceous |
fossils (43980). |

Horean, E. J., U. S. National Museum: |
Bat, Lasiurus cinereus (42987: collected
for the Museum); colored fetus (43543: |
gift).

Horn, F. C. (See under Interior Depart-
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Hornune, J., Menlo Park, Cal.: About |
700 insects (43796); 2 nests of Tit (Psal-
triparus minimus californicus) (44406);
insects, spiders, reptiles, and batrachians
(44443); 5 birds’ skulls from Menlo Park
(44456); nest of a White-footed mouse,
Peromyscus gambeli (44605).

Horeiiine, E. R. & Co., Albuquerque,
N. Mex.: Specimen of carbonate of zinc
(43810); specimen of gypsum (43956).

Hovucu, Watrer, U. S. National Museum:
Ancient pueblo material, snail shells, cad-

dis cases, geological material, plants and
human bones from Arizona and New
Mexico (42982: collected for the Museum) ;
plant from the District of Columbia _
(48004: collected for the Museum); Navy- |
aho blanket from Holbrook, Ariz., 31 |
pieces of ancient pottery from Hol- |
brook, and a copy of a Christian fish- |
lamp from Italy (43186: purchase); eth-
nological specimens bought from the

Klayoquot Indians of British Columbia at

the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (43653:

| House, H...D., Washington, D. C.:

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

purchase); fragments of bone, pottery,

shell, and stone from Cahokia mound,

East St. Louis, Ill. (48654: gift); corals,

sponges, etc., also nullipores, from the

Philippine Islands, collected from Tri-

dacna shells at the Philippine village,

Louisiana Purchase Exposition (43959:

gift); 2 specimens of crassulaceous plants

from Arizona (44590: collected for the

Museum). (See under B. W. Clare, and

Van Briggle Pottery Co.).

29
plants from New Jersey (42962: gift);
54 plants from Maryland, Virginia, and
vicinity (43247: exchange); 140 plants
from the District of Columbia and vi-
cinity (43274: exchange); 25 plants from
Maryland (43296: exchange); 3 cotypes
of a species of morning-glory, Con-
volvulus, from Colorado (43342:  ex-
change); 12 plants from New. Jersey
(43360: exchange); 47 plants from va-
rious localities the United States
(43446: exchange); 4 plants from New
York (43577: exchange); 54 plants col-
lected in New York and New Jersey
(44035); 2 specimens of Jsotria verticillata
(Willd.) Raf., collected in the District of
Columbia (44313); 120 violets, collected in
New Jersey and the District of Columbia
(44368).

Housg, Mrs. H. D., Oneida, N. Y.: 13 speci-
mens of violets from New Jersey and New
York (43081: exchange).

Howarp, O. W., Los Angeles, Cal.: 14
plants (43229).

Hower, Marsnatt A., Botanical Gardens,
Bronx Park, N. Y.: Isopod crustaceans
from the Bahama Islands (44246).

Howe t, A. H., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: 15 fresh-water shells.
from Texas (43193).

Hoxie, Water J., Savannah, Ga.: Photo-
graph of nest and eggs of Swainson’s
warbler, Helinaia swainsonii (44459).

in

| Hoyt, J. C., La Fayette, N. Y. (received

through G. W. Stose): Weathered frag-
ment of limestone (43745: loan).

Hoyt, Mrs. R. W., Fort Niobrara, Nebr.: 25
plants from Nebraska (43445).

HrouicKka, Aves, U.S. National Museum:
Brain of a male Bontoe Igorot (43041:.
collected for the Museum); cerebellum of
a Suyac Igorot (43042: collected for the
' LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Museum); brain of a male adult negro
(48057: collected for the Museum); brain
of a Moro, and brain of a Tagalog (43287:
collected for the Museum from the Philip-
pine department at the Louisiana Pur-
chase Exposition); received through Ed-
ward Leaming, negative and enlarged
mounted photograph of human _ bones
with special anthropological features

(43510: gift); specimen of Weaver bird, |
Amadina fasciata (?) (43747: gift); skele-

ton and brain of a negro child (43780:

collected for the Museum); 100 brains of .

animals, birds, etc. (43838: collected for
the Museum); cactus from Arizona (43873:
collected for the Museum); 3 cacti from
Arizona(43876: collected for the Museum) ;
6 plants from Arizona (43888: collected for
the Museum); specimen of Apache In-
dian basket work (43895: gift); skeleton
and brain of a negro child (43942: col-
lected for the Museum); 12 plants from
Arizona (44037: collected for the Mu-
seum); 9 plants from Arizona (44062:
collected for the Museum); white fetus
and skeleton of a male (44124: collected

for the Museum); baskets, cradles, skull, |

and humerus from Arizona (44125: col-
lected for the Museum); 23 plants, prin-
cipally cacti, from Arizona (44129: col-

lected for the Museum); portion of an |

olivine bomb from Talklai, Gila County,
Ariz. (44135: gift); nest of Verdin,
Auriparus flaviceps (44206: gift); medi-

cine and food plants used by the Apache |

and Pima Indians (44288: collected for
the Museum); brain and skeleton of a
white male infant (44301: collected for
the Museum); archeological and ethno-
logical objects, skeletons, plants, ete.,
from Arizona (44383: collected for the
Museum); 12 plants from Arizona (44398:
collected for the Museum). (See under
Miss Margaret Nessl, James L. Perkins
and Miss Minnie Schiffbauer.)

Hussarp, H. D., Washington, D. C.: Steel
metric rule, with case, also chart of Inter-
national metric system (43817); chart of
“Chinese Radicals’ (the primitive sym-
bols in the written language (43883).

Huecer, A. M.,. Hendersonville, N. C.: In-
dian club or battleax, arrow points, and
chips, and a rattle of a snake (43103).

85

| Hunner, Jonn, Spokane, Wash.: Diatoma-
ceous earth from Washington (43845).
Hunt, Cuartes Warren. (See under
American Society of Civil Engineers.)
Hunter, Byron. (See under Department
of Agriculture.)
| Hourter, Jutius, sr., St. Louis, Mo.: Rep-
tiles and batrachians (44350).

| Hyniva, F. van, Des Moines, Iowa: 24 mol-
lusks (Succinea) from the vicinity of Des
Moines (44136).

InerinG, H. von, Director, Museu Paulista,
Sao Paulo, Brazil: Specimen of nephrite
(43922). (See under Sio Paulo, Museu
Paulista.)

Imuorst, Ferdinand, Los Angeles, Cal.: 8
plants, 3 specimens of minerals, and an
operculum of a large trochoid shell (Po-
maulax undosum) (44307).

IMPERIAL JAPANESE COMMISSION AT THE
LouisiANA PurcHASE Exposirion. (See
under Japan, College of Science; Fuku-
shima-Ken, School of Aidzu; Kioto Higher
Girls’ School; Life-Saving Society of
Japan; Tokyo Higher Normal School;
Red Cross Society and Welcome Society
of Japan.)

InpiAN Museum.
India.)

INGERSOLL, O. R., Washington, D. C.: Skull
of a Flathead Indian (10303: loan).

Instiruto Mepico Nacionat, Mexico,
Mexico: Plant from Mexico (43456).

_ Inrerior, Department of the:

U. S. Geological Survey, Hon. Charles
D. Walcott, Director: Fossil bones from
Georgia and South Carolina, received
through W. H. Dall (42985); received
through David T. Day, specimen of tin ore
from Gaffney, South Carolina (43159);
rocks from the Silverton quadrangle, Colo-
rado, collected by Whitman Cross and as-
sistants (43237); rocks and thin sections
from Idaho, collected by George H. El-
dridge (43345) ; -fossil wood, fossil plants,
invertebrate and vertebrate fossils
(43433); contorted jasper from Minnesota
(43593); various minerals from California
and South Dakota (43594); Ordovician
fossils from Virginia (43606); rocks from
the Black Hills of South Dakota, collected
by J. D. Irving (43803); tooth of Ptychodus
from near Vermilion, S. Dak., obtained

(See under Calcutta,
86

by N. H. Darton (43861); fossils from
Silurian rocks in the western part of Ten-

nessee, collected by E. O. Ulrich (43944); |
fossil bones from Bighorn Basin, Wyom- |
ing, collected by C. A. Fisher (43982); |

fossil bones from near Elephant Butte, |

New Mexico, collected by Willis T. Lee
(43983); Carboniferous and Devonian fos-

sils from Colorado and different areas, col- |

lected by G. H. Girty (43996); siliceous
replacement of mud cracks from Grave-

town, Ga. (44018); molybdenite from |

Cooper, Maine, collected by George O.
Smith (44056); Tertiary fishes and a Cre-
taceous reptilian vertebra from the south-
eastern section of South Dakota, collected
by J. E. Todd (44074); sample of white

marble sent to Survey by Pennsylvania |
Marble and Granite Co., West Grove, Pa. |

(44095); graphite from Bartow County,
Ga. (44096); 275 thin sections of igneous
rocks from the Highwood Mountains and
Little Belt Mountains, Montana, col-

lected by L. V. Pirsson and W. H. Weed |
(44171); weathered sandstone simulating

fossil bones, collected by F. G. Plummer

near Lapanza, San Luis Obispo County, |

Cal. (44170); vertebrate fossil remains
from Colorado and Nebraska (44233);
rocks from Mount Taylor, New Mexico,
collected by Clarence Dutton and received
through Whitman Cross (44235) ; duplicate
petrographic material from various locali-
ties (44255); specimens from Coon Butte,
Arizona, from the High Sierra, California,
and from Siberia, Alaska, and Oregon, col-
lected by G. K. Gilbert (44283); rocks
from Mount Stuart quadrangle, Washing-
ton (44295); 3 grinding stones from Uma-
tilla, Oreg., and a fragment of metate
from the western part of Utah, collected
by G. K. Gilbert (44297); portions of jaw
and several teeth of fossil camel, col-

lected by F. C. Horn from near Minidoka,

Idaho (44304); 5,000 Niagaran fossils, col- |

lected by R. S. Bassler, near Newsom,
Tenn., under the direction of E. O. Ulrich
(44305) ; fossil bones from the eastern sec-
tion of Washington, collected by Mr. F. G.
Plummer (44363); vertebrate remains
from the Triassic (Dolores) formation of
Rico and Engineer Mountain quadrangles,

Colorado, collected by parties under the |

direction of Whitman Cross (44394); 6

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

igneous rocks from Yellowstone National
Park, collected by Arnold Hague and as-
sistants (44429); 18 dyke rocks from the
Pawlet and Castleton quadrangles, Ver-
mont, collected by T. Nelson Dale (44430) ;
167 boxes of duplicate inve. Jebrate fossils,
numbering about 100,000 (44458) ; 28 fos-
sil plants from the coal measures in the
vicinity of Beckley, W. Va., collected by
Mr. W. P. Ball (25 specimens), and the re-
maining 3 by Mrs. Maude M. Ball (44596).
(See under Pennsylvania Marble and
Granite Company.)

Office of Indian Affairs: Skeleton of an
Indian, an ancient basket shield, and
other objects from the ruins of Cafion del
Muerto, Arizona, collected by Charles L.
Day (43740).

INTERNATIONAL Onyx Company, Denver,
Colo.: 5 slabs of onyx marble from Arizona
and Wyoming (44187: from the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition).

Iowa, HisroricAL DEPARTMENT oF, Des
Moines, Iowa (received through Charles
Aldrich, curator): Large stone axe (10094:
loan). Returned.

Irvine, J. D. (See under Interior Depart-
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

IseLy, F. B., Wichita, Kans., Indianapolis,
Ind.: 94 specimens of Orthoptera (43218;
43552). :

Jackson, A. V. W., division of Oriental lan-
guages, Columbia University, New York
City: Sprigs of Haoma plant used in the
sacred rites of the Parsees (43549).

James, G. W., Syracuse, N. Y.: 2 sets of full-
sized basketry designs (43254).

JAPAN (received from the Imperial Japanese
Commission at the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition): From the College of Sci-
ence, Imperial University, Tokyo, 4 cases
containing prehistoric relies and archeo-
logical map of Japan (44412: exchange).
From Fukushima-Ken, School of Aidzu, a
collection of Japanese lacquers (44413:
exchange). From Kioto Higher Girls’
School, Kioto, a collection of model Japa-
nese costumes, etc. (44411: exchange).
From the Life-Saving Society of Japan, 3
framed charts (44423: gift). From the
Red Cross Society, Tokyo, collection of
Red Cross material (44415: gift). From
the Higher Normal School, Tokyo, a col-
lection of modern Japanese tools (44414:
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

exchange). From the Welcome Society of

Japan, Tokyo, enlarged colored photo- |

graph in an embroidered frame of the
famous gate of Nikko (44410: gift).
JEFFERIS, Mrs. SartrLio, Coahuila, Mexico:
2 specimens of Echeveria from Mexico
(43887).
JENKINS, HuBert O., Stanford University,
Cal.: 8 birds’ skins from California (44341).

Jenkins, L. W., Peabody Academy of Sci- -

ence, Salem, Mass.: Stage whip (43490).

JENNEY, CHARLES E., Fresno, Cal: Two in-
sects, Capaneus spurcus Stal., and Hydro-
philus triangularis Say (43502); insects
of different species (43662); galls on leaves
of Lupinus albifrons, produced by small
flies of the family Cecidomyiide (43948);
6 species of insects (44223).

JERMY, JULIUS, San Antonio, Tex.: 126
plants from Texas (43495; 43962; 44001:
received through Department of Agricul-
ture); 64 Lepidoptera (44070).

Jounson, E. A., Modesto, Cal.: A homopter-
ous insect, Closteroptera erythrocephala
Germar. (43087).

Jounson, JuLius, Marysville, Kans.: Min-
erals, fossil bones, and
(44471).

‘Jounson, J. (See under Navy Department.)

Jonuson, J. B., Manassas, Va.: Lizard, Eu-
meces quinquelineatus, from
(42939).

Jounson, O. B., Seattle, Wash.: 21 Lepi-
doptera (43450).

Jounson, R. 8S.
of Commerce and Labor,
Fisheries.)

Jounston, EvizaBetH Bryant, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Painting of Gen. George Wash-
ington (9610: loan).

Jones, Mrs. Lertrn T., Billings, Mont.: Wedg-
wood vase (10371: loan).

Jones, McDurree & Srratron Company,
Boston, Mass.: 6 historical plates showing
the homes of Presidents Jefferson and
Jackson, a statue of Capt. John Parker,
Lexington, Mass., and portraits of Presi-
dents Lincoln, Grant, and Roosevelt
(44327).

Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City, Utah: 6
plants from Utah (43167; 44484).

Jones, M. E., Chevy Chase Lake, Md.:
Framed engraving of General Jackson

(9640: loan).

Virginia

(See under Department
Bureau of

arrowheads |

87

Jones, Miss Racuer, Dorsey, Md.: Katydid,
Amblycorypha oblongifolia De Geer (43136).

JorDAN, B. T., Victoria, Tex.: Living cactus
from Texas (44397).

Jordan, D. S. (See under Commerce and
Labor, Department of, and Leland Stan-
ford Junior University).

Jupcr, James, assistant agent, division of
Alaska fisheries, Department of Com-
merce and Labor, St. George Island,
Alaska: Skin of Flicker, Colaptes auratus,
from Alaska (43742) ; 2 skeletons of Baird’s
beaked whale, Berardius bairdii, from St.
George Island (43671).

Karpeces, S. R., Washington, D. C.: Skele-
ton and brain of white fetus (43852).

Kearrorr, W. D., New York City: 12 type
specimens of moths (43592).

Keen, Rev. J.H., Metlakatlah, British Co-
lumbia (received through James Fletcher):
Fishes, leeches, and newts (43187).

Ketter, F. L., Davao, Mindanao, Philip-
pine Islands: Tree duck, Dendrocygna
arcuata, and a monkey-eating eagle,
Pithecophaga jefferyi probably the fifth
known specimen (43779).

KELLERMAN, W. A., Columbus, Ohio: 12
cacti from Guatemala (44181).

Ketioce, V. L. (See under Commerce and
Labor, Department of, and Leland Stan-
ford Junior University.)

Kersey, F. W., San Diego Commercial Col-
lege, San Diego, Cal.: Specimens of 2
species of Psephidea (43869); photograph
of a turtle (44160).

Kempter, Mrs. M. M., Bloomfield, N. J. (re-
ceived through Mrs. Lucy Ord Donaldson):
Workbox owned by Mrs. Ord, wife of
Gen. E. O. C. Ord, U. S. Army, and
deposited by her granddaughter (10201:
loan). :

Kenpatt, W. C. (See under Department
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of
Fisheries, and Mrs. D. L. Cummings.)

Kennepy, GreorGe G., Readville, Mass.:
Specimen of Brachyodus trichodes from
New Hampshire (43487).

Kern, D. N., Allentown, Pa.: Roughly
worked flints, hammerstones, arrow-
points, ete., from village sites in Lehigh
County, Pennsylvania (44016).

_ Kew, Lonpon, Eneianp, Roya Borantr-

CAL GaRDENs: 4 plants from England
(43499; 48525: exchange.)
88

KILpatrick COLLECTION, GENERAL JUDSON:

Keyser, E. W., Washington, D. C.: 2 terra-
cotta figurines found in graves at Tanagra,
Beeotia, Greece (44039: exchange.)
Kipper, Miss J., Berkeley, Cal.: Sphinx-
moth, Arctonotus lucidus (438931).

Full-dress West Point cadet’s coat, with
sergeant’s chevrons on sleeves (from Mrs.
Julia Kilpatrick Rafferty); regulation
(old) major-general’s coat, with shoulder |
straps (from Mrs. Judson (Louisa V.)
Kilpatrick); major-general’s — uniform

=

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Tyler); service sword; gilt buttons from
coat of General Kilpatrick (from Mrs.
Laura Kilpatrick Morgan) (9673: loan.)
Jeweled sword which belonged to the late
Gen. Judson Kilpatrick (received through
Mrs. Kilpatrick and Mr. Theodore F. Mar-
garum) (9928: loan.) (See also under
Mrs. Judson (Louisa V.) Kilpatrick; Mr.
Theodore F. Margarum; Mrs. Harry H.
(Laura Kilpatrick) Morgan; Mrs. Julia
Kilpatrick Rafferty, and Mrs. Marie Alice
Tyler).

dress coat, embroidered collar and cuffs | Kirearrick, Mrs. Jupson (Loursa V.).

(from Mrs. Kilpatrick); gold badge ‘‘40

(See under Kilpatrick Collection.)

rounds”’ (pinned to major-general’s dress | Kimsatt, D. S., Avon Park, Fla.: Pileated

coat) (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); Custer
Cavalry badge (from Mrs. Kilpatrick);

woodpecker, Ceophlaus from

Florida (43687).

pileatus,

gold guidon badge (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); | Krxcaip, Trevor, University of Washing-

G. A. R. badge (from Mrs. Kilpatrick);
major-general’s epaulets (bullion) (from
Mrs. Kilpatrick); buff silk sash with
tassels (from Mrs. Harry H. (Laura Kil-
patrick) Morgan; gold thread aiguillettes
(from Mrs. Laura Kilpatrick Morgan);
major-general’s regulation sword belt,
black velvet embroidered in bullion, no
buckle (from Mrs. Julia Kilpatrick Raf-
ferty); belt, brown
leather braided with gold bullion (from
Mrs. Julia Kilpatrick Rafferty) ; baldrick of
gold lace and leather, with pistol car-
tridge box, gilt plate, chains, and lion’s
head (from Mrs. Laura Kilpatrick Mor-
gan); major-general’s chapeau (from Mrs.
Kilpatrick); major-general’s regulation |
white helmet, with chin strap (from Mrs.
Kilpatrick); black plume for helmet (from
Mrs. Julia Kilpatrick Rafferty); iron
spurs (from Mrs. Laura Kilpatrick Mor-
gan); photograph of the death chamber
of Maj. Gen. Judson Kilpatrick (from Mrs.
Kilpatrick); silver cord and tassels from
the coffin of Major-General Kilpatrick
(from Mrs. Kilpatrick) ; tortoise-shell comb |
belonging to the wife of General Kilpat-
rick (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); lavender |
satin boots belonging to the wife of Gen- |

regulation sword

| K. K. NarurisToriscHEs

Kyicut, JAmMes M.

ton, Seattle, Wash.: 3 mollusks from
Puget Sound (44132); 32 shells from
Puget Sound (44539).

Kirkarpy, G. W., Honolulu, Hawaii: Iso-

pod crustaceans (43736).

Kistrnesury, J. P., Rochester, N. Y.: Arc-

tic relics collected by the late Lieut. F. F.
Kislingbury while connected with the
Greely Expedition (44046).

HormusEum.
(See under Vienna, Austria.)

KuaceEs, E. A., Crafton, Pa.: Type speci-

men of a species of Syntomidee (44224).

Kune, J. M., Linden, Va.: Specimen of

Corydalis cornutus L. (44450).

Kross, C. B., Johore Museum, Johore, Malay

Peninsula: Skin and skull of a rat (43129);
received through W. L. Abbott, skeleton
of tiger and skins and skulls of 2 pigs
(44020).

(See under Leadville
Publishing and Printing Company.)

Kramer, W. V., Chambersburg, Pa.: Hindu

temple medal, an interesting specimen of
the medal sold to pilgrims at the shrine of
Vishnu in India (44232).

Kunz, G. F., New York City: Crystals of

thorianite from Ceylon (43729).
under E. L. Beede.)

(See

eral Kilpatrick; (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); | Kunze, R. E., Phoenix, Ariz.: 53 plants,

tortoise-shell cardease (with calendar and |
broken pencil) (from Mrs. Kilpatrick);
tortoise-shell purse (cardcase and purse
in one box) (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); piece

of 3-inch gold lace (from Mrs. Kilpatrick) ; |

principally Cactacez, from Texas and Ari-
zona (43166;] 43182; 43198; 43208;
43213; 43282, 43355; 43464; 43587;
43591; 43605; 43950; 44243; 44309;
44478).

riding saddle (from Mrs. Marie Alice | Kwuarr, A., Chicago, Ill.: 15 moths (44137).
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

La Prara, Museo ve La Prata, Argentina,
South America (received through Fran-
cisco P. Moreno, director): Plaster casts
of 36 South American prehistoric objects
(43840: exchange).

Lacey, Howarp, Kerrville, Tex.: 2 deer, 2
coyotes, and 1 wolf (44069).

Lams, D. S., Army Medical Museum,
War Department, Washington, D. C.:
White and colored fetuses, brain of a full-
grown negro, skeleton and brain of a white
man, and 3 heads of full-blood negroes
(43353; 43392; 43399; 43466; 43850;
44221).

LAMSON-ScRIBNER, F.
ment of Agriculture.)

Lanctois, A. B. (See under Department
of Agriculture.)

LANspurGH, Max.
Mades.)

Lanspag, J. W., Washington, D. C.: Con-
cretion (44236).

Lantz, D. E., Biological Survey, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.:
80 topotypes and two other examples of
beetles, Cicindela nigrocerula (44316).

Lawrence, W. A., New York City: Illus-
trated catalogue of arms and armor; Der-
inger flintlock horse pistol (10002; 10505:
loan); 2 powderhorns (44494: gift).

Leacu, F., New York City: 11 watch move-
ments (9785: loan).

LEADVILLE PUBLISHING AND PRINTING
Company, Leadville, Colo. (received
through James M. Knight, manager):
Portion of the maxillary containing three
of the large cheek teeth of a horse, prob-
ably a draft horse (44597).

Leaminc, Epwarp. (See under Dr. A.
Hrdlicka.)

Ler, A. P., Washington, D. C.: Specimen of
Kentucky sandstone (43613).

Lee, Rev. D. C., Harbor Springs, Mich.:
5 specimens of Chippewa quill work
(44348: purchase).

Ler, SuermDAN. (See under George O’Don-
oghue.)

Lee, Wiis. (See under Interior Depart-
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Lererc, J. H. (See under Department of
Agriculture.)

Lerezic, GERMANY, University or Ler-
zig (received through J. Felix): About
350 fossil corals (43069: exchange).

(See under Depart-

(See under Charles

89

Letanp Sranrorp Junior University,
Stanford University, Cal. (received
through C. H. Gilbert): Samoan fishes
collected by David Starr Jordan and L. V.
Kellogg in 1902 (43870); cotypes of fishes
(Cottus kazika and Julis musume), and a
specimen of Ateleopus japonicus (43914);
type specimens of fishes (Stelgidonotus
latifrons and Malacocottus kinkaidi)
(44238).

Lemmon, J. G., Oakland, Cal.: Plant from
Arizona (43860).

Leon, Jesus D1az pr, Costado del Ex. Arzo-
bispado Museo, Tacubaya, Mexico: 21
species of Mexican mollusks (43290).

Lermonp, N. W., Thomaston, Me.: 11 mol-
lusks from the United States (43390).

Lesner, A. U., Berwick, Pa.: Cast of mas-
todon tooth (43515).

Levinsen, G. M. R., Zoological Museum,
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen,
Denmark: About 400. specimens of Dan-
ish Cretaceous bryozoans and miscella-
neous specimens of bryozoan and ostracod
washings (42968); Danish Cretaceous fos-
sils (43781). Exchange.

LewrTon, F. L., Victoria, Tex., and Wash-
ington, D. C.: 118 plants, including cacti,
from Texas (43212; 43383; 44213; 44259).

Leys, Dr. James F., surgeon, U. S. Navy,
Philadelphia, Pa.: Stone implements and
geological specimens from Guam (44175).

Linpant, Josua, Cincinnati, Ohio: 6 land
shells, probably oriental (43252).

Link, Henry A., Waterloo, Ind.: Fossils
(43588: gift); specimens of Devonian fos-
sils (43702: exchange); 26 arrow points
(43882: exchange); stone arrow points
and geological specimens (44254: gift).

Lirrte, G. W., Glens Falls, N. Y.: Crowned
pigeon, Goura coronata, native of New
Guinea and the neighboring islands
(42976).

Lirwinon, D. J.
of Agriculture.)

Liorp Broruers, Cincinnati, Ohio (re-
ceived through Department of Agricul-
ture): 3 mosses from Michigan (43199).

Locke, Orro, New Braunfels, N. Mex.: 5
cacti from Texas (43374); 3 plants from
Texas (43441).

Locxuart, H., jr., Sonora, Mexico: Man-
tispa-fly, Symphorasis signata Hagen
(44442).

(See under Department
90

Lonpon, ENGLAND; British Museum
(NaruraL History) (received through
G. A. Boulenger): Specimens of fishes
(Trichonotus setigeus and Hemerocetes
acanthorhynchus) and a small collection of
African fishes (44195); mammal skins and

skulls (44438). Exchange.

Lone, M. C., Kansas City, Mo.: 15 archeo- |

logical objects (9609:
Lonepen, W. M.
of Agriculture.)
Loomis, Rey. Henry, Yokohama, Japan:
Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Hemiptera
from Formosa (43998).

Lorain Sreet Company, Lorain, Ohio:
5 6-inch sections of typical rails col-
lected at the Railway Appliance Exhibi-
tion in Washington, D. C., May 13, 1905
(44303).

LoucusoroueH, Mrs. J. H., Bethesda, Md.:
2 leaf-shaped blades, part of cache found
near Somerset, Montgomery County, Md.
(43139).

Lovett, Epwarp, Croydon, England: Col-
ored woodcut of a “panorama view’’ of
the Lord Mayor’s show (43641).

Lowe, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: 7 brachio-
pods from California (43793).

Lowry, Lewis. (See under William Stewart
Taylor.)

LuGENBEEL, H. G., Berwyn, Md.: Snake
(Ophibolus rhombomaculatus) from near
Berwyn (43378).

Lumuo.ttz, Cart, New York City: Ancient
Mexican statue from Patzcuaro, Mexico
(43885: purchase; L. P. X.).

Lyman, E. E., Waialua, Oahu, Hawaiian
Islands (received through H. W. Hen-
shaw): 4 specimens of Amastra (Kauaia)
rex, from Konaluianni, Oahu (43670).

Lyon, M. W., jr., U. S. National Museum:
74 plants from Missouri (43978: col-
lected for the Museum); fragments of
pottery from Monks Mound, East St.
Louis, Ill. (43204: gift). (See
A.J. Brown; and Perkinson Construction
Company.)

Lyon, Vicror. W., Jeffersonville, Ind.:
Specimens of Middle Devonian washings
with bryozoans and ostracods (43018:
exchange).

MacDouaat, D. T.
Botanical Garden.)

MacF arxanp, M. F., Stanford University,

loan). Returned.
(See under Department

under

(See under New York

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Cal.: Nudibranch mollusks from Monte-
rey Bay (43825: deposit).

McAvrer, W. L., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: Lizard and eggs of a
tree frog collected by C. A. Barber in the
West Indies (44487).

McCarry, J. E., Dublin, Tex.: Rocks from
Texas (43788) ; specimen of garnet(44613).

McCormick, J. H., Washington, D. C.:
Pottery fragments from a mound near
Mobile, Ala. (42941).

McCormick, W. F. J., Cocoanut Grove,
Fla.: (Arachnid, Ammotrecha cube Lucas)
(43133).

McE.tuost, Henry, St.
moths (43545).

McGuirg, J. D.

Savage,

Louis, Mo.: 60

(See under Rev. W. R.

and Smithsonian Institution,
Bureau of American Ethnology.)

McLananan, Mrs. 8. C., Hollidaysburg, Pa.:
Beetle (42979).

McLean, Joun J., Washington, D. C::
Ethnological material from Alaska and the
Pacific slope (10413: loan).

McMickiz, C., Oswego, Kans.:
grooved sinker (43217).

McMortris&, DANIEL, medical director, U.S.
Navy, and Mrs. McMurrrig, Washington,
D. C.: Japanese temple chair (44028).

Macoun, Jonn, Ottawa, Canada: Plants
from British Columbia (44077). (See
under Department of Agriculture, and
E. L. Greene.)

Mappren, A. G.
Institution.)

Mapes, Cuaries, Washington, D. C. (re-
ceived through Max Lansburgh): Pair of
spectacles which belonged to Gen. John
A. Sutter (43928).

Manprip, Spain: Museo pt Crenctas Natu-
RALES (received through Ricardo Garcia
Mercet): 499 exotic Hymenoptera (43498:
exchange).

Matt, Frank P., Anatomical Laboratory of
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Md.: Brains of 4 fetuses (43484); about
40 fetuses (44523).

Matong, J. G., Portland, Oreg.: 8 shells,
probably representing species of Margari-
tana (43669).

Manixa, P. I., Burzau or Forestry (re-
ceived through U.S. Department of Agri-
culture): 100 plants from the Philippine
Islands (438741; exchange).

Stone-

(See under Smithsonian
LIST OF

GOVERNMENT Laporatortiés: 991 sheets
of plants collected in the Philippine
Islands by E. D. Merrill (42964: exchange) ;
received through Hon. Dean C. Worcester, |
secretary of the interior, 155 birds’ skins |
from the Philippine Islands, including a _
number of species new to the Museum |
colletion (44819: exchange).

Maptestong, C. M., Eltham, Victoria, Aus-
tralia:
bryozoans and specimens of washings for

84 species of Australian Tertiary

micro-organisms (43681: exchange).

Marearum, T. F. (See under “ Kilpatrick
Collection.’’)

Martatr, C. L., Bureau of Entomology,
Department of Agriculture, Washington,
D.C.: Snake(/Teterodon platyrhinos), from |
eveland Park, D. C. (44486).

Marsa, Georeas, U.S. National Museum:
Muskrat (44582). (See Hes:
Schmid.)

MarsHALL, Ropert, Washington, D. C.: 4
fossil bones taken from the tunnel] of the
Pennsylvania Railroad, under Capitol Hill
(43541: exchange).

Martin, H. T., University of Kansas,
Lawrence, Kans.: Tertiary Patagonian
shells (43366).

Martin, J. P., Washington, D. C.: mag-
nesite from Greenville, Canada (43402).
Martin, Wittram, New York City: 27
flint arrow points from near Atlanta, Ga.,

and Tascosa, Tex. (44229).

Martin, W. E., Springhill, Tenn.: 3 Wheel-
bugs, Prionidus cristatus Linn. (43172).
Marvin, Mrs. M. F., Manila, P. I.: Beetle

(Odontolabis alces Fabr.) (43158).

under

Mason, O. T., U. S. National Museum: 10
photographs illustrating electrical tat-

tooing (48039). (See under Mrs. Mar-
garet Bates.)

Matirexa, Dr. H., University,
Prague, Austria: 10 brains and 17 skulls
of typical Slavs (48985: exchange).

Marscuig, Dr. Paut, Royal Zoological Mu-
seum, Berlin, Germany: Skin and skull
of rare insectivore (Potamogale velox)
(43985: purchase).

Maxon, W. R., U. S. National Museum:
About 2,000 plants, also birds, insects, rep-
tiles, birds’ eggs and nests, and a small
basket made in the parish of St. Eliza-
beth, Jamacia (42994);

,

NAT Mus 1905——7

Prague

specimen of |

ACCESSIONS.

ot

Vitex agnus-castus L., from Maryland

(43080); 3 plants collected in New York

and the District of Columbia (43343);

Tree-frog, Hyla pickeringi, from Mount

Vernon, Va. (43437); 2 specimens of

Selaginella apus from New York (43508:

gift); 6 ferns from the vicinity of Wash-

ington, D. C. (48636); 19 plants from

Guatemala (44079); 28 cacti from Guate-

mala (44179); 2 cacti from Texas (44258).

(All of the above were collected for the

Museum.) ‘“‘Guipil,” a garment worn by

Kekchi girls in Guatemala (44396: gift);

of Worm-eating warbler, Helmitheros

(44548: gift). (See under
Department of Agriculture.)

Mayserry, H. H., Birmingham, Ala.: 2
bullets and a coat button from the battle-
field at Franklin, Tenn. (43816).

Maynarp, G. C., U. S. National Museum:
Spreading-adder, Heterodon platyrhinos,
from Rockville, Md. (43000).

Mayr, Gustav, Vienna, Austria:
(44186: exchange).

Mearns, Dr. E. A., U. S. Army, Manila,
P.-I.: 116 birds’ skins, botanical speci-
mens, beetle, coral, and beads from Min-
danao and Sulu Islands, Philippine group
(42932); skins of civets (48102, 43245);
skins of a snake and a frog from the Phil-
ippine Islands (43386); natural-history
specimens from the Philippine Islands,
including mammals, birds, birds’ eggs,

ovo
egs

vermivorus

46 ants

reptiles, crustaceans, mollusks, and other

marine invertebrates, and plants, also

ethnological and geological material
(43557); specimen of bark of the Yucca
from California (48603); — fishes
Mogi, Japan (43612); rocks from near_
Mojave, Cal. (43614); fossil wood from
near Winslow, Ariz. (43615); 8 marine
mollusks from Nagasaki, Japan (44354);
“Hansen medal,’ conferred on Doctor
Mearns by the College of Physicians and
Surgeons, of New York (44357); bait
basket of a Japanese fisherman of Mogi,*
near Nagasaki, Japan (44376); scraps of
Arabic manuscript (44460). (See under
Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood.)

Mearns, Louis Dr Z., Circleville, Ohio:
Birds and mammals from various local-
ities in the United States (43835: de-
posit); 14 birds’ skins (43847: deposit) ;

from
92

2 eggs of Mexican Screech-owl, Megascops
asio cineraceus (44207: deposit); 2 eggs
of vulture, Cathartes aura (44405: gift).
Mepsaer, O. P., Jacobs Creek, Pa., Arling-
ton, N. J.: 6 specimens of Cassia from
Pennsylvania (43153); plant from New
Jersey (43361).
Mercet, Ricarpo
Madrid, Spain.)
Merriam, Dr.C. Harr. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and E. H. Harriman.
Merritt, E. D. (See under Manila, P. I.,
Government laboratories.)
Merritt, Dr. G. P., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Specimens of serpentine, asbestos,

Garcia. (See under

and associated rocks and minerals from |

Thetford and Black Lake, Quebec, Can-

ada (42943: collected for the Museum); |

specimen of silicon from .the Carbide
works at Niagara Falls, N. Y: (43284:
collected for the Museum); 6 plants

from Mexico (43294: collected for the |

Museum); 2 specimens of granite from
Bethel, Vt. (43350:  col-
lected for the Museum); 4 specimens of

granite from quarries at Milford, Mass.

quarries at

(43359: collected for the Museum); oolithic |

limestone from Miama, Fla. (43989: col-
lected for the Museum); shell limestone
from Ocala, Fla. (43990: collected for the
Museum); specimens of Coquina from St.
Augustine, Fla. (44169: collected for the
Museum); shell limestone from quarries of
Standard Lime Company, Kendrick, Fla.

(44176: collected for the Museum); 16 |

specimens of granites, corundums, etc.,

from various localities in North Carolina |

(44566: gift); large specimen of weath-

ered crystalline limestone (marble) from |

(See |

near Murphy, N. C. (44603: gift).
under A. E. Heighway, and Thetford
mines, Quebec, Canada.)

Merritt, Mrs. Grorce P.:
from Maine (43293).

Merritrr, W. A., Miami, Fla.:
skins, turtle, frog, and crab from Florida
(44172, 44191); 2 miscellaneous collec-
tions of insects (44227).

Mercatr, O. B., Black Range and Mesilla

31 seaweeds

Park, N. Mex.: Plant from New Mexico |
(43095: gift); 655 plants from Mogollon |
| Minor, Tuomas C., Cincinnati, Ohio: 4

Mountains region (43110: purchase).
MeusEt, Roperr, Ujpest, Hungary: 88
Hungarian beetles (43622: exchange).

14 birds’ |
| Miniter, Miss Vrrernta.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

| Mexico, Mexico, Nacionat MusEum (re-

ceived through Don Francisco del Paso y
Troncoso, director): Plaster casts of three
Mexican stone yokes (43953: exchange).

Meyer, A. B. (See under Dresden, Ger-
many, Royal Zoological and Anthropo-
logical-Ethnographical Museum.)

MeynckE, O. M., Belfield, Va.: 125 plants
from Virginia (43046: exchange).

Meyrick, Epwarp, Marlborough, Wilts,
England (received through August
Busck): 400 Australian Tineina, inclu-
ding several types and cotypes (44261).

Mippteton, F. B. (See under Victor Talk-
ing Machine Company.)

MiaueEt, Mons. J., Barroubio, near Aigues-
Vives, Hérault, France: Collection of pre-
historic objects from France and- Algiers
(43727: exchange).

Mites, Miss KaTuErine, Brattleboro, Vt.
(received through James M. Tyler): Afri-
can kaross (44116).

Miter, A. M., Lexington, Ky.: Ordovician
fossils (44064).

Miter, Lieut. Epwarp Y., U. S. Army,
governor, Province of Paragua, Puerto
Princessa, P. I.: Ethnological material
from Battak and 2 shells from Paragua
(43240); ethnological specimens from the
Philippine Islands (43288).

Mitxer, Gerrit S., Jr., U. S. National Mu-
seum: 7 living plants from France (48054:
collected for the Museum); 14 plants from
Europe (43168, 43275: collected for the
Museum); topotype of Sorex fumeus Miller
(44614: collected for the Museum).

Mitter, Gerrit S., Jr., and Lronnarp
SreynecER, U.S. National Museum: Col-
lection of plants, crustaceans, mammals,
birds, reptiles, batrachians, insects, and
mollusks from Europe (43260: collected
for the Museum).

Mixter, Mrs. L. C., Salt Lake City, Utah:
Fresh-water crustaceans (43203).

(See under Na-
tional Society of the Colonial Dames of
America.)

Mittner, I. B., Morganton, N. C.: Pack of
illuminated playing cards from Sydney,
New South Wales (43724).

specimens of Coriscus (Nabis) ferus Linn,
(43134).
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Missourr BorantcaL GaRpEN, St. Louis,
Mo.: 2 plants (43564: exchange); cactus

(44047: exchange); living plant from —

Mexico (44370: exchange).

Mircuett, Miss E. G., U. 8. National Mu-
seum: 6 crustaceans from the District of
Columbia (44218).

Mircue.t, J. D., Victoria, Tex.: Salamander |

and leeches from Texas (43228).

Moecket, Ernsr, Crookston, Minn.: 20-shot
b, 3 |

double-barreled revolver (44249).
Morrert, James P., Portland, Oreg.:
arrowheads (42308).

20

Mo.eswortn, JAMES P., Woodbine, Md.: .

Great Blue heron, Ardea herodias, in
immature plumage (43055).

Moonry, James. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Eth-
nology.)

Moore, CLarEnce B., Philadelphia, Pa.: 2_

skulls found in mounds on Tombighee
River, Washington County, Ala. (44071);

fragments of a skull from Moundyville, Ala. |

(44231).

Moore, J. Percy. (See under Pennsyl-
vania, University of.)

Moors, Mr. (See under Brig. Gen. T. E.
Wilcox, U. S. Army, retired.)

Morera, Cartos. (See under Rio Janeiro,
National Museum of Brazil.)

Moreno, Francisco P. (See under La
Plata, Argentina.)

Morean, E. L., Washington, D. C.: Fetus
of a negro (43726); brain and skeleton
of a white fetus (44027).

Morean, Mrs. Harry H., (Laura Kivpar- |

RICK).
tion.)

(See under Kilpatrick Collec.

Morean, Mrs. Lavra Kirparrick, Lucerne, |

Switzerland: Engraved plate from Gen.
Judson Kilpatrick’s coffin, picture of
General Kilpatrick when a boy, and a
painting made by him during his boyhood
(10336: loan).

Morean, Percy, Director, Waihi School of

Mines, Waihi, Auckland, New Zealand:
Rocks and minerals from New Zealand
(44482: exchange).

Morse, Epwarp L., Washington, D. C.:
Press-copy of a telegram sent by S. F. B.
Morse to the State Department (44349).

Morse, .S. (See under Peabody Museum,
Salem, Mass.)

93

Morsg, E. V., Lorain, Ohio: Specimen of
Lepidodendron clypeatum Lesquereux
from near Massillon, Ohio (43141).

Morton, J., Cosmopolis, Wash.: Water-bug,
Benacus griseus Say (43259).

Morton, Wittiam J., New York City:
Original set of tickets in the Harvard
Medical School, and original degree /of
M. D. from the Washington University of
Maryland, belonging to the late Dr. W. F.
G. Morton (43052); plaster bust of W. T.
G. Morton, of Boston, Mass.,who in 1846
introduced the use of ether as a general
anesthetic (43855).

Mosetey, EK. L., Sandusky, Ohio: 21 plants
from Ohio (43760, 44012); reptiles and
batrachians from Ohio (44490).

Moss, Wiii1am, Ashton-under-Lyne, Lan-
caster, England: 98 shells from Lifu Island
(43769).

Mowsray, Lourts, St. George, Bermuda (1e-
ceived through M. Mowbray): Specimens
of Branchiostoma (Amphiorus) caribbeus

(44084).

| Mupp,J. A., Hyattsville, Md.: Beetle, Mono-

hammus titillator (44588).

MixLiter, Baron Ferrp. von.
E. L. Greene.)

Mitier, F. (See under New York Botan-
ical Garden.) :

MonicrpaL Scnoon or Screncre AND ART,
Carlisle, England. (See under H. W.
Seton-Karr.)

Munro, New Gorvon, Yokohama, Japan:
Collection of relics of the stone age (44334:
exchange).

Museo DE CrENCIAS
under Madrid, Spain.)

Museo DE LA Piatra. (See under La Plata,
Argentina, South America.)

Museo Nacronat pe Mexico. (See under
Mexico, Mexico.)

Museum oF Comparative Zoo.ocy, Cam-
bridge, Mass.: (Received through Thomas
Barbour) 2 batrachians from Panama
(43960) ; (received through Walter Faxon)
13 specimens of isopods (44565).

Museum or Narurat Hisrory.
under Paris, France.)

Museu Pauttsra.

(See under

NATURALES. (See

(See

(See under Sao Paulo

Brazil.)
Nack, Cuaries, Bahia, Brazil, South
America: Fulgorid, a homopterous
94

insect, Lauternaria (Fulgora)  serviller
Spinola (43414); large Erebiid-moth
(44586).

NatrionaL Museum or Braz. (See under
Rio Janeiro.)

NATIONAL SOCIETY THE COLONIAL
Dames or AmeEriIcA (received through
Miss Virginia Miller, custodian): Candle-
stick which belonged to Jessie Hough
Wickersham, of Lancaster, Pa., and a

OF

leaflet from a book sent with others to
General Washington at Brandywine for
use In making gun wads (10048: loan).

NATIONAL Society OF THE DAMEs OF 1846
(received through Mrs. Rose McHenry
Brackett): Flag of Capt. Robert Fravel’s
company; gold watch; badge and a book
containing constitution and
(10242: loan).

NATIONAL SocrETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF
THE AMERICAN RevoLuTIon: Revolu-
tionary relics, including a seal presented
by Mrs. Robert O. Bascom, of Fort
Edwards, N. Y.; lamp; nails; —photo-
graphs of ruins of Fort Ticonderoga;

by-laws

photographs of daughters of Revelution-
ary soldiers; photograph of a fireplace at
Crown Point, presented by Mrs. William

W. Moore, Hands Cove Chapter, Shore- |

ham, Vt.; fragment of a
brick from Ann Story’s cabin, presented
by Mrs. Columbus Smith, Windsor, Vt.
(10546: loan).

Narrress, Rev. Tuomas, Amherstburg,
Ontario, Canada: Fossils from the bed of
the Detroit River at Amherstburg(43387).

Navas, Rev. R.
(received through R. P.

Currie): 12

specimens of European Chrysopide and |

Hemerobuds (43772): 7 specimens of
Trichoptera and 2 Ant-lions (44167)
Exchange.

Navy Department (Hydrographic Office)

(received through Commander Harry M.
Hodges, U. S. Navy): Pieces of pumice
collected by Capt. J.
schooner Expansion (44119).

Nera, L. A., Dallas, Tex.:
Chondrotus
(44407).

NrepHam, JAMES G., Lake Forest College,
Lake Forest, Il.:
tera (43999).

Johnson, of

microstomus, from Texas

Parasitic Hymenop-

dress, etc. , |

P. L., Zaragoza, Spain |

the |

Salamander, |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

| Netson, E. W., San Diego, Cal.: 4 living

| plants from Lower California (44367).
(See also under Department of Agricul-
ture.) i

Newson, Extas, Laramie, Wyo.: 21 plants
(Antennaria) from the United States

' (43238: purchase).

Nesst, Miss Marearet, Talklai, Ariz.
(received through Ales Hrdlicka): Stone
ring from ruins and an arrow point from
mesa near Rice Station school (44441).

| Nerrieton, E. M., Welch, W. Va.: Fossil
plants (48488).

Neuwrrtu, A., Washington, D. C.: Silk
badge of the World’s Columbian Exposi-
tion, 1893 (43936).

Newman, J. S. (See under Department of
Agriculture.)

New York Aquarium, Battery Park, New
York City: 2 specimens of Rudd, Leucis-
cus erythropthalmus (44408).

New York BoranicaL GARDEN, Bronx
Park, New York City (received through
N. L. Britton, director): 47 plants from
the West Indies (42963); plant from Kew,
England (48001); plant from the Isle of
Pines, collected by A. H. Curtiss (48053) ;
237 plants from Colorado (438097); 104
plants from Colorado (48479); 2 plants
from Lower California (43520, 43540);
about 50 cacti from the New York Garden
(43620); orchid, Lelia albida (43640);
specimen of Sedum wootoni Britton
(43988) ; 357 plants from the West Indies
(44082); plant from Long Island (44214);
416 plants collected in Montana by D. T.
MacDougal and V. K. Vreeland (44314);
3 living plants (44871); plant from

| Mexico, collected by F. Miller (44399).

Exchange.

| New York Zooroctca, Park, New York

City (received through R. L. Ditmars): 2

lizards (Phrynosoma hernandesi and P.

ornatissimum) from Mexico and Colorado

(43792).

| New ZEALAND, EXHIBIT OF THE GOVERN-

MENT AT THE LovuIsIANA PURCHASE
Exposition (received through Commis-
sioner-General T. E. Donne): Photo-
graphs of Maori people and scenery of the
country, also 2 stuffed specimens of
Rainbow trout, Salmo irideus (44454).

| Nicuots, Mrs. Ann, Laredo, Tex.: 26 cacti

from Texas (43496: exchange).

|
LIST OF

NicHoitson, Miss Gracr, Pasadena, Cal.:
Basket made by the Pomo Indians and 2
unmounted photographs (48244).

Nickerson, W.W., Klamath Agency, Oreg.:
Partly finished basket of the Kiamath
Indians (43036).

Nocucui1, Hipero, Copenhagen, Denmark:
Specimen of anticrotalic serum, prepared
by the donor (42989).

Norton, J. B.S., College Park, Md. (received
through Department of Agriculture):
Plant from Maryland (43084); plant from
Maryland, collected by R. H. Pond
(43814); specimen of Seseli libanotis from
Maryland (44601).

Nurse, Maj. C. G., Quetta, India:
species of Indian Hymenoptera (43233).

Nyr, Witiarp, jr., New Bedford, Mass.:
Crab (Planes minutus) from Sakonnet
Point, R. I. (43907).

O’DonoGHUE, GEORGE, executive mansion,
Porto Rico: Crab spider, Agastercantha
tetracantha, found by Mr. Sheridan Lee
(43710).

OeuLert, D. P. (See under Paleontologia
Universalis, Laval, Mayenne, France.)
Orrer, WitiiAM C., Miami, Fla.: 2 speci-

mens of shell limestone (44598).

OuerN, D. W., Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Md.: of
(43236).

Oxm, F. (received through N. H. Darton):
Pyrite from the Potomac formation at
Eckington, D. C. (44217).

Otproyp, Mrs. T. S., Longbeach, Cal.:
About 410 land and marine shells from
Cuba and Florida (43276); shells from”
San Pedro and Florida (43987).

Otiver, G. W., Washington, D. C.: Orchid
(Habenaria blephariglottis) (43121).

Otrver, James, Chignik, Alaska (received
through T. W. Stanton): 8 stone and
bone implements from the shore of Chig-
nik Bay (43659).

Orcutt, C. R., San Diego, Cal.: 31 plants

LO

Collection rocks

from California and Lower California |
(43189: gift; 43281: exchange); 12

plants from California and Mexico (43381: |
exchange); skulls of lynx and badger, and
plants (43416: exchange); skin of rattle-
snake, Crotalus lucifer (43447: — gift); |
specimen of Echinocactus from California |
(48877: exchange); plants and a speci- |

men of Porzana carolina (44092:  ex-

ACCESSIONS.

95

change); about 50 specimens of living
plants from Mexico (44467: gift); 3 living
plants from California (44537: exchange).

Orp, Capt. James T., U.S. Army (deceased)
(received through Mrs. Lucy Ord Donald-
son, Bloomfield, N. J.): Collection of his-
torical and archeological specimens from
Mexico and Porto Rico (10370: loan).

OrTMANN, A. E. (See under Carnegie
Museum. )

OspurN, Raymonp C., New York City:
Dragonflies (Sympetrum madidum Hagen
and Mesothemis callocata Hagen) (44068).

Oscoop, W. H.
Agriculture. )

OsterRHOUT, G. E., New Windsor, Colo.:
Plant from Colorado (43491).

Oswap, WiLLiaM, Covington, La.: ‘ Congo
snake,” Amphiuma means (44381).

(See under Department of

Oures, Ferix F., Buenos Aires, Argentina,
South America: 30 specimens of aborig-
inal remains from the Argentine provinces
of Entre-Rios, Buenos Aires, and Cor-
rientes (438436).

Owstron, Atan, Yokohama, Japan: Rep-
tiles and batrachians from Japan (43377:
gift; 42967: purchase).

Parz, Jost A., New Brighton, Staten Island,
N. Y.: Sword of Gen. Simén Bolivar and
a sword presented to Gen. José Antonio
Paéz by King William IV of England
(9906: loan).

PAGE: Ax iD:
Company.)

Pace, L. W., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: Sand-facetted quartz

; pebbles from Marthas Vineyard, Massa-
chusetts (48283).

Paine, J. H., Los Angeles, Cal.: 6 mollusks
from California (42975).

Parner, J. H., U.S. National Museum: 3
plants from Maryland (43211); 2 joints
and 16 fruits of cactus (43473); 2 speci-
mens of Polygyra thyroides from Chesa-
peake Beach, Md. (44853). (See under
Francis Pennell; J. N. Rose; and F. J.
Tyler.)

Patstey, R., Leakville, Va.: Cecropia-moth,
Attacus cecropia (42959).

(See under General Electric

PAaLEONTOLOGIA UNIVERSALIS, Laval, Ma-
yenne, France (received through D. P.
Oehlert, secretary): 2 valves of Volupia
rugosa from Féoville, France (43574).
96

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Patmer, Epwarp, Department of Agricul- | Parron, Miss Jutra C., Washington, D. C.:

ture, Washington, D. C.: 12 plants and
specimens of Indian manufacture from
Mexico (48066; 438666: gift); 500 plants
(43937: purchase); 300
land and fresh-water shells from Mexico
(44108: gift).
Agriculture. )
Parmer, Josepn, U.

from Mexico

(See under Department of

S. National Museum:

Jaw bone of a horse—used as a musical

instrument by southern negroes (43467).
Parmer, WitiriaM, U.S. National Museum:
Lizard, Humeces, from Fairfax County,

|
|

}
|
|

}

Va. (43142: collected for the Museum); 6 |

plants from Newfoundland and Virginia
(43206: exchange); frog, Rana sylvatica
(43391: collected for the Museum); 22
plants from the District of Columbia

(43474: collected for the Museum); 130 |

plants from Oregon (44486: collected for
the Museum); reptiles and batrachians
(44470:
starfishes from Victoria, British Colum-
bia (44544: collected for the Museum);

lod

collected for the Museum); 7

mammals from Oregon (44562: collected |

for the Museum); 4 specimens of fossil

coniferous wood from the bank of the Co-. |

lumbia River, Bonneville, Oreg. (44564:
gift); about 200 fresh-water and land
shells from Portland, Oreg., and 15 birds’

skins from Oregon (44576; 44579: gift); |
mumiy of a rare bat from Mexico (44593: |

gift).
PamMeE.., L. H., Ames, Iowa: 48 weeds and

useful plants from lowa (48600: exchange). |
Paris, FRANCE, Musrum or Natura His- |

Tory (received through E. L. Bouvier):
3 crayfishes and 8 crabs (48092; 44236:
exchange).

Parisu, S. B., San Bernardino, Cal.: 3
plants from California (43079): Received
through E. L. Greene, plant from Califor-
nia (43154).

Partin, J. C.
Agriculture.)

Paso ‘y

(See under Department of

Don
(See under Mexico, Mexico.)

PassMorE GEM Company, Boston, Mass.
(received through H. G. Webb, president):
2 colored photographs of tourmalines
found pt Rumford Falls, Me. (43449).

Patree, Rey. C. R., Los Angeles, Cal.: 156
marine shells from California (43748: ex-

TRONCOSO,

change).

Francisco del.

25 plants from Tennessee and North Caro-
lina (43210: exchange).

Payn, Exias J., Olympia, Wash.: 9 marine
mollusks from Puget Sound, Washington
(43188); specimens of gold ores from
Tredwell gold mine, Kittitas County,
Wash. (43243).

Payne, Mrs. Cotumpia N., Washington,
D. C.: Case containing 14 specimens
showing the construction of the Atlantic
cable of 1858 (10558: loan).

Prasopy Museum, Salem, Mass. (received
through E. S. Morse): Carrying yoke,
bow, quiver, and 18 arrows, shallow pot,
small bottle-shaped vessel, violin and bow,
2 specimens of boy’s top, 2 dolls, brass
dish, flint and steel, pack of cards, and pot
for cooking rice, from Sumatra (44264:
exchange).

Peck, Franx L., Georgetown, Colo. (re-
ceived through F. W. Crosby): Carbon
residue from an iron cogwheel found in
the Atlantic Shaft, U. S. Patent No. 162,
Clear Creek County, Colo. (43419).

Precxuam, G. W., Milwaukee, Wis.: 2 moths
(43034).

Precer, W. L., Goldfield, Nev.: 2 geological
specimens from Nebraska (44091).

PENNELL, FRANCIS, Wawa, Pa. (received
through J. H. Painter): Specimen of
Aristolochia clematitis Linn., from Penn-
sylvania (43090); 23 plants from Penn-
sylvania (44198; 44510; 44615).

PENNSYLVANIA MARBLE AND GRANITE Com-
PANY, West Grove, Pa. (received through
Interior Department, U. S. Geological
Survey): Sample of white marble (44095).

| PENNSYLVANIA, University oF, Philadel-

phia, Pa. (received through J. Perey
Moore): 3 type specimens of Isopod (T'a-
nais robustus H. F. Moore) (43955).

PERGANDE, THEODORE, Department of Ag-
riculture, Washington, D. C.: 3 specimens
of Amnicola from Piney Point, Md. (42974) ;
crustaceans from Virginia and the District
of Columbia (48262).

Pernins, JAMES L., Talklai, Ariz.: Stone
ax from ruins near Rice Station School,
received through AleS Hrdli¢ka (44489).

Prerxinson Construction Company, St.
Louis, Mo. (received through M. W. Lyon,
jr.): Siliceous concretions (43162).
LIST OF

ACCESSIONS.

Person, W. C., Newport News, Va.: Speci- |

men of Loligo peali Les., from Virginia
(43220). Returned.
Pererson, Miss Evetyn, Long Branch,

N. J.: Weaver bird, Munia rubronigra |

(44239).

Pryster, Gen. Jonn Watts pre. (See un-
der Smithsonian Institution, and War
Department.)

Prorpte, O. F., Rutherford, N. J.: Concre-
tions (43517); specimen of datolite
(43518). Exchange.

PHILIPPINE COMMISSION AT THE LOUISIANA |
Ethnographic |
collections from the islands, and also speci- |

PurcHasE ExXposirion:

mens of lumber (4445; 44595).

Prerce, E. W., Boise, Idaho: Case-bearing
larva of Coleophora (44430).

Pierce, W. D., Department of Agriculture:
21 types and cotypes of Myodites solida-
genis, 2 types of Rhipiphorus acutipennis

and a type of Myodites minimus (43806). _

Prerce, Wrigur M., Claremont, Cal.: 6
eggs of Bewick’s wren, Thryomanes
beurckit charienturus (44547).

Pitsspry, H. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Mollusks,

viz: 15 specimens of Cerion iostomum Pfr., |

from Cuba (438562); 5 specimens of Ash-
munella rhyssa hyporhyssa Ckll., from New
Mexico (43749); 20 specimens of Polygyra

from Texas (44321); 3 specimens of Cor- |

bicula from Japan (44257).

Pieer, C. V., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: 177 plants collected
by J. S. Cotton in Washington (43631);
137 plants collected in Oregon by R. W.

Gorman (43649); 95 plants from Wash- |

ington (43572; 43688); 5
Washington, including 2 type-specimens
and a duplicate of a type (43765;
44009); 53 plants collected by Mr. Piper
and J. S. Cotton in Washington (44018);
orchid from Cascade Mountains (type-
sheet of Listera caurina Piper) (44086).
(See under Department of Agriculture
and C. R. Waldron.)

Pirsson, L. V. (See under Interior De-
partment, U.S. Geological Survey.)

Pissaro, Mons., Paris, France: Specimens
of French Tertiary fossils (43731: ex-
change).

Pirrier, H., San José, Costa Rica, Central
America, and Washington, D. C.: 5

plants from |

plants from Costa Rica (43463: exchange); |

ot

5 specimens of cactus fruit from Panama
(44080: gift).

Prank, E. N., Decatur, Ark.: Plants from
different sections of the United States
(44570).

Puarr, Mrs. J. P., Washington, Conn.: In-
dian blanket obtained by Charles H.
Buchanan (44426).

PresnerR, Nicotay, Christiania, Norway:
Dike rock and rutile ore from Lindviks-
kollen Rutil mine, Krageroe, Norway
(48634); specimen of potash
from Smaalenene, Norway

feldspar

(44050).

Prummer, F. G. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. S. Geological Survey, and
David White.)

PoxiarD, Mrs. E. B., Georgetown, Ky.:
Wooden flute made by a California Indian
(44115: exchange).

Pomeroy, O., Alamogordo, N. Mex.: Frag-
ments of pottery of the ancient pueblo
type, also photographs of other pieces
(43725).

Ponp, R. H. (See under J. B. S. Norton.)

Pore, Mr. and Mrs. Cuarites A., New York
City: Examples of Inca textile work, rep-
resenting nearly all the variations of
ancient Peruvian weaving (43709); speci-
mens of Inca pottery, constituting the
remainder of the “Charles A. Pope col-
lection” (43767).

Porg, J. E. B., Washington, D. C.: Plant
(43005). ‘

Porter, Porter, Evansville, Ind.: 2 Ce-
cropia moths (44517).

Pratt, Miss Anice D., Marion, N: C.: 5
plants from North Carolina (43354).

PREBLE, E. A., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: 6 pairs of snow-
shoes (44452: purchase). (See under
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, and Department of Agri-
culture.)

Prescott, J. O. (See
Record Company.)

Price, B. J., Treasury Department, Wasb-
ington, D. C.: Malleable nickel medal
(44382).

Princ_e, C. G., City of Mexico, Mexico, and
Burlington, Vt.: 17 plants from Mexico
(42972; 43155; 44078; 44540). (See
under Vermont, Herbarium of the Uni-
versity of.)

under American
98

Pryor, F. R., Minersville, Utah: Specimen
of psilomelane (43160).

Purrus, ©. A., San Diego, Cal., and City of
Mexico, Mexico: 12 plants from Mexico
(48021: purchase); 59 plants from Mexico
(43022; 43024; 43033: gift); 37 plants
from Mexico (44520: purchase). (See
also under T. S. Brandegee.)

QuaRTERMAN, GEorGE M., Nathan, Fla.:
Larva of a species of Dicxlus, probably
D. costatus (44245).

QuarTeRMAN, Mrs. J. R., Titusville, Fla.:
4 eggs of Florida jay, Aphelocoma cyanea
(44549).

Rarrerty, Mrs. Jutta Kitparrick. (See
under “ Kilpatrick Collection.’’)

Rattway APPLIANCE EXHIBITION. (See

under Continuous Rail Joint Company of
America, Newark, N. J., and Lorain Steel
Company, Lorain, Ohio.)

Ratepu, W. L., U. S. National Museum:.

Gray squirrel collected for the Museum
(42986); batrachians from the District

of Columbia (43115); 10 deer from New

York (43526); 122 birds’ eggs and 37
nests of North American species (43664) ;
weasel (43685); Ruffled grouse, Bonasa
umbellus (48713); 6 specimens of ruffed
grouse, Bonasa umbellus (43735); about
20 specimens of isopods from New York
State (43916); 2 turtles (48968); 3 eggs
of bald eagle, Halixetus leucocephalus
(44457); nest, 3 eggs and 17 birds from
different parts of North America (44489).
Gift.

Raven, W. L. and J. W. Danret, Jr., Wash-
ington, D. C.: 14 birds’ eggs and _ 5 nests,
17 birds, 48 mammals, and 4 reptiles col-
lected at Lake Drummond, Dismal Swamp,
Virginia (44469).

Ramsrapr, Hanry, Jr., Chicago, Ill.: Speci-
mens of Lepidoptera (43846: 44268).

Ransome, F. L., U. S. Geological Survey:
Specimen of vanadanite from Globe,
Ariz., collected by H. W. Clark (44568).

Rasramsr Epuust
SanJgANna, deputy high priest of the Par-
sees, Bombay, India:
religious garment, consisting of a linen
dress (43536).

Ratupwun, Mrs. C.S., Redondo, Los Angeles
County, Cal.: Sea Pen (48459: exchange).

Ratrusun, Miss M. J., U. S. National Mu-

|
Dustroor PESHOTAN

Sudra, or Parsee |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

and insects from
County,

seum: Isopods, shells,

Lanesboro, Berkshire Mass.
(43257).

Raucerson, Perer, Tentie, Fla. (received
through A. W. Barber): Steel chisel from
a battlefield (Seminole war), near the
mouth of Taylor Creek, Lake Okechobee,
Florida (44220).

Raymonp, J. S., Marine-Hospital Service,
Washington, D. C.: Wood, bored by
Limnoria lignorum, from the south Atlan-
tic Quarantine Station (44159); 2 pieces
of wood bored by Sphroma and a piece
of wood bored by Teredo from Hillsboro
River, Tampa (44332); piece of wood
with borings and crustaceans (44505).

Rea, A., Tajique, Torrance County, N. Mex.
(received through Biological Survey, De-
partment of Agriculture): Snake. Pituo-
phis, from New Mexico (43396).

Reep, Rev. LurHer D., Jeannette, Pa.:
Liturgy “The Choral Book ”
(43334).

ReepDErR, Joun T., Calumet, Mich.: Speci-
men of copper with silver (44267).

Renn, Pau, Fallon, Mont.: Cretaceous
fossils (43717).

Revercuon, J., Dallas, Tex.: 5 plants from
Texas (44342). (See also under B. F.
Bush.)

Ricumonp, A. M., East Orange, N. J.:
Button given to the guests at the sixtieth
wedding anniversary celebration of Mr.
and Mrs. Richmond (43911).

Ricuter, Franz, Vienna, Austria: Greeco-
Egyptian encaustic portrait from graves
of Rubaiyat, Province of Fayum, Egypt
(43048: purchase, L. P. X).

Ricker, P. L., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: 119 mosses from
Maine and vicinity (43200: exchange) ;
plant from New Mexico, collected by
G. G. Hedgecock (43059: gift); 6 North
American mosses (44085: exchange).

Ricketts, H., Globe, Ariz.: 15 living cacti
from ‘Arizona (44331: gift; 44493: ex-
change).

Riweway, Roserr, U.S. National Museum:
3 birds’ skins from the eastern United

| States (43656).

| River, J. H.,‘U. S. National Museum: Bat,

Pipistrellus subflavus (43124: collected

for the Museum); 25 birds’ skins and 3

Service
LIST

mammal skins from Virginia (43553:
gift); skin of Baltimore oriole, Icterus
galbula (44508: gift).

Rina, J. H., Ferndale, Cal.: Skeleton and
3 photographs of a Beaked whale (Berar-
dius), stranded near Ferndale (43595,
44491).

OF ACCESSIONS.

Rio JANerRO, Brazit, Sourn AMERICA: |

Narionat Museum or Brazit (received
through Carlos Moreira): 25 crabs from
Brazil (44286: exchange).

Roapuouse, J. E., San Luis Obispo, Cal.:
Living plant from California (44437).

Rossins, G. Cottier, San Diego, Cal. (re-
ceived through F. W. Crosby): Copper
nugget from Lower California (43621).

Ropsins, R. H., Mena Ark.: Male Stag- |

beetle, Lucanus elaphus. Fabr. (44409).

Ropinson, SetH B., New York City: Me-
morial locket of Gen. George Washington
(44164: deposit).

Rosryson, Capt. Wirt, U. S. Army, Fort
Totten, N. Y.: 11 Lepidoptera, 3-Dip-
tera, and an orthopterous insect (438269) ;
Wheatear, Sazricola wnanthe leucorhoa
from Cuba, new to that island (44247); 14
Lepidoptera (44278).

Rocua, Francisco Dias pa, Ceara, Brazil,
South America: Galls and parasitic Hy-
menoptera from Brazil (42991).

Rocka, Hon. W. W., Washington, D. C.:
Musical instrument, lamp decorations,
and a cabinet from China (44174).

Ropcers, R. L. (See under Hon. Theo-
dore Roosevelt.)

Roesiine, W. A. (received through W. F.
Hillebrand): 15 zeolites from Moores Sta-
tion, N. J. (43596).

RoemMer-MusEuM. (See under
heim, Hanover, Germany.)

Rooms, A. E., superintendent of telegraph,

Hilders-

Southern Pacific Company, San Fran- |

cisco, Cal.: 12 telegraphic
one of the original telegraph keys used
in the first overland railroad telegraph

insulators; |

lines on the Central Pacific Railroad; |

section of telegraph pole from the origi-

inal telegraph line in the vicinity of Wads- |

worth, Nev. (43532).

RoosEveEtrT, THEopore, President of the
United States: Bombshell and minie
balls from the battlefield of Atlanta, to-
gether with a pamphlet and letter from
Mr. Robert L. Rodgers relating to them

YY

(43694): outfit of a Brazilian horseman,
consisting of a saddle, bridle, halter, 3
saddle blankets, lap robe, 2 girths, a bola,
horn, and lasso (43704); penrack and 2
penholders made from wood taken from
the floors of the homestead of Abraham
Lincoln at Springfield, Ill. (43714); col-
lection of ethnological objects from the
Philippine Islands, including a net used
by the natives to catch deer, aiguillettes
and
wooden cup and 2 dics, red woven silk
sash with gilt tassels, “ Borong,”’ or native

(silver silver cord), 5 cockspurs,

bolo, presented by ‘‘Momma”’ on behalf
of the Samal Moros, and native sash,
pieces of native cloth from the same source
(43839); 2 ash trays made from oyster
shells taken from Bay Adam, Louisiana
(43969).

Ross, J. N., U. S. National Museum: 100
plants, principally from Mexico (48044);
°100 plants (44011); 100 cacti (44128).
Collected for the Museum. (See
under F. Altamirano.)

Rose, J. N.and J. H. Parnrer,U.S. National
Museum: 276 plants from Pennsylvania
(43091: collected for the Museum).

Rosrroke, M., Scranton, Pa.: Aphideous
gall (43137).

Roru, Cuarves I., Bellingham, Wash.: 2
specimens of sandstone from quarries
at Bellingham (43604).

Roruees, D. A., Leaksville, Va.: Beetle,
Dynastes tityus Linn. (42960).

Row ey, R. R., Louisiana, Mo. (received
through R. S. Bassler): 200 Kinderhook
brachiopods from Louisiana, Mo. (43460).

Royat BorantcaAL GARDENS. (See under
Calcutta, India; and under Kew, Lon-
don, England.)

Royat BoranicaL Museum.
Berlin, Germany.)

Royat GEOGRAPHICAL Socrery, LONDON,
ENGLAND (received through the British
Royal Commission at the Louisiana Pur-
chase Exposition): Collection of framed
illustrations (44589).

Roya StAMESE CoMMISSION AT THE LOUIS-
IANA PurcHAsE Exposrrion: Collection
of lacquers, basketry, ete. (44420: pur-
chase); snakes, birds’ nests, mammals
(44424: gift); ethnological objects illus-
trating the social life of Siam (44425:
gift).

also

(See under
100 REPORT
Royat ZooLrocicaL AND ANTHROPOLOGI-
CAL-ETHNOGRAPHICAL Museum. (See

under Dresden, Germany.)

Rurrer, CLoupstEy. (See under Depart-
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of
Fisheries. )

SarrorD, Witi1AM E., Department of Agri-
culture, Washington, D. C.: 1,070 plants
(43163).

SANDBERG, J. H., and J. B. Lemerra.
under Department of ue TEL. )

Sanpers, B.L., Adamsville, Tenn.: Nest of
Orchard oriole, Icterus spurius (44208).

Sanps, W. A., Auburndale, Fla. (received
through N. R. Wood): Dragonfly (44276).

Sio Pauro, Museu Pavuistra (received
through H. von Ihering, director): 6
skins and skulls of bats (42953: gift); 37

" specimens of Vespoides (43424: exchange).

Sarpeson, F. W., Minneapolis, Minn.:
Specimen of the rare crinoid represent-
ing the species Cremacrinus punctatus
Ulrich from the Ordovician of Minnesota

(43665:

SarGent, R. H.,
(43965).

Savace, Rey. William R., Blowing Rock,
N. C. (received through J. D. McGuire):
Unfinished ceremonial stone (43365).

ScHAEFFER, CHARLES, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2
species of Vespoidea (48371).

(See

exchange).

Tombstone, Ariz.: 3 cacti

SCHALLER, W. T., Washington, D. C.:
Tourmalines from southern California

(43476: purchase).
ScCHIFFBAUER, Miss Minnis, Talklai, Ariz.
(received through Ales Hrdlicka): Metate,

rubbing stone and perforated stone disk |

from ruins near Rice Station school
(44440).

ScHLecHTER, Mr. (See under Dr. K.
Schumann. )

Scumip, E. 8., Washington, D. C.: Parrot,

Eclectus roratus, from the
(43060); received through George Mar-
shall, crab, Cardisoma (48085); 2 lizards,
iano and Anolis (43143); a golden
pheasant, Chrysolophus pictus (43746).

Scumipt, Prrer, Zoological Museum, Im-

perial Academy of Sciences, St. Peters-

burg, Russia: 7 species of fishes, viz,

Microstomus stelleri; Acanthopsetta nade-

Cottius-

Chlea

shuyi; Pseudoblennius elegans;

culus gonez; Podothecus thompsoni;

East Indies |

| SCHUCHERT, CHARLES.

ano and Hypoptychus dybowskii (48086). |

OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

ScHONLAND, S. (See under Grahamstown,
South Africa, Albany Museum.)

ScuHootcrarr, Mrs., Washington, D. C.:
About 100 plants from Michigan (43300).

ScuREINER, JAcoB, St. Petersburg, Russia:
24 species of Hymenoptera (43352); 15
Russian Hymenoptera (43568).

| Scouser, Mrs. E. W., Livingston, Mont.:

150 plants from Selkirk Mountains,

British Columbia (43976: purchase).

(See under Yale
University Museum.)

ScouMANN, K., Berlin, Germany: 1,646
plants from South Africa, collected by Mr.
Schlechter (43249: purchase).

Scuwas, E. H., Schulenburg, Tex.: Luna
moth, Tropxa luna Linn. (44161).

Scuwarz, E. A., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: 3,500 insects, chiefly
Coleoptera, from Cayamas, Cuba (44106).
(See also under Department of Agricul-
ture, and R. P. Currie.)

ScHwarz, KH. A., and H. S. Barger, U. S.
National Museum: 79 plants from Ari-
zona (44036: collected for the Museum).

Scotr, J. G.; Philadelphia, Pa.: Frond of
Asplenium ebenoides, obtained by R. R.
Scott (48448: exchange).

ScoveLt, J. T. (See under Department of
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish-
eries.)

ScrrpTuRE, E. W.
Institution.)

Scurtock, H. C., Washington, D. C.: Fe-
male skeleton of a  full-blood negro
(438582); skeleton and brain of a full-
blood negro woman (438616); skeleton of
an adult negro (43778).

Seat, W. P., & Son, Delair, N. J.: Cray-
fishes and shrimps (44110).

Senrr Expepirion. (See under Bashford
Dean.)

Seron-Karr, H. W., London, England (re-
ceived through Municipal School of Sci-
ence and Art, Tullie House, Carlisle, Eng- °
land): Two neolithic polished stone imple-
ments from Bundelkund, India (43489).

Seton, Ernest THompson, Cos Cob, Conn.
(received through Biological Survey, De-
partment of Agriculture, Washington, D.
C.): Two squirrel skins from Norway and
skins and skulls of 3 rabbits from Kansas
(42993); received through Department of
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisher-

(See under Smithsonian
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

ies, collection of batrachians from Mani-

toba (43801).

SewaLt, Harotp I., Washington, D. C.: |

Collection of Japanese and Chinese pot-
teries and porcelains, and Japanese lac-
quers; one piece of bronze, and one steel
sword guard (10548: loan).

Saw, C. H., Co'legeville, Pa.: 561 plants
collected in British Columbia (43961:

purchase).

Sepp, S. (See under Washington State
College.)

Sueppey Give aNnp CuemicaL Works |

(Lauren), London, England (received |

through British Royal Commission at the

Louisiana Purchase Exposition): Samples

of glues, chemicals, etc. (44558).
SHERMAN, CHARLES E., Lawrence, N. Y.: 4

small horsehair baskets made by the Fran- |

ciscan nuns at Linares, Chile (48858).

SHERMAN, FRANKLIN, Jr., Department of
Agriculture, Raleigh, N. C.: 14 butter-
flies (43927).

Sttvestri, Firrero, Portici, Italy: Collec-
tions of parasitic Hymenoptera (43089;
43505; 43821).

Smmions, H. J., Galveston, Tex. (received

through James Douglas): 2 ivory beads |
found in ballast pits at the mouth of Clear —

Creek, near Galveston (42988).

Srincer, G. P., Lock Haven, Pa.: Insect gall, |
Callirhytis seminator Harris, and a plant |

(Angelica) (44449).

Sisk PHarmacy, Andrews, N. C.: Chrysalis |

of a butterfly (44608).

Skip, F.J.V. (See under Field Columbian
Museum.) .
SLOAN, Ear.e.

Geological Survey.)

Smaty, J. K., New York Botanical Gar-
den, New York City: 7 cacti
Florida (43478).
of Agriculture.)

Smiry, Miss Bayarp, Baltimore, Md.: Sea- |

weed, skin of sea eel or moray, Channo-
murena vittata, from the coast of Cuba or
Bermuda; and a collection of ethnological

objects (44328: gift), collection of wear-

ing apparel of the Colonial period (10334:
loan).
Smitu, GkorRGE O. (See under Interior De-

partment, U. S. Geological Survey.)
Smiru, Jonn B., New Brunswick, N. J.: 7
parasitic Hymenoptera (42936; 43093); 8

(See under South Carolina |

from |
(See under Department |

101

authentic specimens of mosquito, Culex
pretans Grossbeck, bred from typical
larvee (44253).

SmitH, JoHN DonNELL, Baltimore, Md.: 2
plants (43690); 2 plants from Guatemala
(44064; 44180); specimen of Crescentia
cujete L., from Guatemala (44199). (See
under Smithsonian Institution.)

| SmirH, Roperr R., Devils Lake, Canada:

Spider, Menumena batia Clerck (42978).
| Smira, Samuer, Bureau of Engraving and

| Printing, Treasury Department, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 12 eggs of Colinus virgini-
anus (43227).
SMITHSONIAN [ystirutTion, Mr. 8. P. Lang-
ley, Secretary: Commemorative medal of
_ the fiftieth anniversary of the University
| of Wisconsin (438040). 2 horns from
Italy; 2 wooden shoes and a bronze Egyp-
tian statuette (43067); 2  fire-backs
(43286) ; bowlder (shell), 5-franc
piece, bronze medal, with the head of
Napoleon on the obverse, and a shell
(43309); 4 tombstones and a corner-
stone of the colonial period, also a horse-
shoe, evidently of the colonial period of
New York (43408, 44606); Chinese coin
sword ornament (43608): presented by
Gen. John Watts “de Peyster. Bronze
medal struck in commemoration of the
Bi-Centennial Jubilee of the Berlin
Academy of Sciences (43264):
_ ceived through the German ambassador.
Herbarium and botanical library, con-
| sisting of over 100,000 plants and over
1,500 books (43791): received from
John Donnell Smith. Phonograph voice
record of the Emperor of Germany, with
copper matrix (43934): presented by
E. W. Scripture, Phonetic Laboratory,
Berlin, Germany. 3 Langley aerodromes
(44336). Bones of mammoth, horse, etc.,
from Alaska, collected by A. G. Mad-
dren (44453). Bronze medal struck by
the order of the court of common coun-
cil to commemorate the visit of King
Edward VII and Queen Alexandra to the
city of London, October 25, 1902 (44497).
Transferred from the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, Mr. W. H. Holmes, chief:
Cherokee pot, obtained by purchase
from Gossett Boone, Cullowhee, N. C.
(43106) ; discoidal chunky stone of quartz-
ite and a perforated tablet of slate,

re=

102

obtained from M. \V.
Tenn. (48384);
illustrating researches on the heraldic

Hartwell, Clifton,
ethnological specimens

system of the Kiowa Indians, collected by
James Mooney, of the Bureau, in Okla-
homa and Indian Territory (43633); col-
lection of flint implements and quarry
rocks from Missouri, Tennessee, and Ilhi-
nois, obtained by Gerard Fowke, of the
Bureau of Ethnology (43826); collection
of Mexican relies, consisting of an obsidian
knife from San Pablo, District Texcoco,
Valley of Mexico; jadeite ornament from
decorated |
vase from Xoxo, and a small earthenware |

Xoxo, near Oaxaca, Mexico;

vessel, obtained by purchase through Mr. |
William Bauer, City of Mexico (43827);
24 charm stones from an ancient lake bed
in Sonoma County, Cal., obtained from
L. W. Stilwell, Deadwood,S. Dak. (43828) ;
ethnological objects from the Pueblo In-
dians, obtained by Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, |
of the Ethnological Bureau (48829); eth-
nological objects obtained by Lieut. G. T.
Emmons, U. 8. Navy, Princeton, N. J.,
from the Indian tribes of the Northwest
(43830); canoe models from the
Indian tribes of the Northwest coast, ob-
tained by E. A. Preble, of the Department
of Agriculture (43821); 152 stone imple-
ments from Pennsylvania, obtained from |
D. T. Hanley, Baltimore, Md. (438832) ;
ethnological objects from the Indian tribes
of the Northwest coast, obtained by |
John R. Swanton, of the Bureau of Eth-
nology (43833); Kiowa buffalo shield ob- |
tained from Fred. Harvey, Albuquerque, |
N. Mex. (43851); Indian bones from Sew- |
all’s Point near Norfolk, Va., collected by |
J. D. McGuire, of the Bureau of Eth- |
nology (44230); 20 large flint blades, part |
of a cache from mound in Montezuma vil-
lage, Pike County, Hl, obtained through
D. I. Bushnell and J. M. Wulfing, of St.
Louis, Mo. (44560). (See under Mrs. S. |
Bradford.) |
Transferred from the National Zoological |
Park, Dr. Frank Baker, superintendent: |
Skin of Angora goat, Capra hircus; skin
of Wallaby (Macropus ruficollis bennett)
and skin of Bandicoot rat, Perameles
(43310); Blue fox, Vulpes lagopus, hedge-
hog (Erinaceus europxus), Little spotted
skunk (Spilogale ringens?) (43311); 2

coast

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Parsonfinches and an Anhinga (Anhinga
anhinga) (43312); specimen of Spider-
monkey, <Ateles (43313); Snake-bird,
Anhinga anhinga, Flamingo, Phenicopte-
rus ruber, and Night heron, Nycticorar
griseus (43314); Golden eagle, Aquila
chrysxtos, Wood ibis, Tantalus loculator,
and Anhinga, Anhinga anhinga (43815);
Puma (felis concolor) (43316); Congo
snake, Amphiuma means (43317); 3 Gray
wolves, Canis occidentalis (43318); Giant
kingfisher, Dacelo gigas, Mountain part-
ridge, Oreortyx pictus, and Cariama, Cari-
ama cristata (43319); Black baboon, Cyn-
opithecus niger, and a fox (Vulpes lagopus)
(43320); Giant kingfisher, Green jay and
Anhinga (43321); Whitc-throated capu-
chin, and Baboon (48322); Ruffed lemur,
fox, lynx, and a puma (43323); fox, elk,
and Sooty mangaby (43324); Little blue
heron, Ardea czxrulea, California linnet
and Bittern (Botaurus — lentiginosus)
(43325) ; 2 foxes (Vulpes lagopus) (43326) ;
alligator (Alligator —_—- mississippiensis)
(43327): 3 Blue foxes (43328); 3 Blue
foxes and a Kit-fox (43329); Common
aguti, Dasyprocta aguti, end an Anhinga
(43488); Wild boar, Sus scrofa (43481);
49 animals (43482); Piping crow, Gym-
norhina, and a Cuban tree-boa, Hpicrates
angulifer ((43493) ; Rattlesnake, ibis, teal,
and 18 tropical cardinals (43538); Cyg-
nus olor and an unidentified bird (43547);
Kinkajou, — Cercoleptes —_ caudivolvulus
(43548); Cassowary, Casuarius galeatus
(43550); Green jay, Xanthoura luxuosa
(43563); skins of Aix sponsa and Bubo
virginianus (43642); skin of Black lemur,
Phalanger (Phalangista fuliginosa) and
Black-footed jackal, Canis mesomelas
(43643); 4 specimens of Canis dingo
(43644); specimen of Ateles geoffroyt,
Prong-horn antelope, Antilocapra ameri-
cana, and Harbor seal, Phoca vitulina
(43645); Roe deer, Capreolus caprea,
Great horned owl, Bubo virginianus,
Acouchy (Dasyprocta acouchy) (43646);
Sooty mangaby, Cercocebus fuliginosus
(43647); Dingo (Canis dingo) (43660);
skin of Dasyurus (43668) ; Toucon (43672) ;

Harbor seal (438673); skin of baboon
(438674) ; Urocyon cinerea argentatus
(43679); pigeon (43680); wood duck
(43686); Harbor seal, Phoca vitulina
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

(43697); tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens)
(43698); lion 43703); Cacomitl cat,
Felis cacomitli (43720); Bittern (Botaurus
lentiginosus) (43721); Ocelot (Felis par-
dalis) (43733); Tasmanian wolf, Thylaci-
nus cynocephalus (43750); — Raccoon
(Procyon lotor) (43751); 2 Great horned
owls, Bubo virginianus, and Blue-winged

teal, Anus discors (43752); 2 Blue foxes |

(43753); Olive agouti, Dasyprocta acou-
chy (43754); Bubo virginianus (43755);
hawk (43756); Nasua rufa, and a Jaguar
(Felis onca) (43785); King parrakeet,
Aprosmictus cyanopygius (43786); Roe
deer, Capreolus caprea and a Yellow-
shouldered amazon, Amazona ochroptera
(43787); Calopsittacus nove-hollandi
(43794); Common phalanger, T’richosurus
vulpecula (43795); Virginia deer, Odo-
coileus virginianus (43818); Blue-fronted
amazon, Amazona aestiva (43819); Cuban
parrot, Amazona leucocephala (43820);
Lynx (Lynx rufus maculatus) (43841);
Great blue heron, Ardea herodias, and
Dusky duck, Anas obscura (43842); 2
specimens of Capromys pilorides (43862) ;
2 specimens of Capromys pilorides (43863) ;
Western porcupine (Hrethizon epixan-
thum), and a Jaguar (Felis onca) (43864) ;
Dusky duck, Anas obscura (48865); Eyra
eat, Felis eyra (43866); Cypromys pilori-
des (43867); Louisiana heron, Ardea tri-
color ruficollis (43871);  Serval (Felis
serval) (43872); skin and skull of Felis
eyra (43886); Cuban deer (Odocoileus),
and Black lemur, Lemur macaco (43904) ;
Ardea herodias, and Ortalis vetula mc-
callii (43905); Trichosurus vulpecula
(43906); Bridled wallaby, Onychogale fre-
nata (43915); Hutia (Capromys pilorides)
and Rat kangaroo (43946); Red-ruffed
lemur, Lemur varius (48947); 2 speci-
of Capromys pilorides (43991);
Wood ibis, Tantalus loculator, and Mute

mens

swan, Cygnus gibbus (43992); — Black-
tailed deer, Odocoileus columbianus

(43993); 2 Swamp wallabys (Macropus) |

(43994; 44005); Mud hen (Ffulica ameri-
cana) (44042); Sloth bear, Melursus ursi-
nus (44043); Aoudad, Ovis tragelaphus
(44044); Sealed quail, Callipepla squa-
mata (44051); Banded rattlesnake, Cro-
talus horridus (44052); Rattlesnake, Cro-

talus adamanteus (44053) ; Green-wing teal,

SoutH CAROLINA

1038

Anas carolinensis (44054); 3 Lynx caracal
(44099) ; American bittern, Botaurus lenti-
ginosus (44100) ; Gopher (T'estudo carolina)
and Pine snake, Pituophis melanoleucus
(44101); Macaw, Ara macao (44112);
Daubenton’s curassow, Crax daubentoni
(44117); Canada lynx, Lynx canadensis
(44120); Arabian baboon, Papio hama-
dryas (44121); skin and skeleton of Bosel-
aphus tragocamelus (44148); Snowy owl,
Nyctea nyctea (44149); Hamster (44150) ;
Condor, Demoiselle crane and Golden eagle
(44189); Green-winged teal, Anas caroli-
nensis (44190); Rat kangaroo (44211);
Pine snake, Pituophis melanoleucus
(44222); Hawk and 2 specimens of Tan-

talus loculator (44271); Puffing lizard

(44272); Marten, Mustela americana
(44273); specimen of Boselaphus trago-

camelus (44274); Louisiana heron, Ardea
tricolor ruficollis, and Gopher snake, Spi-
lotes corais couperti (44275); Cacomistle,
Bassariscus astutus (44337); Coyote (Ca-
latrans) (44838); California par-
tridge, Callipepla californica and a parra-
keet (44339); Little blue heron, Ardea
cerulea and American bittern, Botaurus
lentiginosus (44340); Australian Thick-
nee, Oedicnemus grallarius (44388); 6
Blue foxes (44889);  Turdus musicus
(44390); Boa (Boa constrictor) and a Dia-
mond rattlesnake, (Crotalus adamanteus)
(44391);

nis

Vulpes lagopus and Mexican

agouti, Dasyprocta mexicana (44392);
specimen of Capromys pilorides (44498) ;
Buffalo (Bison americanus) (44499);
Black baboon’ (Cynopithecus niger)
(44500); 9 Cracticus torquatus (44512).

(See also under E. L. Moseley.)

Snyper, Dr. Evizasetn, Philadelphia, Pa.:

Fragment of ancient fabric from Antelope

Ruin, Canon del Muerto, Arizona
(43857).
Sommer, Kart E., Care Westinghouse

Electric Company, Pittsburg, Pa., J. G.
Sommer, H. O. Sommer, and H. Otto
Sommer,. Washington, D. C.: Collection
of relics of the battle of Gettysburg (9858:
loan).

SoreEE, Mosss, Dillon, Mont.: Specimens of

graphite (43492).

SURVEY,
Charleston, S. C. (received through Earle
Sloan): 25 lots of Cretaceous and Ter-

GEOLOGICAL
104

tiary washings for micro-organisms from
South Carolina (44290: exchange).

Sourna Merropotiran Gas Company, Lon-
don, England (received through British
Royal Commission at the Louisiana Pur-
chase Exposition): Samples of chemicals,
ete. (44557).

SOUTHWESTERN SLATE AND MANUFACTUR-
NG Company, Slatington, Ark. (received
through A. Danville, secretary): 3 speci-
mens of roofing slate (43514).

Sowersy & Furron, London, England |

(received through W. H. Dall): Speci-

Ceylon (?) (42942).
SPENCER, CHAPMAN & MEssEL, (LIMITED),
London, England (received through Brit-

ish Royal Commission at the Louisiana.
Purchase Exposition): Samples of chem-

icals (44555).

SperinG, Nathan.
man.)

SpraGuE, Ouiver H., Kendall, Wash.: 2
specimens of Lysias orbiculata (43101).

SquyEeR, Homer, Wibaux, Mont.: Minerals
and fossils from Montana (44055).

Sranton, T. W., U. S.-Geological Survey,
Washington, D. C.: 12. specimens of
echini and 200 marine shells from Alaska
(43699); about 500 marine mollusks from
Alaska (43812); 5 living plants (cacti)
from Colorado and 5 specimens of cacti
from New Mexico (44492, 44599). (See
under James Oliver.) :

Sranton, W. A., Jesuit College, Mauresa,
Spain, and also of the Philippine Weather
Bureau, Manila, P. I.:°47 specimens of
parasitic Hymenoptera (43009); 70
specimens of Naiad mollusks from Wis-
consin (43215).

SraRRETT, T. (See
Granite Company.)

Srate, DEPARTMENT oF: Portrait of the
Empress Dowager of China (43970).

Sreap, Davin G., Department of Fisheries,
Sydney, New South Wales: 4 photo-
graphs of fishes (43072).

Srearns, Ermer, Modesto, Cal.: Cacti and
seeds from California (43382, 48480,
43444: gift and exchange).

Srearns, R. E. C., Los Angeles, Cal.: Mol-

(See under C. W. Hick-

under

lusk (Kennerleyia grandis Dall) from
Santa Monica, Cal. (43295).
SrreLe, EK. S., Washington, D. C.: 430

| STEJNEGER,

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

plants from the District. of Columbia and
vicinity (43919, 43063, 44204, 44296).
(See under Department of Agricuture

and C. V. Grant.)

| SreinMetTz, F. C., Dayton, Ohio: Chrysalis

of a butterfly (Papilio or Danais) (44551).
Lronarp, and Gerrir S.
Mriter, Jr., U. S. National Museum:
Collection of mammals, birds, reptiles,
batrachians, plants, crustaceans, insects,
and mollusks from Europe (43260: col-
lected for the Museum).

| STEPHENS, FRANK, San Diego, Cal.: Fossils
mens of a new species of Rectidens from —

H. B. Ellis |

| Srosg, G. W.
| Srretcu, Ropert, West Seattle, Wash.:

|

from California, Phacoides nuttali Conrad
(44212).

Steuart, C. A., U.S. National Museum: 3
sponges (43535).

SrEvensoN, Mrs. M. C. (See under Smith-
sonian Institution, Bureau of American
Ethnology.)

Stewart, DoucGtas.
Museum.)

(See under Carnegie

| Srewarr, E. L., Starke, Fla.: 4 plants

(Galactia elliottii) from Florida (44476).

Stites, ArTraur, Victoria, Tex.: 10 living
plants, 16 cacti, and 6 specimens of
Mamillaria from Texas (43897, 43954 °
43986).

StTirweEti, L. W. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Eth-
nology.)

Sroxes, Miss Carouine P., New York City,
N. Y.: Desk used by Generals Grant and
Lee at Appomattox on April 9, 1865, and
6 letters and clippings relating to the sale
of the desk (43226, 43628).

Srotter, JAMES H., Union College, Sche-
nectady, N. Y.: Specimens of the crusta-
ceans Armadillidium quadrifrons Stoller
and Ligidium longicaudatum Stoller
(43917, 43923).

Srong, Wirmer, Philadelphia, Pa.: 51 speci-
mens of violets (43014: exchange).
(See under J. C. Hoyt.)

bred

Hymenopterous — parasites from

cocoons of Apanteles (44300).

| Srunpr, F. A., Portland, Oreg.: Mounted

specimen of pheasant (Phasianus torqua-
tus) from Oregon (44503); snake (Charina
botte) (44616).

Surer, Henry, Auckland, New Zealand: 2
alcoholic specimens of a mollusk (Trigonia
margaritacea Lam.) from Australia, eol-
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

lected at Port Western, Victoria, by J. H.
Gatliff (44131).

Swanton, J. R. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of American Eth-
nology.)

Swinaie, W.T., Washington, D.C.: 2 cacti
from Arizona (44094). (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture.)

Swinctg, Mrs. W. T., Washington, D.C.: 4
plants from California (44806).

TausortT, Mrs. Laura O. Washington, D. C.:
About 300 plants, including the collection
of the late Miss Julia A. Wilbur (43435).

Taussic, Mrs. Apotr, Washington, D.C.: 8 |

eggs of Parrakeet (Myopsittacus mona-
chus) (44618). :

Taytor, C. B., Rae Town, Kingston, Ja-
maica: 5 birds’ skins (Sicalis jamaicx)
and a set of eggs of Bullfinch (Melopyrrha
taylort) (44073).

* Taytor, Mrs. E. P., Thomasville, Ga.: 11
plants (42949, 43516). ;

Taytor, F.G. (See under W. J. Gardner.)

Tayrtor, Rev. G. W., Wellington, British
Columbia: 9 moths (44277).

Taytor, W. E., Norrolk, Va.: Little Black
Rail, Porzana jamaicens’s (43403).

Taytor, WILLIAM SrEwartT, Madison, Va.
(received through Lewis Lowry): Loon,
(Gavia imber), from Virginia (44374).

TerQuEM, M. Em. (See under French Com-
mission at the Louisiana Purchase Expo-
sition.)

THETFORD MINEs, Quebec, Canada _ (re-
ceived through B. J. Bennett, manager,
and collected by G. P. Merrill): Large
block of Serpentine with veins of asbes-
tos (43263).

TureBAup, Curtis B., Manvel, Cal.: Bat

(Corynorhinus macrotis pallescens) (43601). |

Tuompson, C. W., Greenback, Oreg. (re-

ceived through F. W. Crosby): Gold ores |

from Greenback mine (43149).
Tuomson, E. Burstem, Miami, Fla.: Mass
of worm tubes from Florida (44130).
TuHomson, G. M., Dunedin, New Zealand:
9 crustaceans (Anaspides) (43291).
THORNBER, J. J.
of Agriculture.)
Turockmorton, C. W., New York City:
Larva of a ‘‘Golden-eyed fly,’ Chrysopa
nigricornis (43798).

(See under Department |

15

Washington, D. C.): 3 plants from Texas
(43632); fishes (44546); Blue-tailed skink,
Eumeces quinquelineatus (44480).

Tuurston, C. O., Kingston, Pa.: 3 moths
(44000).

Tipestrom, I., Washington, D. C.: Fern
(Lygodium) from Maryland (43339).

Tircoms, J. W. (See under Bureau of Fish-
eries, Department of Commerce and La-
bor.)

Topin, Epwarp.
sell.)

Topp, Prof. J. E.
partment, U.S. Geological Survey.)

(See under George Has-
(See under Interior De-

Tracy, N. B., Auburn, Me.: Specimens of
minerals (43140); specimen.of lithia mica
from the mines of the Auburn Tourmaline
Company (43285); specimen of gold ore
from the mines of the Androscoggin Mill-
ing and Mining Company (43410).

Tracy, S. M., Biloxi, Miss.: 517 plants from
the Gulf coast (438126: purchase); 2 ferns,
Botrychium, from Mississippi (43341: gift).
(See under Department of Agriculture.)

Trask, Mrs. BLAncuHE, Avalon, Catalina Is-
land, Cal.: 6 specimens of marine mol-
lusks from Catalina Island (43241); 3 spec-
imens of marine shells from Avalon and a
specimen of seaweed (43700; 43920); 12
specimens of Cerostoma nuttalli Conr.,
from Catalina Island and a specimen of
Chiton (44038).

TREASURY DEPARTMENT (received through
R. B. Armstrong, Assistant Secretary):
Specimen of coral sand and 10 birds’ skins
from Lisiansky Island, Hawaiian group,
obtained by Capt. O. C. Hamlet of the
Revenue-Cutter Service (42984).

TRESSLER, Dorr, Meridian, Miss.: Beetle
(Dynastes tityus) (44015).

TroscHEL, A. P., Chicago, Ill.: 10 moths
(44139).

True, F. W., U.S. National Museum: Small
collection of fishes and crustaceans from
North Truro, Mass. (44322); 93 sheets of
plants from Provincetown, Corn Hill, and
Truro, Mass., small lot of insects from
the same localities, and a small lot of ma-
rine invertebrates from Corn Hill (44581).

True, R. H.
Agriculture.)

(See under Department of

Tuurow, F. W., Harvester, Tex. (received | TsucuipA, T., Misaki, Japan: Mammals from

through Department of Agriculture,

Japan (44563: exchange).
106

Tucker, E S., University of Kansas, Law-
rence, Kans.: 67 Coleoptera (43271: ex-
change).

Turner, H. W., Turlingua, Tex.: Specimen
of Terlinguaite from Marfa and Mariposa
Mining Company’s mines (43995).

Tyter, F. J., care Department of Agricul-
ture, Washington, D. C.: 248 plants from
Texas, received through J. H. Painter
(43898). (See under Department of Agri-
culture.)

TycLer, JAMES M.
erine Miles.)

Tyter, Mrs. Marre ALIcE.
“ Kilpatrick Collection.’’)

Unter, Puivie, Baltimore, Md.: 2 cotypes
of Homoptera, namely, Tibicens cruenti-

(See under

Jfera Uhler and 7. blaisdelli Ubler (44516). |
Urey, A. B., Los Angeles, Cal.: Sponge |

(44171).

Uxzicu, E. O., and R. S. Basszer, U. S. |
Geological Survey and U.S. National Mu- |

seum: Types of 25 species of fossils fig-
- ured in the Illustration Sheet, Columbia
Folio, No. 95, U. S. Geological Survey

(43609); types of 40 species of Tertiary |

ostracoda (43718).

Urricu, E.O. (See under Interior Depart-
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Uneer, C. W., Pottsville, Pa.: 245 fossil
plants (43128; 43367); fossil fern mate-
rial (43546). This collection of plants
from the Coal Measures in the southern

anthracite field replaces, in a large meas- |

ure, the types which were published by
Leo Lesquereux in 1858, but have unfor-
tunately been lost.
mens are therefore especially valuable as
topotypes. In connection with the col-
lection, Mr. Unger has also furnished the
National Museum with important Pale-
ozoic data for the correlation of the series

with the Coal Measure groups in other |

regions.

Unron Guass Company, Somerville, Mass.

Received through Julian de Cordova,
president. Collection of art glass made
by the company (48908).
Unirep States NATIONAL
following models were made in the An-
thropological Laboratory: Cast of bell of
the first church erected in St. Louis
(43185); casts of Zemes (43417); plaster
cast (bronzed) made from a plaster cast

(See under Miss Kath- |

Many of the speci- |

Museum: The |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

| reproduced from the death mask of Napo-
| leon I (43522); models of three Etruscan
tombs (43555); 7 casts of stone imple-
ments (43579); plaster casts of several
prehistoric stone and pottery objects
(43629); 2 plaster casts (one from the
death mask of Napoleon I and the other
from Houdon’s Washington (43675); 4
busts of American Indians (43728); plas-
ter casts of 20 stone implements from the
northwestern section of the United States
(43775); 6 plaster casts comprising a jade
tablet from Nicoya, Costa Rica; slate box
made by the Haida Indians; effigy vase

from Mexico; bear mother made by
_ the Haida Indians, obsidian cutlass,
}

painted burial vase (43783); 4 casts of
“great stone ax’’ lent by the Historica]
Society of Iowa; also cast of a copy of
double-grooved ax in D. T. Bushnell Col-
lection (43789); models of English pitch
pipe and Moki wooden flute (43800);
copy of tenor horn, and a copy of an
organ tuning pipe (bass) (43853); 2 mu-
sical instruments (43868); copy in plas-
ter of Keam vase in the Peabody Mu-
seum (43881); cast of double-grooved ax
(44030); model of temple of pyramids of
Mitla (44031); cast of first bell used on
the first church built in St. Louis (44045);
manikin of a Sioux chief (44387); model of
a light-house at Cleveland, Ohio (44481);
model of John Bull locomotive train and 2
models of the locomotive ‘‘ Grasshopper”
(44507).
University Museum, Ann Arbor, Mich.:
Batrachians (44014).
| VALENTINE, Mrs. S. M., Flatbush, Brooklyn,
N. Y.: Original daguerreotype of Da-
guerre and a diorama painting by Da-
guerre (10150: loan).
| Van Briceie Porrery Company, Colorado
Springs, Colo.: 9 pieces of pottery, col-
lected by Walter Hough at the Louisiana
Purchase Exposition (44422).
| Van Duzes, E. P., Buffalo, N. Y.: Received
through Department of Agriculture. Speci-
mens of 9 species of Australian Hemiptera,
Pentatomide (43909: exchange).
Varker, Miss M. G., Long Island N. Y.:
Plant and photographs of plant from Long
Island (42995).
_ Vassitiew, Ivan, Ministére de Agriculture
| et des Domaines, St. Petersburg, Russia.

|
|
}
LIST OF

Parasitic Hymenoptera (43395; 43497;
43716).

VaucHAN, F. E., New Haven, Conn.: 65
arrowheads from Michigan (43389); 6
arrowheads from Michigan or Arkansas
(43757); 12 arrow points from Arkansas
(44114). Exchange.

VaucHan, T. Wayxanp, U. S. National
Museum: 93 land and fresh-water shells
from Louisiana (44621).

VerDE Antico MarBLe Company, London,
England (received through Perey Clem-
ents, secretary): 3 unpolished pieces of
Thessalian marble (43773); one polished
hollow pedestal, from the Louisiana Pur-
chase Exposition (44294); and 6 three-
inch cubes, all from the quarries at La-
rissa, Greece (44602).

Vermont, HERBARIUM OF THE UNIVERSITY
or, Burlington, Vt. (received through

C. G. Pringle, curator): 222 plants from | __
| War DEPARTMENT:

Europe and Mexico (44473: exchange).

Verritt, A. E., Yale University, New Ha-
ven, Conn.: 5 specimens of corals (3 of
them fragments of types) (44293: ex-
change).

Verworn, Max, University of Géttingen,
Gottingen, Germany: 51 prehistoric stone
and bronze objects from Germany and
Italy (48784: exchange).

Vertu, C. G., U.S. consular agent, Padang,
Sumatra: 28 skins and skulls of mam-
mals (44147: purchase).

Victor Tatkinc Macurne Company, Cam-
den, N. J. (veceived through F. B. Middle-
ton): Victor Fifth Talking Machine and
28 Monarch records (44561).

Vienna, Austria: K. K. NatTuRHISTORI-
scHEsS HormuseEum (received through A.
Zahlbruckner): 200 plants (44235: ex-
change).

Viereck, H. L., Philadelphia, Pa.: 4 co- |

types of hymenopterous instect (Halictus
vierecki Craw.) (43836).

VREELAND, V. K. (See under New York
Botanical Garden.)

WaceEner, HE. A., Adjuntas, P. R.: 5 ferns
from Porto Rico (48340).

Warss, L. A., New Orleans, La.: Mammal,
reptiles, and seeds of plants (44067); fossil
shell, Cyprxa mus, variety bicornis Sower-
by (44228). :

Waire, M. B., Washington, D. C.: Plants
from the northern part of Illinois (43762);

NAT Mus 1905——8

ACCESSIONS. 107
specimen of Dudleya from California
(44203).

Watpron, C. R., Agricultural College, South
Dakota (received through C. V. Piper):
22 plants from North America (43648).

Wavpron, L. R., North Dakota Agricultural
College and Experiment Station, Agricul-
tural College, North Dakota: Spring-
tails, genus Jsotoma (43411).

Watt, Wittram A., Magnolia, Ark.: Mole-
cricket, Gryllotal pa borealis Burm. (43138).

Wa.irinesrorp, W. W., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Union veteran badge (43509).

Watrer, Georce W., Washington, D. C.:

-Original manuscript of the “ Blackbird,”
as sung by Mr. W. F. Farish (44072);
sheet manuscript of ‘The Blackbird,”’ as
sung by Mrs. G. W. McMillan (44029).

Warsourton, C. W.
ment of Agriculture.)

(See under Depart-

Bureau of Insular Affairs (received
through Col. C. R. Edwards, Chief):
Copy of an “Album of  Philip-
pine types—Christians and Moros”
(45051).

Bureau of Ordnance (received through
Brig. Gen. William Crozier, Chief): 2
United States magazine rifles of
the 1903 model, from the Spring-
field Armory (43132); Gatling gun,
wrought-iron Spanish gun, collection
of artillery projectiles, also cannon,
mortars, rifles, carbines, revolvers,
etc., from the Rock Island Arsenal
(44541; 44542).

Military Information Division (received
through Maj., William D. Beach, Gen-
eral Staff): Breech-loading Fergu-
son rifle, formerly owned by Gen.
John Watts de Peyster (44501).

Warp’s NaTuRAL SCIENCE EsTABLISHMENT,
Rochester, N. Y.: Invertebrates from
Swan Island, Maine (gift); 24 bats from
the oriental region (44604: purchase).

Ware, Roserr A., Boston, Mass.: European
ferns (43739). :

WASHBURNE, CHEsTER. (See under De-
partment of Agriculture.)

WasHineton Srate Couiiece, Pullman,
Wash. (received through S. Shedd): 30
specimens of building stones (43025: ex-
change).
108

Warers, C. E., Washington, D. C.: 4 ferns |

(43635: exchange).

Warxnins, W. G., Placerville, Cal.: Fern,
Cheilanthes from California
(43019).

Watson Macutnre Company, Paterson, N.J.:
Plant from East Africa (43585: deposit).

WauGuraL, Parr, Paradise, Ariz.: 2 skins
and skulls of bats (48277).

Wess, H. G.
Company. )

Wess, J. B., Standard Lime Company,
Kendrick, Fla.: Cast of fossil shell from
Kendrick (44162).

Weser, L. R., Eureka Springs, Ark.: Speci-

coopere,

(See under Passmore Gem

men of needle calcite (43558) ; 2 specimens |

of calcite from Arkansas (48719).

Wessrer, Rey. E. H., Waiuku, Auckland,
New Zealand: 2 mollusks (Paryphanta
hochstetteri Pfr.) New
(43030).

from

Weep, W. H., U. S. Geological Survey, |

Washington, D. C.: Rock specimens from
Minas Prieto, Sonora, Mexico (43303:
deposit). (See under Interior Depart-
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.)

Weicet, H., Reading, Pa. (received through |
Department of Agriculture): Plant from |

Pennsylvania (43197).

Wetcu, Mr., Washington, D. C.: 1,000

pounds of granite from Milford, Mass. |

(43307).

WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND, COLONIAL

Museum (received through A. Hamilton, |

curator): 17 mounted birds from New
Zealand (44404: exchange).

WERCKLE, C., Cartago, Costa Rica, Central
America: 42 plants from Costa Rica
(44008; 44185; 44344; 44346; 44479).

Wertz, E. 8. (no address given): Albumen
print, made in 1873 (portrait of a lady)
(42945).

West, Lieut. Col. F., U.S. Army, Oklahoma
City, Okla.: Cactus from Texas, received
through Brig. Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U.S. A.,
retired (44200).

Western Cotorapo ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, |
Grand Junction, Colo.: 4 phyllopod crus- |

taceans (43256).

WesterN Union TELEGRAPH COMPANY,
New York City (received through J. C.
Barclay, assistant general manager); pre-
sented through the president, R. C.
Clowry): Relay used at Fort Sumter at

Zealand |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

the time of the siege, also home-made
| sounder, and a pair of ‘“‘bear-trap”’ poles
(43225).

WertnueriL1, W., St. Louis, Mo.: Haida In-
dian plate; 2 Ute saddle pockets; 2 Win-
| _nebago carrying bags and a Zufi water
| jar (43879: purchase. L. P. X.).
| Wueraton, Mrs. Marta B., Washington,

-D. C.: Personal relics of Col. Alexander
Macomb Mason Bey, known in Egypt as
“Mason Bey,’’ who was in the service of
the Khedive for over thirty years, and
who had the rank of colonel in the Egyp-
tian army—Egyptiansword; belt; sword-
knot; 3 decorations; Turkish coin, and
a photograph of “Mason Bey” (10027:
loan).

WHEELER, CHares S., Washington, D. C.:
Bond of North Carolina, late Confederate
States (44496: exchange).

| WHEELER, D. B., Washington, D.C.: Snake,
Agkistrodon contortrix, from Langley, Va.
(44280).

Wuirer, Davin, U. S. Geological Survey,
Washington, D. C.: Lichen from Cali-
fornia, collected by F. G. Plummer
(43176). (See under G. M. Bradford and
I. C. White.)

Wuire, G. E., Anatolia College, Marsovan,
Turkey: Anatolian pottery fragments
(44514).

| Wuire, I. C., Morgantown, W. Va. (received

through David White): Fossil plant re-

mains from the provinces of Sao Paulo and
| Sao Catherina, Brazil (43848); eruptive
rocks from southern Brazil (43974).
Wuirr, Witit1am C., Warm Springs, Va.:
Long-sting, Magarhyssa atrata Fabr.
(43156).

| Wuaireman, J. W.
of Agriculture.)

Wicxnam, H. F., lowa City, lowa: 2 Hymen-
optera (43223).

| Wixpur, J. A. (See under Mrs. Laura O.

Talbott.)

| Witcox, GLenn A., Tucson, Ariz. (received
through Brig. Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S.
Army, retired): 88 plants from Arizona
(44311; 44324; 44365; 44575).

Witcox, Giover B., Los Angeles, Cal.:
Harpoon toggle head, from near Nome,
Alaska, (43758).

Wiroox, Brig. Gen. T. E., U. S. Army (Re-

(See under Department

tired), Washington, D. C.: 4 plants from
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

near Vancouver Barracks (43170); 5 |
plants from Arizona, Nebraska, and Idaho
(43248); 7 plants from Alaska, Arizona,
and other localities (43272); 8 plants from —
various localities (43292); tusk of a mam- _
moth and bones of a specimen of Cervus
warreni (43529); specimen of copper ore |
(43530); 10 cacti from Grand Canyon |
(44177); 5 cacti from Oklahoma (44178); |
cactus from Oklahoma, collected by Mr.
Moors (44205); plants, principally cacti,
from California and Arizona (44241);
plant from Washington (44343). (See |
also under A. H. Andrews; Capt. R. B. |
Bryan, U.S. Army; Major D. D. Gaillard,
U. S. Army; Dr. R. B. Grubbs, U. S.
Army; Lieut. Col. F. West, U.S. Army;
G. A. Wilcox; Col. W. D. Wolverton, U.S.
Army.) |

Wivp_er, C. M., Riverside, Cal.:3 plants from
California (44538).

Wiixinson, E., Mansfield, Ohio: Mollusk
(Chlorostoma luctuosa Orb.) (42931); 7
plants from Ohio (43358). |

Wriitcox, JosepH, Philadelphia, Pa.: 57
mollusks (Ampullaria and V wipara) from
Florida (43811); 120 specimens of Ampul-
laria from near Lake Okechobee, Florida
(44216).

Witurams, D. W., Jackson, Ohio: Catalpa-
sphinx caterpillar (43032); 3 case-worms
Thyridopteryx ephemerxfomies Stephens)
(43173).

WILLIAMSON, E. B., Bluffton, Ind.: 24 mol-
lusks, Unionide, from Kentucky (43242) ;
5 specimens of Unionide from the South-

ern States (43337); about 10 crayfishes
(44607). |
Wuiu1amson, T. M., Erie, Pa.: Photograph of |
a wheel-lock pistol (43707: exchange).
Wituison, Mrs. A., Ramsey, Mo.: 2 human
teeth (43560).
Witson, Hon. JAMEs.
ment of Agriculture.)
Wincate Frank, Woodside, Long Island, |
N. Y.: 2 plants (43002: exchange). |
Winturop, Governor, Beekman, San Juan,
P. R. (received through A. H. Frazier,
secretary): Tooth of a fossil shark, prob-
ably representing a species of Carcharodon
(43471).
Wisconsin, UNIvERsITy or. (See under |
Smithsonian Institution.)

|
|
(See under Depart- |

109

Wise, Isapor (received through F. W.
Clarke, U. S. Geological Survey): Speci-
men of carnotite in supposed fossil wood
from Green River, Utah (43475).

Wo tre, Mrs. J. C., Lodge Pole, Nebr.: 19
flint chips (43676).

Wo tverton, Col. W. D., U. S. Army (Re-
tired), Vancouver, Wash. (received
through Brig. Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S.
Army, Retired): 2 photographs of spruce
trees, Picea breweri (43776).

Woop, Maj. Gen. Leonarp, U. S. Army,
Zamboanga, Philippine Islands (received
through Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army):
Male Nicobar pigeon, Calenas nicobarica,
from a small island between Mindanao and
Sulu (48655); 2 skins of Nicobar pigeon
from the Philippine Islands (44318).

Woop, N.R., U.S. National Museum: About
85 bird lice and a mouse (43347); Kildeer
plover, Oxyechus vociferus (43394); male
Ruffed grouse, Bonasa wumbellus, with
prominent black “ruffs,” and pair of Bob-
white, Colinus (43732) ;
Weaver’s shuttle (See under
W. A. Sands.)

WoopwortH, F. A., Pacific Grove, Cal.: 2
mollusks, types of recently described spe-
cies (44058).

Woopvortu, V. M., Eckley, Oreg.: Speci-
men of gold-bearing antimonial ore from
the eastern side of Mount Bray, Coos
County, Oreg., collected by F. W. Crosby
(43071).

Wooron, E. O., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.: 51
cacti from New Mexico (43011; 43111;
43165; 43179: gift); 20 plants from New
Mexico (43045; 43096; 43151: gift); 24
cacti from New Mexico (43939: exchange) ;
2 specimens of prickly pear (Opuntia)
from New Mexico (43949: exchange).
.(See under Department of Agriculture.)

Worcester, Hon. DEAN C. (See under Ma-
nila, Philippine Islands, Government Lab-
oratories.)

WorrtueEn, C. K., Warsaw, II].: White peli-
ean, Pelecanus erythrorhynchus (44612:
purchase).

Wricut, A. H., Cornell University, Ithaca,
N. Y.: Snake from Ithaca (44502).

Wricut, W. G., San Bernardino, Cal.: 2
snails, Limax maximus, from San Bernar-
dino (43010),

virgimianus

(44144).
110

Wu rine, J. M. (See under Smithsonian In-
stitution, Bureau of American Ethnology).

Wurztow, H., Industry, Tex.: 10 living
plants (44369; 44485).

Wyman, Watter C., Chicago, Ill.: George
Washington medal (43202).

Yate Universiry Museum, New Haven,
Conn. (received through Charles Schuch-
ert): Collection of Triceratops material
(43074: exchange); series of Favosites for-
besi from near Waldron, Ind. (43422:
gift); plastotype of Prestwichia signata
Beecher (48500: gift).

Yeates, W.S., State geologist, Atlanta, Ga.: |

Specimens of prehistoric pottery and im-

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

plements from a cave near McDaniel,
Pickens County, Ga., and a leaf-shaped
spearhead of chalcedony from Cherokee
County, N. C. (438037).

YounG, Miss M. E., Alexandria, Va.: 2 hu-
man teeth (third dentition at the age of 70
years) (43480: exchange).

Youna, R. T., Boulder, Colo.: Reptiles and
batrachians from Colorado (43385).

ZAHLBRUCKNER, A. (See under Vienna,
Austria, K. K. Naturhistorisches Hof-
museum. )

ZOOLOGICAL MusruM.
hagen, Denmark.)

(See under Copen-
A LIST OF THE PUBLICATIONS OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
DURING THE FISCAL YEAR 1904-5, INCLUDING PAPERS PUB-
LISHED ELSEWHERE WHICH RELATE TO THE COLLECTIONS.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM.

ANNUAL REPORT.

Annual Report | of the | Board of Re-
- gents | of the | Smithsonian Institution,
| showing | the operations, expenditures,
and condition | of the Institution | for
the | year ending June 30, 1903. | — |

Report | of the | U. S. National Museum.
[Seal] Washington: | Government Print-
ing Office. | 1905.

8vo., pp. I-XV, 1-646, pls. 69, text figs.
120.

BULLETINS.

The Birds | of | North and Middle Amer-
ica: | A descriptive catalogue | of the |
higher groups, genera, species, and sub-
species of birds | known to occur in North
America, from the | Arctic Lands to the
Isthmus of Panama, | the West Indies and
other islands | of the Caribbean sea, and
the | Galapagos Archipelago. | By | Rob-
ert Ridgway, | Curator, Division of Birds.

|— | Part III. | Family Motacillidae—
The Wagtails and Pipits. | Family Hi-
rundinide—The Swallows. | Family Am-
pelide—The Waxwings. | Family  Pti-
logonatide—The Silky Flycatchers. |
Family Dulide—The Palm Chats. |
Family Vireonide | The Vireos. | Family
Laniide—The  Shrikes. | Family — Cor-
vide—The Crows and Jays. | Family
Paride—The Titmice. | Family — Sit-
tide — The Nuthatches. | Family Cer-

PAPERS PUBLISHED

thiide—The Creepers. | Family Troglo-
dytidee—The Wrens. | Family Cinclidae—
The Dippers. | Family Chamzida—The
Wren-Tits. | Family Sylviide — The
Warblers. | — | Washington: | Govern-
ment Printing Office | 1904. |

Bulletin 50, Part III, 8 vo., pp. I-XX,

1-801, pls. I-XIX.

Smithsonian Institution | United States

National Museum. | Contributions | from
the | United States National Herbarium
| Volume TX | — | The Useful Plants of
the Island of Guam | with an introductory
account of the | physical features and
natural history of the island, of the |
character and history of its people, and |
of their agriculture. |— | By William
Edwin Safford. | [Seal] Washington: |
Government Printing Office. | 1905. |
8 vo., pp. 1-416, pls. I-LXX.

IN SEPARATE FORM.

FROM THE REPORT FOR 1903.

Report upon the condition and progress of
the U. S. National Museum during the
year ending June 30, 1903. By Richard
Rathbun. pp. 1-174.

Report on the Department of Anthropology
for the year 1902-3. By Otis T. Mason.
pp. 51-60.

Report on the Department of Biology for
the year 1902-3. By Frederick W. |
True. pp. 61-82.

Report on the Department of Geology for |

the year 1902-3. By George P. Merrill.
pp- 83-90.

The United States National Museum: An

account of the buildings occupied by the
national collections. By Richard Rath-
bun. pp. 177-309, pls. 1-29.

Studies of museum and kindred institutions

of New York City, Albany, Buffalo, and
Chicago, with notes on some European
institutions. By <A. B. Meyer. pp.
311-608, pls. 1-40, figs. 1-120.

111
No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

. 1382.

- 1888.

1384.

. 1385.

1386.

. 1388.

. 1389.

1390.

1391.

1392.

1393.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

FROM VOLUME 28, PROCEEDINGS OF THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

A treatise on the acarina, or
mites. By Nathan
pp. 1-114, figs. 1-201.

Notes on Hawaiian reptiles from

Banks. |

|
|

the island of Maui. By Rich-
ard C. McGregor. pp. 115-
118.

Labracinus the proper name |

for the fish genus Cichlops.
By Theodore Gill. p. 119.
Note on the genus Prionurus or
Acanthocaulos.
Gill.” p. 121.
Description of a new species of fish
(Apogon evermanni) from the
Hawaiian Islands, with notes
on other species.

By David |

By Theodore |

Starr Jordan and John Otter- |

bein Snyder. pp. 123-126.
species of Hymenoptera from
the Philippine Islands. By
Williant H. Ashmead.
127-158, pls. 1, 1.

ammodytoid fishes.
dore Gill.
1-4.

The (Odonata)
Burma and Lower
Subfamily Calopterygine.
Edward Bruce
pp. 165-187, figs. 1-18.

On the Liparis (Trismegistus)
owstoni Jordan and Snyder.
By Peter Schmidt. pp. 189-
191, figs. 1, 2.

On a collection of fishes made in

By Theo-

dragonflies

Korea, by Pierre Louis Jouy,
with descriptions of new spe- |

| No.

cies. By David Starr Jordan
and Edwin Chapin
pp. 193-212, figs. 1-11.
The Mount
By Wirt

217, pls. 11, 1v-

Vernon
213-

Tassin.

pp.

The scorpenoid fish, Neosebastes

entaxis, as the type of a dis-
tinct genus. By Theodore Gill.
pp. 219, 220, figs. 1, 2.

pp. 159-163, figs.

of |
Siam.—l . |
By |
Williamson. |

meteorite. |

7. Descriptions of new genera and

pp. |
| No.

On the systematic relations of the |

| No.

Starks. |

No. 1394. Note on the genera of synan-

No.

No.

No.

No.

1395.

. 1396.

1397.

. 1398.

1399.

1400.

. 1401.

1402.

1403.

1404.

ceine and pelorine fishes.
Theodore Gill.
fig. 1.

Cambrian Brachiopoda, with de-
scriptions of new genera and
species. By Charles D. Wal-
cott. pp. 227-337.

On the generic characteristics of
Prionotus stearnsii. By Theo-
dore Gill. pp. 339-342, figs.
1-4.

Three new frogs and one new

By
pp. 221-225,

gecko from the Philippine
Islands. By Leonhard Stejne-
ger. pp. 343-348.

Descriptions of new species of
tortricid moths, from North
Carolina, with notes. By
William Dunham  Kearfott.
pp. 349-364.

Note on the salmon and trout of
Japan. By David Starr Jor-
dan. pp. 365, 366.

Descriptions of a new genus of
Tsopoda belonging to the family
Tanaidz, and of a new species
of Tanais, both from Mon-
terey Bay, California. By
Harriet Richardson. pp. 367—
370, figs. 1-13.

A critical review of the literature
on the simple genera of the

Madreporaria Fungida, with
a tentative classification. By
T. Wayland Vaughan. pp.

371-424.

Descriptions of new genera and
species of mammals from the
Philippine Islands. By Ed-
gar A. Mearns. pp. 425-460.

On a collection of Orthoptera from
southern Arizona, with de-
scriptions of new species. By
Andrew Nelson Caudell. pp.
461-477, figs. 1-6.

North American parasitic cope-
pods belonging to the family
Caligide. Part I.—The Calig-
ide. By Charles Branch Wil-
son. pp. 479-672, pls. V-xXxIx,
figs. 1-50.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 1138
No. 1405. Notes on mammals collected and | North. By R. MacFarlane.
observed in the Northern Mac- | pp. 673-764, pls. xxx-xxx1v,
kenzie River district, North- figs. 1, 2.
west Territories of Canada, | No. 1406. Description of a new toad from
with remarks on _ explorers Cuba. By Leonhard Stejne-
and explorations of the far ger. pp. 765-767, figs. 1-6.

FROM BULLETIN 39.

Part R. Directions for collecting information and specimens for physical anthropology.

By Ales Hrdlicka. pp. [1}{25], pls. 1-vmt.
FROM VOLUME 8 OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM.
Part 4. Studies of Mexican and Central American plants. By J.N. Rose. pp. 281-339,

pls. 63-72, figs. 14-19.

CLASSIFIED LIST OF PAPERS BY OFFICERS AND COLLABORATORS OF
THE MUSEUM, BASED WHOLLY OR IN PART UPON THE NATIONAL
COLLECTIONS.

GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY. DALL, Witt1am Heatey—Continued.
Sie Reviews the relations of the beds in Mary-
MERRILL, Grorce P. On the origin. of | land with those of Virginia and of Europe,
veins of asbestiform serpentine. and concludes that the nearest allied European
Bull. Geol. Soc. America, Xv1, March 10, | series is the Miocene of North Germany. The
1905, pp. 131-126, pls. 33, 34. American material studied is largely in the
Describes the mode of occurrence of the National Museum.
fibrous material, and ascribes the formation |
of the vein cavities to shrinkage. —— Notes on the fossils of the Baha-
Gold and its associations. | mas.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LXXIx, Science (new series), XXI, No. 532, Mar. 10,
No. 21, May 25, 1905, p. 992. 1905, pp. 390, 391.
Gives a list and brief description of collec- | Abstract of address on the subject before
tion in the Department of Geology, National | the Geological Society of Washington Feb. 8,

Museum, showing the association of gold with 1905.

other minerals. 2 :
Volupia-rugosa Defrance.

Stone. | Paleontologia Universalis, Laval, 1905.
Report on Mines and Quarries, Twelfth | A summary account, with figures, of the
Census, 1902 (Washington, 1905), pp. fossil shell above mentioned, of which cotypes
785-835, 15 plates. were given to the Museum in exchange for the
The paper gives statistics and » summary | labor involved in preparing the above notice.

of the stone industry for 1902.
TASSIN, Wirr. The Mount Vernon me- | GILL, Turopore. Extinct pediculate and
other fishes.

teorite.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1392, Science (new series), Xx, No. 520, Dee. 16,
Feb. 23, 1905, pp. 213-217, pls. 3, 4. 1O0E DB. 835, S40.
A description of the mass with the separa- The Eocene Mount Bolea Histionotus bassani

of Zigno has been recently renamed Histiono-
tophorus bassani by C. R. Eastman and
referred to the family Lophiide. It is now
contended that the extinct fish was nearly
PALEONTOLOGY. related to, and possibly congenerie with, the

5 Pterophryne histrio, and consequently was a
BASSLER, R.S. (See under E. O. Ulrich.) member of the family Antennariide.

tion and analysis of its mineral constituents,
together with its approximate percentage
composition. -

DALL, Wituiam Heatey. The relations of | Another Mount Bolea fish, named Crenila-
* si brus or Symphodus szajnochz, it is claimed,

the Miocene of Maryland to that of other | does not even belong to the same family as
regions and to the recent fauna. Crenilabrus or Symphodus. Its affinities
Maryland Geological Survey, Miocene, | appear to be rather with the Berychids, and

Oct., 1904, pp. CXXXIX-CLY. anew genus (Bradyurus) is proposed for it.
SCHUCHERT, CuHartes.

SMITH, Grorece Orts.

114

KNOWLTON, Frank Hau. Fossil plants
from Kukak Bay.

Harriman Alaska Expedition, tv, 1904,
pp. 149-162, pls. XXTI-X XXIII.

The collection from Kukak Bay on the
Alaska Peninsula, a little north of west from
Kadiak Island,contained twenty-seven forms,
nine of which are described by Mr. Knowlton
as new to science. The beds from which the
specimens were obtained are referred to the
Upper Eocene.

On Siluric and

Devonic Cystidea and Camarocrinus.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvil, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 2, Nov. 4, 1904, pp. 201-272,
pls. 34-44, text, figs. 21-44.

This important article is by far the most
extensive paper on American Cystidea yet
published and is practically a monograph of
the Silurian and Devonian representatives of
this class. Notes on the occurrence of these
fossils, their preparation for study, and on
the geologic section at the chief locality, near
Keyser, W. Va., precedes the description of
genera and species. Under the class Carpoi-
dea the genus Anomalocystites and the two
species 4. cornutus and A.? disparilis are dis-
cussed and figured. The Cystoidea proper are
represented by 11 genera and 26 species, all of
which are described and figured in detail. Of
these, two genera, Vetracystis and Trime-
rocystis, are new, and 12 of the species are
described for the first time.

The article coneludes with a discussion of
the peculiar genus Camarocrinus in which
the author comes to the conclusion that
Camarocrinus ‘‘appears to be the float of an
unknown crinoid that was held together after
the death of the individual by the firmly inter-
locked double walls of the exterior and inte-
rior,while the crown and stalk dropped away...’
Three species and one new variety of Camaro-
crinus are described and figured. With the
exception of two or three specimens, all of the
material upon which this article is based is in
the collections of the U. 8S. National Museum.

(See under David

White.)

TRUE, Freperick W. Diagnosis of a new
genus and species of fossil sea lion from the
Miocene of Oregon.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, 111, pt. 1, May 13, 1905, pp. 47-49.

ULRICH, E. O. Miocene Hydrozoa of
Maryland.
Maryland Geol. Surv.,
pp. 433-438, pl. 121.

In this chapter of the Miocene volume of the
Maryland Geological Survey, the new genus
Milleaster is instituted and the following new
species are described: Milleaster incrustans,
M.? subramosa, and Hydractinia multispi-
nNosa.

Miocene, 1904,

VAUGHAN, T. WayLanp.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

ULRICH, E. O., and BASSLER, R.S. A

revision of the Paleozoic Bryozoa. Part
II. On the genera and species of Tre-
postomata.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVII, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 1. No. 1470, Aug. 6, 1904, pp.
15-55, pls. 6-14.

As indicated by the title, this is a revision
of the Paleozoic trepostomatous Bryozoa, a
very abundant and important group of the
Paleozoic fossils. Two new divisions are
instituted for this order, namely, the Amal-
gamata and Integrata, based on the minute
structure of the zooecial walls. Whenever
necessary the old genera are redefined or
limited, while the following new genera are
proposed: Orbignyella, Cyphotrypa, Stigma-
tella, Rhombotrypa, Calloporina, and Ana-
phragma. In order to illustrate the generic
characters or to bring out new features other-

wise, 35 species are described or figured.

——— Miocene Ostracoda of Maryland.

Maryland Geol. Surv.,
pp. 98-139, pls. 35-38.
In this chapter of the Miocene volume issued
by the Maryland Geological Survey, the Ostra-
coda of this State are treated monographic-
ally. Forty new species and varieties are
deseribed and figured, distributed as follows:
Cythere, 24 species and 6 varieties; Cythereis,
1 species and 1 variety; Cytheridea, 2 species;
Cytheredeis, 5 species, and Cytheropteron, 1
species.

Miocene, 1904,

Miocene Bryozoa of Maryland.
Maryland Geol. Surv., Miocene, 1904, pp
404-429, pls. 110-118.

This chapter treats of the Miocene Bryozoa
of Maryland. Twenty-nine species of Chilo-
stomata and 3 of Cyclostomata are described
and figured.

Anthozoa.

Maryland Geol. Surv., Miocene,

pp. 438-447, pls. CXXII-CXXIX.

tives an account of the Miocene Madre-
poraria of Maryland and Virginia. Astran-
gia conradi is described asnew. ‘This paper
contains several glaring misprints, the
worst of which is the substitution of the
family name Cyathophyllide forCaryophyl-
lide. In the explanation of pl. cxxu1, the
word abnormal has been changed to normal.

1904,

—___— A critical review of the literature on

the simple genera of the Madreporaria

Fungida, with a tentative classification.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1401,
May 10, 1905, pp. 371-424.

Reviews the previous work on the simple
Fungid corals and proposes a tentative clas-
sification. Four families, Fungiidae, Micra-
baciidae (new). Leptophylliidae (new name) ,
and Anabraciidae are recognized. The data
concerning 12 genera were insufficient for
referring them to any of the established fam-
WAUGHAN, T. WayLtanp—Continued.

WALCOTT, Cuartes D. Cambrian Bra-

WHITE, Davin.

——— Fossil plants of the group Cycado-

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

ilies. The original description of each genus
is given, wherever possible the type species
was determined, and a historie sketch of the
increase in the knowledge of the genus is given.
Antilloseris (p. 390), type species Turbino-
seris eocenica Duncan, and Physoseris (p.
396), type species Trochosmilia insignis
Duncan, are described as new.

chiopoda with descriptions of new genera

and species.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No, 1395,
Feb. 17, 1905, pp. 227-337.

In this paper Doctor Walcott continues his
studies of the Cambrian Brachiopoda. He
defines 29 genera and subgenera of which the
following are new: Otusia, Nisusia, Jame- |
sella, Eostrophomena, Orusia, Finkelnburgia,
Loperia, Swantonia, Iphidella, Rustella, Cur- |
ticia, Quebecia, and Schuchertina. Descrip-
tions of many new species and varieties are
given, and a number of old species are rede-
scribed. ;

The seeds of Aneimites.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar.
issue, I, pt. 3, No. 1550, Dec. 10, 1904,

pp. 322-331, pls. XLVI, XLVIII.

This paper contains descriptions and fig-
ures of a new type of seed— Wardia—found by
the author in organic connection with the
fronds of a new species of Aneimites (includ- |
ing Adiantites of author’s) described as A. |
fertilis. Associated with the seeds and frag-
ments of fronds, though not yet seen in actual |

~ union with the latter, are small fragments of
attenuated pedicils bearing very delicate,
minute, dichotomous appendages, at the
apices of which are thickened bodies re- |
garded as possible pollen-bearing organs of |
the Aneimites. Aneimites fertilis, which is
the third of the Paleozoic filicoid genera is
found to be seed-bearing and the second to be
discovered with seed and frond united, rep-
resents a type of frond not previously sus-
pected of being other than a fern which, in
fact, it exactly resembles. The discovery of
the seeds shows it to be very distinct from the
ferns and necessitates its reference to the
Cycadofilices or Pteridosperms, where it is
placed by the writer in an order designated
as the Lyginodendrales. The type-speci-
mens are contained in the collections of the
U.S. National Museum.

filices.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvM, Quar.
issue, II, pt. 3, March 2, 1905, pp. 377-390,
pl. LUI-LV.

This paper summarizes the principal char- |
acters of the genera of Paleozoic fossil plants
which within the last few years have been
segregated by most paleobotanists as a group

115

WHITE, Davip—Continued.

called the ‘‘Cycadofilices.’’ The fossils, con-
sisting for the most part of silicified stems
and petioles, exhibit structures combining
characters of ferns, gymnosperms, and more
particularly the Cycads. The aspect of the
frond and the details of the pinnules are es-
sentially in agreement with those of ferns.
The discovery recently of seeds in connection
with two of these plants led to the recognition
of the Cycadofilices as constituting a phylum
known as the Pteridospermaphyta, most of
the types being included in the Pteridosper-
mee. The writer suggests the additional
inclusion in the Pteridosperms of the genera
Triphyllopteris, Eremopteris, Mariopteris,
and most of the species included by Lesque-
reux in the genus Pseudopecopteris. The
Cycadofilices or Pteridosperms are regarded as
intermediate between ferns and cyeads, but
it is not urged that any of the fossil genera
included therein represent links in the lineal
descent of the modern Gymnosperms. On
account of the great abundance in the Car-
boniferous of Pteridospermic representatives
which, in fact, characterize it, it is suggested
that, instead of being called the epoch of
cryptograms, the Carboniferous be designated
the epoch of the Pteridosperms.

Flora of the Brazilian coal meas-

ures. «
Science (new series), XXI, 1905, p. 700.
Notice of paleobotanical material collected
by Dr. I. C. White from two localities in the
states of Sao Paulo and Santa Catherina,
Brazil. The evidence presented by the plants
confirms the inclusion of southern Brazil in
the Indo-Australo-African or Glossopteris
province, and tends to fully corroborate the
conclusion reached by M. Zeiller that the Bra-
zilian coalfields are probably of latest Coal
Measures age, or possibly Permian, their
place being apparently in the Karharbari-
Newcastle stage.

WHITE, Davin, and SMITH, Georce Oris.

The geology of the Perry Basin in south-

eastern Maine.
U.S. Geol. Surv., Professional Paper No.
35, 1905, pp. 1-107, pls. I-VI.

The Perry formation, consisting of brownish
conglomerates, lying in irregular layers, un-
conformably upon earlier formations, isshown
by its fossil plants to be Upper Devonian age,
referable in all probability to the Chemung
stage. The belief in the existence of coal
in the formation, although maintained for
nearly seventy years, is not supported by the
geologic or paleontologic evidence, and there
is no basis for the hope of finding usable coal
in any of the concealed parts of the Perry
formation or the underlying rocks. Refer-
ence is made to several specimens in the Lacoe
collection as furnishing unpublished charac-
ters in species of Archzxopteris.
116

WOOD, Etyma. On new and old Middle GREENE, Epwarp L.

Devonic crinoids.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quay.
issue, 11, pt. 1, No. 1471, Aug. 6, 1904, pp.
56-84, text figs. 1-9, pls. 15, 16.
This paper is devoted to a study of the speci-

mens of Middle Devonian crinoids in the col- |

lections of the U. S. National Museum and
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The
new genera T'riplewrocrinus and Tylocrinus
are instituted with 7. levis, new species, and T.
novus, new species,as the respective type spe-
cies. Three new species of Megistocrinus are
described and figured, while remarks upon
known forms are given. Under the genus
Dolatocrinus two new species are described,
comments upon 16 other species of the genus
made, and the new name Dolatocrinus wachs-
muthi is proposed in place of Dolatocrinus
lyont Wachsmuth and Springer, the latter
being preoccupied. In addition, comments
upon 6 other genera and 7 species, notes upon
ealyx abnormalities, and a table showing the
distribution of Devonian crinoids are given.
All of the figured specimens are the property
of the National Museum.

BOTANY.

BRITTON, N. L.
Roses)

COVILLE, Freperick V. Desert plants

as a source of drinking water.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1903 (1904), pp.
499-505, pls. I, 11, figs. 1-4.

GREENE, Epwarp lL. The Neckerian
cactaceous genera.
Leaflets, 1, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 50-52.

An identification of the 4 obscure cactaceous
genera of Necker’s Elementa: (1) Cactus=
Mamillaria and Melocactus; (2) Cirinosum=
Cereus; (3) Carpophyllus= Pereskia; (4) Phyl-
lanthus= Opuntia and Phyllanthus.

(See under Joseph N -

North American species of Amar- |

ella.
Leaflets, 1, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 53-55.

Recognition of Gilibert’s Amarella as dis-
tinct from Gentiana; the known North Amer-
ican species transferred, and the following
new ones proposed: A. copelandi, californica,
lemberti, macounii, conferta, scopulorum, rev-
oluta, cobrensis.

Seven new Apocynums.
Leaflets, 1, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 56-59.
Description of A. divergens and A. an-
drewsii from Connecticut; A. calophyllum,

A. teomentellum, A. oliganthum, A. myrian- |
thum from the Great Basin; and A. palustre |

from California.

——— Affinities of the Cichoriacee.
Leaflets, 1, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 59-62.
Discussion of the intimate natural relation
between the Cichoriacexe and Lobeliacee.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

Some western
buckthorns.
Leaflets, 1, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 63, 64.
Rhamnus fasciculata, R. ursina, R. castorea,
R. cuspidata, R. obtusissima, new species from
New Mexico, Arizona, and California,

A name explained.
Torreya, IV, Nov. 21, 1904, pp. 173, 174.
. vivation of Cholisma Raf., erroneously
prinusd Xolisma.

—— New species of Ceanothus.
Leaflets, 1, Nov. 24, 1904 pp. 65-68.
Ceanothus puberulus, C. myrianthus, C.
mogollonicus, C. peduncularis, and C. macro-
thyrsus, new species from New Mexico, Cali-
fornia, and Oregon.

——— The genus Pneumonanthe.
Leaflets, 1, Nov. 24, 1904, pp. 68-71.

The author discusses Pneumonanthe as dis-
tinct from Gentiana, and transfers to it such
North American species as had not been
named under Preumonanthe.

New plants from middle California.
Leaflets, 1, Nov. 24, 1904, pp. 73-80.

New species of Lupinus, Lotus, Sidalcea,
Silene, Aquilegia, Delphinium, Bistorta, Eri-
ogonum, Swertia, Castilleja, Pentstemon,
Apocynum, Cryptanthe, Galium, Chrysotham-
nus, 21 in all.

Certain west American Crucifere.
Leaflets, 1, Dec. 21, 1904, pp. 81-90.
Breaking up the large Californian group of

so-called Streptanthi into the following new
genera: Huclisia, Pleiocardia, Mitophyllum,
Microsemia, Mesoreanthus. Seven new spc-
cies are proposed and described in the several
new genera.

— Laothoe.
Leaflets, 1, Dec. 31, 1904, p. 90.
Restoration of Rafinesque’s name as long
prior to the Chlorogalum of Kunth. The 6
known species renamed under Laothoe.

On certain Gentianacee.
Leaflets, 1, Dec. 31, 1904, pp. 91-94.
Swertia parallela, new species. Restoration
of Rafinesque’s Aloitis as a good segregate
from Gentiana. Four new species are defined.

Two new batrachia.
Leaflets, 1, Dec. 31, 1904, p. 95.
Batrachium bakeri and B. pedunculare, both
from California. ;

—- Two new Sophie.
Leaflets, 1, Dec. 31, 1904, p. 96.
Sophia obtusa and S. serrata, both from New
Mexico.

Diagnoses Aragallorum.
Proc. Biol. Soc., Wash., Xvil1l, Jan. 20,
1905, pp. 11-18.
Descriptions of 19 new species of Aragallus,
the greater proportion of them from the
HOUSE, Homer Dottiver.

LIST OF

GREENE, Epwarp L.—Continued.

Texano-Neo-Mexican region, a few from the
district of Wyoming and Dakota, several
from western British America, and one each

PUBLICATIONS.

from the shores of Bering Sea and Hudson’s |

Bay.

Some west American red cherries.

Proc. Biol. Soc., Wash., xvi, Feb. 21,

1905, pp. 55-60.
Ten new species of Cerasus, 7 of them from
California, 1 from each of the following: New
Mexico, Oregon, Montana.

Revision of Eschscholtzia.
Pittonia, V, June 10, 1905, pp. 205-292.
Sketch of the history of the genus, a general
classification of the species, with full descrip-
tions of all known at this date.

New papaveraceous genus.
Pittonia, y; June 10, 1905, pp. 293, 294.
An account of the new genus Petromecon
and of the 2 known species, both endemic on
the Mexican Island of Guadalupe.

A study of Dendromecon.
Pittonia, v, June 10, 1905, pp. 295-305.

Revision of the genus, with descriptions in |
full of the 17 species, 14 of which are proposed

as new.

Suggestions regarding Sanguinaria.
Pittonia, v, June 10, 1905, pp. 306-308.
Proposed segregation of the S. canadensis

of recent books into 6 species: 2 for the region
of the Eastern States: 3 for the Southern
States, and 1 for the upper Mississippi Valley.
Three of the 6 are described provisionally as
new.

The earliest local flora.
Plant World, vim, June 10, 1905, pp. 115-121.
Sketch of Thalius’s Silva Hercynia, pub-
lished at Frankfort on the Main, in the year
1588. The genera now known as Trientalis
and Eleocharis were first published in this
book.

Some Ptelea segregates.
Torreya, V, June 27, 1905, pp. 99-100.
Three new segregates from P. trifoliata,
namely, P. carolina, P. obcordata and P.

EL

HOUSE, Homer Dotiiver- Continued.

Reviews the pre-Linnzan history of this
species, which proves to include at least the 2
species of Linnzeus, Jpomoea alba and Con-
volvulus aculeatus, combined by him under the
name of Ipomoea bona-noz, in 1762. The new
combinations Calonyction aculeatum (L.)
House, and C. album (L.) House are made.

Two new species of Convolvulus from
the western United States.
Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxu,
pp. 139, 140.
Describes Convolvulus ambigens and Con-
volvulus interior as new species from Colorado.

1905,

Notes on New Jersey violets.
Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxu, 1905,
pp. 253-260, pls. 16-18.
Describes a new species, Viola stoneana and
anew hybrid Viola brittoniana « cucullata.

|MANN, Arserr. Diatoms, the jewels of

mesochora, the first from North Carolina, the |

secondfrom Florida, the third from the upper
Mississippi and region of the Great Lakes.

ferns of central New Jersey.
Fern Bulletin, xt1, Aug., 1904, pp. 80-82.

A new violet from New England.
Rhodora, v1, Noy., 1904, pp. 226-227, pl. 59.
Description of a new species, Viola novae-
angliae.

The nomenclature of Calonyction

bona-noz.
Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxu, 1904,
pp. 589-592. :

Some rare |

the plant-world.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLvuiI, Quar.
issue, III, pt. 1, No. 1578, May 23, 1905,
pp. 50-58, 4 pls., 9 figs.

MAXON, Wrii1am R. Notes on American

ferns.
Fern Bull., x11, Oct., 1904, pp. 101-103.

A comparison of specimens with the types of
Polypodium vulgare occidentale Hook. (1840)
in the British Museum, indicates that the fern
ranging from California to Alaska and known
under this name and as P. falcatum Kellogg
(1854) is an extremely variable species. The
series should bear the name Polypodium occi-
dentale (Hook.) Maxon.

A new Asplenium from Mexico.
Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, Xxx1, Dec., 1904,
pp. 657, 658, 1 text fig.

Asplenium modestum, new species, is de-
scribed from Chihuahua, Mexico. It is re-
garded as an aberrant member of the group
of A. lanceolatum.

On the names of three Jamaican

species of Polypodium.
Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxx, Feb.,
1905, pp. 73-75.

Notes upon the long-continued misidentifi-
cation of Polypodium myosuroides Swartz
(1788). The name is restored to its original
application and a related species receives the
name Polypodium delitescens Maxon. The
new name Polypodium induens Maxon is pro-
posed for P. saxicolum Baker (1877), not P.
saxicola Swartz (1817).

A new species of fern of the genus

Polypodium from Jamaica.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 4, No. 1562, Apr. 5, 1905, pp.
410, 411, pl. 57.

Polypodium nesioticum Maxon, a rare
simple-leaved new species from Jamaica, is
described and figured. It is compared in de-
tail with several allied species.
118

MAXON, Witt1am R.

from Jamaica.
Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxx, Apr.,
1905, pp. 219-222, pl. 6.

A description of Botrychiwm underwood-
janum Maxon, a new species, from Jamaica,
allied to the Jamaican B. jenmian and the
Mexican B. decompositum.

A new Botrychium

Adenoderris, a valid genus of ferns.
Botan. Gaz., XXX1x, May, 1905, pp. 366-869,
2 text figs.

This genus proposed by John Smith in 1875
is regarded as quite distinct from Polystichum
and the diagnostic characters of both genera
are discussed. The genus comprises two spe-
cies, which are here described and figured, viz:
A. viscidula (Mett.) Maxon, and A. sororia
Maxon, new species.

ROSE, JoserH N. Lenophyllum, a new

genus of Crassulaceze.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 2, No. 1479, Oct. 10, 1904, pp.
159-162, pl. 20, figs. 18, 19.

Studies of Mexican and Central

American plants, No. 4.
Contrib. U.S. Nat. Herbarium, vu, No. 4,
Apr., 1905, pp. 281-399, pls. 63-72, figs. 14
to 19.

Descriptions of many new species are given. |

——— and BRITTON, N. L.

{of North America].
North Am. Flora, xxv, pt. 1, May, 1905,
pp. 7-74.
Contains descriptions of 4 new genera and
many new species.

SAFFORD, Witu1am Epwin. Smithsonian
Institution. | United States
Museum. | Contributions | from
United States

Crassulacee

the |
National Herbarium. |

Volume IX | ——— | The Useful Plants |

of the Island of Guam | with an introduc-
tory account of the | physical features
and natural history of the island, of the |
character and history of its people, and |
of their agriculture. | ——-— | By William
Edwin Safford. | [Seal] | Washington: |
Government Printing Office. | 1905. |
8vo., pp. 1-416, pls. I-Lxx.
SMITH, Jonn DONNELL.

Dracena americana Donn. Sm., n. sp.
Trees and Shrubs, by C. L. Sargent, I.,
1905, p. 207, pl. XcviII.

A description of

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

ZOOLOGY.
MOLLUSKS,

BARTSCH, Pavt.

New Mexico.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLViM, Quar.
issue, II, pt. 1, No. 1469, Aug. 6, 1904, pp.
13, 14.

Ashmunella townsendi is described from the
neighborhood of Ruidoso, Sierra Blanca,
Mescalero Indian Reservation, Lincoln
County, New Mexico.

A new Ashmunella from

Notes on the genus Sonorella, with
descriptions of new species.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvi, Quar.
issue, I, pt. 2, No. 1481, Oct. 10, 1904, pp.
187-200, pls. XXVIJI-XX XIII.

In this paper the genus has been divided
into four groups based upon nuclear char-
acters, which are illustrated by enlarged
photographic reproductions. Nine new forms
are described: S. ashmuni, nelsoni, goldmani,
merrilli, dalli, mearnsi, fisheri, baileyi, and
baileyi orcutti. All species described up to
date, except S. rowelli and S. lohri lioderma,
are figured.

——_——— A new species of Amphidromus.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar
issue, Il, pt. 2, No. 1486, Nov. 9, 1904, pp.
292-293, pl. XLVI.
Amphidromus gossi is described from Mount
Kina Baloo, North Borneo.

———— A new Philippine land shell.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVM, Quar.
issue, Il, pt. 4, No. 1561, Mar. 28, 1905,
p. 409, pl. LVI.
Helicostyla mearnsi,
Mount Apo, Mindanao.

is described from

National |

| DALL, Writtam Hearey. On the relations
of the land and freshwater mollusk-fauna

of Alaska and Eastern Siberia.
Popular Science Monthly, Feb., 1903, pp.
362-366.

Discusses the relations of the fauna, the
subdivisions of the fauna in Alaska and the
relative contributions to the Alaskan assem-
bly of the different adjacent faunal regions.

—_—— An historical and systematic review

of the frogshells and tritons.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, 0, pt. 1, No. 1475, Aug. 6, 1904,
pp. 114-144.
A review of the literature in regard to the
Lamarckian genera Ranella and Triton and
their subdivisions from the beginning. The

LIST

DALL, Witr1am Heatey—Continued.

following new group-names are proposed:
Craspedotriton (convolutus Brod.); Marsu-
pina (crassa Dillwyn); Chasmotheca (foliata
Broderip), in the Ranellidw; and in the Sep-
tide: Eugyrina (new name for Gyrina Schu-
macher); Paralagena (for Lagena Morch);

OF PUBLICATIONS.

Tritonocauda (caudatus Gmelin); Turritriton |

(gibbosus Beoderip); Tritoniscus (lorocsii
Petit); and in the Colubrariidz: Maculotriton
(bracteatus Hinds); Monostiolum (swiftii
Tryon); Caducifer (truncatus Hinds); Teni-
ola (decollatus Sowerby), and Phrygiomurer
(sculptilis Reeve).

— Note on Lucina (Miltha) children

Gray, and on a new species from the Gulf

of California.
Nautilus, xvu1, No. 10, Feb., 1905, pp.
110-112.
In this note it is shown that L. children is

a Brazilian species exclusively, and for the |
species of the Gulf of California, wrongly |

called childreni by Carpenter, the name of L. |

( Miltha) xantusi is proposed. The specimens
are in the National Museum.

New species of mollusks from Cali-
fornia.

Nautilus, xvmi, No. 11, Mar., 1905, pp. |

123-125.

The following new species are described:
Leda amblia, Mangelia perattenuata, Admete
woodworthi, Erato albescens, and Scissurella
(Schizotrochus) kelseyi, all from California.
The specimens are in the National collection.

An arrangement of the American
Cyclostomatide with a revision of the

nomenclature.
Proc. Malacolog. Soc. London, v1, March,
1905, pp. 203-210.

The whole group is reviewed, diagnoses
given for the subdivisions, the subgenus Para-
chrondria is proposed for Cistula Sowerby,
not Say, and the genus Opisthosiphon for
Chondropoma bahamense Shuttleworth and
its allies. These are shown to have an acces-
sory opening to the whorl in the shape of a
small tube behind the posterior angle of. the
aperture. The material upon which the con-
clusions rest is in the National Museum.

Report on the land and fresh-water
shells collected in the Bahamas in 1904
by Mr. Owen Bryant and others.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, pl. 11, pt, 4, April 27, 1905, pp.
433-452, pls. LVI, LIX.

Mr. Bryant’s collection is catalogued, and
notes and descriptions of some new forms,
either collected by him orfrom the collection
of the National Museum are given. The new

species are as follows: Cepolis smirna, C. |

androsi, Cerion glans obesum, Cerion watling-
ense, C. inconspicuum, and variety lacu-

119

DALL, Wirt1am Heatey—Continued.

norum, C. canonicum, C. variabile with vari-
eties pupilla and Saurodon, C. brunneum, C.
plegmatum, C. northropi, C. oweni and varie-
ties reticulatum, incisum and vermiculum,
Rhytidopoma euploca, and Veronicella schive-
lye var. bahamensis. The new forms are
figured, numerous species added to the known
Bahaman fauna, and the habit of forming an
epiphragm by Planorbis during the dry sea-
son, is noted.

Note on the genus Aporema Dall.
Nautilus, xvi, No. 12, Apri!, 1905, p. 143.
Aporema proving to be preoccupied in In-
sects by Scudder, the new name Panacca is
proposed to take its place, with the same type
Pholadomya arata Verrill.

Note on Trichodina Ancey.
Nautilus, xvi, No. 12, April, 1905, p. 143.
Trichodina Ancey, 1888, for an Achatinoid
landshell being preoccupied by Trichodina
Ehrenberg, 1830, the new name Petriola is
proposed for the former.

Fossils of the Bahama Islands, with

a list of the nonmarine mollusks.

The Bahama Islands, New York (Mac-
millan & Co.), April, 1905, pp. 23-47; pls.
XI-XI1.

This paper, also issued separately, treats of
the fossils of the Bahamas collected by the ex-
pedition sent out by the Geographical Society
of Baltimore, giving a list of stations with the
fossils collected at each, descriptions of some
new landshells, fossil and recent, a catalogue
of the nonmarine fauna, fossil and living, a
list of the marine fossils obtained, and a short
account of the fauna of the “salt pans” or
lagoons. Some characteristic marine fossils
and the new species of landshells are figured.
The following are described as new: Cepolis
agassizii, C. inaguana var. subandrosi, C.
pharcida, Cerion eleuthere var. drupium,
Cepolis erumana, C. gregoriana, C. duclosi-
ana var. columbiana, and C.inaguana. Pha-
coides pensylvanicus L., Codakia orbicularis
L., Tellina radiata L., Arca occidentalis Phil-
ippi, A. reticulata Gmelin, Cerion agassizit
Dall, and Helicina rawsoni Pfeiffer, are also
figured.

Cotypes of the material described are in the
National Museum.

Two undescribed California shells.
Nautilus, x1x, No. 2, June, 1905, pp. 14, 15.
Murex (Phyllonotus) santarosana and Al-
aba oldroydi from southern California are de-
scribed as new, the types being in the National
Museum. 1

WHITE, Cuartes A. The ancestral origin

of the North American Unionide, or fresh-

water mussels.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVIII, Quar.
issue, pt. 1, 1905, pp. 75-88, pls. 26-31.
120 REPORT OF

WHITE, Cuartes A.—Continued.
In this article the origin of the Unionide is
traced and an explanation for their distribu-
tion is given.

property of the U. S. National Museum.
Unio stantoni, new species, of the Laramie
Group, is proposed for a specimen formerly
referred to Unio dane Meck and Hayden.

CRUSTACEANS.

DALL, Witiram H. Harriman Alaska Ex-
pedition. Crustacea, volume x.
Science (new series), Xx, No. 510, Oct. 7,
1904, p. 463.
Notice of the volume, including some ac-
courc of its écntents.

RATE BUN, Mary J. Descriptions of three
new species of American crabs.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv11, Dec. 27, 1904,
pp. 161,162.

Three new species of crabs from Central
America and Chile in the collection of the
Zoological Museum at Copenhagen are de-
scribed— Uca erstedi, Pinnaxodes meinerti,
Lophopanopeus nicaraguensis.

A cotype of the first-named species is in the
U.S. National Museum.

——— Some changes in crustacean no-
menclature.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi1, Dee. 27, 1904,
pp. 169-172.

These changes are necessitated by the dis-
covery that several genera of Weber’s ‘‘No-
menclator entomologicus.”’ 1795, have been
ignored by subsequent authors. Alpheus
Weber and Ligia Weber are synonyms of
Cancer Linneus; Crangon Weber takes pre-
cedence of Alpheus Fabricius; Homarus Weber
may be used in its present sense, for the lob-
sters; Parthenope Weber is equivalent to the
later Lambrus of Leach; Daldorfia is proposed
as a new generic name for Parthenope Fabri-
cius; Euryala Weber= Corystes Latreille 1802;
Idotea Weber is a synonym of Emerita Grono-
vius.

—— Les Crabes d’Eau
monide). 17° partie.
Nouv. Arch. Mus. d’ Hist. Nat., Paris, (4)
VI, Dec., 1904, pp. 225-312, pls. 9-18, text
figs. 1-37.

A monographic account of the Potamonide,
based chiefly on the collection in the Museum
at Paris, but embracing also those in 8 other
large museums.

Gives first some general consic: ..tions on
the systematic position of the family, notes on
the development, ethology, uses, etc., with a
table of distribution.

The descriptive part deals with the 77 species
of typical Potamon of which 29 are new; the
plates, however, represent also the subgenera,

douce (Pota-

The paper is illustrated by 6 |
plates, the originals of the figures being the |

NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

RATHBUN, Mary J.—Continued.
Potamonautes, Geothelphusa, Perithelphusa
and a portion of Parathelphusa, including
many undescribed forms.

——— Why not Paramaya?
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash.. Xvi, Feb. 21,1905,
Dp. 73.
A plea for the use of a ‘‘plate name,’’ Para-
maya de Haan 1837, instead of Mamaia Steb-
bing 1904.

| RICHARDSON, Harrier. A reply to cer-
tain criticisms of Professor Giard respect-
ing the Bopyrids.
Comptes Rendus Soc. Biol. Paris, ivi, No.
19, June 3, 1904, pp. 856-858; Science
(new series) ,.xx, No. 497, July 8,1904 pp.
51-53.
A reply to critical review by Prof. Alfred
' Giard in Comptes Rendus Société de Biologie,

LVI, Apr. 22, 1904, pp. 591-594.
| ——— Further changes in crustacean
nomenclature.
| Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv111, Jan. 20,1905,
| pp. 9, 10.
|

| Proposes Idothea Fabricius 1776 for Idotea
* Fabricius 1798 and Ligyda Rafinesque 1815 for
Ligia Fabricius 1798, the Fabrician genera
having been shown to be invalid by Miss
| Rathbun in a previous number of the Proceed-
ings of the Biological Society of Washington.

——-— ]sopods from the Alaska salmon
investigation.
Bull. Bureau Fisheries, Xx1v, 1904, pp. 209-
221, text figs. 1-10. (Feb. 18, 1905.)
Fourteen species are enumerated, four of
which are new, one, Holophryzus alaskensis,
representing a new genus. Figures are given
not only of the new forms but of Rocinela
belliceps (Stimpson), R. angustata Richard-
son, and of the first incubatory lamella and
the sixth leg of various specimens of Bopy-
roides hippolytes.

Descriptions of a new genus of iso-
poda belonging to the family Tanaide
and of a new species of Tanais, both from
Monterey Bay, California.

Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1400,
May 9, 1905, pp. 367-370, text figs. 1-13.
Pancolus, anew genus, and P. californiensis
and Tanais normani, new species, were col-
lected at Monterey Bay by Dr. Harold Heath.

| WILSON, Cusartes Brancu. Contribu-
tions from the Biological Laboratory of
the Bureau of Fisheries at Woods Hole,
Mass. The fish parasites of the genus

Argulus found in the Woods Hole region.
Bull, Bureau Fisheries, XX1v,1904 pp. 115-
131, 31 text figs. (Feb.14, 1905.)
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

WILSON, Cuartes Brancu—Continued.
Based partly on material in the U. S. Na-
tional Museum which was described in detail
in volume xxv of the Proceedings.

New species of parasitic copepods
from the Massachusetts coast.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvui1, April 18,
1905, pp. 127-182.
Five new species from Woods Hole, Vine-
yard Sound and Buzzards Bay; the types of
3 species are in the U. S. National Museum,

and the types of the other two will probably |

be placed in the Museum.

—— North American parasitic copepods

belonging to the family Caligide. Part

I.—The Caligine.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1404,
June 23, 1905, pp. 479-672, pls. V-XXIXx,
text figs. 1-50.
This is the third paper in the series on the
parasitic copepods of the National Museum.

It deals with all the North American species |

of Caliginee, 23 in number, of which 13 are new;
and 5 foreign species, of which 4 are new and
one the type of a new genus. _ Keys are given
to all the known species. Besides the system-
atic part the development of two species is
traced, and the comparative anatomy of Cali-
gus and Lepeophtheirus presented for the first

time.
INSECTS.

ALDRICH, J. M. Smithsonian: Miscellane-
ous Collections | Part of Volume XLvVt |
——— | A Catalogue of | North Ameri-
can Diptera | (Or Two-winged Flies) |
By J. M. Aldrich | [Seal] | No. 1444 |
City of Washington | Published by the
Smithsonian Institution | 1905. |

8vo., pp. 1-680.

ASHMEAD, Wiru1am H. A new genus

and some new species of Hymenoptera

from the Philippine Islands.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, No. 10, Oct., 1904, pp.
281-285.
Describes a new Larrid genus, Thyreospher,
and 8 new species, taken by Father Stanton in
Manila.

——— A new torymid from Utah.
Ent. News, xv, No. 8, Oct., 1904, p. 302.
Describes Torymus wickhami.

Description of new genera and species

of r:>™enoptera from the Philippine Is- |

lands.

Proc. U. &. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1387,

Nov. 5, 1904, op. 127-158, pls. 1, 11.

Two genera, Taftia and Stantonia, and 31
new species of Hymenoptera are described.
The paper terminates with a check list of the
species known to occur in the Philippines.
Forty-six families, 135 genera, and 225 species
are listed. .

121

ASHMEAD, Wittram H. A hymenopter-

ous parasite of the grape-berry moth.
Can. Ent., XXXv1, No. 11, Nov., 1904, pp.
333, 334.
Describes and figures
landana.

Thymaris slinger-
On the discovery of fig-insects in the
Philippines.
Ent. News, Xv, No. 10, Dec., 1904, p. 342.
Describes Kradibia browni, a genuine fig-
insect, and its parasite, Sycoryctes philip-
pinensis.

A new thrips from the Philippine
' Islands.

Ent. News, Xv1, No. 1,Jan., 1905, p. 20.
Describes Coleothrips tibialis.

— New Hymenoptera from the Philip-
pine Islands.
Can. Ent., Xxvu1, No. 1, Jan., 1905, pp. 3-8-
Describes two new genera, A pterencyrtus
and Brownius, and 12 new species.

A new Pezomachus from Italy.
Can. Ent., Xxxvi1, No. 4, Apr., 1905, pp.
142, 148.
Describes Pezomachus silvestrii.

BANKS, NatTHAN.
caddice-flies.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, July, 1904, p.
140.

Two new species of

Notes on the structure of the thorax

and maxille in insects.
Proc. Ent. Soc., Wash., v1, July, 1904, p.
149.

BARBER, HerspertS. Noteson Thauma-

toglossa (Axinocerus) americana Jayne.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vir, No. 1, Jan.,

1905, p. 10.
BUSCK, Avceustr. Aristotella youngella, a
correction.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, No. 3, Mar., 1905, p. 87.

CAUDELL, AnprREw NeEtson. Some Or-

thoptera taken at Moose Jaw, Assiniboia.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, No. 8, Aug., 1904, p. 248.

| —__—— Orthoptera from southwestern Texas.

Science Bull. Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts
and Sciences, 1, No. 4, Dec., 1904, pp.
105-116, pls. VI-VII

On a collection of non-saltatorial

Orthoptera from Paraguay
Journ. N.Y. Ent. Soc., xi1, 1904, pp. 179-
188.

—_— A new species of the locustid genus

Amblycorypha from Kansas.
Journ. N.Y. Ent. Soc., x11, No.1, March 1,
| 1905, p. 50.
122

On a col-

CAUDELL, Anprew NEtson.

lection of

Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1403,
June 12, 1905, pp. 461-477, figs. 1-6.

——— Two interesting mantids from the |

United States.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., x11, No. 2, June,
1905, pp. 82, 83.
——— Aplopus mayeri, new species.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., xu, No. 2, June,
1905, pp. 83-85.

CHITTENDEN, Franx H.

A species of

the tenebrionid genus Latheticus in the |

United States.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 166, 167.

On the species of Sphenophorus
hitherto considered as simplex Le Conte.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, pp. 127-130.

On the species of Sphenophorus re- |
lated to pertinaxr Olivier, with descriptions |

of other forms.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vu, 1905, pp. 50-64.

——— On the species of Sphenophorus
hitherto considered as placidus Say.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vi, 1905, pp. 130-137.

COQUILLETT, D. W. New Diptera from |

India and Australia.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, No. 3, July, 1904, |

io), UeYe

——— New North American Diptera.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, No. 3, July, 1904,
p- 166.
Describes 4 new genera and 53 new species.

New Culex from Australia.
Ent. News, Xvi, No. 4, Apr., 1905, p. 116.

——— A new cecidomyiid on cotton.

Can. Ent.,XxXxvit, No. 6, June, 1905, p. 200. |

Describes Porricondyla gossypii from Bar-
bados, West Indies, the larve of which live
beneath the bark of cotton plants.

——— New nematocerous Diptera from
North America.
Journ. N. ¥. Ent. Soc., x11, No. 2, June,
1905, pp. 56-67.
Describes 41 new species.

CURRIE, Rotia Parrrson. Dragon flies

from the Kootenay district of British

Columbia.
Proc. Ent. Soc.
1905, pp. 16-20.

Wash., v1, No. 1, Jan.,

DYAR, Harrison G. Two new forms of

(neis Hiibner.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 142.

Orthoptera from Southern |
Arizona, with descriptions of new species. —

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

| DYAR, Harrison G. Brief notes on mos-

quito larvee.
Journ. N.
172-174.

Y. Ent. Soc., x11, 1904, pp.

_——— The larva of Culex punctor Kirby,

with notes on an allied form.
Journ. N. ¥. Ent. Soc., x11, 1904, pp.
167-174.
Diverse mosquito larve that pro-
duce similar adults. ,
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, pp. 143, 144.

Two notes on tineid moths.
Journ. N. Y¥. Ent. Soc., x11, 1904, p. 178.
——— New North American Lepidoptera

_ and synonymical notes.
| Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1905, p. 29.

Notes on synonymy and larve of
Pyralide.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1905, pp. 158-
160.

——— Our present knowledge of North

American Corethrid larvee.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vit, 1905, p. 13.

——— Remarks on genitalic genera in Culi-
cide.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vit, 1905, p. 42.

HEIDEMANN, Orro. Notes on North
American Aradide.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash.,Vv1,1904, pp. 161-165.

Description of a new Anasa from

North America.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vit, 1905, p. 5.

| KEARFOTT, Witi1am Dunnam. Descrip-
tions of new species of tortricid moths

from North Carolina, with notes.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1398,
April 22, 1905, pp. 349-364,

MARLATT, C. L. The discovery of the
native home of the San José scale in east-
ern China and the importation of its nat-

ural enemy.
Popular Science Monthly, August, 1904,
pp. 306-317: 8 illustrations.

This is a revised popular account of an ex-
pedition to Japan and China for the purpose
mentioned in the title, and brings the results
on the imported Asiatic ladybird, enemy of
the San José scale, down to the date of publi-
cation. Itis practically a revision, with some
additions, of an account previously pubiished
in the Yearbook of the Department of Agri-
culture for 1902 (1908).

REHN, James A.G. Studies in the orthop-

terous subfamilies Acrydiine (Tettigoni-

ne), Eumastacine, and Proscopine.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, pp.
658-683.

List SON EU

STEVENSON, Earte C. The external par-

asites of hogs, being articles on the hog |

louse (Hzmatopinus suis) and mange, or

scabies, of hogs.

Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U.
Dept. Agric., No. 69, 1905, 44 pp. figs. 1-29.
Descriptions and figures of Hzemtopinus
suis, Sarcoptes scabiei suis, and Demoder folli-
culorum suis, based partly on Museum mate-
rial, together with a complete synonymy and
bibliography of the first, and a discussion of

the three forms in their economic aspects.

US ww SacG:

the National Museum.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, No. 2, April,
1904, p. 98; Journ. N.
No. 1, March, 1904, p. 22.

WILLIAMSON, Epwarp Bruce. The dra-
gonflies (Odonata) of Burma and Lower
Siam. 1.—Subfamily Calopterygine.

Proc. U. S. Nat. ifws., xxvii, No. 1389,

November 17, 1904, pp. 165-187, text figs.
1-18.

ARACHNIDS.
BANKS, Natuan.

rina, or mites.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvut, No. 1382,
September 24, 1904, pp. 1-114, text figs.
1-201.

A treatise on the aca-

Arachnids from Cocos Island.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, No. 1, Jan.,
1905, p. 20.

MISCELLANEOUS INVERTEBRATES.

AGASSIZ, AtLexanper. Reports on an

exploration off the west coast of Mexico, |

Central and South America, and off the
Galapagos Islands, in charge of Alexander
Agassiz, by the U. S. Fish Commission
steamer Albatross, during 1891, Lieut.
Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. 8S. N., com-

manding. xxx. The Panamic deep sea
echini.
Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Cambridge,

XXXI, Nov. 1, 1904, pp. I-x, 1-243, pls. 112 |

(in separate volume), text figs. 319.
The report deals principally with the mor-
phological study of the tests of the species,
which had been described in an earlier bulle-
iin; followed by a discussion of the bathymet-
rical and geographical range of the Panamic
and West Indian Echinid faunse.

ASHWORTH, J.H. The anatomy of Scali-

bregma inflatum, Rathke.a
Quar. Journ. Micr. Sci., XLV (new series),
Nov. , 1901, pp. 237-309, pls. 13-15.
Includes a detailed description of the anat- |
omy, and also an account of the history, dis- |

Ss.

Some new Osmiinae in |

¥. Ent: Soc., X11, |

BLICATIONS. 123

| ASHWORTH, J. H.—Continued.

tribution, habits, and general appearance of
the species, Scalibregma inflatum, as well as a
revision of the family Scalibregmide and a
statement of its affinities. Two new genera
are described, Pseudoscalibregma and A scle-
rocheilus.

|
|

CLARK, Huserr Lyman. Contributions

from the Biological Laboratory of the U.

S. Fish Commission at Woods Hole, Mas-

The of the
Woods Hole region.
Bull. U.S. Fish Com., xxi1, 1902, pp. 545-
576, figs. 1-116 (June 25, 1904).

The 24 species are fully described and fig-
ured. The best methods of preserving and
studying echinoderms are given, and also a
bibliograpny of the publications referred to.

sachusetts. echinoderms

COE, Westey R. Nemerteans of the west

and northwest coasts of America.
Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Xuvi1, Mar., 1905,
pp. 1-318, pls. 1-25, text figs. 1-62.

A general work, dealing with anatomical
and histological structures, development, dis-
tribution, hesides a systematic account of the
genera and species. Eighteen species are de-
scribed as new, and with one exception are
represented by colored drawings.

EDWARDS, Cuarves Lincotn. <A quanti-
tative study of Holothuria atra Jiger and
the reestablishment of Holothuria jflori-
dana Pourtalés (=Holothuria mexicana
Ludwig).

Science (new series), xxI, No. 532, March
10, 1905, pp. 383-384.

This is an abstract, presented before the
American Society of Zoologists, at the Second
Annual Meeting of the Eastern Branch at
Philadelphia, December, 1904, of an extended
paper to be published elsewhere. It is based
on statistical analyses of 138 specimens, 20
from the Sandwich Island-Mozambique re-
gion and 118 from the Florida-Caribbean re-
gion.

_ FISHER, Watrer K. New starfishes from

deep water off California and Alaska.
Bull. Bureau Fisheries, xxiv, 1904, pp.
291-320. (June 10, 1905.)

One genus, 2 subgenera,and 24 species are
described, and one subfamily raised to family
rank. The specimens were dredged by the
steamer Albatross in Alaskan waters during
the summer of 1903, and off the coast of Cali-
fornia in the spring of 1904.

KISHINOUYE, K.

history of corals.
Journ. Imp. Fisheries Bureau, Tokyo, X1v
No. 1, 1904, pp. 1-82, pls. I-1x, text figs.
1-4.

tp}

“

Notes on the natural

a This title was accidentally omitted from an earlier report.

9

NAT Mus 1905
MARENZELLER, Emin von.

124

KISHINOUYE, K.—Continued.

Describes the autozooid, siphonozooid, cce-
nenchym, spicules, gastro-vascular system,
skeleton, mode of ramification, color and
transparency of the skeleton, size, form, dis-

{

tribution, growth, attachment, and commen- |

sals. The systematic part deals with 7 spe-
cies, one of which is new. The type specimen
of Corallium secundum Dana, which is in the
U.S. National Museum, is reproduced from a
photograph made in Washington.

Reports on

the dredging operations off the west coast |

of Central America to the Galapagos, to
the west coast of Mexico, and in the Gulf
of California, in charge of Alexander Agas-
siz, carried on by the U. 8. Fish Commis-
sion steamer Albatross, during 1891, Lieut.
Commander Z. L. Tanner, U.S. N., com-
manding. xxx. Stein- und Hydro-
Korallen.
Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., xu, No. 2, Aug.,
1904, pp. 75-87, pls. 1-3.
Twelve species are enumerated, of which

one species of Madreporaria and two of Hy- |

drocoralla are described as new.

Reports on the dredging operations
off the west coast of Central America to
the Galapagos, to the west coast of Mexico,
and in the Gulf of California, in charge of

Alexander Agassiz, carried on by the U.S. |

Fish Commission steamer Albatross, dur-

ing 1891, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, |

U. S. N., commanding. xxxiv. La-

gisca irritans, sp. nov., ein Symbiont von |

Hydrokorallen.
Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., X11, No. 3, Aug.,
1904, pp. 91-94, pl. 1.

| SCHULZE, Franz Eruarp.

The Polynoid here described was found com- |

mensal with Stenohelia profunda Moseley and |

Errina macrogastra Marenzeller, at station |

3404.

RANSOM, B. H. An account of the tape-
worms of the genus Hymenolepis parasitic
in man, including reports of several new
cases of the dwarf tapeworm (H. nana) in
the United States.

Bull. 18 Hyg. Lab., U. S. Pub. Health &

Mar.-Hosp. Serv., Sept., 1904, 138 pp.,
figs. 1-130.

The tapeworms in question are fully de-
scribed and figured, and copious abstracts of
all reported cases of their occurrence in man
are given, including some 25 recent cases of
Hymenolepis nana in the United States. <A
complete bibliography is added.

STEVENSON, Earte C.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

RANSOM, B. H. Notes on the spiny-

suckered tapeworms of chickens (Davai-
nea echinobothrida (=Texnia botrioplites)

and D. tetragona).

Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. 8. Dept.
Agric., No. 60, 1904, pp. 55-69, figs. 41-52.
Descriptions and figures are given by which
the two forms in question, hitherto much con-
fused, may be clearly distinguished. Com-
plete synonymy and bibliography are in-

cluded.

Manson’s eye worm of chickens (Oxy-
spirura mansoni), with a general review of
nematodes parasitic in the eyes of birds.

Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. S.Dept.
Agric., No. 60, 1904, 54 pp., pl. 1, figs.
1-40.

A complete review, with descriptions, fig-
ures, and bibliography of all the nematodes
which have been reported parasitic in the eyes
of birds, Oryspirura mansoni being recorded
for the first time in the United States.

A new nematode (Gongylonema in-

gluvicola) parasitic in the crop of chickens.

Circ. Bureau Animal Industry, U. S. Dept.
Agric., No. 64, 1904, 3 pp., figs. 1, 2.

First report of the occurrence of a member

of the genus Gongylonema in birds. The spe-
cies in question is described and figured.

The gid parasite (Cenurus cerebralis):
its presence in American sheep.
Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. S. Dept.
Agric., No. 66, 1905, 23 pp., figs. 1-12.
The first report of the occurrence of Canu-
rus cerebralis in the United States.

Amerikan-
ische Hexactinelliden nach dem materiale
der Albatross-Expedition. Herausgege-
ben mit Unterstiitzung der K6nigl. Preuss.
Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mit einem
Atlas von 19 Tafeln. Jena, Verlag von

Gustav Fischer. 1899.4
4to. pp. 1-126.

Includes a notice of the hexactinellids pre-
viously known from America; a description of
the genera-and species (22 genera and 37 spe-
cies, of which 6 genera and 24 species are new),
with chapters on classification and geograph-
ical distribution.

A new parasite
(Strongylus quadriradiatus n. sp.), found
in the pigeon. (Preliminary report.)

Circ. Bureau Animal Industry, U. 8S.
Dept. Agric., No. 47, 1904,66 pp., figs.
1-10.

a This title was accidentally omitted from an earlier report.
BEAN, Barron A.

GILL, THEopore.

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 125

STILES, Caartes Warpetv. Illustrated | GILL, THropors. Labracinus the proper
key to the trematode parasites of name for the fish genus Cichlops.

man. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvit1, No. 1384,

Bull. 17 Hyg. Lab., U.S. Pub. Health and |

Mar.-Hosp. Serv., Aug., 1904, 66 pp.,
88 figs.

This paper contains analytical keys,
generic, specific, and clinical diagnoses to the
trematodes which infect man, tables of syn-
onomy, indications to geographical and
zoological distribution, and references to
medical treatment and to the literature.

WILSON, H.V. Reports on an exploration
off the west coasts of Mexico, Centrai and
South America, and off the Galapagos
Islands, in charge of Alexander Agassiz,
by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer
1891, Lieut.

Albatross, during Com-

mander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., com- |

manding. xxx. The sponges.
Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Xxx, No.1,July,
1904, pp. 1-164, pls. 1-26.

The collection of sponges described includes
47 species and subspecies, belonging to the
Hexactinellida, Monaxonida, and Tetractin-
ellida. Thirty-three species and subspecies
are new to science. In addition, some results

of general biological interest are discussed.

FISHES.

hama Islands.
The Bahama Islands, The Macmillan Co.,
New York and London, 1905, pp. 289-

325, pls. LII-LXI.

An article on the Fishes of the Bahamas,
accompanied by ten colored plates, and form-
ing a part of the workentitled ‘‘The Bahama
Islands,” edited by George B. Shattuck.

State ichthyology of
Massachusetts.
Science (new series), xx, No. 506, Sept. 9,
1904, pp. 321-338.

This was the subject of an address delivered
at Woods Hole before the Marine Biological
Laboratory on the evening of August 3, 1904.
““Only the salient features of a long history
are given.’’ (1) A brief notice of the early
historians is followed by (2) an explanation
of some of the popular names of fishes and
fuller accounts of the contributions to ichthy-
ology of (3) William Dandridge Peck, (4)

The fishes of the Ba- |

Charles Alexandre Lesueur, (5) Jerome Crown- |

inshield Smith, (6) David Humphrey Storer,
(7) Theodore Lyman, (8) Spencer F. Baird,
(9) G. Brown Goode and Tarleton H. Bean,
and (10) Hugh M. Smith. In conclusion (11)
attention is called to the number of fish
estrays from tropical waters.

Oct. 5, 1904, p. 119.

The name Cichlops of Miiller and Troschel
(1849) is precluded from retention by the
application of the name to a genus of birds
by Hodgson in 1844. Labracinus of Schlegel
(1850) is revived in its place.

Note on the genus Prionurus or
Acanthocauios.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvul1, No. 1385,

Oct. 5, 1904, p. 121.

A new name (Acanthocaulos) was proposed
by E. R.. Waite in place of Prionurus of
Lacépéde, supposed to have been first pro-
posed in 1830 and preoccupied by Prionurus
of Ehrenberg in 1829. It has been proved that
Lacépéde published his name as early as 1804.

The striped bass of the St. Law-
rence.
Forest and Stream, Lxu1, No. 17, Oct. 22,
1904, p. 348.

In connection with a recent identification
of the ‘‘Bar’’ of the St. Lawrence with the
common striped bass (Roccus lineatus) it is
questioned whether it is not rather the Roccus
chrysops of the great lakes and interior
waters. More information is required.

On the systematic relations of the
ammodytoid fishes.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1388,
Nov. 12, 1994, pp. 159-163, text figs. 1-4.
After a notice of the views of previous
authors respecting the affinities of the Sand-
launces or Ammodytids, that family is
claimed to be most nearly related to the
Hemeroceetids, and consequently to the
group of Jugulares. Embolichthys is retained
in the family and Cobitopsis far removed.
The principal synonyms of the family are
enumerated, and the genera Ammodytes and
Hyperoplus maintained for the northern
forms.

The sculpin and its habits.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., Xuvi1, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 3, Jan. 31, 1905, pp. 348-359,
pl. 49.

Indications are given as to (1) the sources
of information, (2) the characteristics of the
family of Cottids and genus Myozxocephalus
as well as vernacular nomenclature, and (3)
the specific and sexual characters of the Myor-
ocephalus scorpio. The habits of the species
are considered in sections devoted to (4) the
localities it frequents, its food, and its utter-
ances, (5) the mutual relations of the sexes,
(6) its oviposition, and (7) its larval condi-
tions. The concluding section (8) briefly
notices the economical value of the fish.
GILL, THEopore.

126

The scorpeenoid fish,
Neosebastes entaris, as the type of a dis-
tinct genus.
Proc. U. S: Nat. Mus., xxviii, No. 1393;
Feb. 15, 1905, pp. 219, 220, text figs. 1, 2.
A Japanese Scorpenid having been referred
by Jordan & Starks to the genus Neosebastes,
a reexamination was made, which resulted in
a new definition of the genus and the separa-
tion from it of the NV. entaris as the type of a
new genus named Sebastosemus.

On the generic characteristics of
Prionotus stearnsti.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvil, No. 1396,
Feb. 15, 1905, pp. 339-342, text figs. 1-4.
An ‘“fexamination of various species of
Triglids’’ led to the recognition of two groups
which differed so much from the genus Pri-
onotus, to which they had been previously
referred, as to seem worthy of generic or sub-
generic distinction. One, typified by the
P. stearnsii, was named Colotrigla, and the
other, represented by the P. alatus, was
designated as Fissala.

Notes on the genera of synanceine

and pelorine fishes.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii, No. 1394,
Feb. 23, 1905, pp. 221-225, text fig. 1.

An examination of the Synanceine led to
the recognition of four genera whose proper
names were Synanceia (verrucosa), Erosa
(erosa), Leptosynanceia (astroblepa), and
Trachicephalus (uranoscopus); the Pelorinae

(newly named Inimicinz) were divided among |

Simopias and Inimicus; Simopias was pro-
posed as a substitute for Pelor (preoccupied).
In an appended Note on Scorpaena frondosa
that species is isolated as the type of a new
genus named Rhinopias.

A new introduction to the study of
fishes. [Review of the Cambridge Natural
History, volume 7.]

Science (new series) XxI, No. 539, April
28, 1905, pp. 652-661.
seventh volume

The of the Cambridge

Natural History is reviewed under nine sec- |

tions, treating respectively of (1) generalities,
(2) Hemichordata, (3) Urochordata, (4)
Cephalochordata, (5) Pisciform
(6) Cyclostomata, (7) Elasmobranchii, (8)
Teleostomi, and (9) Methods.

A new family is proposed for the leptocar-
dian genus Amphioxrides, and named A mphi-
oxidide.

——— The life history of the angler.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvi, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 4, May 6, 1905, pp. 590-516,

pls. 73-75.
(1) The characters of the family (Lophiide)
and genus (Lophius) to which the common
Angler (Lophius piscatorius) belongs are

Craniata, |

|

JORDAN, Davin Srarr.

—— and STARKS, Epwin CHapin.

SCHMIDT, PeErer.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

GILL, Taropore—Continued.

briefly noticed; (2) the popular names and (3)
geographical range are then considered;
habits are described in sections devoted to (4)
the general behavior of the fish, (5) its food,
and (6) its oviposition and embryology.
Data follow respecting (7) its food value and
the superstitions concerning it, (8) its rela-
tions to other species of the family of Lophiids,
and (9) its relations to the family of Anten-
nariids.

——— The tarpon and lady-fish and their

relatives.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xuvi1, Quar.
issue, vol. 3, pt. 1, No. 1576, May 13, 1905,
pp. 31-46, pl. 17-21.

The tarpon is considered as (1) a member of
the family of Elopids and (3) a species of the
genus Megalops contrasted with (2) the
species of the genus Elops; (4) the history of
the popular names is indicated; its habits are
noticed in sections devoted to (5) its range
and appearance on the American coast, (6)
its activity and food, (7) its breeding habits
and size, and (8) its economic position. In
conclusion, (9) a notice of the congeneric
ox-eye herring (Megalops cyprinoides) is
given.

The lady-fish, after a brief diagnosis of its
family (Albulids), is considered with refer-
ence to (1) its range, (2) its food and manner
of feeding, and (3) its early stages, from a
translucent larval condition to the acquisi-
tion of its mature characteristics. In a final
section (4) its value as a food and game fish is
adverted to.

The gisu, or Pterothrissus gisu of Japan, is
also briefly noticed.

Note on the sal-
mon and trout of Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi11, No. 1599,
May 9, 1905, pp. 365, 366.

| —__— and SNYDER, Joun Orrersem.

Description of a new species of fish (Apo-
gon evermanni) from the Hawaiian Islands,

with notes on other species.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxvil1, No. 1386, Oct.
6, 1904, pp. 123-126.

On
a collection of fishes made in Korea, by
Pierre Louis Jouy, with descriptions of

new species.
Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., xxviil, No. 1391,
Feh. 23, 1905, pp. 193-212, text figs. 1-11.

On the Liparis (Tris-
negistus) owstont Jordan and Snyder.

Proc. U. S.. Nat. Mus., xxvil, No. 1390,
Nov. 29, 1904, pp. 189-191, text figs. 1, 2.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

SNYDER, Jon OTTERBEIN.
David Starr Jordan.)

STARKS, Epwiyn CHapry.
vid Starr Jordan.)

(See under

(See under Da-

REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS,

McGREGOR, Ricuarp C. Notes on Ha-
waiian reptiles from the island of Maui.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxv, No. 1383,
Sept. 24, 1904, pp. 115-118.

STEJNEGER, Leonnarp.

A new species !}

of lizard from the Riukiu Archipelago.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVM, Quar.
issue, II, pt. 2, No. 1487, Nov. 9, 1904,
pp- 294, 295.

Tal-ydromus dorsalis described as new spe- |

cies, p. 294; type U. S. N. M., No. 34162.

Three new frogs and one new gecko
from the Philippine Islands.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvut, No. 1397,
Feb. 15, 1905, pp. 343-348.

Rana mearnsi (p. 343), Cornufer worcesteri
(p. 345), Philantus woodi (p. 346), Lepidodac-
tylus plenicaudus (p. 348), are described as
new species.

A snake new to the District of Co-
lumbia.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Feb. 21, 1905,
pp. 73, 74.
Cemophora coccinea, from the vicinity of
Anacostia.

Description of a new toad, from Cuba.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvim, No. 1406,
June 24, 1905, pp. 765-767, figs. 1-6.
Bufo longinasus, new species (p. 765); type
U.S. N. M., No. 27419.

Batrachians and land reptiles of the
Bahama Islands.

The Bahama Islands, Geographical Soci-
ety of Baltimore (New York, 1905, The
Macmillan Co. ), pp. 327-343.

A general account of the herpetological

fauna of the Bahamas, with a list of the spe- |

cies, critical remarks, and a discussion of the

origin and the relations of the fauna to adja- |

cent regions.

BIRDS.
ALLEN, Grover M. Summer birds of the
Bahamas.
Auk, xxi, No. 2, April, 1905, pp. 113-133,
pli

An account of the birds observed by the
writer during a visit to the Bahamas during
July, 1904, with remarks on the distribution
of birds in this group of islands. Sixty-four
species were observed, of which Dryobates
villosus piger (p. 124) is described as new.

127

American Ornithologists’ Union Committee
on Nomenclature. Thirteenth Supple-
ment to the American Ornithologists’
Union check-list of North American
birds.

Auk, xxi, No. 3, July, 1904, pp. 411-424.
A,list of 44 rulings by the committee involv-
ing changes in the nomenclature of the‘‘ Check-

List,’’ with a further list of proposed changes
which are rejected.

BANGS, Ovrram. A correction of Bar-
rows’ record of Coccyzus pumilus from
Concepcion del Uruguay.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash.,
1904, p. 165.
Two specimens of cuckoos recorded by Bar-
rows as Coccyzus pumilus are found to be
C. cinereus.

Xvi, Dec. 27,

Descriptions of seven new subspe-

cies of American birds.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvu1, June 9, 1905,
pp. 151-156.

Crypturus soui mustelinus (p. 151), Scarda-
fella inca dialeucos (p. 152). Claravis pretiosa
livida (p. 153), Geotrygon martinica digressa
(p. 153), Dacnis cayana callaina (p. 154), Calo-
spiza lavinia cara (p. 155), and Phenico-
thraupis rubica confinis (p. 156) are described
as new.

BANGS, Outram, and ZAPPEY, W. R.
Birds of the Isle of Pines.

Am. Naturalist, xxx1x, No. 460,
1905, pp. 179-215, text figs. 1-8.

This paper is based mainly on a collection
made in the Isle of Pines, Cuba, by W. R.
Zappey, but the authors have drawn on the
records of Poey, Gundlach, and Cory, and
from the unpublished notes of Palmer and
Riley, for the purpose of giving a complete
list of the birds of this island. The number
of species here given is 120, of which the follow-
ing are described as new: Ardea repens
(p. 186), Grus nesiotes (p. 193), Saurothera
merlini decolor (p. 199), Prionotelus temnurus
vescus (p. 204), Myadestes elizabeth retrusus
(p. 208), and Spindalis pretrei pinus (p. 213).

April,

(See also under John E. Thayer.)

CLARK, Austin H. Preliminary descrip-
tions of three new birds from St. Vincent,
West Indies.

Proc. Biol. Soc.
1905, pp. 61-64.
Holoquiscalus dispar (p. 61), Buteo antil-
larum (p. 62), and Urubitinga anthracina
cancrivora (p. 63) are described as new.

Wash., xvi, Feb. 21,

A supposed specimen of the Yellow
Warbler (Dendroica xstiva), from Gre-
nada, West Indies.
128

CLARK, Austin H.—Continued.
Auk, xxi, No. 2, April, 1505, pp. 212-214.
A specimen in the National Museum collec-
tion hitherto recorded as Dendroica exstiva
is now identified as an immature male of D.
ruficapilla.

MEARNS, Epcar A. Descriptions of a
new genus and eleven new species of
Philippine birds.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Jan. 20, 1905,
pp. 1-8.

The following species, collected by the au-
thor, mainly on Mount Apo, Mindanao, are
described as new: Leonardia woodi (p. 2),
Pseudotharrhaleus griseipectus (p. 2), Bra-
chypteryx mindanensis (p. 3), Macronous
mindanensis montanus (p. 4), Athopyga
boltonz (p. 4), Cyrtostomus dinagatensis (p. 5),
Anthreptes cagayanensis (p. 6), Merula kel-
leri (p. 6), Gerygone rhizophore (p. 7), Musci-
capula montigena (p. 8), and Pardaliparus
elegans mindanensis (p. 8). Leonardia (p. 1)
is a new genus of Timaline bird, from Mount
Apo.

— Note on a specimen of Pithecophaga
jefferyi Ogilvie-Grant.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Feb. 21, 1905,
Dads
Brief account of a specimen of the rare Phil-
ippine Monkey-eating Eagle received by the
U.S. National Museum.

Descriptions of eight new Philippine
birds, with notes on other species new to

the Islands.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xVi11, Feb. 21, 1905,
pp. 83-90.

Turnix suluensis (p. 83), Muscadivora
langhornei (p. 84), Caprimulgus affinis minda-
nensis (p. 85), Phyllergates heterolemus (p.
86), Cephalophoneus suluensis (p. 86), Hylo-
terpe apoensis (p. 86), Diceum davao (p. 87),
and Lamprocorar todayensis (p. 88), are de-
scribed as new, and the generic name Leonar-
dia is altered (p. 88) to Leonardina.
species additional to the Philippine avifauna,
recently collected by the author, are briefly
commented upon.

Two specimens of Chetura celebensis

(Sclater).

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv, June 29, |

1905, p. 185.

Note on two specimens cf the Giant Swift |

of Celebes, recently received by the National
Museum from Dr. Daniel G. Beebe, and con-
stituting the fifth and sixth recorded speci-
mens of the species.

NELSON, E. W. Descriptions of four new
birds from Mexico.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Oct. 6, 1904,
pp. 151, 152.

Seven |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

NELSON, E. W.—Continued.

The following are described as new: Porzana
goldmani (p. 151), Empidonar fulvifrons
fusciceps (p. 152), Arremonops superciliosus
chiapensis (p. 152), and Telmatodytes palustris
tolucensis (p. 152).

Description of a new species of whip-
poor-will from Mexico.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash.,xvit, Mar. 31, 1905,
pp. 111, 112.
Antrostomus notabilis (p. 111) is described
as a new species from Tamaulipas.

Notes on the names of certain North
American birds.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvi, Apr. 18, 1905
pp. 121-126.

Notes on the nomenclature of several North
American birds, belonging to the genera Sula,
Accipiter, Cathartes, and Tangavius (vice
Callothrus) .

OBERHOLSER, Harry C. A monograph

of the genus Dendrocincla Gray.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., for 1904,
June 29, 1904, pp. 447-463.

Twenty species of this genus are recognized,
of which the following are new: Dendrocincla
anabatina typhea(p. 452), D. enalincia (p. 454) ,
D. ridgwayi (p. 458), D. meruloides aphanta
(p. 460), and D. homochroa acedesta (p. 462).

Description of a new Sylvietta.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI Quar.
issue, pt. 3, Mar. 2, 1905, pp. 373, 374.
Sylmetta rufescens ochrocara (p. 3873), is
described as a new subspecies [from Damara
Land.

Notes on the nomenclature of certain
genera of birds.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, 111, pt. 1, No. 1579, May 13, 1905,
pp. 59-68.

Notes on 17 genera in which a change of
name is required. <A list of the recognized
species of each genusis given. New names are
proposed as follows: Dyspetornis (p. 61),
Xiphornis (vo. 64), Notiospiza (p. 64), Hori-
zillas (p. 65), Conopotheras (p. 66), Chari-
tospiza (p. 67), Charitospiza eucosma (p. 67),
and Ammospiza (p. 68).

Description of a new genus and spe-
cies of Trochilide.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi11, June 29, 1905,
pp. 161, 162.
Aeronympha (p. 161), is anew genus, and A.

prosantis (p. 162) a new species, of humming
bird.

OSGOOD, Witrrep H. A biological recon-
naissance of the base of the Alaska Penin-
sula.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

OSGOOD, Witrrep H.—Continued.

North Am. Fauna, No. 24, Nov. 23, 1904, |

pp. 51-81.

The *‘List of Birds’’ observed during this |

reconnaissance numbers 137 species and sub- |
species, all fully annotated.

RICHMOND, Cuartes W. Notes on the
birds described by Pallas in the “Adum-

bratiuncula” of Vroeg’s Catalogue.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVU, Quar.
issue, II, pt. 3, No. 1548, Jan. 31, 1905, pp.
342-347. ys
In connection with this paper there was
published a verbatim reprint of the ‘“‘Adum- |
bratiuncula’’ of Vroeg’s Catalogue, a scarce
tract in which Pallas described 35 supposed
new species of birds. Dr. Richmond en- |
deavors to identify these birds and give their |
modern equivalents.

The generic name of the willet.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvul, Feb. 21,1905,
p- 75.

Note showing the name Symphemia, long
used for the Willet, to be a synonym of Ereu- |
netes. Catoptrophorus of Bonaparte (1828) is |
suggested as the earliest generic name for this
species.

New generic name for the giant

fulmar.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1u1, Feb. 21, 1905,
p. 76.
Macronectes is proposed in place of Ossi-
fraga (preoccupied).

Note on the synonymy of Hxmato-
spiza sipahi.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvu1, Feb. 21, 1905,
pp. 75, 76.
Mention is made of three overlooked names
proposed for this species.

Description of a new swiftlet from

Mount Kina Balu, Borneo.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVII, Quar.
issue, 1, pt. 4, No. 1565, Apr. 5, 1905, pp.
431, 432.
Collocalia dodgei (p. 431) is described as new.

RIDGWAY, Roserr. Descriptions — of
seven new species and subspecies of birds |

from Tropical America.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 1, No. 1467, Aug. 6, 1904, pp.
121135

The following birds are described as new:
Myadestes genibarbis cherriei (p. 112), Catha- |
rus fuscator sanctzx-martz (p. 112), Cichlhuer-
minia coryi (p. 112) Cinclocerthia ruficauda |
tenebrosa (p. 112), Cinclocerthia ruficauda
pavida (p. 113), Mimus gilvus guatemalensis
(p. 113),and Mimus gilvus tolimensis (p. 113).

The Birds | of | North and Middle |
America: | A descriptive catalogue | of |

129

| RIDGWAY, Rosert—Continued.

the—higher groups, genera, species, and
subspecies of birds | known to oceur in
North America, from the | Arctic Lands to
the Isthmus of Panama, | the West In-
dies and other islands | of the Caribbean
Sea, and the | Galapagos Archipelago. |
By | Robert Ridgway, | Curator, Division
of Birds. | — | Part III. | [Eight lines of
contents}— | Washington: | Government
Printing Office. | 1904.
Bull. 50 (Part m1) U.S. Nat. Mus., 8vo, pp.

I-xXX, 1-801, pls. I-x1x. (Published Dec.

31, 1904.)

This volume treats of 434species and sub-
species, divided among the following families:
Motacillide, Hirundinide, Ampelidx, Ptilo-
gonatide, Dulide, Vireonide, Laniidz, Cor-
vide, Paride, Sittide, Certhiide, Troglody-
tide, Cinclide, Chameidz, and Sylviide.
Outline drawings, showing the main charac-
ters of the 72 genera embraced in this part,
are given in the 19 plates accompanying the
volume.

The three parts of the work now published
cover most of the Passeres, and deal with
about 1,250 species and subspecies, or about
two-fifths of the total number known to occur
in North and Middle America.

RILEY, J. H. Note on the generic names
Bellona, Orthorhynchus, Chrysolampis, and
Eulampis.

Auk, Xx1, No. 4, Oct., 1904, pp. 485, 486.
Note on the generic names applied to certain
hummingbirds. Mficrolyssa (p. 485) is a new
name for Bellona Reichenbach (preoccupied).

— On the proper name of the tody of

Jamaica.
Auk, xx1, No. 4, Oct., 1904, p. 486.
Todus todus is shown to be the proper name
for this species.

Description of a new Myiarchus
from Grenada and St. Vincent, West In-

dies.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. is-
sue, II, pt. 2, No. 1478, Nov. 8, 1904, pp. .
275, 276.
Muiarchus oberi nugator (p. 275) is described
as new.

Catalogue of a collection of birds
from Barbuda and Antigua, British West

Indies.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls.,
issue, 11, pt. 2, No. 1478, Nov. 8,
pp. 277-291.

A list of 51 species and subspecies, with criti-
cal remarks on several forms. The following
are described as new: Cerchneis sparveria
loquacula (p.284), from Porto Rico; Coccyzus

XLVII, Quar.
1904,
1380

RILEY, J. H.—Continued.
minor shelleyi (p. 285), and Dendroica subita
(p. 289).

On the correct name for the moun-
tain thrush of the Lesser Antilles.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvi, June 29,
1905, p. 186.
Note showing Allenia apicalis (Martlaub)

to be the correct name for the species recently |

ealled A. montana or A. albiventris.

Birds of the Bahama Islands.

The Bahama Islands, Geographical So-
ciety of Baltimore (New York, 1905,
Macmillan Co.), pp. 347-368.

An account of the birds of the Bahamas,
based mainly on collections and observations

made by the author, while a member of the |

expedition sent to the Islands by the Geo-
graphical Society of Baltimore. The deriva-

tion of the Bahaman avifauna is fully consid- |

ered, and a complete list of the birds recorded
from the Islands is added.

STEJNEGER, Leonnarp. The birds of
the genus Cinclus and their geographical
distribution.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 4, April 5, 1905, pp. 421-430.

A brief essay on the origin, relationships,
and geographical distribution of the Dippers,

with a condensed synopsis of the 31 recognized |

forms.

THAYER, Joun E., and BANGS, Outram.
The Vertebrata of Gorgona Island, Co-
lombia. Aves.

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., xuv1, No. 5, June,
1905, pp. 91-98.

Notes on sixteen species of birds obtained
by W. W. Brown, Jr., on Gorgona Island, of
which the following are described as new: Sula
etesiaca (p. 92), Urubitinga subtilis (p. 94),
Thamnophilus gorgone (p. 95), Cyanerpes
gigas (p. 96), and Careba gorgone (p. 97).

WILLIAMS, R. W., Jr. A preliminary list
of the birds of Leon County, Florida.

Auk, xxi, No. 4, Oct., 1904, pp. 449-462.
An annotated list of 156 species of birds de-

tected by the author in Leon County, Florida. |

ZAPPEY, W. R. (See under
Bangs.)
MAMMALS,
ALLEN, Guover M. Notes on Bahama
rats.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Feb. 21, 1905,
pp. 65-72.

Notes on the distribution and habits of 6

species.

GOLDMAN, E. A. Twelve new wood rats |

of the genus Neotoma.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv, Feb. 2, 1905,
pp. 27-34.

Outram

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

GOLDMAN, E. A.—Continued.

Specimens belonging to the U. S. National
Museum were used for comparison.

-MacFARLANE, R. Notes on mammals
collected and observed in the northern
Mackenzie River district, Northwest Ter-
ritories of Canada, with remarks on explor-

ers and explorations of the far North.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1405,
June 22, 1905, pp. 673-764, pls. xxx-
XXXIV, figs. 1, 2.

MEARNS, Epear A. Descriptions of new
genera and species of mammals from the
Philippine Islands.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1402,
May 13, 1905, pp. 425-460.

New genera: Urogale (p. 485), Podogymnura
(p. 486), Bullimus (p. 450), Limnomys (p. 451),
Tarsomys (p. 453), Apomys (p. 455). New
species: Cynomolgus mindanensis (p. 428),
Cynomolgus mindanensis apoensis (p. 429),
Cynomolgus suluensis (p. 480), Cynomolgus
cagayanus (p. 431), Pteropus lanensis (p. 432),
Pteropus cagayanus (p. 4383), Urogale cylin-
drura (p. 4385), Podoqymnura truei (p. 487),
Mus tagulayensis (p. 439), Mus albigularis (p.
440), Mus magnirostris (p. 441), Mus minda-
nensis (p. 442), Mus zamboange (p. 443), Mus
kelleri (p. 444), Mus todayensis (p. 445), Mus
vulcani (p. 446), Mus vulcani apicis (p. 447),
Mus pantarensis (p. 448), Mus commissarius
(p. 449), Bullimus bagobus (p. 450), Limnomys
sibuanus (p. 452), Tarsomys apoensis (p. 453),
Apomys hylocetes (p. 456), Apomys petreus
(p. 458), Apomys insignis (p. 459).

MERRIAM, C. Harr. A new

from Southern California.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvii, Oct. 6, 1904,
p. 159.
| A description of Latar lutris nereis, new
subspecies. Specimens belonging to the
National Museum were used for comparison.

MILLER, Gerrit S., Jr.

Bahama Islands.
The Bahama Islands, Geographical Soci-
ety of Baltimore (New York, 1905, Mac-
millan Co.), pp. 371-884, pls. 2, 3.
An historical and descriptive account of the
| mammals known to occur in the islands.

| TRUE, Freperick W. Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Knowledge | Volume
xxxm. |The Whalebone Whales | of
| the | Western North Atlantic | compared
with those occurring in European waters |
with some observations on the species |
| of the North Pacific | By | Frederick W.
True | Head Curator, Department of
Biology, United States National Museum.
| [Seal] | (No. 1414) | City of Washing-

sea otter

Mammals of the

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

TRUE, Freperick W.—Continued.
ton | Published by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution | 1904.

4to., pp. Ito vil, 1-382, pls. 1 to 50, text figs.
1to97. (August 29, 1904.)

GENERAL ZOOLOGY,

STILES, Cuartes WarbDELL.

pitfalls for the pathologist.
Proc. N. ¥. Path. Soc., N. Y., 1904 (1905),
pp- 1-20.
A general review of zoological errors of inter-
pretation into which pathologists have fallen.

Zoological

ANTHROPOLOGY.
PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY.
HRDLICKA, Axes. Directions for collect-

ing information and specimens for phys-
ical anthropology.
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Part R,
Nov. 3, 1904, pp. [1]-[25], pls. -vim.
Instructions to collectors of skeletal, brain,
and embryological material, and other objects
for physical anthropology, with color stand
ards, after Broca.

—— Two artificially deformed crania.
Am. Anthropologist (new series), VI, Oct.—
Dec., 1904, pp. 756-758.
Head deformation among the Kla-
math.

Am. Anthropologist (new series),
Apr.—June, 1905, pp. 360-361.

Vil,

——— Brain weight in vertebrates.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, WI. pt. 1, No. 1582, June 10, 1905,

pp. 91-112, pls. XXXII, XXXII.

A collection of data obtained in the labora-

tory of the Division of Physical Anthropol-
ogy, U. S. National Museum, on the absolute

and relative weights of the brains of 485 ani- |

mals, received in the Division within two
years; with a bibliography.

——— The painting of human bones among

the American aborigines.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1904 (1905), pp-
607-617, pls. I-11.

ARCHEOLOGY,

CASANOWICZ, I. M. Identification of
some Graeco-Egyptian portraits.

Am. Anthropologist (new series), V1, No. 2,
April-June, 1904, pp. 361-363.

A discussion of the religious and artistic
historical import and development of the
Egyptian mummy portraits, and toe sup-
posed identity of some of them with cameos,
coins, etc., which represent royal personages.

131

CASANOWICZ, I. M. The Wat Chang
pagoda of Bangkok, Siam.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., Xtuvi, Quar.
issue, II, pt. 2, No. 1483. Nov. 9, 1904, pp.
273, 274, pl. I.

Description of the structure, after a model
in the U.S. National Museum, with a discus-
sion of the significeance~and’ architectural
development of this religious edifice in various
Buddhist countries.

HOLMES, W. H. Contributions of Ameri-
can archeology to human history.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xuvu, Quar.
issue, 11, pt. 4, Apr. 5, 1905, pp. 412-420.
Read before the Congress of Americanists at
Stuttgart, Germany, Aug. 21, 1904.

Notes on the antiquities of Jemez
Valley, New Mexico.

Am. Anthropologist (new series), v1, No.

2, April-June, 1905, pp. 198-212, figs. 6-12.

ETHNOLOGY,

FEWKES, J. Water. Porto Rican stone

| collars and tripointed idols.

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvi, Quar.
issue, I, pt. 2, Oct. 10, 1904, pp. 163-186,
pl. XXI-Xxvil.

HAWLEY, E. H. Sympathetic drums.
Science (new series), XxX, No. 518, Dee. 2,
1904, p. 768.
The film on the gourd resonator of African
xylophones is thought to act as a sympathetie
drum.

| HOUGH, Watrer. Kava drinking as prac-
tised by the Papuans and Polynesians.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., Xvi, Quar.
issue, II, pt. 1, Aug. 6, 1404, pp. 85-92, pl.
XVII.

MILLER, E.Y. The tugda, or rice planter
of the Coyunos, Philippine Islands.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvit, Quar.
issue, II, pt. 3, No. 1556, Mar. 2, 1905, pp.
375-376, pls. LI, LI.
| Describes and illustrates a very primitive
method of rice planting suggestive of the mod-
ern grain drill.

PHOTOGRAPHY.

| SMILLIE, Tuomas W.
wood for engraving.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar.
issue, I, pt. 4, May 6, 1905, pp. 497-499.
A brief technical paper giving instructions
in photographing on wood for engraving.

Photographing on
132

MUSEUM-HISTORY AND ADMINISTRA-
TION.

ADLER, Cyrus. Exhibit of the United
States National Museum in Historic
Archeology at the St. Louis Exposition.

Am. Journ. Archeol. (second series), 1X, |

No. 1, Jan.-March, 1905, pp. 86, 87.

MASON, Oris Turron. Report on the De-
partment of Anthropology for the year
1902-3.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1903, Sept. 28, 1904, pp. 51-60.

MERRILL, Georce P. Report on the De-

partment of Geology for the year 1902-3.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. 8. Nat. Mus.),
1903, Sept. 28, 1904, pp. 83-99.

The new building for the National |

Museum at Washington, D. C. An ab-

stract from the report of the Assistant |
Secretary relative to the plans finally |

adopted for the National Museum.
Am. Geologist, Xxxv, June, 1905, pp. 378-
385, 1 pl.

MEYER, A. B. Studies of museums and
kindred institutions of New York City,
Albany, Buffalo and Chicago, with notes
on some European institutions.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905.

MEYER, A. B.—Continued.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. 8. Nat. Mus.) =
1903, June 1, 1905, pp. 311-608, pls. 1-40,
text figs. 1-120.
RATHBUN, Ricnarp. Report upon the
condition and progress of the U. S. Na-
tional Museum during the year ending

June 30, 1903.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1903, Oct. 1, 1904, pp. 1-174.

——— The United States National Museum:
An account of the buildings occupied by
the National Collections.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. 8S. Nat. Mus.),
1903, May 15, 1905, pp. 177-309, pls. 1-29.

STILES, Cuartes Warvett. Report of
the Division of Zoology of the Hygienic
Laboratory.

Ann. Rep. Surg. Gen., Pub. Health and
Mar.- Hosp.Serv.,1903(1904) , pp. 330-335.
Contains, among other data, a list of addi-
tions to the collections deposited in the U. 8.
National Museum by the Marine-Hospital
Service.

TRUE, Freperick W. Report on the De-
partment of Biology for the year 1902-3.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. 8. Nat. Mus.),
1903, Sept. 28, 1904, pp. 61-82.
recite > ty
cs a on) :

fi

i Cee

OP ieee Chal Md ae lee
co! \ "

i.

_

; +%
eet
ak, |

*

e 4

aa Jf eeage
‘a &
oe

| Cae
(Aa ao 4 a ee
eee eae eat

/

@

fn
iS
ss

&

Le 8
ca

ia 'n aaa a
Bae

a

me '
i
3
. *
mr d
7 »
i Fs
a re
A vata
‘ ‘ *
& 2
Py <
2
$e s «
,
us i

oe

4

. > ‘ » a
. ee ; x .
= ‘ .
a. . =n -
4 . a
‘ >
‘ > . :
; t, -
” . ‘ 3 ; - >
: F a , : «
.
. - v 2s
= ®

° bh ; 5

?
»
y
>
’
.
rs

x

Hy

ont

~~"
.
t
a
oor
»
vie 0 : j
hi aa %
aS) .
¢
— Fa .
— foot
mf
‘
”
is ’
i

oe

x ‘

<

se +}
”

*
a
a.
%
4
:
.
‘
Z
‘
-
