[Ses
+ aie aa ae

easy

sy oY ont.
fy YAR GE eG dire 4 eh
Bate C Sis

a tetreety + ig eb eg aul. 9

36TH CONGRESS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Sit Doc.

2d Session.
i ae

ANNUAL REPORT

{ E
ewer

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1860.

WASHINGTON:
GEORGE W. BOWMAN, PRINTER.
r 1861.
WITHDRAWN FROM .
In THE Houser or REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES,
February 28, 1861.
Resolved, That there be printed five thousand extra copies of the Report of the Smithson-
ian Institution for the year 1860; three thousand for the use of the members of the House,
and two thousand for the use of said Institution.

Attest: JOHN W. FORNEY, Clerk.
LETTER

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

COMMUNICATING

The Annual Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of
the Institution for the year 1860.

Fesrvary 27, 1861.—Read, and ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 25, 1861.
Str: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the House of Representatives of the United States the Annual Report
of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for the year 1860.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. WILLIAM PENNINGTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT. OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

‘OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITU-
TION UP TO JANUARY 1, 1861, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD
UP TO FEBRUARY 22, 1861.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and
condition of the Institution, the following documents:

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations of the Institution during the year 1860.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an
account of the expenditures for the year 1860.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to February 22, 1861.

4, Appendix.

Respectfully submitted.
R. B. TANEY, Chancellor.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

JAMES BUCHANAN, Ex officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution. ’

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.
W.W. SEATON, Treasurer.

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

JAMES A. PEARCE, }
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, }| Executive Committee.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN,

4

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.

JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington.

JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States.
JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States.
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS, member of the Senate of the United States.
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives.
L. J. GARTRELL, member of the House of Representatives.
BENJAMIN STANTON, member of the House of Representatives.
GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York.

*

GEORGE E. BADGER, citizen of North Carolina.
CORNELIUS C. FELTON, citizen of Massachusetts.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington.

* Vacancy caused by the death of Hon. Richard Rush.
MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

JAMES BUCHANAN, President of the United States.
JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States.
LEWIS CASS, Secretary of State.

HOWELL COBB, Secretary of the Treasury.

JOHN B. FLOYD, Secretary of War.

ISAAC TOUCEY, Secretary of the Navy.

JOSEPH HOLT, Postmaster General.

J.S. BLACK, Attorney General.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
P. F. THOMAS, Commissioner of Patents.

JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS.

BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut.
A.B. LONGSTREET, of Mississippi.
JACOB THOMPSON, Secretary of the Interior, (ex officio.)
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.]

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a
Plan of Organization.

1. Wit oF Smrruson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN InstrTUTION, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.’’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator.

3. The. Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4, The objects of the Institution are, Ist, to increase, and 2d, to
diffuse knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addi-
tion of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus
increased, among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provis-
ionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time

- occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution,
8 : PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be
added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated,
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the
construction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution. toe

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements
of the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a
library, a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal
seale to contain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregowng
deductions from the will of Smithson.

.

To Increase Knowneper. It is \proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer-
ing facilities for the preparation of memoirs containing new truths; and

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To Dirruszk Know.eper. It is proposed—
1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge; and

_ 2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.

I.—By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.
_ 2, The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
= a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge. |

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human
knowledge, resting on original research; and all unverified specula-
tions to be rejected. .

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

the branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for pub-
lication only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a
favorable decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the
colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the
remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully pre-
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from
new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

Il.—By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under. the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, in
course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made:

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and Begtneitall
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect ‘materials for the
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light;
chemical analy ses of soils and plants; collection and "publication of
scientific facts accumulated in the offices of the government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with Teference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5. y Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif-
ferent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds.and other remains of the ancient people of our
country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.
I.— By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in
all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public, Some of the
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION,

reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge
may indicate. (

2. The revorts are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the
different branches of knowledge. ‘

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report ;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it
without purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri-
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institu-
tions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjectsewhich may be embraced in
the reports:

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry,
and meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zodlogy, geology, &e.

3. Agriculture.

4. Application of science to arts.

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c.

II. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography. é;
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

II, By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject. ’

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission
of competent judges previous to their publication.-
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in
the table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents providing for thé two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in-
cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income* into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library
and a collection of objects of nature and_of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another.

4, To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a compkete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more im-
portant current. periodical publications, and other works necessary in
preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of
experimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio-
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work
which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to
purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-
pense, for the exhibitionsof the objects of the Art-Union and other
similar-societies.

*The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the

MURILe MRS EALESUIS ase imeneedanscretaelencn gto watrnsussussinesiceseek soculctesasacisneedncaseneencniga $915,169 00
Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the building).. 242,129 00
Annual income from the bequest PNM nceC aparece racaccssns sad ssaedce scene ceeveeaesiecseens ses 30,910 14:
12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

12) A small appropriation should annually be made for models of
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. _

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to
act as librarian.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property,
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents,
employ assistants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art ; distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be-
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change
is that expressed by the following resolutjons adopted January 15,
1855, viz:

fesolved, That the 7th resolution, passed by the Board of Regents
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in-
come between the active operations and the museum and library, when
the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents,
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance,
and a compliance in good faith with the law.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To the Board of Regents :

GENTLEMEN: From the facts presented in the following report of the
operations ofthe Institution, I trust it will-be apparent to your honor-
able Board and the public that nothing has occurred since your last
session to interfere with the plan of organization, or with the trans-
actions authorized in accordance with it; on the contrary, I think it
will be evident that the labors to increase and diffuse knowledge have
been unremitting, and that the results of these labors have met the
approval and drawn forth the commendation of intelligent men in
every part of the civilized world.

It will also appear that due attention has been paid to the finances,
and although the expectation of assistance from the Patent Office on
account of meteorology has not been realized, yet the expenditures
have been kept within the receipts.

The annual income of the original bequest has been received from
the Treasury of the United States, and the interest on the extra fund
invested in State stocks has been promptly paid. From the report of
the executive committee, it will be seen that there were $15,034 11 in
the hands of the treasurer at the beginning of the year 1860; and that,
on the closing of the accounts for receipts and payments for the past
year, there is a balance on hand of $16,521 95. There are, however,
outstanding bills, on account of work already contracted for, amount-
ing to about $4,000, principally for publications which belong to the
year 1861.

From this statement, it is apparent that the Institution could wind
up its affairs at the present time with all the original fund bequeathed
by Smithson in the Treasury of the United States, with an investment
of $140,000 in State stocks, a balance in cash in its treasury of
upwards of $12,000, and an extensive building containing a valuable
library and collection of apparatus; and, for the history of its opera-
14 ‘ REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tions, could refer to twelve volumes of transactions and to other publi-
cations which have been printed, and are now to be found in all the
principal libraries of the world; to a system of international exchange
which has been inaugurated and successfully prosecuted for the last
ten years; to an accumulation of a large amount of material in regard
to the meteorology and physical geography of the North American
continent, and to perhaps the largest collection which has ever been
made of the natural history of the same region; and therefore, as far
as they are responsible, the administrators could render a satisfactory
account of the important trust confided to their care. We hope, how-
ever, notwithstanding the threatening aspect of our political affairs,
that the time will be far distant when this Institution will be obliged
to finally close its accounts. We trust that there is honesty, intelli-
gence, and liberality sufficient in this country, whatever may be its
political condition, to sacredly guard the bequest which was-intrusted
with unhesitating faith to the people of the United States for the good
of mankind.

The policy of the Institution, from the beginning, has not been
merely to collect and hoard up materials for local purposes, but in
every way to promote the cause of science generally, by a liberal but
prudent expenditure of its income in advancing among men the various
branches of knowledge to which its efforts have been directed. For
example, a great amount of labor has been expended in collecting
specimens of natural history; and it will be seen, by the remarks on
the collections that active measures are now in progress for rendering
the results widely available for the purposes of science and education,
by a general distribution of the duplicates.

The several objects to which the expenditures and labors of the
Institution have been devoted during the last year, are nearly the same
as those mentioned in previous reports; and in describing them we
shall follow the order heretofore adopted.

Publications.—The twelfth volume of the Smithsonian Contribution
to Knowledge has been completed, and will be ready for distribution
as Soon as it comes from the hands of the binder. It consists of 537
quarto pages, and is illustrated by three plates and twelve wood cuts.
The following is a list of its contents :

I. Astronomical observations in the Arctic seas, by Elisha Kent
Kane, M. D.

II. On fluctuations of level in the North American lakes, by
Charles Whittlesey.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

III. Meteorological observations made at Providence, Rhode Island,
for 284 years, by Prof. Alexis Caswell.

IV. Meteorological observations made near Washington, Arkansas,
for 20 years, by Dr. Nathan D. Smith.

V. Researches upon the venom of the rattlesnake, with an investi-
gation of the anatomy and physiology of the organs concerned, by
Dr. 8. W. Mitchell.

1. The first of the papers mentioned above forms the third part of
the series of memoirs on the results of the observations of Dr. Kane,
during the second Grinnell expedition. An account of the first and
second numbers of the series, relating to magnetism and meteorology,
has been given in the two preceding reports. The third, or present
paper, gives the discussions and results of the astronomical ob-
servations which were made, principally at Van Rensselaer harbor,
the winter quarters of the expedition during 1853-54-55. These
observations were under the especial care of Mr. August Sonntag. The
principal instruments employed were two sextants by Gambey, divided
to ten seconds, a theodolite, a transit instrument, and five mean time
chronometers. The observatory consisted of four walls of granite -
blocks cemented together with moss and frozen water. The transit
and theodolite were mounted on piers formed of an extemporaneous
conglomerate of gravel and ice, well rammed down into iron-hooped
casks, and afterwards consolidated by water. Thus constructed, they
were found to be as firm as the rocks on which they rested.

The first observations for latitude were made with the theodolite,
and later ones by means of a sextant and artificial horizon, on the
moon and moon-culminating stars. The time was noted by a
pocket chronometer. The instrument was properly adjusted in posi-
tion, but in consequence of the high latitude and the extreme cold,
this was avery difficult operation. The angle of elevation was, in
many cases, observed by the reflection of the image of the object from
a mercurial horizon; the bubble of the level having been rendered
useless by the extreme reduction of temperature to which it was
subjected.

Observations were also made on occultations and eclipses, namely:
the occultation of Saturn, December 12, 1853; of the same planet,
January 8, 1854, and February 4, 1854; of Mars, February 13, 1854;
and on the solar eclipse of May 15, 1855. In the occultations of
Saturn, the disappearance and reappearance of the more prominent
points of the ring were accurately noted, and the results have been
elaborately discussed by Mr. Schott. From all the observations, the’
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

longitude finally adopted for the observatory of Van Rensselaer
harbor was 70° 52! 45” west from Greenwich. It may be interesting
to remark that the degree of longitude in this high latitude is a little
less than twelve nautical miles, (11.88.) ,

Besides the astronomical observations at Van Rensselaer Harbor, a
number were made on the coast of Greenland when the expedition was
on its way to its winter quarters, and aseries for determining latitudes
by travelling parties at different points in. the regions explored.

From the full discussion of the whole series of observations both for
latitudes and longitudes a new map which accompanies the paper has
been protracted. This map differs from that given in Dr. Kane’s nar-
rative in shifting the position of the shore line of Kennedy Channel to
the southward about nineteen nautical miles. The highest point of the
eastern shore line traced on the corrected map is in latitude 80° 56’,
and that on the western side of the channel 82° 7’. These are the
northern limits of the exploration of the Grinnell expedition.

The fourth and last series of discussions and results of observations
made by Dr. Kane during the second expedition has also been printed,
and will form a part of the thirteenth volume of the Smithsonian
Contributions. It relates to the tides in the Arctic seas. Occasional
observations on the height of, water were taken after passing Smith’s
straits, but the principal number recorded were made at Van Rens-
selaer Harbor. The series at this place commenced in September,
1853, and was continued to January, 1855. The observations during
this period are very unequal in value, owing mainly to physical diffi-
culties. The observations, by means of a sounding line or staff, were
subject to irregularities from a slow movement of the vessel, which,
though imbedded in the ice a greater part of the year, was not entirely
stationary. The observations, by means of a string passing over a
pulley and attached to a float, were also subject to certain irregularities
due to an occasional slipping of the rope over the pulley, and another
small variation caused by the gradual rising of the deck of the vessel
above the level of the water, in consequence of her becoming lighter
by the daily consumption of provisions and fuel.

In discussing these observations it was necessary in the first place to
reduce the measurements to the same zero or level of the sea. To
effect this, two curve lines were traced on paper, the upper one including
the maximum rise of water for each day, and the other the lowest water
for the same time. An intermediate line traced equidistant from these
curves was then assumed to represent the mean elevation, and this
straightened out was adopted as the axis of the mean level of the sea.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ia/@

The corrections fér referring each observation to the standard level were
taken from this diagram—no allowance being considered necessary for
a change in the variation of the mean level of the sea. All the observa-
tions properly corrected are given ina series of tables. From these:
tables, another series was deduced, exhibiting in one view the apparent
time of high and low water, and the corresponding passages of the
moon over the meridian, its declination and comparative distance from
the earth. These latter tables were again plotted, and from the curves
thus produced it appears that the average time of the occurrence of a
series of 480 high waters at Van Rensselaer harbor was eleven hours
and forty-three minutes after the passage of the moon across the meri-
dian, corresponding to a mean declination of the sun and moon of
sixteen degrees.

In like manner from 485 observations, the average time of low water

occurred seventeen hours and forty-eight minutes after the passage of

the moon over the meridian. The average interval of time between

the high and low water was six hours and five minutes.
The tide wave at Van Rensselaer Harbor may be considered as trans-

mitted from the Atlantic ocean, and only in part modified by the small
tide originated in the waters of Baftin’s Bay. This latter tide must
necessarily be small, since the direction of the long and comparatively
narrow bay is at right angles to that which would be most favorable
to the production of a disturbance of this kind. That the ocean tide
wave actually travels up along the coast of Greenland, or, in other
words, that itreaches Van Rensselaer Harbor from the south, is proved
by comparing the time of high water at different places along the west
coast of Greenland.

Having the velocity of the tide wave along Baffin’s Bay and Smith’s
Straits, the depth of the water may be approximately obtained. As-
suming the distance along the channel, between Holsteinborg and
Van Rensselaer Harbor, to be 770 nautical miles, the tidal wave has
a velocity of 202 feet in a second, which, according to Airy’s table,
would correspond to a depth of about 1,300 feet. In the same manner,
by comparing the co-tidal hours at Upernavik with those of Van
Rensselaer Harbor, a resultant depth of nearly 4,800 feet is obtained.
These two may be considered as the limits of the depths in Baffin’s
Bay and Smith’s Straits.

Besides the points noticed, several others are fully discussed in this
paper. Among these is what is called the diurnal inequality, or the
difference between the height of the two tides at the same phases of
the moon, depending principally on her position with reference to the

9»

aol
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

equator, as well as on her passage across the superior and inferior
meridian of the place. The moon produces high water at the same
instant of time on opposite sides of the earth, and were she constantly
to move in the plane of the equator, the highest points of these tides
would also be in the plane of the equator, and would consequently
produce a series of equal tides at any place either’ north or south of
this line. But it is evident that, when she ascends to the north, the
“plane of the highest tide will tip in the same direction, giving the
‘highest point of one tide in the northern and the highest point of the
other tide in the southern hemisphere. Consequently, when the moon
has a northern declination, the tide at any place in the northern hem-
isphere which follows immediately after her passage across the me-
ridian will be higher than one which passes twelve hours later. This
variation in the height of the two tides is called the diurnal inequality.
From theoretical considerations it would not be anticipated that this
inequality should be well marked in such high northern regions; but
since the movement of the water at Van Rensselaer’s Harbor is not due
directly to the action of the sun and moon, but is the effect of an im-
mense wave propagated from the Atlantic through Baffin’s Bay and
Smith’s Straits, this inequality becomes well marked.

About the time of the moon’s maximum declination, the difference
between the day and night tide was two and a half feet. By an ex-
amination of the diagrams on which the elevations of the tides are
exhibited, it is seen that sometimes the day and sometimes the night
tides are the highest; and, furthermore, that the difference vanishes a
day or two after the moon crosses the equator, and that it reaches its
maximum a few days after the moon attains its greatest declination
north or south.

The form of the tide wave is also investigated and expressed in a
diagram, from which it appears that the spring tide wave is slightly
steeper between low and high water than between high and low water,
or, in other words, that the water rises more rapidly than it falls, and
also that the neap-tide wave is nearly symmetrical, the rise and fall
taking place in nearly equal times.

The tabulated observations were also investigated in reference to the
varying position of the sun and moon, giving rise to what is called
the half monthly inequality, and the result of this is also plainly in-
dicated by diagrams, for the high water as well as for the low. This
paper, as we have stated, completes the results of the discussions of
the series of observations made under the direction of Dr. Kane, and,
by themselves, or in connection with other researches in the Arctic
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

Tegions, are valuable additions to our knowledge of the physical geog-
raphy of the earth.

I regret to be obliged to state that since the publication of the paper
on the winds at Van Rensselaer Harbor, some doubt has arisen as to
the proper interpretation of the original record. It is stated by Dr.
Kane that the observations of wind were uncorrected for magnetic
variation. In consequence of this statement a correction was applied
by Mr. A. Schott to reduce them to the true meridian. Mr. Sonntag,
one of the principal observers, after his return from Mexico, asserted
that the observations of the wind were recorded in reference to the
true meridian, and therefore required no correction. The same state-
ment was subsequently made independently by Dr. Hayes. An ap-
pendix has therefore been prepared for the series giving the correc-
tions to be applied to the tables, in order that the results may be in
conformity with either assumption. The weight of testimony would
appear to be in favor of the supposition that the records of the wind
at Van Rensselaer Harbor were recorded with reference to the true
north; but the question cannot be fully settled until other observations
from the same place are obtained.

The next paper in- the 12th volume of Contributions is on the
fluctuations of the level of the surface of the North American lakes.
It has long been known that the great interior fresh water seas of
North America are subject to variations of level. From the observa-
tions given in this paper and others previously published, the fluctua-
tions are of three kinds: First. A general rise and fall, extending
through a period of many years, which may be called the secular
variation of level. It evidently depends on peculiar changes in the
meteorology of the country drained, and although it may probably
have a regular period of return, this has not yet been determined.
Second. An annual rise and fall, the period of which is completed in
about twelve months, which is caused by the changes of the seasons,
can be predicted with considerable certainty, and is properly called
the annual variation. Third. An irregular movement, producing
frequently a sudden elevation, from a few inches to several feet. This
is of two kinds, one evidently due to the wind, and the other result-
ing from rapid undulations in calm water. Both classes may be
styled transient fluctuations. To these a fourth may be added, ac-
cording to a late publication by Colonel Graham, United States Army,
which is a true lunar tide. The author of this paper professes to
haye condensed from all sources within his reach information respect-

* ing the fluctuations of the water since the settlement of the country.
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The whole is arranged in tables giving the dates of observation and
the authorities from which they have been obtained. Although these
tables are doubtless very incomplete, they have been accepted for pub-
lication as contributions to the subject,*to be corrected and enlarged
by subsequent observations.

A series of observations accurately made with properly arranged tidal
instruments, such as are employed on the coast survey, and continued
for a number of years, would be of much interest to science, as well as
of value to commerce in the construction of wharves and the selection
of harbors. Such a series has been established under the direction of
Captain Meade, United States Topographical Engineers, which, with
the observations under the direction of Colonel Graham, at Chicago,
will furnish, if continued, the data required. We think it not improb-
able that, if the series is sufficiently extended, a law of periodicity will
be discovered in the recurrence of the long intervals of rise and decline,
and that these will have some relation to a periodical variation of the
seasons in a series of years.

The most remarkable phenomena in regard to the fluctuations of the
lakes are those of the fitful oscillations in which sometimes a sudden
rise occurs of several feet at a particular place in calm weather, and
also a series of minor agitations. The simplest hypothesis for the
explanation of these phenomena is, that they are produced by the
passage of atmospheric waves, such as are caused by thunder-storms,
and perhaps in some cases by water-spouts, across distant parts of the
lake. It is well established by observation at,the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, as well as at other places, that rapid oscillations of the barom-
eter accompany the passage of thunder-storms across the meridian.
The mercury suddenly descends, then rises a little, and again falls,
and after this regains its former level as the storm passes off to the
east. A thunder-storm, therefore, in crossing the lake, would cause
an elevation of water directly under it, which, in subsiding, would give
rise to undulations, and these arriving in succession from every point
of the path of the storm would produce effects similar to those which
have been noted.

Since the whole lunar tide of the ocean does not exceed five or six
feet, the effect of the moon even on such large bodies of water as those
of the upper lakes must be very small. Colonel Graham finds the
difference between high and low water at spring tides, at Chicago, on
Lake Michigan, to be about three inches and a half, and to occur at
thirty minutes after the passage of the moon over the meridian. It is
probable that the height of the tide on Lake Superior would be greater,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

than this, and might best be observed at the narrowing portion of the
extreme western end of the lake.

The twelfth volume of Contributions will also contain the records
of meteorological observations made at Providence, by Prof. Caswell,
an account of which was given in the last report. This series of
observations occupies 179 of the largest quarto pages which can be
introduced into the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. They
comprise a record of the barometer and thermometer made three times
a day, the direction and force of the wind, and the face of the sky for
the same period; also, the depth of rain, together with a column of
general remarks on casual phenomena. The series is terminated by a
number of general tables—the first giving the monthly and annual
mean height of the barometer during the whole term of years;
the second, the monthly and annual mean height of barometer at
sunrise or 6a. m., 1 or 2p.m., and 10 p.m.; third, monthly and
annual mean temperatures, deduced from the three observations daily ;
fourth, monthly and annual mean temperatures at sunrise or 6 a. m.,
lor2p.m.,and 10 p.m.; fifth, monthly and annual maximum and
minimum temperatures and range ; sixth, the number of days in each
month in which the prevailing winds came from each of the four quar-
ters of the horizon ; seventh, mean force of the wind at the different
hours of observation, and for the month and year; eighth, mean
cloudiness of the sky at the different hours of observation, and the
mean for the month and the year ; ninth, monthly and annual number
of days in which the weather was clear, variable, or cloudy—on which
rain or snow fell; the tenth, monthly and annual quantity of rain and
snow in inches.

From the records themselves an account of the weather on any day
for twenty-eight years past may be obtained. From the general tables
we can determine the connection of the variations of the barometer
with the changes of the weather, and deduce rules of practical import-
ance as well as of scientific interest. From the tables of the records of
the thermometer, we find that the mean temperature of Providence for
the whole time is 48° 19’, and that during the twenty-eight years of
observation the oscillation on either side of this, with the exception of
four years, is within a single degree.

The coldest year way that of 1836; the warmest was 1848. The
warmest January was that of 1843, and the coldest that of 1857, which
was also the coldest single month of the whole period. Onanaverage,
the coldest month of the year is February ; the warmest month is July;
and the warmest month of any summer of the whole period was August,
22, REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

1848; and the next warmest, July, 1838. The mean annual amount
of rain is 40.38 inches, distributed with considerable regularity. The
month in which the most rain falls, on an average, is August; and
that in which the least falls is February.

Another paper in the twelfth volume of Contributions is a series
of meteorological observations, similar to the preceding, made at Wash-
ington, Arkansas, by Dr. Nathan D. Smith.

The place at which these observations were made is on the summit
of the dividing ridge between the waters of the Red river and those of
the Washita, fifteen miles northeast of Fulton and twenty south of
the Little Missouri. From this ridge there is no higher level for a long
distance; but to the northwest there is a gradual ascent for about fifty
miles, to the foot of the mountains.

The records are of observations of the temperature at sunrise through-
out the year, and at 2 p.1n. in the winter, and 3 p. m. in the summer;
amount of rain, and remarks on the sjpatluets with the daily mean
temperature, and monthly mean, maximum, minimum, and range,
from January 1, 1840, to December 31, 1859, a period of twenty years.
Appended to these observations are tables giving the following summa-
ries for each month and year and for the whole series of twenty years:

1. Extremes of temperature. The highest temperature at sunrise and
at 2 or 3 p. m.; the mean eeu of the warmest day ; the lowest
temperature at sunrise and at 2 or 3 p. m.; and the mean temperature
of the coldest day.

2, Variations of temperature. Range of temperature at sunrise and
at 2 or 3 p. m., and of the daily mean temperature; the extreme range
of temperature; the greatest rise and fall of temperature from sunrise
of one day to sunrise of the next day ; the greatest rise and fall from
2 or an? p. m. of one day to 2 or 8 p. m. of the next day.

Mean temperatures. Means at sunrise and at 2 or 3 p. m.; of
months, years, and seasons; and of each day, as deduced from. the
observations for the whole twenty years.

4, The amount of rain for each month and year, and monthly and
annual means for the whole series.

These tables, as in the case of those for Providence, furnish a series
of interesting facts. For example: the mean temperature of the whole
period is 61.81°; the warmest month is July, the coldest January; the
warmest year was 1854, the coldest year was 1843. The coldest New
Year’s day recorded was that of 1840, the mean temperature of which
was 22°; the warmest 1846 and 1855, the mean temperature of each
being 51°, From these tables it appears that the coldest day in the.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

year, as deduced from the average of twenty years, is the 18th of
January, and the warmest the 15th of July.

The mean annual amount of rain is 54.70 inches; the month of the
greatest rain is April; of the least rain, September.

- The last paper in the twelfth volume of Contributions consists of an
account of researches upon the venom of the rattlesnake, with the
investigations of the anatomy and physiology of the organs concerned,
by 8S. Weir Mitchell, M. D.

This paper gives an account of a series of investigations relative to
a subject which, from an almost instinctive aversion to venomous snakes
and the danger to which the student is exposed, has received compara-
tively little attention. With the exception of the essays of Barton
and Brainard, the literature of this subject in this country has been’
confined to scattered notices and incomplete statements of cases found
in the pages of numerous medical journals, and, indeed, if we except
a few works of Hurope and India, in no part of the world has modern
science done much to further this inquiry.

The author first gives an account of his observations on the habits
of the rattlesnake when in captivity. From ten to thirty-five snakes
were kept together in the same box without exhibiting the slightest
signs of hostility to one another. Even when snakes were suddenly
dropped upon their fellows no attempt was made to annoy the new
comers, while the intrusion of a pigeon or a rabbit immediately roused
the reptiles when they were in vigorous health. The habits of this
snake in confinement are singularly inactive. In warm weather, when
least sluggish, they lie together in a knotted mass, occasionally changing
their position, and then relapsing into a state of perfect rest. This
sluggish condition is dangerously deceptive, since it gives no indication
of the rapidity of their motion when aroused. This reptile seldom
eats in captivity. The author has kept one alive for a year without
food, and though he made every effort to tempt the snakes to eat, he
has never seen them disposed to avail themselves of food when placed
within their reach. Some of them were forcibly fed by placing milk
and insects in their throats, yet when even this precaution was not
taken, provided the snakes had water, they continued healthful, and
secreted a large amount of venom.

The author’s observations add nothing‘towards confirming. the idea
of the disputed power of fascination in the snake. Birds, guinea-pigs,
mice, and dogs, put into the cage generally exhibited no terror after
the alarm had subsided occasioned by having been dropped into the
box. The small birds soon became singularly familiar with the snakes,
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and were seldom molested even if caged with six or eight large ones.
Mice also lived on terms of confiding intimacy, sitting on the heads of
the snakes and running over their coils, apparently unconscious of
danger. Larger animals were not so safe in this, especially if they
moved rapidly. All the animals frequently manifested an evident
curiosity which prompted them to approach the snake, but this was
sometimes reproved by a blow, particularly when a dog indulged his
inquisitiveness by approaching his nose too close in the act of smelling.
In a state of rest no odor is observed from the snake; but when it is
roughly disturbed and induced to throw itself into contortions, a thin
stream of yellow or dark brown fluid is ejected, the odor of which is
extremely disagreeable.

The author next describes, from his own dissections, the anatomy of
the parts connected with the secretion and expulsion of the venom.
He also gives a full and complete account of the part played by the
various muscles in the act of inflicting a wound. When preparing to
strike, the snake throws his body into a coil, and by a violent contrac-
tion of the muscles which lie on the convexity of the bends, a portion
of the body is immediately straightened and the head thrown forward
in a direct line to a distance not exceeding one half of its length.
The hooked fangs are made to enter the flesh of the victim and retained
there until the venom is injected by a series of muscular contractions
miautely detailed in the description. From this it appears that the
animal may sometimes fail to inflict injury when seeming to do so.
A knowledge of these facts is essential to a proper study of antidotes
for the bite of the rattlesnake.

The venom is yellow, acid, glutinous, and of a specific gravity of
104. It is devoid of taste, smell, and acridity ; begins to coagulate at
140° Fah., and is soluble in water. It consists, first, of analbuminoid
substance, which is coagulable by pure alcohol, but not by a heat of
212° Fah. This material is the poisonous element, and receives from
the author the name of crotaline ; second, of an albuminoid compound,
coagulable both by heat and by alcohol, and not poisonous; third, a
yellow coloring matter and an undetermined substance, both soluble in
alcohol ; fourth, a trace of fatty matter and of free acid; fifth, saline
‘bodies, chlorine, and phosphates.

The venom gland presents some anatomical analogy to that in which
the saliva of other animats is formed; but there is an entire want of
physiological resemblance between the venom and the saliva. It was
found that no temperature from zero to 212° Fah. destroyed the pois-
enous property of the venom, which also remained unaltered when it
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

was treated with acids and alkalies at moderate temperatures, or with
alcohol, chlorine water, iodine, &c. It prevented the germination of
seeds planted in it, but did not destroy the vitality of large plants
inoculated with it, nor did it interfere with saccharine fermentation nor
with the accompanying growth of sporules.

The effect of the venom on cold blooded animals was studied on frogs
and on the rattlesnake itself. In both the symptoms were like those
in warm blooded animals, but very much slower of development. In
the latter the effects were examined on pigeons, reed-birds, rabbits,
eninea-pigs, and dogs, in all of which careful examination of the post-
mortem lesions were made. The influence of the venom on the tissues
and fluids of the economy is given in detail, and the following are some
of the conclusions arrived at:

In all animals which die within a very short period after being
bitten, there is no other lesion than’the wound, the blood and tissues
both being normal in appearance. In animals whose lives are pro-
longed, the blood is diseased and the tissues more or less altered.
The venom is not absorbed by the stomach or the skin, but when
drawn into the lungs of a pigeon it is fatal. The bite is attended
with no primary inflammation, and the local swelling is due to effu-
sion of fluid or semi-fluid blood. The muscles wounded by the fang
are affected with twitching at first, and afterwards undergo a peculiar
softening, and become more liable to rapid putrefaction than other
parts. The muscular irritability ceases earlier than in ordinary cases
of death, while the rigidity occurs as usual. The intestinal motions
and those of the cilia are unaltered. The heart becomes enfeebled
shortly after the bite, from direct influence of the venom on this organ,
and not from the loss of the respiratory functions. Notwithstanding
the diminution of its power, the heart is usually in motion after the
lungs cease to act, and its tissues remain for a long time locally irri-
table. The paralysis of the heart is therefore not so complete as it is
under the influence of upas or corroval. In warm-blooded animals
artificial respiration prolongs the contractile power of the heart, but
does not sustain it as long as when the animal has died by woorara or
decapitation. In the frog, the actions of the heart continue after res-
piration has ceased, and sometimes survive until the sensory nerves
and the nerve centres are dead, the motor nerves alone remaining
irritable. In warm-blooded animals, respiration ceases, owing to
paralysis of the nerve centres. The sensory nerves, and the centres of
nerve power in the medulla spinalis and medulla oblongata, lose their
vitality before the motor nerves become affected.
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In cold-blooded animals the muscular system retains its irritability
for a considerable time after death, so that this cannot be due to its
loss. The first effect of the venom being to depress the vital energy
of the heart and nerve centres, a resort to stimulants is clearly indi-
cated as the only rational mode, in our present state of knowledge,
of early constitutional treatment. In chronic poisoning, death is due
to the continued influence of venom on the heart and nerve centres,
and to secondary alterations of the blood and tissues. In these cases
the fibrin of the blood is more or less dissolved, and the corpuscles are
rarely and slightly altered, and not at all in animals which die soon
after being bitten. The venom produces changes analogous to those
in cases of yellow fever and some other maladies.

These conclusions rest on a series of apparently well-devised and
carefully-executed experiments. They are principally original results,
and the whole paper must, therefore, be considered a valuable addition
to our knowledge of this interesting subject.

Attached to the memoir is an appendix containing an enumeration
of the genera and species of rattlesnakes, with synonomy and refer-
ences by E. D. Cope; also, a full bibliography of the subject by the
author, with critical and analytical notices of the works mentioned;
and this, with the authorities given by Mr. Cope, furnishes a complete
list of all writers either on the natural history, or on the anatomy,
physiology, and toxicology of venomous serpents in general. The
paper is illustrated with wood cuts, and the author acknowledges his
indebtedness to this Institution for aid in procuring the serpents which
were essential to his investigations.

Professor Bache has presented for publication the second of his
series of discussions of the magnetic observations made at Girard
College between the years 1840 and 1845. Part 1 of this series,
which is described in the last report, related to the investigation of the
eleven-year period, or that which is coincident with the recurrence of
frequency. of the spots on the sun, and to other variations of the needle
connected with solar action. The present paper relates to the influ-
ence of the moon on the variation of the magnetic needle.

The existence of a sensible lunar effect on the magnetism of the
earth has been established by the labors of Sabine and others; it is,
however, of much importance to confirm and extend their results by
the discussion of independent observations. In the previous paper
the method was shown by which the several influences of the sun were
eliminated from the observations, leaving residuals from which the
lunar influence could be deduced, the method being that followed by
.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. yi

General Sabine in his reduction of the results of the British observa-
tions.- The records, after having been corrected for the influence of
the sun and other perturbations, were arranged in tables, correspond-
ing to the several hours of the day, commencing with the upper transit
of the moon over the meridian. ‘lo ascertain whether the different
parts of these series would give harmonious results, the whole number
tabulated, 21,644, was divided into three groups, the first compris-
ing nineteen months, the second, twenty-one months, and the third,
eighteen months. From these it-was found that the results were
nearly proportioned to the number of observations, which indicated
that no constant error of much magnitude existed.

The three groups were next discussed by means of Bessel’s formula,
two terms of which were found sufficient to give a curve representing
the observations ; and as a constant term was not found necessary in
the construction of this curve, it was inferred that the moon exerted
no specific constant action on the needle, or, in other words, that the
magnetism of the moon is not per se, but is of that kind called
inductive, which is due to the action of some extraneous body.

The curves by which the results of the discussion are represented
show two east and two west deflections in a lunar day, the maxima
east and west occurring about the time of the upper and lower transit
of the moon over the meridian, and the minima about at the interme-
diate sixth hour.

In comparison with the effects of other forces operating on the mag-
netic needle, that of the moon is exceedingly small, and could not have
been detected previous to the introduction of the more refined instru-
ments and methods of investigation which have been invented within
the last twenty years. The total range at Philadelphia scarely reaches
thirty seconds, and at Toronto it is only a little more than thirty-eight
seconds.

The principal western maximum deviation occurs six minutes after
the moon passes the lower meridian, and amounts to 13.8 seconds of
arc. The secondary maximum occurs fourteen minutes after the upper
culmination, and amounts to 10.8 seconds. The principal eastern
maximum of variation takes place six hours and seventeen minutes
after the lower culmination, the deflection being 13.2 seconds. The
secondary easterly maximum occurs at six hours three minutes after
the upper transit, and amounts to 11.4 seconds.

The effect of the moon appears to be subject to a variation depending
on the solar year, for the investigation of which the preceding results
were arranged in two groups—one containing the hourly values for
7”
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the summer months, and the others those for the winter months.
After being subjected to a similar process of reduction, it was found
from these that the lunar variation is much smaller in amplitude in
winter than in summer, and also that the maxima and minima occur
earlier in the former than in the latter season, the winter curve pre-
ceding the summer curve by about an hour and three quarters.

Professor Bache next proceeded to ascertain whether the phases,
declination, or parallax of the moon have any sensible effect on the
magnetic variation. Dr. Kreil, from the discussion of ten years’ ob-
servation at Prague, concluded that there was no specific change in the
position of the magnet depending on the moon’s phases or parallax,
but that the variation was sensibly greater when the moon was at its
ereatest northern declination. On the contrary, Mr. Brown, from a
much shorter series of observations in India, inferred that there was
a minimum of variation two days after the full moon. To investigate
these points, the lunar variation for the days of full and new moon,
and for two succeeding days, were compared with the average monthly
variation ; the results indicate that the north .end of the magnet is
deflected six seconds to the westward at full moon ‘ and as much to the
eastward on the day of new moon. This quantity is not much beyond
the probable error of observation, but a more definite result could hardly
be expected from a series extending over but five years. The period
of the observations is also too short to exhibit any definite variation
depending on the moon’s greatest northern or southern declination,
and the same remark may be applied to the effect of the varying dis-
tance of the moon. Professor. Bache proposes, in another paper, to
extend the discussion to the moon’s influence on the variation in the
intensity of the magnetic force of the earth.

I neglected to mention in the last report that, besides the magnetic
observations made by Professor Bache in coéperation with the system
inaugurated by the British association, two other series were carried
on simultaneously—one in the city of Washington, by Lieutenant
Gilliss, of the United States Navy, and the other by Professor Bond,
of Harvard University. The observations of Lieutenant Gilliss were
made once in two hours with a bar eleven inches long, observed with a
micrometer microscope reading to seconds of arc, and were continued
from July 7, 1840, to June 30, 1842, a period of two years. Beside
the bi-hourly series, another was made on term days, viz: on the 23d
and 24th of each month, from September, 1840, to June, 1842, in
which the position of the needle was recorded at intervals of every
five minutes. Professor Bond’s observations at Cambridge extended
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

from 1837 to 1845. The observations of Lieutenant Gilliss were pub-
lished by order of the Senate of the United States; but have not
been discussed in reference to the various influences to which the
needle is subjected. Those of Professor Bond are still in manuscript,
but will probably be published in due time, as a part of the labors of
the Harvard observatory.

The fact was mentioned in the last report, that a small appropriation -
had been made, to assist in defraying the expense of the necessary
material and apparatus for an investigation undertaken by Professor
Wolcott Gibbs relative to the ores of platinum, of which the following
is an account:

Samples of the ores of platinum, according to Gmelin, were first
brought to Europe in the year 1741. In 1748, the metal was described
by Don Antonio de Ulloa as a metallic stone, which, when present in
large quantity, prevents the working of the gold ores. Watson recog-
nized platinum as a distinct metal in 1750, and after that period very
numerous investigations were published in regard to it. In 1804,
Wollaston announced the discovery of palladium and rhodium in the
‘ raw platinum ores, and shortly afterward Smithson Tennant showed
that the same ore contained two other metals, which he called iridium
and osmium. Finally, in 1844, Claus discovered ruthenium. The
investigation of the metals accompanying platinum has always been
regarded as one of peculiar difficulty, in consequence of the remarkable
analogies between the chemical properties of the metals themselves.
The comparatively recent discovery of ruthenium illustrates this point
in a striking manner. All previous investigations related chiefly to
mixtures of the metals in various proportions, hardly a single one
having been obtained ina state of purity. Claus’s most elaborate and
successful investigation threw a new light on the whole subject, with-
out, however, removing all the difficulties which accompany a complete
separation of the different metals. In 1859, Deville and Debray pub-
lished a detailed memoir on the working of the ores of platinum upon
a large scale, and on the physical properties of the different metals.
In this very valuable paper, methods of fusing large quantities of
platinum are given, the processes employed being, however, essen-
tialiy the same as those successfully used in this country by Dr. Hare
many years since.

The purely chemical question of the complete separation of the
different metals of the platinum group from each other, remained
unsolved. The investigations of Dr. Gibbs have been undertaken
partly to supply this deficiency, and partly in consequence of his dis-
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

covery of a very remarkable series of compounds containing osmium,
ruthenium, or iridium. ‘These investigations have thus far been suc-
cessful, a few difficulties only remaining to be overcome. They have
not merely yielded wholly new methods of separation, but have re-
sulted in the discovery of an entirely new class of salts, possessing
much theoretical and practical interest. It is by means of these salts
that Dr. Gibbs has succeeded in effecting a satisfactory separation of
the different metals of the group. The memoir embodying a detailed
description of the processes of Dr. Gibbs will consist of four. parts.
The first will treat of the methods of bringing the ores into a soluble
condition ; the second, of the methods of separating the metals from
each other ; the third, of the new salts and bases discovered ; and the
fourth, of the general relations of the metals of the group. A large
part of the work is already completed, and the author expects to have
the whole ready for the press 1s a few months.

Beside the papers described, a number of others have been accepted
for publication, or are in preparation, at the expense of the Smithson-
ian fund. Among the former we may mention an elaborate memoir
on the anatomy of the human liver, by Dr. Schmidt, of New Orleans,
of which the following are the principal points: 1. The accumulation
of additional evidence of the existence of a network of capillary vessels
previously discovered by the author, and described by him as ‘‘ biliary
tubules,’’ from which start the smallest hepatic ducts. This network
is independent of that in which the smallest branches of the porta-
vein, hepatic artery, and veins arise. 2. The discovery of minute
lymphatics of the liver, and their origin in the network of biliary
tubules, by which a communication between the hepatic ducts and
lymphatics is established. 3. The discovery of lymphatic vessels,
directly joining small hepatic ducts, by which a second communication
between these vessels is established. 4. A minute description of a
system of small follicular and racemose glands, the ducts of which
form extensive plexuses throughout the liver, and their relationship to
the other constituents of the organ. These glands have been imperfectly
described by some authors, but their true relations have never been
known. 5. The discovery of a communication of the lymphatics with
the ducts of these glands. As many of the latter join the hepatic
ducts, a third communication between the lymphatics and hepatic
ducts is thus indirectly established.

The memoir also contains several other points of minor importance,
together with a minute description of the blood vessels, hepatic cells,
&c., perhaps more definite than has heretofore been given. The dis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ok

covery of a natural communication between the hepatic ducts and
lymphatics of the liver, according to the author, is of great import-
ance, for it explains the phenomena of jaundice as they occur in certain
diseases. It also explains why the large lymphatics on the surface of
the liver are frequently found filled with bile after death. The appen-
dix to the memoir contains a description of the best method of making
minute injections, together with the apparatus used for the purpose.

In addition to the foregoing, an original mathematical paper on the
intersection of circles and spheres, has been presented by Major Alvord,
of the United States Army.

Among the memoirs in preparation is one on Arctic meteorology,
from the original observations made under the direction of Sir F. Leo-
pold McClintock, during his late voyage in search of Sir John Frank-
lin, and presented to this Institution by the author, for discussion and
publication. A full account of this paper and the preceding will be
given in the next annual report.

Under the head of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, the follow-
ing works have been published during the past year:

1. Instructions in reference to collecting nests and eggs of North
American birds ; illustrated with wood cuts.

2. Circular in reference to the history of North American grasshop-
pers; prepared by Mr. P. R. Uhler. ‘

3. Circular in reference to collecting North American shells.

4, Circular addressed to the officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company,
relative to the registration of meteorological phenomena, and the col-
lection of objects of natural history. This circular is accompanied by
a letter from the late Sir George Simpson, governor of the Hudson’s
Bay Company’s territory, commending the requests of the Institution
to the favorable consideration of all persons connected with the com-
pany.

5. Check lists of the shells of North America, prepared for the
Institution by Isaac Lea, P. P. Carpenter, W. Stimpson, W. G. Bin-
ney, and T. Prime. These lists were prepared for the purpose of
labeling the specimens in the Smithsonian collection, but as it was
thought they would be of general value in the indication of species
inhabiting this continent and the adjacent islands, in facilitating the
preparation of catalogues, the labeling of collections, and conducting
exchanges, it has been thought proper to print them for distribution.

6. List of duplicate shells of the Indo-Pacific Fauna, collected by
the United States exploring expedition under Captain Wilkes.
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

7. Catalogue of the described lepidoptera of North America, by
Dr. John G. Morris. This catalogue enumerates over 2,000 species
of butterflies, moths, &c., which occur in the United States proper.
‘‘Yet there is reason to believe,’’ says the author, ‘‘that hundreds still
remain to be discovered.’’ In the preparation of this catalogue, all
accessible books have been consulted, and itis believed that few descrip-
tions of American lepidoptera have been overlooked. The classifica-
tion adopted is that recommended in part by Herrich-Schaeffer and
Walker ; but in some of the familes, Guénée has been followed.

The following works are in preparation for publication in the Smith-
sonian miscellaneous collections:

1. Elementary introduction to the study of conchology, by P. P.
Carpenter, of Warrington, England.

2. List of the species of shells collected by the United States ex-
ploring expedition, by the same author.

3. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the west coast of the United
States, Mexico, and Central America, by the same author.

4, Bibliography of North American conchology, by W. G. Binney.

5. Descriptive catalogue of the air-breathing shells of North Amer-
ica, by the same author.

6. Catalogue of North American crustacea, in the museum of the
Smithsonian Institution, by W. Stimpson, M. D.

7. Catalogue of the described Neuroptera of North America, by
Dr. H. Hagen; edited by P. R. Uhler.

8. Classification of the Coleoptera of North AaNOvEER, by Dr. John
L. Le Conte.

9. Descriptive list of the diurnal lepidoptera of North America, by
Dr. J. G. Morris.

10. Descriptive catalogue of the hymenoptera of North America,
by H. De Saussure.

11. Descriptive catalogue of the diptera of North America, by Dr.
Dr. H. Loew and Baron Osten Sacken.

12. Catalogue of North American orthoptera, hemiptera, and homop-
tera, by P. R. Uhler.

Most of these are nearly completed, and will be published during
the year 1861.

The thanks of the Institution are due to the gentlemen whose names
have been mentioned in connection with the preparation of the several
works just mentioned, since their labors have been bestowed for the
advance of science, without any other reward than that which might
flow from the reputation justly due to the authors of such productions.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. . 33

_ The works on insects have been prepared especially to facilitate the

study of this branch of natural history—a taste for which has much

increased in this country of late years, principally through the exer-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution ; and it is believed that, with the
growing enthusiasm manifested for this study, specimens of nearly all
the species which inhabit North America will soon be collected and
accurately described. The practical bearing of a knowledge of ento-
mology, in its application to agriculture and the arts, as well as in its
scientific relation to general zodlogy and physical geography, have
been pointed out in previous reports. I may mention, however, as an
interesting fact exhibiting the relation of animal life to the peculiarities
of climate and soil in different parts of the world, that Baron Osten
Sacken has ascertained that the same species of insects which inhabit
the arid plains of the western portion of our continent are nearly
identical with those found on the steppes of Russia.

The next class of publications of the Institution consists of the series
of annual Reports to Congress. The first reports were in pamphlet
form, and merely gave an account of the operations of the Institution
and the proceedings of the Regents. Hach report, however, since 1853,
consists of a volume in which is given, in an appendix, some of the
lectures delivered at the Institution, extracts from correspondence, and
information of a character suited to the meteorological observers and
other persons interested in the promotion of knowledge. The first
volume of this series (that for 1853) contains a reprint of all the pre-
vious reports of the Secretary, the will of Smithson, the act of organi-
zation, and all the facts necessary to a history of the establishment
from its commencement. The report for 1859 contains the usual
amount of matter, which has thus far been restricted by the action of
Congress to 450 pages. The number of copies printed by order of
Congress was 10,000, of which only 4,500 were given to the Institu-
tion for distribution; whereas, of the report for 1858, the Institution
received 7,000 copies. On account of this reduction in the number of
copies, we have been obliged to curtail the list of distribution, and to
confine it principally to our meteorological observers and to those who
have manifested their interest in the work by making special applica-
tion for it.

In order to ascertain whether the publications of the Institution are
received by the persons to whom they are addressed, a »rinted form of
acknowledgment is sent, to be returned with the signaiure, post office,
and occupation of the recipient. The receipts, which have been care-
fully bound in a series of volumes as vouchers for the faithful discharge

3
= 2 an REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of this part of the operations of the establishment, furnish some inter-
esting statistics as to the occupation, and distribution in the different
parts of the country, of the readers of the Smithsonian reports.

Meteorology.—An appropriation is annually made by Congress for
‘the collection of agricultural statistics, investigations for promoting
agriculture and rural economy,’ &c. Of this, Judge Mason, during
his term of office as Commissioner of Patents, devoted a small portion
to assist the Smithsonian Institution in collecting and reducing mete-
orological observations. He considered this kind of information as
one of the essential elements on which to found a system of scientific
agriculture adapted to the various local climates of the different parts of
our extended country, and in his estimates presented to Congress for an
increased appropriation, a certain sum was specified as requisite for this
important purpose. In his report for 1856, he properly remarks ‘‘ that
the degree of heat, cold, and moisture in various localities, and the
usual periods of their occurrence, together with their effects upon dif-
ferent agricultural productions, are of incalculable importance in
searching into the laws by which the growth of such products is reg-
ulated, and will enable the agriculturist to judge with some degree of
certainty whether any given article can be profitably cultivated.’’ In
accordance with these views, an increased appropriation was made by
Congress, which has been continued until the present time. The part
of the appropriation originally devoted to meteorology was also con-
tinued by the successors of Judge Mason, until last year, when it was
suddenly and unexpectedly suspended.

The sum thus furnished by the agricultural department of the Patent
Office was scarcely more than one third of that appropriated by the
Smithsonian Institution. It was, however, of essential service in
developing the system and in assisting to defray the heavy expense of
blanks and reductions.

The general results of all the observations for six years have been
presented in a report to Congress, in the joint name of the Smithsonian
Institution and the Patent Office, and are now in the hands of the
public printer. The information which is contained in this report is
such as is almost constantly called for by the public, and forms a part
of the data necessary to base the practice of agriculture upon the reliable
principles of insurance, as well as to indicate the climate especially
adapted to particular productions. The value, however, of such mate-
rials depends upon the number of years during which the observations
are continued, and I therefore regret that the late Commissioner of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

Patents did not see fit to continue the appropriation which had been
made by his predecessors. The system was fully organized and the
investigation was considered of too much importance to be abandoned,
particularly after so much labor had been bestowed upon it, and there-
fore it has since been maintained at the sole expense of the Institution.
We are sorry, however, that we were obliged to stop the reductions,
but hope they will be resumed again before the observations have
accumulated to an unwieldy bulk.

The whole system of meteorology is still in a prosperous condition ;
the number of observers reporting directly to the Institution is about
500; the number of stations reporting to the Surgeon General’s office
of the War Department is 75. The returns of fourteen stations in
Canada are also accessible to the Institution. Observations have been
made for the year 1860 at 166 light-houses on the Atlantic and Lake
coasts, under the direction of the Light-House Board, copies of which
are sent through the Institution to the Board of Trade in England.

The lake system, established under the direction of Captain Meade,
of the Topographical Engineers, is still continued. It consists of eigh-
teen stations on lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario.
Kach station is furnished with a full set of standard instruments con-
structed on the plan adopted by the Smithsonian Institution. The
observations are regularly taken four times a day at equal intervals of
three hours, besides occasional series at certain places at every hour of
the twenty-four. The latter are of much value in determining the
corrections to be applied to the mean derived from observations taken
at a few hours in the day. This system in its extent, the precision of
its instruments, and the character of its observers, is one of the most
perfect which has ever been established, and if continued for a few
years, will give the local climate of the district, with an accuracy which
has never been attained in any other part of the continent.

The observations of Lieutenant Williamson, in California, on the
hourly fluctuations of the barometer at the level of the ocean and at
points on mountain stations, were continued until the end of the last
fiscal year, when they were stopped for the want of further appropria-
tions. It is to be hoped the Secretary of War will make provision for
renewing these important investigations, since they are not only of
great scientific interest, but also of much practical value in correcting
the observations for heights by the barometer. Indeed, with the
advance of science, a revision of the deductions from all the observa-
tions which have been made by the various exploring parties, will be
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

required, in view of the greater accuracy attainable by the application
of corrections derived from observations of this kind.

The Institution has received during the past year a number of valu-
able meteorological records from officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company
in different parts of the territory. Among these is a series from Fort
Simpson, McKenzie’s river, for twelve years, transmitted by B. R.
Ross, Esq., chief trader; and another series, for three years, by J. Mc-
Kenzie, Esq., from Moose Factory, both of which will be continued
hereafter. In this connection we may mention that a number of spirit
thermometers for marking the extremes of cold have been distributed,
through the agency of Mr. Kennicott, to some of the most distant posts
of the Hudson’s Bay Company.

The daily telegraphic dispatches of the weather from different parts
of the country have been kept up with considerable regularity from the
South as far as New Orleans; but we regret that frequent intermissions
take place in the receipt of the telegrams from places directly west of
the city of Washington, especially as we are more immediately inter-
ested in these, since they afford the means of predicting with consider-
able certainty the character of the weather sometimes a day or more
in advance.

Besides the sources we have mentioned from which meteorological
records have been obtained, an account of others from which commu-
nications on the same subject have been received, is given in the special
appendix to the Secretary's report. The amount of climatic materials
relative to different parts of the continent of North America which has
been collected by the Institution is of great value; but it cannot be
rendered fully available for general use without a larger expenditure of
money than can be devoted to this object by the Smithsonian income.

All the accounts collected by the Institution of the remarkable
auroras of August and September, 1859, were placed in the hands of
Professor Loomis, and by him discussed and published in the ‘¢ Amer-
ican Journal of Science.’’

During the past year, meteorological instruments have been furnished
to two expeditions under the direction of the Coast Survey to observe
the great solar eclipse of the 18th of July, 1860. One of these was
sent to Labrador under the charge of Professor 8. Alexander, of the
College of New Jersey, and the other to Washington Territory under
Lieutenant Gilliss. The instruments, in both cases, have been returned
in good condition.

A full set of meteorological instruments and other apparatus has
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. BY

been furnished to Dr. I. I. Hayes, who has undertaken a new explora-
tion in the Arctic regions for the purpose of gaining additional informa-
tion as to the existence of an open sea. It is probable that Dr. Hayes
will spend the present winter at some point on the coast of Greenland ;
and if he should do so, he has promised to make good use of the instru-
ments and to adopt measures by which the records of the observations
may be transmitted to Washington.

The summer of 1860 was rendered remarkable by the occurrence of
a number of tornadoes in different parts of the northern and western
portions of the United States. Some of these were of so peculiar a
character, and their destructive effects were so extensive, that it was
thought a matter of sufficient importance to adopt means for their
special investigation. For this purpdse it was deemed advisable to
send a competent observer to make an accurate survey of the region
passed over by the meteors, and to collect all the facts which might
tend in the least degree to throw light upon the character of these
terrific visitors. The person chosen for this service was Mr. W. L.
Nicholson, of the United States Coast Survey, who undertook the inves-
tigation for the sake of science ; his actual expenses alone, exclusive of
transportation, being paid, and a free passage having been secured for
him by the Institution through the commendable liberality which
characterizes the acts of many of our railroad companies.

The most violent of these storms was that of June 3, in Jowa and
Illinois, which swept over more than 600 miles, destroying three towns
and perhaps two hundred persons, besides domestic animals and other
property to a large amount.

In regard to these remarkable disturbances of the atmosphere, Mr.
Nicholson collected a great number of interesting facts, by personal
inspection of the effects which still remained, from oral information
derived from many eye witnesses, and from actual surveys of the paths
of the tornadoes and the relative position of the more prominent objects
which remained strewed in their course. These will all be presented in
proper form to the Institution as a report of actual facts; and it is
proposed by the Secretary to discuss the phenomena in connection with
the various theories which have been advanced to explain the origin
and progress of storms of this character. Attention was not exclusively
confined to meteorological phenomena, but was extended to the physical
and other peculiarities of the regions visited ; and Mr. Nicholson en-
deavored to diffuse a taste for meteorology among the people, which
it is hoped will in the future supply some vacancies in our corps of
observers. He warmly expresses his gratification on account of the
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

liberality with which he was aided, the general appreciation of the
objects of the Institution, and the courtesy every where extended to him
personally.

It was mentioned in the last report that a commencement had heen

made, in connection with the Coast Survey, in the preparation of a
hypsometrical map of the United States, and that the elevation of
upwards of 9,000 points had been collected. This work has been
continued during the past year, and efforts have been made to obtain
materials existing in the offices of various railroads and public works,
and it has been deemed desirable still further to prosecute the research
among the archives at the State capitols. About 4,000 additional
elevations have thus been obtained,and considerable progress made
in the plotting of the material on the sheets of the hypsometrical
map.

In furtherance of the same object, a small appropriation in addition
to the previous loan of instruments has been made to Prof. Guyot, to
assist in a hypsometrical survey of the Apalachian chain of mountains.
During the last two or three years, this accomplished geographer has
spent a considerable portion of the summer in North Carolina, and
has now nearly ready for publication a map of the part of the Apala-
chian system in that region. He has extended a net work of triangles
over an area of nearly 150 miles in length, and determined within
these, by a series of contemporaneous barometric observations, the
heights of all the more important peaks.

In the report of his labors to the Institution, Professor Guyot makes
the following remarks: ‘I only deplore the absence of points the posi-
tion of which is determined astronomically or otherwise with sufficient
accuracy to enable me to locate my survey on the right spot of the surface
of the globe. The existing maps are very deficitnt in every respect.’’
In connection with this subject, I may be permitted to express the hope
that Congress will in due time make provision for extending the system
of triangulation which has been established with so much labor and
precision along the sea-board to the interior of the continent. The
necessity of such a work must every year become more and more evi-

dent, as the value of land increases and the precise definition of polit-
ical boundaries becomes more important.

Ethnology.—W hatever relates to the nature of man is interesting to
the students of every branch of knowledge; and hence ethnology affords
@common ground on which the cae of physical science, of
natural history, of archeology, of language, of history and Leeper
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

can all harmoniously labor. Consequently, no part of the operations
of this Institution has been more generally popular than that which
relates to this subject.

From the preceding reports, it will be seen that the Institution has
endeavored especially to promote that part of the general subject of
ethnology which relates to language; and as in this an increasing
number of the intelligent public is interested, the publication of the
Dakota and Yoruba grammar and dictionary was received with much
favor, and more numerous applications have been made for copies of
these works than for almost any others which have been issued by the
Institution. Indeed, the entire edition of the Dakota grammar and
dictionary, except the copies bound up in the volumes of the series of
contributions, has been exhausted. The work has not only been con-
sidered of value to the students of ethnology, but also to the officers
of the government, missionaries, and others who have been called upon
to hold intercourse with our western Indians.

During the past year several works of the same class have been
offered to the Institution for publication. Some of these, however, were
not in a condition to be printed without revision and philosophical
arrangement; and since the death of the lamented Professor Turner,
we have experienced difficulty in finding a person of the peculiar
skill and learning required for the undertaking of so responsible and
difficult 2 work. We have, however, referred several of the articles
presented to us to the American Oriental Society, and have been
favored with the advice and assistance of the officers of that association,
in enabling us to decide on the disposition of such works; and among
these, the Institution is particularly indebted to Prof. W. D. Whitney,
of Yale College, for the important service he has rendered us in this
line.

Several of the grammars and dictionaries which have been presented
were approved, and would have been published by the Institution, had
not other means been provided for giving them to the public more
expeditiously. Among these, area grammar of the Grebo language
by Bishop Payne, of Africa, which will be printed by the American
Oriental Society ; and also a Creek grammar and dictionary prepared
by Mr. Buckner, and about to be published by the Baptist Missionary
Board,

Much interest has been manifested by the students of ethnology in
everything which relates to the Indians of the Pacific coast of North
America; and the Institution is accordingly desirous to collect all the
reliable information on this subject which it can possibly obtain. In
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

this labor it has been much assisted by Alexander 8. Taylor, Hsq., of
Monterey, California, through whose instrumentality we have received a
collection of original manuscripts, of which the following is a descrip-
tion :

1. A vocabulary of the Mutsun Indians of San Juan Bautista, by
Padre Felipe Arroyo, consisting of ninety-two folio pages, written in
1815, and sent to the Institution by the Rev. John Cuenelias, of
Monterey.

2. A grammar of the same language by Arroyo, also written in
1815, and found at the mission of Santa Yrez, in Santa Barbara
county, by the Rev. C. Rubio, principal of the college of that place,
by whom it is lent to the Institution. This grammar was cepied from
Arroyo’s manuscripts, in a small octavo of seventy-six pages, in a
clear beautiful hand, by one of the friars, and is a curiosity of its kind.
It had been hidden at theold mission where Father Arroyo died, for
over forty years.

3. An extensive vocabulary of the Indians of San Antonio Mission,
of about ninety quarto pages, prepared by Padre Buenaventura Sitgar,
one of the original founders of California, and Padre Miguel Pieras,
between 1771 and 1797.

4. A catechism of the Chalonese language of the mission of Sole-
dad, written out by Father Vincente Fio de Sarria about 1819, was
also found at San Antonio Mission, and forwarded, with the vocabulary
of Sitgar, by Rev. D. Ambris, curate of Monterey.

5. A catechism in the language of the San Antonio Mission, with
a Spanish translation written by Friar Pedro Cabot, in 1817. This
was copied from a wooden tablet used by the missionaries to instruct
the Indians at church, and was presented to the Institution by Mr.
Taylor, according to whom, Friar Cabot was one of the best educated
Spanish missionaries, and justly celebrated among the people of the
country for his piety and excellence of heart. He died about 1836.

We are informed by Mr. Taylor that, at his earnest request, one of
the learned professors in the college of Santa Clara has undertaken,
in behalf of the Institution, to prepare a vocabulary and grammar of
the language. of the Flat Head Indians of Oregon, among whom he
labored as a missionary for many years.

The Mutsun vocabulary has been carefully copied, at the expense of
the Institution, by Mr. Cotheal, of New York, and the original re-
turned to the reverend gentleman to whom we are indebted for its use.
The other articles mentioned, which are not given to the Institution,
will also be copied, and the originals returned. In this way, these
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

valuable contributions to philology, if not printed, will be preserved
and rendered more accessible to the ethnological student.

At the suggestion of Mr. Taylor, we have prepared a circular
addressed to the Catholic clergymen, missionaries, and institutions of
California, Oregon, Washington, Vancouver’s Island, British Colum-
bia, Utah, Arizona, and New Mexico, asking for copies of all Indian
vocabularies, grammars, catecbisms, and other philological materials,
made or collected by the priests who labored among the aborigines,
and which, we are informed, are still to be found in many of the
mission stations. In Alta California alone, it is said that there are
twenty-one missions, in which are preserved books of baptisms, mar-
riages, and deaths of the Indians from 1769 to 1846.

Mr. George Gibbs, formerly of New York, during a residence of
twelve years on the Pacific coast, has devoted much time to collecting
materials for the illustration of the ethnology of the country. He
has obtained over fifty vocabularies of the various languages and
dialects spoken along the coast from Behring’s straits to San Francisco,
and further south; many of which are accompanied by special |
memoirs by intelligent gentlemen residing among particular tribes or
families, and who are well acquainted with their respective idioms.
Mr. Gibbs is at present engaged in arranging his materials with a
view to present them to this Institution. By the collection and pub-
lication of all the materials of this class which can be obtained, addi-
tions may be made of importance to the ethnologist, in solving many
questions as to the general philosophy of language, and the connection
of the different families of American Indians with each other and with
different races of mankind.

A considerable number of answers have been received to the circular
addressed by the Institution to the foreign agents of the government,
missionaries, and other persons in all parts of the world, relative to
the investigation as to the system of relationship adopted by different
tribes, nations, and races of mankind, mentioned in the last report,
as undertaken by Mr. Morgan. These letters have been sent to Mr.
Morgan, who has, in turn, acknowledged his indebtedness to the Insti-
tution for the valuable aid rendered him in the prosecution of his
research.

Some years ago a memoir was submitted to the Institution, on the
physical peculiarities of the European man in America, by a gentle-
man of Cincinnati, which was found to contain a large amount of
interesting matter, but scarcely sufficient data to warrant a safe induction
as to the subject of investigation. A similar inquiry has been insti-
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tuted by members of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,
and in codperation with these, a circular has been issued by the Insti-
tution, asking for statistics relative to the place of birth, country of
parentage, profession or occupation, age, height, and weight of native-
born American citizens. To this circular about one hundred answers
have been returned from our meteorological correspondents, the whole
series furnishing the facts relative to about two thousand individuals.
It is intended to present the statistics thus obtained to the author of
the memoir above mentioned, as well as to the Academy of Sciences.
It will, however, be evident, on reflection, that the value of such sta-
tistics must depend on the number of cases which they include, and
the length of time through which they arecontinued; since it is highly
probable that the changes produced by climate and other conditions of
existence, become marked only after a succession of generations have
been exposed to the modifying influences.

The Institution continues to receive from time to time, information
respecting the existence of mvunds and other remains of the original
inhabitants of this continent not previously described, and since the
proposition has been entertained of preparing a map to illustrate the
relative distribution of these remains, all information of this kind will
be very acceptable.

A paper has been some time in possession of the Institution, on
the mining operations of the ancient inhabitants of the region around
Lake Superior, but it is not yet in a sufficiently elaborate condition to
be presented to the public through the Smithsonian Contributions. We
hope, however, that in the course of the year we shall be able to have
it revised and prepared for the press. It may be proper also to men-
tion, in this connection, that a large number of crania of different
tribes of Indians, as well as of different races of men, has been collected
together at the Institution, the study of which would probably furnish
some new facts of interest to the ethnologist.

Magnetic Observatory.—lt was stated in the last report that, as the
changes in the direction and intensity of the magnetic force at Toronto
were found to be almost precisely the same as at Philadelphia and
Washington, it had therefore been concluded that more important
service could be rendered science by making the observations at a
greater distance from Toronto than the grounds of the Smithsonian
Institution. In accordance with this conclusion, the instruments of
the observatory, jointly supported by the Smithsonian Institution and
the Coast Survey, have been sent to Key West, where the United
States government has a fortification, and the Coast Survey maintains
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

a tidal station. Key West is situated in latitude 24° 33’ north, lon-
gitude 81° 41’ west, and is a low coral island, rising at no point more
than ten or twelve feet above the sea. The mean temperature of the
spring is 75°, of summer 82°, of autumn 78°, and winter 69°. The
daily variation of temperature is therefore very small, and on this
account as well as from its position, the island is well adapted to mag-
netic observations,

The observatory is situated en the grounds of the government, a few
hundred yards from Fort Taylor, and near the water. A large shed
belonging to the fort was made use of, by permission of the engineer
department, as an outer protection for an inner building containing
the instruments. The inner rooms were properly inclosed in a sub-
stantial manner, leaving a clear space between their walls and those
of the outer building for the free circulation of air. The piers sup-
porting the instruments rest upon the solid rock of the island, and are
therefore subject to no other changes than those which result from the
slight annual variation of temperature. A small building to the north
of the observatory was erected for the instruments employed to determ-
ine the absolute values of the magnetic elements, to be used in con-
nection with the continuous photographic records of the variations.

The instruments were mounted at Key West in January and Febru-
ary, 1860, by Prof. W. P. Trowbridge, assistant in the United States
Coast Survey, and a series of observations commenced by this gentle-
man, assisted by Mr. Samuel Walker, in March, have been continued to
the present time, under the charge of Mr. George D. Allen, who is now
retained as permanent observer. The expense of the observations is
sustained jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Coast Survey.
In the appendix to the last report will be found a minute description
of the self-recording instruments here referred to, and of the method
of using them, prepared by Mr. J. E. Hilgard; and in the appendix
to the present report it is proposed to insert a communication trom
Gen. Sabine to the Royal Society of London, giving a brief exposition
of the laws of the phenomena of the larger magnetic disturbances, as
far as they have been ascertained, and of the interesting contributions
to science which such observations as are now made at Key West may
be the means of affording.

Laboratory.—During the last year the laboratory has remained
under the direction of Dr. B. F. Craig, of this city, and, as in former
years, many minerals from different parts of the country, submitted
to the Institution for examination, have been reported upon. It
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

may be proper here to repeat the statement which has previously
been made as to the policy adopted in regard to examinations of this
kind, namely: to furnish an account of the character of the mineral
free of cost to the parties asking the information, provided it is of
general interest, or immediately connected with the advance of
science, and can be afforded at little expense to the Institution. If,
however, the information required is for private interests, a charge is
made sufficient to cover the expense of the investigation. By the
adoption of this policy, the laboratory has been kept in operation by
means of a small annual appropriation for chemicals and apparatus.

Collections of Natural History, &c.—The Smithsonian Institution,
during the twelve years of its active existence, has expended a large
amount of labor and money in collecting and preserving specimens of
geology, natural history, and ethnology, and has also received the
entire charge of all the specimens collected by the various expeditions
of the general Government. The scientific material thus collected is
very valuable, and, in number and variety of specimens and duplicates
to illustrate the natural productions of the North American continent,
far excels any other collection ever made. It is not the policy of
the Institution to hoard up specimens for the exclusive study of
those immediately connected with the establishment, or to consider
the duplicates merely as articles of commercial value, only to be ex-
changed for marketable equivalents, but to render them available as
widely as possible for the advance of knowledge. In accordance with
this policy, arrangements have been commenced for a more general
distribution of the type and duplicates, and for the description of new
species, than has heretofore been practicable.

The specimens may be divided into two classes: first, those which
have been described in the reports of the Government expeditions, or
in the transactions of the Smithsonian and other institutions; and
second, those which have not yet been described, and which conse-
quently are considered of much value to the naturalists who desire to
gratify the laudable ambition of connecting their names with original
accounts of new species, or who are engaged in preparing monographs
of particular families. Of both classes the Institution possesses an
immense number of duplicates, in the disposition of which, some gen-
eral principles should be kept constantly in view. After due consulta-
tion and deliberation the following rules for the first class, and con-
siderations for the second, are proposed.

First. To advance original science, the duplicate type specimens
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

should be distributed as widely as possible to scientific institutions in
this country and abroad, in order that they may be used in identifying
the species and genera which have been described.

Second. To promote education, as full sets as possible of general
duplicates, properly labeled, should be presented to colleges and other
institutions of learning that profess to teach the principal branches of
natural history.

Third. It should be distinctly understood that due credit 1s to be
given to the Institution in the labeling of the specimens, and in all
accounts which may be published of them, since such credit is not only
due to the name of Smithson, but also to the directors of the establish-
ment as vouchers to the world that they are faithfully carrying out the
intention of the bequest.

Fourth. It may be proper in the distribution to institutions abroad,
as a general rule, to require, in case type specimens to illustrate
_ species which have been described by foreign authors may be wanted
for comparison or other uses in this country, that they be furnished at
any time they may be required.

Fifth. In return for specimens which may be presented to colleges
und other educational establishments, collections from localities in
their vicinity, which may be desirable, shall be furnished when re-
quired.

The disposition of the undescribed specimens in the collection of the
Institution is a matter which requires special consideration, and
involves in every case of application for the use of them the necessity
of deliberation to guard against the falling of the specimens into
improper hands, and prevent as far as possible the charge of favoritism.

It is not SOMME that in some cases, hasty and imperfect descrip-
tions have been published of specimens belonging to the Institution,
through the desire of the author to connect his name with a new
species, rather than from an honest endeavor to advance knowledge.
It would, however, have been difficult to refuse any person the privilege
of examining new species, who professed to be actuated alone by the
desire of having an opportunity of laboring in a particular field of
investigation ; but it is clear that special encouragement and preference
should be given to those who undertake the more difficult and laborious
task of forming complete monographs.

It is not in accordance with the policy of the Institution to subject
a person who is engaged in a special line of research, to the expense of
residing in Washington during the period perhaps of many months
required for the investigation, but, when necessary, he is allowed to
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

take the materials to his home to study them at his leisure, provided

the Institution is satisfied as to his competency, his integrity, and
‘industry. But in granting this privilege, some restriction should be
put upon the time the specimens may be retained by the investigator,
and also upon the number he may have at once in his possession. He
should also give assurance that he will prepare a set of type specimens
properly labeled for preservation in the Smithsonian museum, and that
all the duplicates, if required, shall be returned to the general collection.

The proper distribution of the duplicate specimens is a work of great
labor and expense. It does not consist merely in assorting and packing
them for transportation, but also in properly numbering and labeling
them for immediate use. Without these preliminaries, the specimens
themselves would be of comparatively little value. For example, we
may send to an educational establishment a series of specimens, many
of which are to be found in its immediate vicinity, and yet be of great
value on account of having attached to them the scientific names by
which they are known to men of science in every part of the civilized
world, and without which all that may be stated in regard to them in
books would have no interest for want of certainty as to the identity
of the objects described.

To illustrate the details of the system of distribution, I may mention
the plan adopted in regard to the shells and minerals. Of these, a
complete series, consisting of a full representation of each species, 1s in
the process of being accurately labeled, and when this work is com-
pleted, the whole collection of duplicates will be assorted in boxes or
bins, each apartment containing those belonging to the same species.
Hach shell or mineral in the same box will then be marked with the
same number, corresponding with a number on a list of printed labels,
two copies of which will be sent to each recipient of a collection ; one
to be preserved for reference and the other to be cut up into labels to
be attached to the specimens. After this preparation and arrangement,
individual series are made up by taking a single specimen from each
box. This operation demands a critical knowledge of each particular
class of specimens, and consequently requires the codperation of a
number of experienced naturalists, each an acknowledged authority in
his special department. ;

From the foregoing account it must be clear that the labor and time
reyuired even to prepare a few sets of specimens for distribution, is
much greater than at first sight might be imagined; and since the
number of suites of specimens in the Smithsonian collection amounts in
some cases to several hundred, it is evident that the expense must
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

exceed the unaided means of the Institution, unless the time of com-
pleting the distribution be extended over a number of years.

In accordance with the plan described, a commencement has been
made in the work, preparatory to the general distribution. The assort-
ment and labeling of an entire set of shells has been principally
intrusted to Mr. Philip Carpenter, of Warrington, England, one of
the first conchologists of the day, who has prepared a report on the
shells of the northwest coast of the United States for the British Asso-
ciation. In this work Mr. Carpenter has been assisted by the gratui-
tous labor of Mr. Isaac Lea, Dr. A. A. Gould, Dr. E. Foreman, Mr.
W.G. Binney, Dr. W. Stimpson, and Mr. Temple Prime.

The botanical collection has been placed in the hands of Dr. John
Torrey, of New York, who has generously offered, with the cooperation of
Dr.Gray, of Harvard University, to superintend the labeling of a com-
plete set of specimens to be preserved in the museum of this Institution,
of several sets of original type series, to be presented to some of the
principal museums of this country and of Europe, and the preparation
of the remainder for distribution to colleges and academies.

The arrangement of the specimens of the other branches of natural
history has been commenced and laboriously prosecuted under the
direction of Professor Baird, who has been assisted especially by Dr.
H. Bryant, Mr. Theodore Gill, and a number of amateur naturalists.

In accordance with the policy of rendering the collections of new
material immediately available for the advance of science, a number of
series of specimens of different genera and species have been intrusted
for study and description to different gentlemen interested in special
branches of natural history. The service which has been rendered the
cause of natural history by this liberal course is far greater than might
at first sight appear.

It may be safely asserted that scarcely any extended investigation
in the line of natural history has been prosecuted in this country
during the last ten years without having its material in greater or less
part furnished by the Institution.

Ezplorations.—During the past year the collections have been
increased by a number of expeditions under the direction of the
different departments of the general government, and by explorations
in part at the expense and under the direction of the Institution. Of
these a detailed history is given in the report of Professor Baird here-
with presented, and it is only necessary for me in this connection to
mention some of the latter sources of the increase of specimens.
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Mr. Robert Kennicott, the enterprising young naturalist mentioned
in the last report, has continued his explorations in the Hudson's Bay
territory and Russian America, and his labors have, as in previous
years, received the cordial codperation of all the officers and agents of
the Hudson’s Bay Company. Not only has he been permitted to visit
and reside at the different posts, but he has received free transportation
of himself and collections. Mr. Kennicott will further extend his
explorations into Russian America, and will probably remain absent
until the autumn of 1863.

Mr. John Xantus, whose name has also been mentioned in some of
the previous reports, has industriously occupied his time not devoted
to tidal observations for the Coast Survey at Cape St. Lucas, in Lower
California, in completing the collections of the natural history of that
region. The specimens he has obtained on the western coast. are
greater in number and variety, according to Professor Baird, than
those ever collected in that region by any single individual.

Mr. C. Drexler, under the special direction of the Institution, during
the last year made an exploration in the region of James’ Bay, and in
this case also the Hudson’s Bay Company liberally seconded the objects
of the Institution. He was enabled to collect a large number of valu-
able specimens through the facilities afforded him, and these were sent
from Moose factory to London, at the expense of the company ; and
thence to this country by the Cunard steamers, free of charge ; acts of
liberality which deserve to be specially noticed, not only as examples
of gratifying appreciation of science, but also of the efforts of the Insti-
tution to enlarge its boundaries.

Museum.—What has been said under the head of collections may
serve to illustrate the service which the Institution might have rendered
to natural history without having established a public museum, and
incurred the expense of the erection of a large building and the con-
tinued cost of supporting its necessary establishment of numerous
employés. The act of Congress, however, authorized the erection of a
building for the reception of objects of natural history, under the idea,
then prevalent, that such a provision was absolutely necessary for car-
rying out the will of the testator; but it must be clear to every one
who critically examines the subject that, unless restricted, the expense
of making provision for a general museum alone would absorb all the
funds, and thus confine to a single object, and that principally local in
its effects, the bequest intended for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge generally among men.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

If the duplicates now in possession of the Institution were to be
distributed on the plan of demanding an equivalent of specimens in
exchange, the returns would fill far more than the unoccupied space
now in the Smithsonian building, and an additional edifice would be
required, the cost of which would either diminish the original fund or
absorb for years to come the accruing interest. It is evident, therefore,
that unless the museum be restricted within definite limits, the active
operations which have given so much reputation to the Institution, and
made the name of Smithson as familiar as a household word in every
part of the world, must ultimately cease. It has, therefore, been con-
cluded to confine the special collections of the Institution to type speci-
mens, illustrating the natural history of the American continent.
Even the cost of the preservation of these will be more than can well
be afforded from the income of the original bequest. Indeed the Insti-
tution could do much more service to the cause of natural history, were
Congress to accept as a gift the Smithsonian building and all its speci-
mens for the purpose of establishing a separate museum, and suffer the
Smithsonian income, thus freed from the expense of supporting so
costly an establishment, to be entirely devoted to the active operations
of the programme of organization.

It is not intended by the foregoing to decline accepting foreign
specimens in cases in which they may be required for special investi-
gation and comparison; on the contrary, it is a part of the policy of
the Institution to furnish, as far as possible, to original investigators
aid of this kind.

For an account of the labors connected with the collections and the
museum, in detail, I must refer to the communication, herewith ap-
pended, of Professor Baird.

Exchanges.—The system of exchange still continnes to perform an
important part in the literary and scientific intercourse between this
country and other parts of the world. During the year 1860 it has
increased more rapidly than in any other period of the same length,
and is now the principal medium of literary and scientific communica-
tion between the American continent and foreign countries. It is not
confined on this side of the Atlantic to the United States, but extends
to Canada, the West Indies, and South America.

As a natural consequence of the extension of this part of the. opera-
tions, the cost of carrying it on has correspondingly increased, and it
will be impossible with the limited income of the Smithsonian fund to
enlarge the system, or even to continue it in its present dimensions,

4
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

without a pro rata assessment of at least a portion of the expenses on
the different parties who avail themselves of its facilities. The expense
of the system of exchange would, however, be far greater were it not for
the many favors we receive from transportation companies, either in a
great reduction of charges or their entire omission. or conspicuous
examples of this liberality, the Institution may refer to the Cunard
steamers between New York and Liverpool, to the North German
Lloyd between New York and Bremen, the Pacific Mail Steamship
Company, Panama Railroad Company, North Atlantic Steamship Com-
pany, the Adams Express Company, the steamship Isabel line between
Charleston and Havana, and Russell’s army transportation lines, and
also to the Hudson’s Bay Company.
The whole number of large packages containing books, specimens,
and other articles received at the Institution from different parts of the
world during 1860, was 1,000; the number of packages of the same
character sent off was 888. When it is recollected that each of these
packages contained a large number of articles, all of which were to be
distributed, while those intended for this Institution were to be cata-
logued and acknowledged, some idea may be formed of the labor
required to carry on this single branch of the general operations of the
establishment. For a detailed statement ot the particulars relative to

this branch of the general operations, I must also refer to the report
of Professor Baird.

Library.—Since the presentation of the last report, the plan adopted
in regard to the increase of the library has been steadily pursued,
namely: to obtain as perfect a series as possible of the transactions
and proceedings of all the learned societies which now exist or have
existed in different parts of the world. The distribution of the cata-
logue of the works of this kind already in the library, which was men-
tioned in the last report, with the request that our deficiencies might
be supplied, has called forth the presentation of a large number of
scarce volumes, intended to complete the sets, as well as to increase the
number of our series. During the last year the Institution has received
from abroad, for its own library, by way of donation and exchange,
upwards of 5,000 presentations, consisting principally of volumes and
parts of volumes,

The distribution of the same catalogue through this country has
served to render more generally known the works contained in the
library of the Institution, and has consequently increased its use.
The value of this library will, however, be greatly enhanced by the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. sl

publication of the classified index of all papers contained in the trans-
actions of learned societies and in scientific serials, now in process of
preparation at the expense and under the direction of the Royal Society
of London. The following extract from a letter lately received from
General Sabine gives an account of the character and present condition
of this work:

‘‘Our plan comprehends natural history as well as what are usually
called the exact sciences. Itis intended to form three distinct cata-
logues: first, a catalogue of all the serials included in the publication,
with the contents of each in chronological order ; second, a catalogue
of all the separate memoirs in all the serials, alphabetically arranged
according to the authors’ names; third, a classified catalogue of the
separate memoirs. The two last named catalogues to contain, in
addition to serials, distinct scientific memoirs in the appendices to
voyages, travels, &c. We have written in quadruplicate the titles of
above 80,000 detached memoirs, all from works (serials) in our own
library. We have still in the library more serials, which will give us '
about 80,000 more titles, which we expect will be the work of the next
fifteen or sixteen months. In the mean time we are seeking out for,
and adding to, our library, works of the same nature which we do not
possess. In this we think you could greatly assist us by lists of Amer-
ican publications—serials of course.’’

The Institution should contribute in every way in its power to this
important work, and should endeavor, when it is printed, to make
arrangements by which copies may be obtained at a small expense for
the principal libraries of the country. In the way of contributions of
some importance to this great enterprise, we hope to be able, in a short
time, to furnish the bibliography of North American mammals, birds,
several orders of insects, shells, and plants; and to complete, at no
distant period, the whole series relative to the natural history of this
continent.

The first volume of the catalogue of zodlogical literature from 1750
to the present day, by J. Victor Carus, of Leipzic, mentioned in the
last report, has been published; and we would commend it to the
patronage of naturalists as the best compilation which has yet appeared
of the titles systematically arranged of isolated papers on zodlogy pub-
lished in American as well as foreign journals.

Among the special donations since the date of the last report, are
151 volumes from the Royal Library at Munich, and 193 from the
University at Olmutz; 60 from the British Museum, 30 from the
Royal Society of Amsterdam, 25 from the Royal Society of Upsala,
28 from the University of Utrecht, and 36 from the Royal Observatory

_at Vienna.
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The donation from the Royal Library of Munich, mentioned above,
is a part of a large invoice of rare and valuable works, including many
incunabula, for presentation to different specified libraries in the
United States, after this Institution should have made its selec-
tion.

The purchases have been chiefly in the way of completing such
series of transactions as could not be obtained by exchange, and of
works necessary to the investigations connected with the Institution,
such as those on natural history, meteorology, &c.

About one third of the expenditure under the head of ‘‘cost of
books,’’ given in the report of the executive committee, is for bind-
ing—an item of expense which is every year increasing with the num-
ber of serials received through our exchanges ; the current volumes of
this kind being usually distributed in paper covers. Since the date
of the last report, all the scientific pamphlets have been classified
according to subjects, and placed in the hands of the binder.

The policy adopted in regard to the library, as we have said, is that
of rendering it a special collection, as complete as possible in transac-
tions, proceedings of learned societies, and other scientific serials; and
since the space which can be devoted—without further extension of the
buildin g—to the increase of this and other collections is limited, it has
been thought proper to present to the American Antiquarian Society a
large accumulation of newspapers in exchange for works more imme-
diately in accordance with the design of the Institution, and with one of
the fundamental propositions of the programme of organization, viz:
that of doing nothing with its funds which can be done equally well or
better by other means. While the care of these ephemeral publica-
tions would be troublesome and expensive to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, it forms a legitimate part of the duty of the Antiquarian Society,
which has a considerable fund expressly devoted to the purpose. This
disposition of the papers, many of which have been presented to the
Institution, is not made on account of a want of proper appreciation
of their value; on the contrary, we fully agree with the opinion ex-
pressed by Mr. Haven, the learned librarian of the Antiquarian So-
ciety, ‘‘that even partial series, when properly arranged, constitute a
geographical and historical chart of public sentiment, and of social
and political facts, in which sectional and denominational diversities,
of whatever kind, are brought under a single view for examination and
comparison.’’ They have been presented to the Antiquarian Society
that they may better subserve this object, and in the spirit of codpera-
tion which characterizes the policy of the Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

Gallery of Art.—The large and valuable collection of paintings of
Indian portraits and scenes of Indian life belonging to Mr. Stanley,
and those of the Government, have continued to form an object of
attraction and interest to the numerous visitors of the Institution. The
large room in which these pictures are displayed has been furnished
with cases to contain the specimens of Indian costume, implements
of war, and other articles to illustrate Indian manners and customs,
which the Institution has received as presents from different parties.

No application of late has been made to Congress for an appropria-
tion to purchase the valuable collection of Indian portraits belonging
to Mr. Stanley, although it is hoped that in a more favorable condition
of the Treasury an appropriation for this purpose will be granted.

At the last session of the board a letter from Professor Secchi, of
Rome, was read, stating that he had obtained permission for the Insti-
tution to procure casts or moulds of celebrated statues in the Vatican,
but it was concluded that all operations in this line should be deferred
until the completion of the large and elegant building now in process
of construction by Mr. W. W. Corcoran, of this city, to be devoted by
him to the exhibition of works of art. In accordance with the policy
adopted by the Institution, it has been proposed to cooperate with Mr,
Corcoran in his liberal and generous enterprise, and to lend the influ-
ence of the Institution in procuring specimens of art for his gallery.

A considerable number of valuable engravings have been added to
the collection by donations from the King of Saxony, and a series of
those previously in the possession of the Institution, have been framed
and hung up in different parts of the building. The plaster figures
received by the Institution from the Patent Office have been cleaned
and repaired, and are now exhibited in the connecting range of the
west wing. The Secretary of the Interior has sent to the Institution
the large stone sarcophagus brought from Syria by Commodore Elliott.
It is an interesting relic of Roman sculpture, and has been placed in
the south entrance hall of the building. It is proper also to mention
that the relatives of the late Professor Espy have presented a half
length portrait of him, which is at present placed in the library.

Lectures.—In accordance with the programme of the Institution, the
following courses of lectures have been given to the citizens and visitors
of Washington, during the winter of 1860-61, namely :

Five lectures by Professor Farrman Rogers, of the University of
Pennsylvania, on Civil Engineering, Roads and Bridges, and the
principles involved in their construction,
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

One lecture, by Professor P. A. Cuapgourne, of Williams College,
on Iceland.

Five lectures by Dr. F. A. P. Barnarp, President of the University
of Mississippi, on polarized lght.

1. Outline of optical discovery ; characteristics of polarized light.

2. Undulatory theory of light; physical doctrine of polarization.

3. Chromatics of polarized hght.

4, Physical theory of double refraction, and of polarization by
double refraction.

5. Circular, elliptical, and rotary polarization.

Two lectures by Professor SrepHEN ALEXANDER, of the College of New
Jersey, on solar eclipses and their attendant phenomena, with a par-
ticular account of the total eclipse of last July, and the observations
made in connection with it by the Government expeditions to Labrador,
the Pacific coast, and elsewhere.

Three lectures by S. Wetts Wittams, on China and Japan.

1. The literature and government of China.

2. The civilization of the Chinese.

3. Rank of the Japanese among Asiatic nations.

Five lectures by Rev. Joun Lorn, of Connecticut, on the great
representatives of modern civilization, &c.

1. Michael Angelo and art.

. Bacon and philosophy.
. Cromwell and liberty.
. Madame De Stael and literature.

. Columbus and discovery.

ipesite the foregoing, a series of experimental lectures on physical
science has been given by the Secretary of the Institution to the
teachers of the District, and others interested in the subject. In these
articles of apparatus presented by Dr. Hare, and those purchased for
the use of the Institution, were used. During the present lecture
season, owing perhaps, in part, to unfavorable weather and the dis-
tracted condition of the public mind, the attendance has been less
numerous than in former years. The plan suggested in the last
report, of closing the doors after the lecture had commenced, has

been adopted and found conducive of good order and more prompt
attendance.

Respectfully submitted,

ot oO bt

JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Fresruary, 1861.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1860.
Sir: I have the honor herewith to present a report for 1860 of the
operations you have intrusted to my charge, namely: those which
relate to the printing, the exchanges, and to the collections of natural
history.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Prof. JosepH Hunry, L.L. D.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

PRINTING.

The publications of the Institution printed during the year 1860
consisted of 614 quarto and 644 octavo pages, illustrated by seven plates
and sixty-six wood cuts.

EXCHANGES AND TRANSPORTATION.

During the year 1860 there has been a very great extension of all
operations connected with the department of exchanges. The receipts
by the Smithsonian Institution have been much enlarged over those of
any previous year, and an increased use has been made by other
parties of its facilities both for the transmission and return of pack-
ages.

The following tables will be found to exhibit the statistics of this
branch of operations of the Smithsonian Institution, showing how im-
portant a part it plays in aiding the scientific and literary intercourse
of different parts of the globe. |

The expense of the system of exchanges, however, has been correspond-
ingly increased, and would have been greater than the Smithsonian in-
come could defray without the many favors from transportation com-
panies, in the way of material reduction or entire remission of charges
56 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

for freights. The benefits.resulting from such liberality have of course
been experienced by all departments of operations, but chiefly in that
of exchanges and of the collections. The parties to which the Institu-
tion is chiefly indebted are as follows:

The North German Lloyd, a line of steamships between New
York and Bremen, of which Messrs. Gelpcke, Kentgen, and Reichelt,
of New York, are agents. The Pacific Mail Steamship Company, be-
tween San Francisco and various ports of Oregon and Washington, to
the north, and Panama to the south; of which Mr. W. O. Davidge
was president for a time—succeeded by Mr. Allen McLane. Also, the
Panama Railroad Company, Mr. David Hoadley, President. The
steamer connection with California was, at the date of the last report,
formed by the North Atlantic Steamship Company, Mr. I. W. Ray-
mond, President; and the Institution had the privilege of transmitting
its exchanges both ways free of charge. Since the new arrangements,
by which the vessels of Commodore Vanderbilt replace those of the
last mentioned company, this privilege has been somewhat interrupted ;
the agent of Commodore Vanderbilt declining to continue it between
New York and Aspinwall. I am, however, happy to report that no
serious interruption beyond a little delay has resulted, as Mr. Hoadley
has authorized the free transmission of Smithsonian parcels by the brig
line of the Panama railroad between New York and Aspinwall.

To Mr. A. B. Forbes, agent of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company,
in San Francisco, aided by Mr. Samuel Hubbard, the Institution is
under many obligations, in acting as general agents for it in Cali-
fornia.

The great facilities authorized by the Adams Express Company,
through Superintendent 8S. M. Shoemaker, and at present exercised by
the Washington agent, Mr. McLaughlin, mentioned in the last report,
have been continued the past year, greatly to the interest of the Insti-
tution.

.The Cunard steamers, between New York and Liverpool, have car-
ried many packages free of charge during the year.

In addition to the parties first mentioned, assistance has been ren-
dered, as heretofore, to the exchanges and explorations conducted by
the Institution, by the steamer Isabel, running between Charleston
and Havana; by Mr. W. H. Russell, army contractor of transporta-
tion, and by other parties. :

The services of the parties named above have all been gratefully
mentioned in preceding reports. ‘T'o the directors and officers generally
of the honorable Hudson’s Bay Company, through the late Sir George
Simpson, governor in this country, the Smithsonian Institution has to
acknowledge its special indebtedness. In addition to the aid afforded
to the various enterprises of Hudson’s Bay explorations on the part of
the Institution, referred to elsewhere, it has carried a very large amount
of freight in its canoes, free of charge, consisting of supplies to various
points, and returns of meteorological records and specimens of natural
history. Without such assistance the expense of conducting scientific
explorations in the far north would be so great as entirely to preclude
the possibility of any such enterprises on the part of the Institution.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 57

The entire number of packages received at the Institution during
1860, by express, railroad, and steamboat, amounted to exactly 1,000;
while 888 were transmitted in the same time; making an aggregate
of 1,888. This number, of course, has no reference to the sub-pack-
ages or smaller parcels inclosed in larger ones, or in the boxes of
exchanges received from the agents of the Institution abroad. The
receipts of the same kind in 1859 were 804; the transmissions 845; an
aggregate of 1,649, showing an increase of 239, or about one seventh.

1

Receipt of books, dc., by exchange in 1860.

Volumes:
OV CHAMON a. Asta tee ete Jog cel Seiaes daika esis tonresnce see nealingls 781
ICES 2 0, Se eA (0 Sore | NOD OMe Romer Sema cea 419
MATOS Lg ap Me RRS 2 Po oi deat ein aisle vets eres ane are aetclowisl a ja
eal
Parts of volumes and pamphlets :
COVSs fs (0 taut es ek SUR | ee a 2,716
REPT (0) a ests aR OUR re eS yA
Bihan hecaty sscpetichtiand ree sn wnde eee ch’ vawutoriatea se eoaatees 93
4,180
MPI ore TUG CIE LG cyst aiclomiadeiscpags ac aeoa set oacie ncaade ss siie/en vl cele waceinsleto atc 220
UNG tele Ger ok eee ieee e NN els era are sca tue tescoe 5,671

Showing the very great increase over the aggregate (3,602) of last
year, of 2,069 volumes and parts of volumes, or nearly as great an
amount as the receipts of 1858 and 1859 combined. The number of
separate donations was 1,635, to 1,252 of last year.

As a matter of some interest I take the liberty of recapitulating the
receipts by exchange in the ten years, during which the system has
been in active operation :

Mr eran oisiaic itp sobieitiliasices ees 878 volumes and parts of volumes.
Pee epee coerce. (0 ols nena habe ves 609 do.
CLS ee se eRe ae 2,556 do
Ry  ahyrcte isis siagyee Se nares deeeS ES 2,828 do
eee Secs <clone de saane Se se ees 2,770 do
a Seal Melanin neice vuitton 0 ovis 3,33 do
es as cls nlantiel sien ciociseisiiere 1,760 do
Be are atta su dilnn x's tidanes 2,540 do
eee re cnet ad oe casts sd sins's 3,602 do
PERG iris iS Uva davan coals ideiaten 5,671 do

58 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
ine

Table showing the statistics of the foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian
Institution in 1860.

a 2 A g
3 4 a A
= 2 © 45 on
eo mt 2 pees) 25
5) 5 2 = = 4 rS Ss
Agent and country. pf ais 2 5
oe Qs s S2 =a
cts g g © oP
= = 2 S i
GZ Z A AQ =
1. Dr. Fexix Fiucen, Leipsic.
DWEMEN ecto smscsiacascooreastas iat Bah lasaemAdeanadadd ncuboscosandcen|Hiedebocoboe ons
INOIW aioe essccsacsacscoesoseesa ees 6 alls} 1) *| Babeoacaodododc aapousccolcoduol basoudaccKcodde
Denmark reese seccseeeebasees tee 9 BO i eowtvs osienecistee| Wuneissionlsiais sine | saeeinaeeasnnes
UUSSIalats sccascecseesccesecedess%oes 27 SUI Btapacnecuocad leaacosaccor daca basdenactosacdke
tio llandAecusteecnceessteccaceest 18 (ia) cl RepoeGancdcoodd losadeb scopdolisal msaosocudeonced
IG EVN ON. Aaop lope aveu ssn cuveloene 164 GRID rcosdoattascocd|bitciondoasooaste bad snanogooa%
WREZenLaNdsvesccesecsccne vcore: 16 5G: «. Wedsessedeccsees|acosgeiensbulssalvscscassest elses
SISA wcesorsesers des eucecese ses 8 PID) |becéconcooadond |hanoachesaoccad| ig snonas050800
Motall cde scsvasvasncscomereees 259 835 21 274 6,841
2. H. Bossaner, Paris.
TAN COW anos ote ses do ost eveveee case 72 11 GS eeeanpcsodccesd pacacc:.ocecncea Acoacoon0cHoode
Wtallivuecadsscscadscossenstesecocs suse 32 Sl bacaeenaccsicoc.| pobscouctiesenea Sccosecncucoons
Be Ontuoralline-seccccssessesencesssckr, Ores §.  [Booedobaooadand leconnooscneee| Broocopcococosc
WPAN s. sestncescoccsncncsssacseters 5 Th i badbsaccboodssd booosccocubesod Booaaacaccicost
Mata Week cscddorsncssicscaeces 111 307 13 174 4,561
3. Henry Srevens, London.
Great Britain and Ireland... 105 430 99 299 8,327
A. Rest of the world..ssccsccecssssseeeees | 50) 120 5 20 300
Grand Lota: cso secsasseeees: 525 1,692 61 767 20,029
C:

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America
Jor foreign distribution in 1860.

No. of packages.
Albany, N. Y.—

Desc) eal c Cdl ee are eee Rees CNS ae 9

New York State Agricultural NOCleby;.cncdreeeppar es Benes 16
Baltimore, Md.—

De he ste BOM: . eins oo, MRR eeeLe signee ce pees eens ; 50
Boston, Mass.—

American Academy of Arts and Sciences...... baledmenadadtes 78

Society of Natural History...... pemwies <dioststesiuareeietee Senne ds Se 48

F. H. Storer Bfati st ivatculaniaia deh eeeras eis eee sisterdebloieisiaisciahterets 169
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59

No. of packages.

Cambridge, Mass.—

American Association for Advancement of Science......... 3

IDB OEN holy nn nee hs octers a. bis Ao Mencacamnle sete acide wineicsce dee swede 8

AE WA STE Merc cinsce 2.2: Arehin ihe og eis alt ecoapeinecia a eiuals siadlsanion esa 19
Columbus, Ohio.—

Sie eM hare! SOCIOL... gens ees acevan ones oon niackewadsleseo' 100

DUR ey eb NUVI cZanbe aca taste Bet eas ice.cn's ass Peacameqnomamen aaiaais 15
Danville, Ky.—

Institution for Deaf and Dumb .....c.cccccccsscsseseeccescesees 10
Frankfort, Ky.—

rabble ecm G Ue aye’. Hitaarits dvccac cc acisin cmos nen masnudbeeeeayee 150
Montreal, Canada.—

MURS ey Ss eReeL IN Gites. «ro cs Pere eee Saat Ltaeee stains ee hese ace es chasis epee 12
New Haven, Conn.—

mIMeTICAN: A OUEMAL OL OClEMGCt ns. «sien cpale sleetnoneeaaaen ees 12

AMICwicds Oniemdal SOCLELY, 42.5.3: «22 snenneadoke caspenesn oeme eben 8

ONGC ICL (SCF a Ue See a ae PER 5

Philadelphia, Penn.—

Academy ot Natural SCTenClS 0 0:4 ceva. sinks ca endines aenasnwonsieds 131

mcierican i; Mi losep biGal SOC <1 kitesrsudewesntensevenvee deg 250

Historical. Societyior Pentisylvaniate..2:.ci5..cccceccene.coeeees 13

LSU Gaal © (ets dear ae Rss hgcI RRO Rey rit Nie 73

SDR ea NBIC Lire TC WIRE Ae, Rian a ne aT a 6
Providence, R. I.—

ecbegeMEUMOU er lal enaphy ay. retro lcd shecenselocs teers advonnumecutesd 6
San Francisco, Cal.—

California Academy’ of Selene... 222 ssassdec. odeavecadseedseee 17
Toronto, Canada.—

Canadian Tassie 3042.0 ica cde sre ast. SRO ae eae it
Washington, D. C.—

Winted Statesmratemt Olea. ir. viics scscsotcenevsdeaaemeewce TSO

Wnited States Coast Survey jas 0. .vecesvcinen etaeeaeee naa 185

mm com General mamestee cn dae hctian 18a «ona «(ste aeiavegenmamiire vs 100

MITE D i Weare Wo eWeek Wiha So. ic cea eat eaa ele ee 6

HGMeTLEs ree Eve USS. A eee cl ied eRe eae SL ae 10
Williamsburg, Va.—

astern. StatesLumatic Asylum. 050 scdcaccsers vos seesessnee ise 12
Pe eT CO MB ire cron -ceet eR Gn Ge . 08 aun aces nasend Oviaeaus uid uedaa 94

60

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D.

Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe,
Jor distribution in America, in 1860.

Albany, N. Y.

Dudley Observatory.........sscccsssecesseees
New York State Library............c..e0se
New York State Agricultural Society...
New York State Medical Society.........
Prof. James Hall
PAU Ganiya USUI tCiecccnsrrs-cecscosseoraenceeians
ID)ps, IBLAREATA® WosonaacoonoeondscodanodnacoReECoane
(Pnotee Hie Es ONSeseeeeeecmnesteoneeseeeeese ess
dle LEle IEITOR@ ORS Kooacceonodocanscansocnonecna5ons
PAROM MEL CLELNeaceaciosieosecieessscecbeesedcerssessarn
Lely Who ISI@ROSEIE 9p ahooscosancooononcnanbonoed

Pome meee ew eeeet news sere seesene

Amherst, Mass.

IA eTSt COME Cl rsee se ceeceeeosceracecone sees
PTO welt h COCK iunsececassoseceseseseessccetees
Bodwand Duckerman:..co.sc.csccoscessoseccee

Annapolis, Md.

NehvalPAtcad Etiliyasccecessoccscssesccescsnscoece

Ann Arbor, Mich.
OlbSenvatoiyperececcscsercecseasssceesssocetets
University of, Michigan ...........s.css.e00
Prof PB runMOWieesecsscdecscss Secisasiedeeseestess

Atlanta, Ga.

Atlanta Medical and Surgical Jour-
nal

Bahia, Brazil.
Dr. Folsner, (Hann. Consul)..............
Baltimore, Md.

Maryland Historical Society.,..........66
Reva Dire dh Gre MOrriss...c.5<sc.scccossserss

Bogota, New Granada.

Societa de Naturalistas Neo-Granadi-

Bethlehem, Penn.

Rev. Mr. Seidel........ ee sbaaess SEBS

Number of
packages.

—_
~1 0 +3

seeeeee

eet et DD DD WD OO

me tom

Number of
packages.

Boston, Mass.

American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Boston Society of Natural History......
Historic-Genealogical Society
Prison Discipline Society ................0..
Dr ACT ANGOuldise..ccndscsnesnaceenesouscabes

stew eeeeereee

Bowditch miibranyrewsscrsesenerecceerseesen= se
GeolomicaleSuuvey esses esercces-ecemuteeitence
Philosophical SOcievy....cccs<cseveancomneosns
Library of Boston Atheneum. ...........-
Lyceum of Natural History ............0..
Massachusetts Historical Society.........
Massachusetts State Library..........06.+
ublicaliilonals Vawesectecescassseocecessaeesenar
Bran Cis wAU Hen eancess ccs socecmecceseotarecc sees
IDS Sisal Bis JM 018151 csononqsacnossoooddbcoscacnce:
IES Vivo LSU IG\7 onoccposancesnostapcococoacs
Hidiwand Sida bich pessssssesceacnectsceeetees

Prof. siulesmViarcoulccccsenessssececccecestness
Prof. Moreland and F. Minot..............
Profs. W. B. and H. D. Rogers
Samuel H. Scudder

eee eee nee

un
pt ND eee ee OD SS IO Oe

Peewee ewes rece sees ee eeeees

Brunswick, Me.

Bowdoin College.........cssccesescveerseeoeees
Historical Society of Maine.............+..
Mr. Packard

ww

Burlington, Iowa.
Towa Historical and Geological Institute
Burlington, Vt.

University of Vermont....ccseecseseereenes
George P. Marsh

bet GO

Cambridge, Mass.

‘American Association for Advancement

OPES CIOMCE eaerenaene cnc cteciclen scissile slclaie irae
INStNO MOMIGAI OUI All temerslepicctae’sicteliciseisie e's
Cambridge Observatory....seccrreserererees
Prof. Li. AGassiZ....scccccccscsrseserseosseses
Prof. Asa Gray....sceee cseeceserecsececeeceees
Harvard UniverSity......s2cscscereeeeseeeeeee
GarPABondeacccccseeseeseecreseessccseccseses
James P2 Cookevccccvscssarccees Secueseess eee
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D-—Continued.

Number of
packages

Cambridge, Mass.—Continued. Columbus, Ohio.
Charles! i. Daviss.......0.00i..esesserseseeee 1 |} Ohio State Agricultural Society ...........
Dye 184. AL. Ciawills scescasnecedeeequacatcccorcece 165 jf] U@linndy Tete Te joe ticocccocos adaococaooanscoconce
Joseph Lovering........sssesscrsssersccesceees 3 |
IPG fe Pier Cem rscec esis scnsesials -cseieeenuiclcscies 6 Columbia, S. C.
SE TBI. SEO ecsocnbseacndate cocueDoCagOOURCOBOLS 1
Uj TS WIRES R edeiccopectond sonaeocdeocenndoee 4 || South Carolina College............secsssese
Prof. Jetiries: Wiyimal....-...0.+s0+csesesse> 2 || State University Geological Rooms......
Recolor, Vives (Cll) S| cagscbancnbococoooneroce tbe:
Cave Spring, Ga.
Concord, N. H.
Institution for Deaf and Dumb............ 1
New Hampshire Historical Society......
Charleston, S.C.
Cannellton, Ind.
OClehvaletraiysswedosse:sscrsscccsecemerncess 3
Wrap bachimancenetesdeesoescosdeseccuesecstseess iy lone Ballard Smithiiecssesccrec-soeteceeceere
Dre MinGeddineSeencsccdsseredecesessseles ss I
Prof. Erancis)S ElGlMesiccncceorcsncoconees 1 Davenport, Iowa.
Prop JobmebesEvolbroolts:cacse.occceeeweoes 1
[Dye (ie IB leo) e10) | NicrsoeboqsousncodaconpSopuebadee On| preter. lebenny OVW ee c ccs cease daceans
Revie iWomasnsmiythicsccseccactseccdsces sean Aa | |p David’ Sheldont sc... ccscwosscecaceconccecersess
Elliott Society of Natural History.......) 16
Des Moines, Iowa.
Chapel Hill, N. C.
SHAMS) CLE OMG ccoooanee cocaeconnuodonnaosaccocc:
University of North Carolina............. 1
Detroit, Mich.
Charlottesville, Va.
Michigan State Agricultural Society.....
University of Virginiai...........sccsscecerss 4 || Penin.and Independent Medical Journal.
dig Cis TBIONINE Sy conc so cocsoncnacocnoboecooeaon0OKe
Chicago, Ill.
Dorchester, Mass.
DilinoisjUmiversity:.<ccccs.cascccusensuscusse+-- 1
Chicago Medical Journal..........sseeceeees B) |I| 1D yes 1Big URIS scocecenancooasoopenccdondogadEno50C
Mechanics Institutenseesccecwecedsseccceccres 3
Cole Giralarnscsccccedeeeicccosiiccccsccces 6 East Greenwich, N. Y.
IMiI@ seiderrenikcindvegseseueseccsectoeseeeserees 1
PAIS AMENTEC DH Woeecenedeecenecseesececesess snoncneences
Chuquisaca, Bolivia.
University of Chuquisaca.......eeeeeeee Q Piast
Garcia One Breckenridge Clemens......ccecesseeeeee once
American Medical Journal............see00« 2 Evansville, Ind.
Historical and Philos’] Society of Ohio.} 2
Mercantile Wibranye....-.-.««-ssdeccresaessacs 3 || Hermann Filiigel...........0.ccc-esoceecssseree
WOservatonyccscccsecssccensecesroemecsceaaseelare 3
Public Library of Cincinnati.............. 1 Frankfort, Ky.
SRM A NtNOM Ye. «1.6. csnteceessccrcoasounses 1
PA SPVUUL CHIEN, cocasccancacndsaesccssseee, «acess 2 || Geological Survey of Kentucky .......+-.
PPE WILON Ges ctocsccvecweatesdacsagenperscsasess 1
Gambier, Ohio.
Cleveland, Ohio. r
MEE ON ew berry <ccs.bs<scescsctetsoseods 9 Kenyon College.....sssscsessseserensteeesees
Clinton, NY: Georgetown, D.C.
Drn@ WEIPUP Sterns ese .c0d.oees deepaneowce sates 1 || Georgetown College. ..scsessereesenrees sees

61

Number of
packages

rm tO

— be

16
62

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D—Continued.

Hartford, Conn.

Historical Society of Connecticut.........

Society of Physical Science...........+..+ :

Young Men’s ‘Institute.............0.c0-000.
Hanover, N. H.

Dartmouth! Colleselsscccssccosrseesesaser esse
Havana, Cuba.

Observ. Phys. Meteorol. de la Havana.
Hudson, Ohio.

Western Reserve Observatory...... Rasianss

Indianapolis, Ind.

Indiana Historical Society
Institution for Deaf and Dumb............

eee eeerereersoees

Towa City, Iowa.
State! Umiversityn.--.c-sscccocsssseoscernusenes
Jefferson, Mo.

Historical and Philosophical Society of
IMDS) OU0IE Is ssagsbooedndadecedoouoduonconcedacobon

Lansing, Mich.
Michigan Agricultural Society ............
| Lebanon, Tenn.
emma! INE FSi iar lkccoegancstbooososobooces00ac
Lexington, Ky.

Transylvania University.........scsccosee :

Little Rock, Ark.

Stee cows eeeee weseeeree,

Long Island, N. Y.
Dri Ho gisr Bauer: cuossecceussteecevees coves acs
Louisville, Ky.

Elistorical Society,.:cccadecesacssassecsecesscons
Col. Long

eee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee

OO ee eereerereecees

Number of
packages.

|

wo er)

me

30

rw)

me 0

Madison, Wis.

Educational Society of Wisconsin.......
IElons Ellenry Barnardis.sccacseseseseeesene ee
AV Ceolincivaimeeasccrsssseceesececscesecesoecenes
Society for Education of Blind
Wisconsin State Agricultural Society...
Historical Society of Wisconsin

see e were eeee

Montreal, Canada.

Natural History Society
College of Montreal.................. oaba0o0
Elias Lemniy ave trenis ate neeslesispenscssescsemece
Deg LGW aKEAS TOY NeococcdocoSvaqgsa0sHoHCaDdAOOboRoRSE
poi) Walliam Brogan’ c..c.ccossccecseconces

Mc Connellsville, Ohio.
Hon. Elijah Hayward................ piaboor
Milledgeville, Ga.

| Oglethorpe University. :.........cccs.scessses

Professor James Woodrow.........cceceee

Montpelier, Vt.

Historical and Antiquarian Society of
WG IETRIO ING S ono podcosaacoobansondooncoonnondads

Nantucket, Mass.
Miss Mitchell <aiccastcesseomooteesteeser ese sense
Nashville, Tenn.
University of Nashville .............000..00.
Natchez, Miss.
Publi¢ Thibrary-ceiiccten.ptaees etek cokewec sans
Newark, N. J.
Historical Society of New Jersey........
New Brunswick, N. J.
Prof. George Eh-/ Cools .ccc2.c-vsecseseeseue
New Harmony, Ind.
Dr Djs 1Owenisscsecasciiccedeessesnbeserscess
New Haven, Conn.
American Journal of Science...........000
American Oriental Society..............000.

Wi R. Blalketcveticceccsvestsccstervosccsescoe
Prof. J: DiDanavev-cc- Riovwtlesaseceeecee AA

Number of
packages.

eo
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D—Continued.

63

New Haven, Conn.—Continued.

WialetWoller ex eeccucectescoctecssee esse sesosceeee
George J. Brush
Danrveli Ce Hath sascscacsste dents ce vscccesesss
Samuel W. Johnson.......... sicdehawedua se ees
Prof. E. Loomis
PriemtOlmstead: sic cscavcccesecscsecedscodsees
Prof. Charles Uj. Shephard...........2..0000
IB ONe, MSU Unt cr es i aekee eoceerer mo reecOLUAEOCE Tere

eee ee ee

New Orleans, La.

New Orleans Academy of Natural

DRIOHCESt nei tiecaeas scence mechan daa weosedcneees
Lyceum of Natural History...............
University, of Mouisiana.:....:c0scc.c0:-e00.
Orvbennetowlers.co.susecdses ss eecasecenees

Newport, R. I.
Prete WO GG MIGIOTALY ccccasessccesvaneredsncsecse:
Newton Centre, Mass.

Eloration > blackettes-casscsseesdacwsecenccecal

New York, N. Y.
e

American Geographical and Statistical

SOCIELY:..6.sccakensnenes cases pee deetacwcasesceisess
New York Lyceum of Natural History.
American Ethnological Society...........-
American Bible Society........ss.scssseeees
PBMETICAM LNSUPULC cue cascestersceciccorses<nees
American Agricultural Intelligencer......
Stir Lid brary <i <3 icsbaeiseavadtaatodten ddsseevs
Editor of the State’s Zeitung............06.
Farmers’ and Mechanics’ Intelligencer..
Historical Society. .......ssssseseeee bponcebocss
Mercantile Library Association...........
Norton’s Literary Gazette
University Library......... Eaonpbigeaadoacedaae
Philosophical Society............sssesesscoees
Prof. Clarke...:..+. Sathaleaeeaie sears ele sodonoe
Daniel C. Eaton

ee meee ewereeseesee

Seem tere ee eee Eero eee eeeneaee

Pion ry Grinnell.) scescees veveoovecececdssewaons
RE LOM LAI -r5 52s aca voceuasecdsende Bmedoectcoos
Br Oby OAV ay cccesscsicee-tbevcset casdveaps>
MEMS WATIES UAL NOY: ss15.cecescatovenecessciéess
Charles Loosey (Consul Gen’!, Austria)
plete les Pitti se ps0, 5," .czcedccanedodverdeve>
John Lothrop Motley ........:.ssssscceeeeees
A AMMENON WACO sc iiiocaicseasededvosesssovdeoyes ¢
ee aR ois jets cals veat sin ehskarcewedno dee
Dr. John Torre
Mr. Tuckerman

OPP ee eee ee eee eee e eer rere ery

Number of
packages

wo
CS Ot kr 0D Oe eS DL

wo

WR ew

3

i
Te ee ee DR HH OH ODO

| Chester Morris

Number of
packages.

Oxford, Penn.
Divs Ei Pfeifer... isjowasctoacnsssaccateceseee sass
Philadelphia, Penn.

Academy of Natural Sciences.............
American Philosophical Society
Central Eioh) School) ......<.0+ssssescecooee
Historical Society of Pennsylvania.......
Philadelphia Library Company............

ate eeerees

AVM, sre ERIE Yrataesscwawels sovaeeecsessatehone

Usalae eiPam. secon a tactwcc care coeraseo don hidccneds
Dravohnelizeconterecperssecsecscacocccse:
Dry JONG PMU Iseid ye nase nnceaesasnareancetaeses
Branikkdingln stitutes occcsscsccocenoeseareee cee:
GeolosieallS octetiymc.csccceessesoeseeeusseces
GeolopicaliSunveyoceccess-c--2 220 -sner acre:
Woganian! Wibranyiemcedeseecesrettees-sereses
North American Medical and Surgical
PORVAE Wes eo oeieweancoseeseene sildineasteeonnaes
Waener Free Institute...........0.0ss.eesaces
HS Aver Gonna dierecateicetsaetacecsaneccoascere meee
WMoninsBlod Getysi.ssesecnssseerecteadseeosentose
Pr ofr Hc AAGrenthccosccsensersaceceeenten
8.8. Haldeman
J. P. Lesley

FPP e ee were reer eres eeeeeeneeeees
ROR ee ewe e eee eee wesanseeuseeeeeses

SOR eee eee teen eseeeeeeeeeerese re

EL. SOD ANNE «scceceesuecessrtesssecesets eceee
Profs WiarMerscs..0c..seasasuscovsccessssoteess

Portland, Me.

Neal Dow, Mayor of Portland
Porto Cabello, Venezuela.

Franklin Litchfield, late United States
GOETH enccoaanaatce cundcoece SooeccoosandoncCe

Princeton, N: J.
College of New Jersey ...........scorscoseeee
Providence, R. I.

Quebec, Canada.
Legislative Library of Canada.........+++

Richmond, Va.

Historical Society of Virginia.......06.+++
Virginia State Library........cersseseseeeees

Rochester, N. Y.
University Library.......... seeeeesenenaeeenes

—_

—
RW Re eS eS DOH DO HB PWOO KR WD

ee

mo
64

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

D—Continued.
= wn S z
5 & oe
5m oie
——- —

Rock Island, Ill.

Bra aN Vial Sli. issosessensonosensckecmiveemecces

Rio Janeiro, Brazil.

Inst. Hist. Geogr. of Brazil..........00000.

lerrelvied ere esnmcmasneseneecersecicessse scenes

Roxbury, Mass.

Dre Reinhioldpsolterrescscsncesecrotecserseeses
Salem, Mass.

Essex Institute
IPROIE, BL IDs IBmeRrall le gapacteonccnsosnticeecasocd

PPeeeTOeECOT ere eee)

Santiago, Chili.

Institute de Santiago
ObservatOry.......sceecreeeeicecceserccevoresvecs
UNIVETSILY........0c0sccccescseccrrrecccoscesrecs
Prof. Ignacio Dome yK0..........-seeseeeeees
Dr. Landhecth
Pr orelao DCC ercceecoccssaccesesceseumensecenss
ro temiap Arie OUlIp Dlsccecevsesascnecseesseeests

A eee ee eeneeee eset eeeenees

PeeeeOeUEe SSCS eO CeCe

Savannah, Ga.
Georgia Historical Society..........sssee00
St. Paul, Minn.
Historical Society of St. Paul..............
San Francisco, Cal.

California Academy of Natural Sciences.

Dr. W. O. Ayres
St. Louis, Mo.

St. Louis Academy of Sciences...........
Dr. George Engelmann........0c.cseesesese
Dr. Wizlicenus

Pere sence eer eeeeesseeeesseaens

Geological Survey of Missouri, (Co-

hice) Oy is IW I@-) ascocansadanoagogoonbno 360 bo656o0
St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal.
Wintiversitysloibraniyeccs.<.-ccsc-ncessoe sense
E. C. Angelrodt
GeOnceg Be iaiyiSesancentcecworsiscieccsc cece sees

DrvAdamimelammeriacsc..ssccccoseccoossceee:

eee eee eee ee eee eee ery

Peete eee eee eet eeaeeeseesesces

Springfield, Ill.
Prof. Esbjérn

_—
ee LDR OO

20

Ae eee came ee eens eres esse rereeet Heesene

_
ht OND 0D 1D Yo)

—

wo

Springfield, Mass.

AWVaillivcnmnplllllivasecmcncseecsresseorsceoesertseen=s 2
Toronto, C. W.
Canadianglnstitute occ sepscsersnisnescecsinciecs 6
Board of Agriculture, Upper Canada..... 1
Pliraitai ty, OE Re iensnesciennathwecereaeseenscmes 2
Prof. Kane stn... .--.--mc-seseacsvrnensecceeslens 1
Tripoli.
Daniel Smith McCauley, late United
StatesiCOMSUllisecmeneesceeee shen ere seaacacnale 1
Tuscaloosa, Ala.
| University of Alabama ............666 sone 2
Utica, N. Y.
American Journal of Insanity...........06. 5
Valdivia, Chili.
Dr. Eugen Von Bock.....-sssssesssesceeneene 1
Vandalia, Ill.
Historical Society of Illinois............... 1
.
Valparaiso, Chili.
| Dr. Thomas A. Reid .......04+. Ne ee 8
Washington, D. C.
United States Patent Office.............++++ 87
Ordnance Bureau........scesesecceseseeeeveeees 2
United States Coast Survey .......-s0++++-- 12
National Observatory...... eoebersncuceeesces 32
Secretary Of War ...cccsccecescssceeveseereees 2
| Surgeon General.......1. sesssseseeseeeeneeees 1
Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss, U.S. N........ 36
William Stimpson ....... s+ qaeesensiesssesee 5
F. B. Meek, and Dr. F. V. Hayden.....| 2
Congress Library.....ccsssessseeeeeseeeeee eee 6
His Excellency James Buchanan......... i
Commissioner of Indian Affairs............ 1
Commissioner of Patents......+.seesseeeeeee 5
Secretary Of State.....scsseececsseeceesenreees 1
Superintendent of Statistical Office ....... 1
National Institute........sseeeesee peceaeeeese 3
Trigonometrical Survey....-.ceeeeseeesseeees 1
United States Agricultural Society....... 1
War Department.......0- seeceeseseeeeeeceeees 1
Colonel Abert.,.....-scceccscssrrersrescgssvcers 2
Prof. S. F. Baird ...........0scssesesscsresseees 2
Prof. A. D. Bache .......s.sescoseseesreseeees- 46
Major Emory......... pone dboebor Fobeenanedodca 1
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65

D—Continued.

Sa || S a
o oS
Se || 5 bp
22 | Fic
25) [52
Zz a
| — ————
} |
Washington, D. C.—Continued. Waterville, Me.
TENOR, BIS) a ¥icecoovedresoossocnccoonpscbaceeconeceGs OnleWiatervillerCollesers..ecsseesececcesckes-aerar 2
ASS Hen cusOibenscessceccrosscoss socedeceeees acne 3
ET OMe sPeterMNOLECCr. scccccencsccscesecsasessece ike} West Chester, Penn.
ID ye5 0C.. (GiiRe Gs coseadaoeacconanAbosonpooqesonobod 3 |
CaptanmiEl: We blanistene..y...cs0c-.7cceeese-| 5 || W. ID Yee eV V0 core coconcocopobocgacenoOc: a0a000r L
IBAROMRGeN GENO lisecsmcsnccsptestecacesvesesaacaacs 1 |
Captain A. A. Humphreys................. 1 | West Point, N. Y.
BOS: So Elub bards: sss sicsessececesateceees. 1 |
sro VWiew bes WOU S ON ese ace c-onacassspciseteles 2 | Malitany: Aicademly <i. ssedasenos+42+a0e checoo5: evel
HEcuienaMt Sake icClcns.wecsnssdeaccesssenees Uy | PRrom Baatleliies vccuscancchandsesccccascsstene det eee
Lieutenant M. F’. Maury ....... ........... 48 | |
GEOrme IW uRIsaS outs tke dtovccsteceesese 4 | Williamstown, Mass.
BARONE OSLENSACKEN ate secceecscenecsuessesanoaliniy Lat , : |
@harlespAi Sch ottserarscescsceseceseoos soeecuss te ObSerVALOLY woseeessereeseereeeeneaesteseeeseees anne
EIR SCHOOICKALE cc. .cascssssinsses ssocedtt ens 4 | Wancester LM
Alc (Gig. Cra Cemane Gi hy Pe concaspaadeouceDoceaceAeoae 1 | ONT hese
DQHMIPMANEUS) samacaandssaess<cesasvosecseece cess 1 || American Antiquarian Society............. 9
!
Motalwof ad dmessesieteccaccstscctatascnsscacecccecets ceese scence teas coweadscceeneseestetense ss 335
Total of parcels........ cteelnte ecinclalelentels see seleisieneinecinscnesiossreccavessoscasssscatcccerectnees 1,908

By a comparison with the last report, it will be seen that the total
number of parcels received for other parties in 1860, is about the same
asin 1859. Their bulk, however, is much greater, owing to the con-
solidation by the agents of the Institution, and by societies, of several
parcels to the same address into one package before transmission, as
advised by the Institution. The average number of parcels to each
address is nearly six.

MUSEUM AND COLLECTIONS.

Additions to the Museum and Collections.—During the year 1860 im-
portant additions have been made to the collection of various species,
chiefly North American, and serving to render it nearly complete as
regards a large part of the fauna of the continent. Many new facts
in regard to the geographical distribution of species over its whole ex-
tent, and their habits, have been obtained, while carefully prepared
measurements, weighings, and other facts bearing on the physical
constants of animals, as called for in Mr. Babbage’s article in the
Smithsonian Report for 1856, have been accumulated in great num-
bers in the labels and catalogues accompanying the specimens.

The great bulk of material received has consisted of specimens de-
posited by the officers in charge of Government expeditions pursuant
to the act of Congress in relation to the subject. Next to these, of
collections made in equally or still more unexplored regions of North
America at the instance, or through the instrumentality, of this Insti-
tution, and involving not merely the addition of specimens, but accom-

5
66 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

panied by most important results in physical science. Comparatively
nothing has been received from the more known portions of the United
States; the transmission of fishes, reptiles, &c., having almost en-
tirely ceased. This is due to the fact that no effort has been made to
secure such specimens, on account of the comparative completeness of
the series, and the expense of enlarging them. There is already a
large accumulation of such material in the Institution, which, how-
ever, the systematic arrangement for distribution of labeled duplicates
now in progress will speedily and greatly deplete.

The only departments of natural history to which additions have
been made from all parts of the United States, have been those of
conchology, entomology, and édology. Circulars were issued in 1859
and 1860 inviting contributions of material towards a series of works
on these subjects which the Institution had in contemplation, to be
written by the most competent authorities. The invitation has been
generally responded to by the transmission of many parcels, (many of
them containing types of rare species.) These have been placed in the
hands of the collaborators of the Institution as received, and have
proved of great importance.

The following is a detailed statement of the most important collec-
tions received in 1860:

FROM EXPLORATIONS UNDER THE WAR DEPARTMENT.

Construction of Wagon Road from Walla-Walla to Fort Benton, un-
der Lieutenant John Mullan, U. S. AA—The work of this expedition
was carried out to Fort Benton during the past season, so as to render
the road passable throughout. Large collections, chiefly of fossils,
birds, and plants, were made by Mr. John Pearsall and Mr. Hildreth,
attachés of the party.

Exploration of the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone, under Captain
W. F. Raynolds, U. S. A.—After spending the winter at Deer Creek,
on the Platte, west of Fort Laramie, explorations were resumed by the
expedition in May. Dividing into two parties—one commanded by
Captain Raynolds, and accompanied by Dr. Hayden; the other by
Lieutenant Maynadier, with Mr. George H. Trook as collector—they
proceeded to explore the Wind River mountains, and other localities
between the Platte and the Upper Missouri, as far north as Fort Ben-
ton. Finishing their labors during the summer, both parties united
at Fort Randall, and returned to Washington in November.

Many important collections were made by the expedition, of fossils,
plants, and zodlogical specimens. In the Wind River mountains espe-
cially, specimens were obtained of great interest, among them what
is believed to be a new species of Alpine hare.

Movement of United States Troops to Oregon, via Fort Benton, under
Major G. H. Blake, U. S. A.—This party was accompanied by Dr. J.
G. Cooper as one of its medical officers, who made some valuable col-
lections of specimens, serving to extend the information respecting
the species inhabiting Oregon and Washington, as recorded in the re-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 67

port on the subject made to Governor Stevens by Dr. Cooper and Dr.
Suckley.

Artesian Well Expedition, under Captain J. Pope, U. S. A.—The
remainder of the collections of this party, consisting principally of
specimens in alcohol, have been received from Captain Pope.

FROM EXPLORATIONS UNDER THE STATE DEPARTMENT.

Survey of the Northwestern Boundary, Archibald Campbell, Commis-
sioner,—This commission nearly completed its work during the year,
and ig now on its return home. Large collections in geology and
natural history have been made by Dr. Kennerly and Mr. George
Gibbs, in continuation and completion of those previously reported on.

FROM EXPLORATIONS UNDER THE INTERIOR DEPARTMENT.

Survey of the Northern Boundary of Texas, J. H. Clark, Commis-
sioner.—In addition to other specimens, a very complete collection of
nests and eggs of birds was made during the past spring along the
line of this survey by Mr. Charles 8. McCarthy, including several
species previously unknown to science.

FROM EXPLORATIONS UNDER THE NAVY DEPARTMENT.

Exploration of the Parana and its tributaries, under Capt. 1. J. Page,
United States Navy.—This expedition completed its important work
during the year 1860, and has returned to the United States. In
addition to its geographical and hydrographical labors, much attention
was paid to natural history ; and among the large collections brought
home are many newand rare species. The birds of the country visited
are especially interesting ; the series, prepared chiefly by Mr. Chris-
topher Wood, being perhaps the largest ever made in that region.

FROM EXPLORATIONS MORE SPECIALLY CONNECTED WITH THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION.

Exploration of Cape St. Lucas, by Mr. John Xantus.—In the last
report reference was made to an exploration of Cape St. Lucas, the
southern extremity of the Peninsula of Lower California, by Mr. John
Xantus, tidal observer of the United States Coast Survey. This explor-
ation, so far as the natural history results are concerned, may be con-
sidered as completed; as, although many isolated species may yet
remain uncollected, the general peculiarities of its fauna and flora are
now well ascertained. Besides the addition of a larger number of new
animals to our fauna than has been made by one person in any single
region of North America before, Mr. Xantus has shown that the most
interesting relationship exists between the land species of the Cape and
those of the region of the Gila, Upper Rio Grande, and the southern
Rocky Mountains. On the other hand, very few of the characteristic
species of the coast of Upper California occur at the Cape, while, as
far as observed, the same may be said of the strictly Mexican types,
68 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

The entire Peninsula thus proves to be as specially related to North
America in its land fauna as is Florida, although the number of peculiar
species 1s much greater.

The marine fauna of Cape St. Lucas proves to be quite Panamic
in its general features—much more so than the opposite coast of
Mexico.

It is out of my power, at present, to present a statement of the num-
ber of species collected by Mr. Xantus during his residence (when last
heard from) of about eighteen months. There are, however, known
to be about twenty new birds, as many reptiles, large numbers of
fishes, crustaceans, and other groups in proportion. ‘The collection of
shells is much larger than any ever made on the west coast, with the
exception of that by Mr. Reigen, forming the basis of the report on
Mazatlan shells, by Mr. Carpenter, and is superior to any other in
the extent of the species preserved entire in alcohol. The general
results form a fitting continuation of the labors of Mr. Xantus at Fort
Tejon, referred to in preceding reports; and the whole will form an
extraordinary monument of the ability of a single intelligent and
accomplished collector to nearly exhaust the natural history of an ex-
tensive region, under difficulties sometimes apparently almost insuper-
able.

Tio the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, natural science must
ever acknowledge a great indebtedness for placing Mr. Xantus in a
position to make his explorations, by authorizing and establishing a
self-registering tide-gauge station at the Cape, and placing Mr. Xantus
in charge. All his collections were made in the intervals of his duty
as observer upon the tides, meteorology, &c., for the Coast Survey.

Explorations in the Gulf of California, by Capt. Stone.—Capt. Stone,
in charge of the survey of Sonora, caused numerous collections to be
made in the northern part of the Gulf, chiefly opposite Guayamas. Of
these a portion, consisting principally of shells, have been received
during the year, and prove to be of much interest, not only in them-
selves, but as completing the history of Cape St. Lucas and Mazatlan
species.

Laxploration of the vicinity of Fort Crook, by Mr. John Feilner.—Mr.
Feilner, sergeant of company F., first dragoons, stationed at Fort Crook,
under command of Captain John Adams, United States Army, has
considerably extended the collections referred to in the last report. In
May last, by permission of Captain Adams, he visited the lake region
to the north of Fort Crook, with one companion, with the view of
pursuing his researches among the breeding places of the water birds
of California. After meeting with much success, he was attacked by
hostile Indians, but succeeded in fighting his way through, killing
several of his assailants, and, unfortunately, with the loss of a consider-
able proportion of his collections. His gallantry, and that of his com-
panion, Private Guise, have been made the subject of especial com-
mendation in a general order from the War Department.

Dr. Vollum, United States Army, surgeon of Fort Crook, has also
made various collections for the Institution ; and Hospital Steward Par-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 69

kinson has transmitted others not yet received; so that this fort bids
fair to-be as well marked for an almost perfect knowledge of its natural
history as Fort Tejon through the labors of Mr. Xantus. A comparison
of collections from these two points in the same range of mountains,
dividing the Pacific and middle faunas, and about 500 miles apart,
has proved of scientific interest in determining the geographical distri-
bution and variation of the species of California animals, many of the
facts elicited being quite unexpected.

Exploration of other points on the West Coast.—Dr. C. A. Canfield, of
Monterey, has gathered additional materials for illustrating the natural
history of his vicinity. Rev. Jos. Rowell and Dr. W. O. Ayres have
furnished important collections of shells for Mr. Carpenter’s use, in
his proposed elaboration of the conchology of western America. Mr.
J. G. Swan, of Washington Territory, has also contributed largely to
the same object. Specimens of birds and eggs have been received from
Mr. Hepburn, of San Francisco, and Mr. Ferdinand Gruber; and of
Californian coniferae, from Mr. Wm. Murray.

Exploration of the Hudson's Bay territory, by Mr. Robt. Kennicott.—
In the last report reference was made to the exploration of the Hudson’s
Bay country by Mr. Robt. Kennicott. Since that report was written,
advices have been received from him up to July, 1860. He had reached
Fort Simpson in September, and after a short excursion up the Liard
river to Fort Liard, in the Rocky Mountains, returned to Simpson,
where he spent the winter as the guest of Mr. B. R. Ross, the gentle-
man in charge of the Mackenzie River district. In the spring he went
to Great Slave Lake for the purpose of collecting eggs; making Fort
Resolution his headquarters, and meeting with great success.

For a most generous codperation of the Hudson’s Bay Company,
through Sir George Simpson, and its officers in England and America,
the Institution is under the greatest obligations. Every possible facility
has been furnished to Mr. Kennicott, not only in permission to visit
the different posts, but in the way of free transportation of himself and
his collections, quarters at the posts, &c. Wherever he has gone he
has found an appreciation of his mission and a readiness to assist, grati-
fying in the highest degree. Nearly all the gentlemen in charge of
different posts have undertaken to make observations in meteorology
for the Institution, (for which purpose Mr. Kennicott carried with him
blank registers, thermometers, &c.,) as well as collections of such
objects of natural history as he might not succeed in securing himselt.

The gentlemen to whom Mr. Kennicott expresses his indebtedness
most particularly, after Mr. Ross, are Mr. L. Clarke, Mr. J. Reid,
Mr. A. McKenzie, Mr. MacFarlane, and Mr. Hardisty.

To Mr. B. R. Ross, chief trader, in charge of the Mackenzie River
district, the Institution is under great obligations, not only for protec-
tection and assistance to Mr. Kennicott, which his official position so
well enabled him to furnish, but for a special contribution of his own,
In codperation with the officers of the posts in his district, he has un-
dertaken and already, to some extent, realized a special exploration
of his district, entirely independent of that of Mr. Kennicott. Full
observations upon the climatology, periodical phenomena, and other
70 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

features of the country, will be made, with collections illustrating its

natural history, ethnology, &c., and transmitted to the Institution.
A large amount of material has already been received from him and
his coadjutors in the way of meteorology and natural history. Among
the more important animals are skins of the Rocky Mountain goat,
Arctic reindeer, Barren Ground bear, Hare-Indian dog, &c.; skeletons
of goat, reindeer, wolverene, skins of various fishes, as Thymadllus,
Salmo Mackex.zit, &c.; Ksquimaux and Indian curiosities, with many
other objects of equal interest.

Mr. W. Mactavish, chief factor, resident at Fort Garry, has laid the
Institution under special obligations by his assistance in the transmis-
sion of supphes to and reception of collections from Mr. Kennicott, as
well as himself procuring specimens from different points and forward-
ing to Washington.

Mr. Kennicott intended to return to Fort Simpson in August, and to
proceed down the Mackenzie to Fort Good Hope; thence across the
Rocky Mountains to Fort Yukon, on the Yukon river, a post in the
interior of Russian-America, There, in a region almost entirely un-
known, not merely in its natural history, but its very geography, he
expects to remain until next summer, then to proceed to some other
desirable center of operations.

It will be remembered that while the chief expenses of Mr. Kenni-
cott’s operations are sustained by this Institution, very important
assistance has been received from the University of Michigan, the Chi-
cago Audubon Club, and the Chicago Academy of Natural Sciences,
together with several gentlemen interested in natural history. With-
out the facilities furnished by the Hudson’s Bay Company and its officers,
however, the enterprise, in its present extent, would be entirely imprac-
ticable.

Mr. George Barnston, of Michipicoten, Lake Superior, to whom Mr.
Kennicott was much indebted for the favorable direction of his opera-
tions at the outset, has furnished many desirable additions to the collec-
tions of the Institution from the north shore of Lake Superior. Chief
among these may be mentioned a skin of the reindeer in superb condi-
tion, and now mounted in the museum; also, a nearly complete skeleton
of the same animal.

Exploration of James’ Bay by Mr. C. Drealer.—Mr. C. Drexler
visited James’ Bay, the southern extremity of Hudson’s Bay, in May
last, and remained until September. He reached Moose Factory the
end of May, and after a few days, proceeded in a canoe, with some
Indians, as far along the east coast as Fort George, where he remained
some time. He was chiefly engaged in the collection of eggs of birds,
though all other departments of natural history received his attention.

As in the case of Mr. Kennicott, the aid of the Hudson’s Bay Com-
pany has been indispensable to the success of Mr. Drexler’s enterprise.
The facilities ordered by Sir George Simpson, and carried out by Mr.
John McKenzie, at Moose Factory, with the codperation of the gentle-
men at the posts visited, enabled him, with the small means at his
command, to accomplish results of great interest and magnitude. The

. 5
collections made by Mr. Drexler were also taken from Moose Factory
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. fl

to London, free of expense, in the ship belonging to the Hudson’s.
Bay Company, and then transmitted to this country.

Beside the aid furnished by the Institution, it is proper to state that
the chief portion of the funds used in meeting Mr. Drexler’s expenses
were supplied by Dr. Henry Bryant, of Boston.

Explorations on the Labrador Coast.—Mr. Elliot Coues, of Washing-
ton; visited the Labrador coast last spring, in the vessel chartered by
Mr. John W. Dodge, and spent several months there, going as tar
north as Rigolette. His collection consisted chiefly of birds and eggs,
of which several rare species were procured.

During the United States Coast Survey expedition to Cape Chad-
leigh, on the steamer Bibb, for the purpose of observing the total
eclipse of the sun of July 18, a number of specimens were obtained by
Mr. W. A. Henry, one of the party.

Explorations in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, by Dr. Henry Bryant.—Dr.
Bryant chartered a vessel at Gaspé, and in it spent several months
visiting various points in the Gulf and on the adjacent coasts. His
researches were principally in reference to the breeding of the water
birds, and important facts in regard to this point were collected by
him. Full series of his specimens have been presented by him to the
Institution.

Exploration of the Coast of Labrador and of Greenland, by Williams
College.—This expedition, composed of students of Williams College,
under the direction of Prof. Chadbourne, spent several months along
the above-mentioned coasts, making interesting collections of natural
history, selections from which have generously been supplied to the
Smithsonian Institution.

Explorations on the Southern Coast of the United States.—Interesting
collections from the vicinity of Micanopy have been received from Dr.
Bean, and others from Dr. Bryant. Dr. J. B. Holder, now medical
officer at Fort Jefferson, Tortugas, has made valuable contributions,
chiefly of birds and eges, serving to extend and complete those of Cap-
tains Wright and Woodbury, and Dr. Whitehurst. Specimens of
several rare birds were also received from Captain Woodbury. From
Mr. Maslin and Mr. Keyser, tidal observers of the United States Coast
Survey, collections were also received, made in the vicinity of Char-
lotte harbor and Cedar Keys. Sergeant Alexander, at Fort Macon,
North Carolina, has also transmitted numerous specimens.

Dr. Stimpson and Mr. Gill spent some weeks in the vicinity of Beau-
fort, North Carolina, during the past spring, and occupied themselves
principally in an investigation of the marine fauna of that region.
Many species of shells were collected, some of very remarkable char-
acter, as being previously known only as fossils of our coast deposits.
Specimens of an Amphioxus were obtained, not recorded before as be-
longing to the American fauna.

Explorations in the interior of the United States.—Reference has
already been made to the results of various Government expeditions in
the Rocky Mountains and elsewhere. In addition to these, valuable
72 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
collections of animals from the vicinity of Cantonment Burgwyn, New
Mexico, have been received from Dr. Anderson, United States Army,
in completion of previous transmissions. These are of especial interest
as showing an arctic type of the fauna in the high mountain regions
of New Mexico, previously quite unexpected. The pine grosbeak,
evening grosbeak, the crossbill, and similar species, appear to be con-
stant residents. Dr. Anderson also collected many specimens in his
march eastward through Texas; among them, the first skin of Hfypo-
triorchis femoralis received by the Institution.

Dr. Irwin, United States Army, has also furnished important con-
tributions from the vicinity of Fort Buchanan, in Arizona, embracing
new species of reptiles and insects, and many rare birds and eggs.

An interesting collection of birds, plants, and other specimens of
natural history was made in the vicinity of Fort Stockton, Texas, by
Mr. Patrick Duffy, and is of value as illustrating the natural history
of the high plains. Collections were also made in western Texas by
Mr. F. Kellogg and Mr. F. 8. Wade.

Important collections of nests and eggs of birds were made for the
Institution by Dr. Hay, at Racine, Dr. Hammond, in Indiana, Mr.
Tolman, at Winnebago, and others.

From Explorations in other parts of the World.—Captain Dow, of the
Panama railroad service, has transmitted several collections during the
year. The most important of these consist of shells, embracing several
new rare species, and considered by Mr. Carpenter as of much value in
determining the fauna of the west coast. A new'species of Anableps,
and other fishes, new genera and species of crustacea, &c., are also
among his collections.

Dr. C. Sartorius, of Vera Cruz, has supplied desirable specimens of
Mexican animals, illustrating the distribution of North American spe-
cies. Mr. I. A. Nieto has contributed specimens of woods of many spe-
cies of Mexican trees, and a series of coleoptera. Shells of the coast of
Chili have been received from Mr. Flint, of Caldera; a very full col-
lection of eggs of birds of Chili, prepared by Mr. F. Germain, from
Don Jacinto R. Pefia, of Santiago, &c. A series of birds of Guate-
mala, received from Mr. Osbert Salvin, will be of much service to
American ornithologists, as embracing many species not otherwise ac-
cessible in this country to them.

Valuable specimens of birds and eggs of Greenland, and of northern
Europe, have been received from the Royal Museum and the University
Museum of Copenhagen.

Further indications of more or less important additions to our knowl-
edge of the natural history of particular regions will be found in the
list of donations subsequently presented.

WORK DONE IN CONNECTION WITH THE COLLECTIONS.

In accordance with your wish, the preliminaries to a distribution
of the duplicates of the collection in the museum have been pushed
forward as fast as possible during the year. The assorting of the
large mass of shells belonging to the Institution, by Mr. Carpenter,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. — 73

has progressed to such an extent that all the duplicate specimens of
each kind belonging to the general Indo-Pacific fauna are now in sepa-
rate boxes, which are arranged systematically and numbered, to cor-
respond with the numbers of a printed list, so that sets can be picked
out and distributed with but little trouble. In the labor of assorting
and naming the collection, he has had the cooperation of Mr. Isaac
Lea and Dr. E. Foreman, with the Unionidae; of Mr. Lea, with the
water breathing univalves; of Mr. Binney, with the air breathing
univalves; of Mr. Stimpson, with the east coast species; of Mr. Temple
Prime, with the Cycladidae; and of Dr. A. A. Gould, with the species
generally. All the type shells of the exploring expedition, and many
of those of the North Pacific expedition, with large numbers of other
shells, have been mounted by Mr. Carpenter, or under his direction,
upon many thousand glass tablets, as referred to in the last report,
page 70.

The systematic arrangement and determination of the other branches
of natural history, their careful catalogue and operations necessary to
the separation of duplicates and their distribution so as to be of most
use, in nearly all the different departments of natural history has been
carried forward very laboriously. In this, I have been much aided
by the voluntary services of several gentlemen, especially by Mr.
Elliot Coues and Mr. W. Prentice. The following table will show the
amount of work of the kind done:

Table exhibiting the entries in the record books of the Smithsonian collec-
tion in 1860, in continuation of previous years.

}
Skeletons and skulls...) 911 | 1,074} 1,190} 1,275] 2,050] 3,060} 3,340} 3,418 | 3,650 4, 350
Mammals. ciecic.e eeiet'a= [teens 114 198 351 1,200 | 2,046 3,200 3,226 3,750 4,575
SING Sirota rater ats efetole(etals’aisielal {claletecets 35 a : 11,390 | 15,913 | 20,875
Reptilesticn cee cen eoee laseeee 4,376 | 4,616 | 4,683
BUTE ROS stateyetel aia) sis1ecevele!=) sore] (=y=lejalere 1,136 1,740 2,975
peso tupird Syer(eeice-ci/ oa isisiem ere 1,032 | 2,525] . 4,425
GTUStACO Bio osc or cee 0 ooo vives
TOUUISKS ocein ic cicivie.cei' «| =\erejsi00
AGIENEE| 56 HcGadd0o cdallsoocse
HROSS US reletatetelatelolo.s)«)sisie's o\l/<isrelelels
LiGiElS. sooo saeanoccpol|eacods
Ethnological specimens.|......
TMG eng ssonecaccde | 911

The actual number of entries during the year amounts to 18,192, or
not far from twice as many as in 1859. The aggregate of 55,389 is,
however, far from representing the entire number of specimens already
recorded, some numbers covering tens and often hundreds each.
Thus, of fishes there are at least 15,000 specimens recorded, and nearly
as many of reptiles. Under the 4,425 entries of eggs, there are in-
cluded 17,182 eggs and 1,294 nests, and other classes are in proportion.

With but trivial exceptions, the osteological specimens—the eggs
and the mammals, birds and reptiles—are catalogued, though not all
determined. The greater portion of the fishes, and of most of the
other classes, excepting perhaps the shells, still remain to be done.
74 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY,

With the view of carrying out the arrangement between yourself
and Drs. Torrey and Gray, in reference to the selection of a single
series of all the botanical collections made and deposited by the vari-
ous government exploring expeditions and received from other sources,
the entire herbarium has been placed in their hands for the purpose.

Nearly all the mammals, the North American birds, and the exotic
water birds exhibited in the museum, have been labeled with both
scientific and vernacular names as far as these could be ascertained.
The remaining specimens will be similarly treated as fast as they can
be properly identified. The entire osteological collection has been
placed on exhibition, as also the geological collections of the Pacific
railroad and some other Government parties, in the northeast and
southeast galleries of the museum hall, first opened to the public
during the year.

A large number of skins of North American mammals and birds,
not previously exhibited, have been mounted and placed in the cases.
All the old stands of mounted specimens have been replaced by new
ones, and the entire series is believed to be in a good condition,
although much remains to be done for its perfection by adding defi-
ciencies of North American species, and replacing old, faded, badly-
prepared, and otherwise discreditable specimens, by fresher and better
ones.

Of the collections mentioned in the last report as in the hands of
collaborators residing out of Washington, the Ophiuridae have been
returned, labeled, and identified by Mr. Theodore Lyman, of Brooklyn.
Many new species were found among the Smithsonian specimens, which
have been characterized in the proceedings of the Boston Society of
Natural History, and will be described in detail ina monograph. The
Echini of the North Pacific expedition have been worked up and
returned by Mr. Barnard, and much progress made in the determina-
tion of the Crustacea and sea glars of the same expedition by Mr.
Stimpson, and of its fishes by Mr. Gill. Mr. Cassin has completed
his investigations upon the birds of Lieutenant Michler’s expedition
to the Atrato, and of the North Pacific expedition, and returned the
specimens. The herpetology of the North Pacific expedition, originally
prepared by Dr. Hallowell, has been revised and brought up to date
by Mr. Cope, who has also made some important examinations of
serpents in the collection of the Institution.

No reports of return of specimens have been made during the
year by the gentlemen mentioned in the last report as having Smith-
sonian material in charge, as follows: Twrtles by Professor Agassiz,
Litheostomoids by Mr. F. W. Putnam, Siluridae by Dr. Wheatland, all
of the Cambridge Zodlogical museum ; fossil vertebrata collected by
Dr. Hayden during the expedition of Lieutenant Warren, in the hands
of Dr. Joseph Leidy, of the Philadelphia Academy. Of other series
not yet mentioned in the present report, the coleoptera are in the hands
of Dr. Le Conte, the neuroptera of Dr. Hagen, the diptera of Dr. Loew,
the lepidoptera of Dr. Morris and Mr. Edwards, the Water breathing
univalves of North America of Mr. W. G. Binney, the west coast and
exploring expedition shells of Mr. P. P. Carpenter. The birds of
Captain Page’s Paraguay expedition and of Lieutenant Herndon’s
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 75
Amazon exploration are in course of examination by Mr. Cassin.
Mr. Meek has completed the labeling of the fossils of Captain Simpson’s
expedition, collected by Dr. Engelmann.

Although so much labor has been expended in the examinations
and investigation: of the Smithsonian collection, a vast amount yet re-
mains to be done before it can be considered as entirely exhausted of its
novelties. Probably no collection of its size in the world contains so
many types of published species, and so many yet new ones yet unde-
scribed. This is especially the case in regard to North America, as
well as to many other parts of the world. Much desire is therefore
manifested by persons, about entering upon the preparation of mono-
graphs to secure the privilege of using Smithsonian specimens.

’ PRESENT CONDITION OF THE MUSEUM.

In the report for 1858 will be found an account of the most import-
ant collections forming the bulk of the museum of the Smithsonian
Institution. It was continued in the report of 1859, and I beg leave
to present at the end of the report a list of all the donations received
in 1860.*

Numerous specimens were received during the year from expeditions
referred to in the last report, as from Captain Simpson, Captain Ray-
nolds, Lieutenant Mullan, Mr. John Xantus, Mr. John Feilner, Robert
Kennicott, Dr. Bean, and others.

These additions to the museum have resulted in the filling up of
many important gaps, and in replacing many defective specimens by
better ones. By the arrangements in progress for distribution of du-
plicates, and the removal from the building of what is neither worth

* For convenience of reference, I continue the enumeration of collections, made chiefly
during certain explorations, from page 71 of the report for 1859:

73. Collections made during the march of troops to Oregon, via Fort Benton, under Major
G. H. Blake, by Dr. Cooper.

74. Collections made in the Gulf of California, by the party of Captain C. P. Stone.

75. Collections made on the coast of California, by Dr. C. S. Canfield.

76. Collections made in the Mackenzie river district, by Mr. B. R. Ross, with the codpera-
tion of other officers of the Hudson Bay Company.

77. Collections made on the north shore of Lake Superior, by Mr. George Barnston.

78. Collections made at Moose Factory, by Mr. J. McKenzie.

79. Collections made in James bay, by Mr. C. Drexler.

80. Collections made on the coast of Labrador, by Mr. Elliot Coues.

81. Collections made in Greenland and Labrador, by the Williams College Lyceum of
Natural History.

82. Collections made on the coast of North Carolina, by Dr. Stimpson and Mr. Gill.
: 83. Collections made at Cantonment Burgwyn, N. M., on the Pecos, by Dr. W. W. An-

erson.

84. Collections made on the Texas boundary survey, by Mr. J. H. Clark.

85. Collections made in Puget Sound, by J. G. Swan, Esq.
» 86. Collections made at the Tortugas, by Dr. J. B. Holder.

87. Collections made in Cuba, by Mr. Charles Wright.

88. Collections made in Minnesota, by Mr. J. M. Woodworth.

89. Collections made in New Mexico, by Patrick Duffy, Esq.

90. Collections made on the Labrador Eclipse Expedition, by W. A. Henry.

91. Collections made on the Atlantic coast of the United States, by Lieutenant J. D. Kurtz

92. Collections made in Chili, by Mr. F. Germain, through Don J. R. Pefia.

93. Collections from Sable Island, by P. S. Dodd, Esq.

94. Collections from Nova Scotia, by J. R. Willis and W. G. Winton.
76 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

keeping nor giving away, it is confidently believed that instead of an
unmanageable accumulation of material in the store-rooms its bulk
will be reduced to at least one fourth, or more, of the present amount.

In accordance with the policy adopted by you, the efforts of the In-
stitution have been directed mainly to the completion of its series of
specimens illustrating the natural history of North America. At the
present time it is believed, upon the whole, to have accomplished this
aim to an extent greater than any other museum in the world. As
far as regards mammals and their skulls and skeletons, birds and their
eggs, reptiles, fishes, shells, crustaceans, and invertebrates generally,
except certain orders of insects, (vertebrate fossils, and plants,) from the
regions west of the Mississippi; it 1s probably not exceeded by any mu-
seum in the number of species and extent of the series, few additions
remaining to be made to the list. At the same time, as successive
groups are elaborated and labeled, and the duplicates distributed, the
bulk of the whole becomes less and less, so that it is quite reasonable
to assume that the present number of specimens will’ be reduced in a
few years to less than half their present amount.

In addition to its American collection, derived from all the different
sources, and including specimens from adjacent regions, necessary
properly to illustrate it, the bulk of the Smithsonian museum consists
of materials gathered by various Government expeditions in different
parts of the world, and deposited here in comphance with the act of
Congress. Other than as derived from this source, the exotic collec-
tions not relating to American natural history, are very small in
amount, although usually of much interest from embracing numbers of
new species. Among the exotic collections, the series of South Amer-
ican birds is believed to be among the first extant, while that of crus-
tacea, annalids, corals, and certain families of radiata and mollusca,
generally, are perhaps surpassed by very few.

As distributions of duplicates for the exotic collections are made, it is
believed that the mass at present within the building will be so much
reduced that the present accommodations will always be found ample
for whatever may hereafter be added, as long as the present scope of
the collections is adhered to. Of course, should Congress at any future
time authorize an extension of the plan, the addition of exotic mounted
mammals, birds, &c., would require much more space, and must be
provided for by additional accommodations; these, however, would
otherwise not be needed.

The great value of the museum of the Institution at the present
time consists in its being the depository of so many type specimens, or
those upon which the first description of species has been established.
These constitute the great attraction to the scientific investigators, as,
however carefully prepared the published description or figures of any
species may be, there is almost always some doubtful point to be set-
tled alone by an examination of the types. For this reason these are
always guarded with jealous care, and considered of much more value
than new and undescribed materials.

There are few collections embracing more original type specimens,
or specimens relating to a large number of important works, than that
of the Smithsonian Institution. Besides the reports of the United
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Ve

States exploring expeditions of the Pacific railroad and Mexican bound-
ary surveys, and of many other Government works, few monographs
have been prepared in the United States for some years past without
deriving many, or even most, of their novelties from the Smithsonian
museum. The proceedings and transactions of most of the scientific
journals of the country ‘contain frequent and constant reference to its
materials as the types. By the distribution of duplicates of these,
therefore, and their judicious deposit at proper places in different
parts of the world, a vast amount of good may be done, and the
reputation of the Institution greatly enhanced.

LIST OF DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM DURING 1860.

Abel, J. Ralls.—Seventeen-year locust, Albemarle, Va.

Alexander, Sergeant W., U. S. A.—Nests and eggs from Fort Macon,
near Beaufort, N. C.

Allen, W. T.—Birds, nests, and eggs from Rippon, Va.

Ambrose, Rev. J.—Egegs of birds from Green Island, N. 8.

Anderson, Chas. L.—Karths and minerals from Red River country.

Anderson, Dr. W. W.—Birds, eggs, and fossils from Pecos river and
the Rocky Mountains.

Anthon, Henry, Jr.—Fourteen specimens of native timber from the
Island of Borneo.

Anthony, J. G.—Collection of melanian shells; four species of gyro-
toma from Ohio.

Angus, Jas.—Seventeen-year locust.

Arny, Wm. M. F’.—Insects in alcohol from Kansas.

Ayres, Dr. W. O.—Shells, skulls of seals, and cetaceaus (deposited)
from California coast.

Baker, Chas. £.—Tusk of boar from Washington.

Barnston, Geo.—Skin and skeleton of caribou, nests and eggs of birds,
and specimens in alcohol, from Lake Superior.

Beadle, D. W.—Kees of birds and alcoholic specimens from Canada.

Bean, Dr. J. B.—Nests, eggs, and reptiles from Micanopy, Fla.

Beesley, Thos.—Birds’ eggs from New Jersey.

Benson, President.—Lignite coal from Cape Palmas.

Bickmore, A. S.—Nests and eggs from Hanover, N. H.

Bishop, N. H.—Nests and eggs of birds and living Pine snakes from
New Jersey.

Blakiston, Capt. T., R. A.—Birds and eggs from Saskatchewan
Plains.

Blassom, W. W.—Petrified wood from Prince William county, Va.

Boardman, G. A.—Five skins of Pinicola canadensis and eggs of
birds from New Brunswick.

Bode, J. L.—Mounted Larus marinus from New York harbor.

Bowman, Capt. A. W.—Birds from Fort Massachusetts, N. H.

Brackett, Geo. E.—Insects and skins of birds from Maine.

Bradford, Geo.—Collections of zoélogical specimens from Cuba, made
‘by C. Wright.

Brendel, Dr. F'.—Nests and eggs from Peoria, Ill.

Brewer, Dr.—Skin of Turdus fuscesens.
78 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY:

Bridger, J. L.—Two boxes eggs, nests, &c., from Tarboro, N. C.

Brooks, Capt. J. M., U. S. N.—S8pecimen of Hyalonema mirabilis from
Japan.

Bryant, Dr. H.—Nests, eggs, and skins of birds from Labrador ;
Sternum of Tachypetes aquila, Bahamas.

Boyling, Capt.—Birds from Washington Territory.

Buckland, Rev. Mr.—Shells from Sing Sing.

California Academy of Natural Sciences.—Shells from California.

Campbell, A., Com. N. W. Boundary Survey.—Skins of bear and goat,
alcoholic and other specimens, collected by Dr. Kennerly and
Mr. Geo. Gibbs.

Campbell, Mr. R., per B. R. Ross.—Skins of marmot from Athabaska
Laken ab. i.

Canseco, Don Valero, through J. Xantus.—Fossil shells, &c., from
Cape St. Lucas.

Carleton, Major J. S., U. S. A.—Collections of natural history from
near Fort Tejon, California.

Carpenter, P. P.—Sets of Mazatlan shells.

Catley, H.—Birds’ nests from Oregon.

Cesena, Donna Rosaria, through J. Xantus.—Nests and eggs from
Cape St. Lucas. :

Cassin, J.—Skin of Cyanocorax coronatus trom Mexico.

Chicago Academy of Sciences and Agricultural Department, University
of Chicago.—Eggs, nests, and skins of birds from Minnesota.

Clark, Dv.—Auriferous sand from Laramie Hills; gold from Cherry

Creek.
Clark, Dr. John A.—Birds, nests, and eggs, and skin of diodon from
Texas.

Clark, J. H., Texas Boundary Survey.—Nests, eggs, and skins of
birds from Arkansas, and the line of Texas Boundary Survey,
collected chiefly by C. 8S. McCarthy.

Clark, Wm. P.—Eges from Medina, Ohio.

Clarke, L., through R. Kennicott.—Skins of birds, eggs, &c., from
Great Slave Lake, H. B. T.

Clapp, Mr.—Skins of birds from Florida.

Clary, Capt.—Ammonite from Benicia.

Cleveland, J. T.—Dried hippocampus, or sea horse, from Florida.

Collier, D. C.—Centipede and skin of Neotoma cinerea from Denver
City, Jefferson Territory.

Conradsen, R.—Skins and eggs of Huropean and Greenland birds.

Cooper, Dr.—Nest and egg of Trochilus evelynae from Nassau, N. P.

Copenhagen Royal Museum.—Skins and eggs of birds from Greenland
and Northern Europe.

Copenhagen University Museum.—Skins and eggs of birds from Green-
land, star fishes, &ce.

Corston, Wm.—Eggs of snipe, &c., from Big River, H. B. T.

Couper, Wm.—Nests and eges, skin of Nyctale richardsoni, and other
birds from near (Quebec.

Coues, Hlliott.—Skins and eggs of birds and alcoholic specimens from
the coast of Labrador.

Crawford, Dr. S. W., U. S. A.—Set of elk horns from Fort Laramie.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 79

Crossoman, A. J.—Piece of root from Roger Williams tree.

Curtis, M. A.—Skin of mole from Hillsboro’, N. C.

Davis, C. P.—Mounted head of female deer, with horns; also rare
egos of American and Kuropean birds.

Davis, H.— Nests and eggs from Lowa.

Dawson, Prof. J. W.—Pleistocene fossils from Canada.

DeLeon, Dr., U. S. A.—Silver ores from Heintzelman vein, Cerro

Colorado mine, Tubac, N. M.

DeSaussure, H.—Skins of mammals from Labrador and Mexico.

Diehl, J. S.—Minerals from California.

Dimmick, C'.—Insects from Brockport, N. Y.

Dodd, P. N.—Skull of walrus, skins of seals, eggs of birds, shells,
&c., from Sable Island, N.S.

Dodge, John W.—Skin. of guillemot from Labrador.

Dodero, Donnas Juana and Pachita, through J. Xantus.—Nests, eggs
of birds, and insects from Cape St. Lucas.

Dow, Capt. J. M.—Collections in alcohol from Central America.

Drexler, C.—Collections of natural history from Hudson’s Bay.

Drouet, Mad. Helene.—Skins and eggs of rare Huropean and American
birds ; prepared skins of carp.

Duffy, Patrick.—Zoological collections from Fort Stockton, Texas.

Duniop, J. V., through B. Rk. Ross.—Skin of marmot and skins of
birds from Fort Halkett.

Emery, Chas. A.—Package of small shells from Stratham, N. H,;
microscopic earths from New Hampshire.

Litheridge, A. H.—Black squirrel from Tabasco, Mexico.

Ferril, F.—Egegs from Savannah.

Feilner, John.—Birds, mammals, nests, eggs, &c., from California.

Fisher, Dr.—Keggs of owl and shells from Sing Sing.

Fitch, F’.—See Stone.

Fuint, C. L.—Shells from Chili.

Gabb, W. M.—Package of fossils.

Garnet, B.—Duck’s eggs, with colored epidermis, from Fairfax Co., Va.

Garrison, O. H.—Skins of ducks, eggs, and plants from Minnesota.

Garton, John.—Fish from Abitibi.

Gerhardt, A.—Shells, insects, eggs of birds, &c., Georgia.

Gibbs—See Campbell.

Gill, Th.—Marine animals from Newfoundland, the West Indies,
and the coast of North Carolina.

Gilliss, J. R.—Shells and fossils from Payta, Panama, and Aspinwall;
also living grasshopper from Panama.

Gladmon, Mr.—Skins of mice from Rupert House, Hudson’s Bay Ter-
ritory.

Glasco, J. M.—Snakes from Gilmer, Texas.

Goodbow, Captain.—Skin of a hawk from White river.

Goodwin, EH. M.—Can of fishes from N. Montpelier, Vermont.

Goss, B. F'.—Nests, eggs, shells, &c., Kansas.

Gornley, James.—Mineralogical specimens from Pike’s Peak.

Graeff’, Ed. L.—Wepidoptera from New York.

Grayson, A, J.—Scalp of Curassow, and contents of its stomach, (nails,
coins, gravel, &c.,) Mexico.

80 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Griu, Donna Juana, through J. Xantus.—Coleoptera from Cape St.
Lucas.

Gruber, F'.—Skins and eggs of birds from California.

Guest, W. _A —Jar, with sturgeon, from Ogdensburg, N. Y.

Gunn, Donald.—Nests, eggs, and skins, from Selkirk settlement.

Hale, Dr.—Skins of mammals from Essex county, N. Y.

Halifax, Boys of National School.—Marine shells from Halifax.

Hanks, Capt. Julian.—Vishes and shells from Socorro Island.

Hardisty, W. L., through Rk. Kennicott.—Fossil bones, skins of birds,
and plants from the upper waters of the Yukon.

Hardisty, Mrs. W. L., through &. Kennicott—Mammals and eggs
from Great Slave Lake.

Harrington, Capt.—Star-fishes from Mt. Desert.

Haszlinsky, Prof. #.—Dried plants from Hperies, Hungary.

Hayes, Dr. S.—Alligator’s eggs, insects in alcohol, from Aspinwall,
and shells from Navy Bay.

Haymond, Dr. R.—Nests and eggs from Brookville, Indiana.

Henry, W. A.—Fishes in Alcohol, from Labrador.

Hepburn, Jas.—EKggs from San Francisco.

Hiawassee College.—Hymenoptera, from Tennessee.

Hildreth.—See Lt. Mullan.

Hillier, S. L.—Indian pipe, Fort Carver, Minnesota.

Hinman, W. M.—Skin of Vespertilio pruinosus, Platte river.

Hitz, John.—Series of minerals from United States and Switzerland.

Holder, Dr. J. B.—Birds and alcoholic specimens from Tortugas, and
eggs of terns and pelicans from Florida.

Holman, Dr.—Skin of sea eel, from coast of Lower California.

Hopkins, A.—tiggs from Massachusetts.

Hoy, Dr. P. R.—Nests, eggs, and birds, from Wisconsin.

Hubbard, Samuel.—Japanese seeds and tea; silver ore from Washoe
mine.

Hulsner, Gustav.—tinsects from vicinity of New York.

Irwin, Dr., U. S. A.—Minerals, skins, reptiles, and fishes in alcohol,
from New Mexico; skins of birds, including male and female
Mexican wild turkey, with nests and eggs of birds.

Janney, N.—Neotoma floridana, and skin of Connecticut warbler, Lou-
doun county, Virginia.

Jewett, Col. H.—Jaws of killer whale, off coast of Payta, and fossils
from Mt. Lebanon and near Beyrout.

Jones, Dr. W. L.—A\coholic specimens of fishes, reptiles, shells, &c.,
Georgia.

Jung, C. F'.—Neuroptera, diptera, &c., from vicinity of New York.

Kellogg, Hon. Mr.—Polished gypsum, from Michigan.

Kellogg, F.—Nests, eggs, birds, and insects from Wheelock, Texas.

Kennicott, R.—Bird skins and alcoholic specimens, Fort William,
Lake Superior; skins of birds, mammals, shells, insects, fish,
&c., from Fort Simpson, H. B. T.

Kennerly—See Campbell.

Kurtz, Capt. J. D.—Shells of United States coast.

Kirby, Rev. Mr., through R, Kennicott.—Kggs and birds from Lake
Winnepeg.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 81

Keyser, Charles.—Can of alcoholic specimens from Egmont Key,
Florida.

Kite, Wm.—lUarva, and perfect insect of Clytus from Pennsylvania.

Krieghoff, C.—Eees from near Quebec.

Krider, J.—¥orty specimens Arvicola, Philadelphia, and Bassaris from
Mexico.

Laszlo, C.—Alcoholic specimens from Mexico.

Latimer, Dr. J. T.—Cast of arca, Virginia.

Lander, Col. I’. W.—Reptiles and mammals, collected by J.S. Snyder,
(including Lagomys princeps.)

Lapham, Dr. J. A.—Uand shells from Wisconsin.

Lauer, F’.—Borings of an artesian well at Reading, Vermont.

Lazar, Count Coloman.—F¥ossil land shells from Laswaro, and recent
land shells from Transylvania.

Le Conte, Dr. J. L.—Mammals, reptiles, and astaci, types of Major
Le Conte’s species.

Lewis, James.—Shells from Mohawk, New York.

LTibhart, Messrs. A.C. & S. S. H.—Nests and eggs from Marietta, Pa.

Lincoln, Charles D.—Birds’ eggs from Massachusetts.

Tanc dhoelm, Capt.—Shells from Macdalena bay.

Lindheimer, F.—Salamanders from Texas.

Lockhart, Jas.—Skin of Rocky Mountain goat, robe of musk-ox, and
fossils from Mackenzie’s river district.

London Zodlogical Society.—HKge of summer duck from garden of the
Zodlogical Society.

McCarthy, C. S.—See J. H. Clark.

Macomb, Capt. J. M.—Collections of geology and natural history,
from New Mexico, chiefly collected by Dr. J. 8S. Newberry.

Mactavish, George #.—Skins of weasels and birds from Hudson’s bay.

Mactavish, Wm.—Ptarmigans, small mammals, fishes, &c., from Fort
Churchill, Es

McAllister, W. —Skin of evening grosbeak, from Racine.

McCown, O Cpt. dees, US. A.Skins of birds, &c., from Fort Ran-
dall.

MGs L. R. S.—Pentremites florealis, &c., from Indiana.

McDonald, M.—Fossils from Lexington, Va.

McFarlane, Ut., Der an Win 108s: —Skin of barren ground bear, Esqui-
maux dress, and other articles from Lower Mackenzie’ 8 hiver.

McKenzie, Alexander, per B. R, Ross.—Mammals and birds from Fort
Liard.

McKenzie, J.—Skins of birds, and eggs from James’ bay.

McLean, W. M.— Two hawk’s eggs from Virginia.

Mallet, Prof. J. W.—Shells from near Mobile.

Mallory, Hon. Robert.—Tooth of fossil horse, Big Bone nae Ky.

Marsh, Geo, P.—Native sulphur from Sicily.

Marston, Rev. S. W.—Insects and eggs of birds from Iowa.

Maslin, "Geo. W.—Kges, shells, and alcoholic specimens, from St.
Geor ge Island.

Michell, Rev. F. A.—Bear skull and fossil invertebrates, from Phantom
Hill, Jowa.

Morgan, Mr.—Eges from Fairmount, Va.

6

82 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Mullan, Lieut.—V¥ish, birds, eggs, and nests, and alcoholic specimens,
from Rocky Mountains, collected by J. Pearsall.

Mullan, Lieut.—Zodlogical, mineralogical, and botanical collections
from Rocky Mountains, between Coeur d’ Alene and Fort Benton,
made by Mr. Hildreth.

Murray, W.—Cones, leaves, and wood of coniferae, from California.

Navarro, Don Ramon, per J. Xantus.—Living jays and Bassaris from
Cape St. Lucas.

Newberry, Dr. J. S.—See Macomb.

Newberry, Dr. J. S.—Shells from various localities.

Newton, Alfred.—Skins of lemming and hare, collected on voyage of
ship Enterprise, Arctic America.

Mason, W, A.—¥F luviatile shells from western New York.

Ojeda, Don Marcellino, per J. Xantus.—Dried plants from Cape St.
Lucas.

Osio, Don Juan, through J, Xantus.—Shells from Cape St. Lucas.

Osio, Donna Beatri ice, through J. Xantus.—Coleoptera from Cape St.
Lucas.

Packard, A. S.—Nests and eggs from New Brunswick.

Page, apt. T. J., U. S. N.—Zodlogical, botanical, and geological
collections from La Plata expedition.

Paine, C. S.—Egegs and birds from Vermont.

Parker, S. M.—Insects, &c., from Massachusetts.

) an sarcophagus, brought from Beyrout by
Com. J. D. Elliott; marble slab from the plains of Marathon,
brought by Com. Elliott; also, two picture frames made of
hickory and live oak, a part of the latter from the old frigate
Constitution. (These frames inclose accounts of the two pre-
ceding articles. )

Peale, T. #.—Plaster mold for making casts of a stone tablet from
the ruins of Palenque, in Central America.

Pearsall, J.—See Lieut. Mullan.

Pedrin, Don Antonio, through J. Xantus.—Insects and birds from
Cape St. Lucas.

Pena, Don J. R.
America.

Peters, Dr. Thos, M.—Skin of blackbird.

Philadelphia Academy Natural Sciences.—Duplicates of Mexican rep-
tiles from Xalapa; skel eons and skulls of mates. in exchange.

Pickering, Capt., U.S. N. ; shells and
other marine animals fa ey West.

Poey, Prof. F’.—¥ishes and birds from Cuba.

Poole, H.—Specimens of nitro-boro-calcite, Productus lyelli, fossil
Bente, shells, &c., from Windsor, N. 8.

Pope, Capt. J., U. 9. A.—Alcoholic specimens from New Mexico.

Porter, Com., U.S. N.—Fishes from west coast of Central America.

Potts, John. ~ Reptiles and birds from Chihuahua.

Pour tales, OS oe —Hishes and crustaceans from Florida.

Purchased.—Cast of gorilla skull, Gaboon.

Rankin, James. —Shells from Long Island.

Ravenel, Dr.—Fungi of South Carolina, (Fasciculus V.)

cies eggs of birds from Chili, South

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 83

Raynolds, Capt. W. F., U. S. A.—Specimens of natural history from
upper Missouri, collected by Dr. Hayden; and of zodlogy, by
G. H. Trook, Jas. Stevenson, and Wm. Vincent.

Reed, Peter.—Lower jaw of Ursus americanus, from a peat bog in
Washington county, New York; Larus arcticus, from Wash-
ington county, New York.

Reed, Wm. M.—Skins and eggs of birds from Racine, Wisconsin.

Reid, J.—Skins of birds, eggs, mammals, &c., Great Slave Lake.

Remond, Mr.—Fossils from Cache le Poudre.

Richards, Frank.—Kges of Pyranga aestiva, Fairfax county, Va.

Roberts, J. H.—Shells, &c., from Illinois.

ftoss, B. R.—Very complete collections of animals, plants, eggs, &c.,
from the Mackenzie River District.

Rousseau, W. A.—Birds nests from Troy, New York.

Rowell, Rev. Jos.—Shells from California.

Ttiise, A. H.—Conurus xantholaemus, from St. Thomas; and ophiurans,
reptiles, &c., from West Indies.

St. Charles College, La.—Coleopterous insects, birds, and reptiles, from
Louisiana. -

Samuels, H.—Microscopic slides.

Sartorius, Dr. C.—Crustaceans, insects, and vertebrates, from near
Vera Cruz.

Salvin, O.—One hundred and thirty species Guatemala birds.

Schafhirt, F'.—Skeleton of Cistudo carolinensis, from the District of
Columbia.

Schneider, L.—Skins of birds.

Schoonover, Major.—Robe of grizzly bear skin from Yellow Stone river.

Schott, A.—Shells from Humboldt Bay, New Granada.

Schultz, Wm.—Uiving alligator, from Georgia.

Sclater, P. L.—Skins of birds from Mexico and Jamaica.

Sherman, Capt.—Shells from Magdalena Bay.

Shumard, Dr. B. F.—Insects from Texas.

Simonds, #.—Skins of mammals, birds, skeletons, &c., from Hssex
county, New York.

Stimpson, Capt. J. H.—Minerals and rocks from Utah, collected by
H. Engelmann.

Skilton, J. Avery.—Reptiles, fishes, shells, and two living Sirens, from
Georgia.

Slack, Dr. J. H.—iggs of grebe and tern, from Minnesota.

Slagle, Mr.—Keggs and tertiary fossils from Virginia.

Smith, Dr. J. Bryant.—Birds, reptiles, insects, crustaceans, and seeds,
from Jamaica.

Somers, Dr., through Dr. Bohrer.—Quartz crystal from Virginia,,
inclosing a drop of water.

Snyder, J. S.—See Lander.

Stagg, IT. J.—Seventeen-year locust, from Pennsylvania. 3

Stair, D. '.—Old cup, coin, and beetle, from Hanover, Pennsylvania:.

Stanley, J. S. A.—Fossils from Los Angeles, California.

Stearne, Mrs. J. S.—Portion of Stump of a tree which stood in frent
of Washington’s marquee, at Valley Forge, Pa., in the winter
of 1777-78.

84 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

Sternbergh, S.—Alcoholic specimens from Panama.
Stewart, George.—Skins of reptiles, nests, eggs, insects, &c., from

(olLoje7)
Alabama.
Stimpson, Wm.—Alcoholic specimens and shrew, from the coast of
Maine. ;

Stone, Capt. C. P.—Shells from Gulf of California, collected in part
by F. Fitch, Esq.

Swan, Jas. S.—Shells, sponges, and other specimens of natural history,
from Ne-ah Bay, W. T.

Swanston, Thos., per &. Kennicott.—Skins of Arvicola, birds, &c.,
from Great Slave Lake.

Suckley, Dr. George.—Birds, eggs, mammals, and alcoholic specimens,
from Fort Kearny and Fort Laramie.

Taylor, N., per B. R. Ross.—Skin of young musk ox, from Fort
Norman.

Tolman, J. W.—Eges from Winnebago, Illinois.

Totten, Gen. Jos. G., U. S. A.—Minerals from California.

Tracy, Henry.—Kiges, skin of night-heron, and fish, from coast of
Maine.

Travers, Capt. D. B.—Duck eggs with black shells, from Virginia.

Turner, Mr.—Skins of squirrels from Hanno Bay.

Uhler, P. R.—Neuroptera for Dr. Hegan.

Unknown.—Shells from Monroe county, Mo.

Unknown.—Living green snake, Letophis aestivus.

‘ Unknown.—Humming birds’ nests.

Unknown.—Living Carolina rail.

Vanskiver, Jas.—Remora from Blackstone Island, Potomac river.

Veatch, Dr. J. A.—Shells from California.

Venable, T. P.—Bones of the head of a Delphinus, from the Pacific.

Villaescusa, Donna Francisca, per J. Xantus.—Large shells from Cape
St. Lucas.

Villasana, Donna Jesus, per J. Xantus.—Shells from Cape St. Lucas.

Vogel, C.—Box of coleoptera, from Rhineland, Mo.

Wallace, J. W.—Serpents and dried Amphiuma, from Louisiana.

Walsh, D. B.—Diptera, hymenoptera, and neuroptera, from Illinois.

War Depariment.—Mass of native copper, from Ontonagon, Michigan.

Warren, Geo. B.—Kiges from New York.

Welch, Geo. W.—Mounted skunk, red-necked grebe, nests, and eggs,
from Massachusetts.

West, Silas.—Orthopterous insects from Maine.

Wharton, Jos,—Specimens of zine and spelter.

White, Lieut. J. W.—Marine invertebrates, radiata, &c., from Puget

Sound.

Wilcow, H. B.—Nests, eggs, shells, and alcoholic specimens from
Michigan.

Willis, J. 2.—Skins of birds, eggs, shells, &c., from Halifax.

Williamstown College Lyceum.—Nests and eggs from Labrador and
Greenland.

Windle, J. H.—Kiggs of coopers hawk and skin of snow bird.
Winsion, W.G.—Lepidoptera and skins and eggs of birds from Hali-
fax.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT ee. 85

Winslow, R. K.—Skin of duck and eggs of aids from Ohio.
Wood, Win 8. .—Nests and eggs of Geothly ypis macgillivrayt from Pike’s
ea

Wood, John C.—Dead alligator from Georgia.

Wood, Dr. Wm.—Skin of Accipiter Juscus, shrew, and nests and eggs,
from H. Windsor Hill, Conn’

Worthen, Prof. A. H.—Types of fossils from Illinois.

Woodbury, U.S. A., Capt. D. P.—Birds from Tortugas.

Wright, J. J. —Portion of an Indian ax from Williamstown, Neko?

Wyman, Prof. J.—fRana sinuata from Adirondac Mountains ; casts
of head of Flat-Head Indian, and skull of Gorilla.

Wright, C._—See Bradford.

Xantus, J.—Very large collections of animals, eggs, plants, &c., of
Cape St. Lucas.

LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS DURING 1860.

Astronomical Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent
Kane, M. D., U.S. N. Made during the second Grinnell Expedition
_ in search of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rens-
selaer Harbor and other points in the vicinity of the northwest coast
of Greenland. Reduced and discussed by Charles A. Schott, Assistant
United States Coast Survey; quarto, pp. 56, and one plate. (Pub-
lished May, 1860.)

On Fluctuations of Level in the North American Lakes. By Chas.
Whittlesey ; quarto, pp. 28, and two plates. (Published July, 1860.)

Meteorological Observations, made at Providence, R. I., extending
over a period of twenty-eight years and a half, from December, 1831,
to May, 1860. By Alexis Casw ell, Professor ‘of Natural Philosophy
and Theology in Brown University, Providence, R. 1.5; quarto, pp. 188.
(Published October, 1860.)

Meteorological Observations, made near Washington, Ark., extend-
ing over a period of twenty years from 1840 to 1859, inclusive. By
Nathan D. Smith, M. D.; quarto, pp. 96. (Published October, 1860.)

Researches upon the Venom of the Rattlesnake, with an investiga-
tion of the anatomy and physiology of the organs concerned. By S.
Weir Mitchell, M. D., Lecturer on Phy siology. in the American Medi-

cal Association; quarto, pp. 156, and twelve wood cuts. (Published
December, 1860.)

The preceding compose vol. XII of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge.

Tidal Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, M.
D., U.S. N. Made during the second Grinnell Expedition in search
of Sir John Franklin, in "1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer
harbor. Reduced and discussed by Charles A. Schott, Assistant United
86 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

States Coast Survey; quarto, pp. 90, and four plates. (Published
October, 1860.) ;

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Insti-
tution for the year 1859. 1 volume, 8vo., pp. 450; fifty-five wood
cuts.

Instructions in reference to collecting nests and eggs of North
American birds. 8vo., pp. 22; eighteen wood cuts.

Circular in reference to the history of North American grasshoppers.
8vo., pp. 4.

Circular in reference to collecting North American shells. 8vo.,

ed

Circular in reference to the degrees of relationship among different
nations. 8vo., pp. 34.

Circular to officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company. 8vo., pp. 6.

Check Lists of the Shells of North America, prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution by Isaac Lea, P. P. Carpenter, W. Stimpson, W.
G. Binney, and Temple Prime. 8vo., pp. 44.

List of duplicate shells collected by the United States Exploring
Expedition under Capt. C. Wilkes, U. 8. N. . Indo-Pacific Fauna.
Svo., pp. 4.

Catalogue of the described Lepidoptera of North America. Prepared
for the Smithsonian Institution by John G. Morris. “8vo., pp. 76.
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS

FOR THE YEAR 1860.

BRITISH AMERICA.

S) Sn
is = 5
Name of observer. Station. 35 = = S
& s "ep 2
. S o na
Z aan Bie Wer=
Ou OR hea
Acadia College .........+.. Wolfville, Nova Scotia............ 45 06} 64 25 95 \A.
Balser Oyeretceoseseses: Stanbridge, Canada East, (P. | 45 08} 73 00 |.........| T.
O. Saxe’s Mills, Vt.)
Connelly, Henry ......... [Romeo kent, IEE OY ReN6 (Oe eo-uoobeoopondod|hodoceabaded botapcoanbod eetodecodd iBeeL
(Greeuieeivry IDies NAY essoondegos Hamilton, Canada West.......... A MSs Ny UE) Bid egebon sce BEE:
Delaney, Edward M.J.} Colonial Building, St. John’s | 47 35 | 52 40} 170) B.T.R.
Newfoundland.
(Gunna) Orrell deeeceess see Red RiverSettlement, Hudson’s| 50 06) 9700) 853)T.R.
Bay Territory.
Hall, Dr. Archibald...... Montreal, Canada Hast............ ANS; B10) |) 78) Bho) 57 | A.
Hensley, Rev. J. M..... King’s College, Windsor, Nova| 44 59 | 6407} 200] A.
Scotia.
Magnetic Observatory...| Toronto, Canada West............ AZTS9) | 79) Je | OSH Ae
Mackenzie, J..........2..-. Moose Factory, Hudson’sBay | 5115 | 80 45 |......... B.
Territory.
anime: Colin:a-ces-.eaces- Michipicoton, Canada West..... Ae Oey 485) OD el ceseeece be
Ross, Bernard R.......... Fort Simpson, Hudson’s Bay | 61 51 | 121 25 |......... ais
Territory.
Royal Engineers.......... Halifax, Nova Scotia .............. 44 39 | 63 37 Sa |PAn
Smallwood, Dr. Charles.} St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Can.E..| 45 82] 73 36] 118 | A.
ALABAMA.
3 5
; = Ke
3 2 3
Name of observer. Station. County. = Gp = =
a = “8p 5
O S o n
Zi ame ee: a ae
Ont OW | aaa
JM iisrovra yy ie fey 15 IY teil B Bape Carlowville....) Dallas........... 32) LON Seto. 400).
Cobbss evs RecAte....0+s- Union Town.) Perry........... 33 ail) |} tela Bill eocodbacd N.
Foster, William L.......... Montgomery.| Montgomery.| 32 22! 86 31 |......... N.
Harding, Col. Horace..... Boliseelecceene: (Greenerere secs 32 46} 8810] 240|B.T.R.
Huston, Thomas A...... ee K
ee Orrville ...s.0e Dallas... 3225] 87 06| 200|T.P.
Jennings, Dr. SAK s........ Onryalle esac: Dalllatsy in sscseees 32/94 87 06 |.......-.| T: PR.
Smith, Rev. Stephen U....| Livingston....| Sumter ......... 3230 | 8816, 180)7T.P.
Tutwiler, Henry ........... FLAVA As 0.6 <2 Greene ......... 3250] 8746] 500,T.R.
Waller, Robert B...........- Greensboro’..| Greene ......... SOMA Si ae | sauna

* A signifies Barometer, Thermometer, Psychrome-

ter, and Rain Gauge.
B signifies Barometer.
T signifies Thermometer.

P signifies Psychrometer.
R signifies Rain Gauge.

N signifies No instrument.

} Above Lake Ontario.

88

ARKANSAS.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

: o 2
o rs =
nS} a=) es)
Name of observer. Station. County. z = s s
Mee Ae
. z= o n
ra Ele
One OF lence
Blackwell, W. H..........+. Perryville...... Petryerencscessess aia) (05) 1)) By ANS) | eopandoce Ne
Buckner, Rev. H. F....... Win CoRessessece Creek Nation.| 35 00] 97 00 |......... ihe
Burris, Robert, M. D..... Greem Groyelse.| CONWAY tossccccs|ssceecnemaeslass see sclces|sseseeas N.
Coulter Bob escsccmecccon: Brownsville....| Prairie.......... BEM AD!) GEL WO esesedboe N.
Featherston, George W...| Waldron....... WCOtitdneneasnstiets SAPO NO UD tentecleise INE
Female College........ qponeo Arkadelphia...|} Clark ........... 34 08 | 93 00 |......... N.
RNs ora ee Spring Hill....| Hempstead...) 33 30] 93 40 r
Rey MOLES a leerseces sore sees ngs an aeacliammta tune hee ie cvees igen” ;
1b oyasveG NAY 5 |Biqns6sqoacecasee Nellivallemtrc cess INTE MBO, «paocc08e 36 30} 93 00 | 1,000) T.
Graltam\ Raul evcs..scccecc ses Bentonville ....) Benton.......... Soran DAN LON OO PNE
EVOwardew ie Ulecrcscccessecccs Mount. Home} Marion ......... SGe1a I) 92N30 i ee ncetes Re
McBeth, Miss Sue.......... Doaksville.....| Choct. Nation.| 33 45 | 95 26 |......... N.
Martin, G. Alex., M. D...| Jacksonport...| Jackson......... 35) Bla || SULTS)" asoonedee Ake
REVINOLAS tI pcecnsccsese oe see: Spring Hill....| Hempstead....) 33 30 | 93 40 |......... ae
S1aiO Ny De Nie IB sconcopocode Washington...) Hempstead....| 33 44] 93 41 |......... AMS Lite
NVC H Stile WN ins ccuciesderastnas Yellville........ IMM IEREXONN pe s5ou06e 36 30] 93 00 |1,000|N.
CALIFORNIA.
Ayres; Wi.'O.,1Mi).D....25. San Francisco.| San Francisco.) 37 48 | 122 27 130) A.
Boucher, Wesley K......... Mokelumne | Calaveras...... 38 18 | 120 28 | 1,502) N.
Hill.
Canfield, Colbert A.,M.D.| Monterey ...... Monterey...... 36 36 | 121 54 AQT OP ake.
Frombes, Prof. Oliver S...| Santa Clara....| Santa Clara....| 37 18 | 122 00 100) A.
Gordon, Robert ............. WANG UTM sees eee Blacerksse dace: Shel oye | aT) Veitealirgey | be
TOW Eidtwilttepscsecaseceete: Martinez....... Contra Costa 31 00 | 122 06 20) N.
Karbes die. VES Disses: Downieville ...| Sierra .........-. 9) iii eee 2,200). R.
Logan, Thos. M., M. D..| Sacramento....| Sacramento....| 38 35 | 121 28 A1|A.
Randalls Robert B.o....s..- Crescent City.) Del Norte...... ANAS TREE TE OT alee \
Senne ne. Elon cute -esseec: Miu Davecesoreaee ce a) es) AE S10 pcocaueer VAP ARG:
Whitlock, James H ....... (MeadowValley| Plumas......... 40 20 | 120 15 |3,700|B.T.R
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
MackKee, Rev. C. B........ Georgetown ...| Washington...) 38 54] 177 03 |......... ig is
Smithsonian Institution...) Washington...) Washington... 38 53 | 77 01 60) A.
CONNECTICUT.
Harrison, Benjamin F..... Wallingford ...| New Haven...| 41 27] 72 50) 133 /A.
Hunt, Rev. Daniel.......... Pomineteeesse: Windham ..... ANN Me PB} tle Stell | waNe
Johnston, Prof. John...... Middletown ...| Middlesex ......| 41 32} 72 39) 175/A.
Rankin, James.........2.000. Saybrook ...... Middlesex .....) 41 18] 72 20 WD) | alas.
Rockwell, Charlotte........ Colebrook...... Thitchfield....... ADT OOM ei Oi lseierccine ihe
Yeomans, William H...... Columbia....... Obrolleval srasoece AWA ado A Wl eaeerectee Ae

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

DACOTAH.

89

o ;
. = 2
= i =
Ss oe Oo
Name of observer. Station. County. = = 3 g
3 Zs "aD &
. = ® n
Z S| a) 8
OF OPS hee:
Norvell, Freeman ........... Greeniwioodiocrleccsssresesscecedoss AT 52) SSE 24s a S00) eRe
FLORIDA.
Aibenineeneayeksccsectaedasss Warrington ...) Escambia ...... 30: 21 | 87 16 Oscar
Alien, George D............- Magnetic Ob- | Monroe......... 24 33] 81 48 OylMsspleeks
servatory,
: Key West.
Bailey, James B..........00. Gainesville... AVaCHUA sasec-1]) Peon oy) woo. SO lean leas kes
Bald want. vAcis wis Die on Jacksonville...| Duval .......:... 30 15 | 82 00 14|A.
Bean Ors James B-cses.se: Micanopy...... Alachua ........ 29 3 82 31 WS} |) Zc
Dennis, William C......... Key West.....| Monroe......... 24 33} 81 28 INS) ley, Abad
Gibbon, Lardnev............ Tallahassee....) Lieon.........-... SOO teeth WOU! Weodeda, ot aM
Ives, Edward R............. Lake City...... Columbia ...... SU Pie alll) be Ie
Mauran, P. B., M. D...... St. Augustine.| St. John’s...... 29 48; 81 35 Sp aeleakee
Steele, Judge Augustus..| Atsena Otie....| Levy. .......... 29 08 | 83 04 7) Bip be dike
Whitner, Benjamin F...... Vallahassee....| Tieon.....:....... 30 24} 84 17 70|T.
GEORGIA.
Anderson, James, M. D..) Thomaston....! Upson ......... 32 56] 8430] 750) A.
Camp, Benjamin F......... Covington ..... Newton......... 33 40 | 84 00 763 | N.
Doughty, Dr. William H.) Augusta........! Richmond...... Sa 2ti Bll 3de|) * Toa) Pauae
(Gibson Reedy ..tceenceecscee: Savannah...... Chatham....... 32 02 | 81 Ol 13) See
Pendleton, E. M., M. D..| Sparta .......... Hancock erases) waded: |) Sa: 09) 1 aa0h ely sti
Seavey, Charles C.......... Cuthbert ....... IRE yNGION GN coddad socanasande4|byavouscodon looadonac: db
Van Buren, Jarvis.....%.... Clarksville..... iiahbershanmbees: seo) Gon Go) ole ilsGao) lees
Westmoreland,J.G.,M.D.| Atlanta.......... Ei ailitomyerese seen 3374505 (84.31) 115050)) Bear
ILLINOIS.
Aldrich, Verry....-.-..+...«- A sical Wales. ..: BURCAUL ercesc es 4115} 89 66] 550)N.
Allison, Jesse ...........00+ Bloomington..| McLean........| 40 30 | 89 00 |......... IN:
ee | (Chea fess] een ro PRR VN oe eg oer:
Babcock, Andrew J)....... AULOTAs <cseceeee GAN Cv semaccmessiee 41 41] 88 17 GoO) ich.
IB laxeyellé,, 12) Sascoenosancoosonde [MIME Goooceanacce McHenry...... 4211) 88 20) 760) T. R:
BACON CHewlievencwecs asade «0% Willow: Creels.| Muees.ccnneseses.. 41 45 | 88 56 | 1,040| T.
Bacar N athe ol veseecece ce: Belleville ....... Ste Claim essa: 38 29 | 90 06 600 | B. T.
Baldwin, Elmer.....-....--. Farmbridge....| a Salle........ 41 13 | 88 51 600 | T.
Ralloni Ne Bias Vi Dices..3 Sandwich ...... DewiGallloeeeccs: Al@almi se 30 Brain bes
Bassett, George R.......... W oodstock....} McHenry...... 42 18} 88 30 |......... Tas
Boettner, Gustav A......... Chicago......... Cooke cn AIN54.| 89 400.2... 2.0. Boot
Bowman, Dr. KE. H......... Edgington .....| Rock Island...) 41 25} 9046; 686) T. R.
Brendel, E., M. D,......::- Robinson’s | Menard......:.. 40 00 |} 90 00 |......... Be
Mills.
Brendel, Frederick, M.D.! Peoria .seccesee) POOTA voroerees’ 40 43! 89 301 460! A,

90

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

ILLINOIS—Continued.

o :
. Lo} 2
= & i=
Name of observer. Station. County. 2 = = =
z < ‘8p 5
. e cb) a
A Ee ies
Onn Or! | heer:
Brickenstem, Rev-~ El El) Olney...--...-... EVUGHIEE traneus|oseeeenpaes| sceree ca cce| ese ce rmes Lupa
Brookes, Samuel...........- Chicaco.......:. Gookeccseeve sts ADGOO i Si BOM sceecnar fue
Cobleta hye Nereccecssessens Lebanon........ St. Clair as} Bil |) tsi) S10 ||bsccodons Bewok
Collier; Prof. Geo. H......| Wheaton....... DuPages.cce.: 41 49} 8806] 682) A.
Ellsworth, Milton S§........ Naperville ..... Dur Pacer.ssscs: ANOAG | SSM henna rT:
Grants ohn ecssescceersences Manchester....| Scott..........00. 8) 8B) || Sho) ay 683 | A.
FSC USeT;s DENIM eekbeesesecess Galena........ oO MD AVES Sede ccensceespelvcemoose cers lonsteneies N.
Elarrisa gO. MER is. csc. Olttawainccescese Kia Salle... ...¢. 41 20 | 88 47 500) aya
Little, J. Thomas........... IDiscon\reeeseseee |HIMCe rae cscecsessce ALGAS§| SOP BIE eects IN
Mead, S. B., M. D......... Augusta........| Hancock 400100) 91°00 1 S203 eR.
Mead, Dr. Thompson wee Batavia ......... Gane lostesdesteses 4] 52} 8820} 636) A.
Newcomb, John) Bicsese ssa. [DIST gsnansesoce- |AISane roses pees) 427000) 88 1) i
Pashley, ie Sg Ls WDesnces Osceolareresssss SHEMALES Gognconcooed AE I SK) UZ Neosceeco es is
Io Xt) Lig de (op apisae canna soneee Rekuin«tcceccseee Tazewell....... AQKS6 ls SOMAD a iecces oe Mis aE
Rogers, O. P. and J. S....| Marengo ....... McHenry...... 4214} 8838; 842/B.T.R
Sherman, Rev. D. H...... Channahony.cs. | OVWilllinessreeecere 41 15} 88 16 G43h| eee.
Shotwell, Samuel L....... Olbttatwiale..ss-se-s Tia Sallesscss sess 4] QI stot GH) epcooone0 aly.
Smith, Charles E..........0 Evanston......, Cooky.csiiivese. 42 10} 87 30 718 | T.
Smith, George O., M. D..| Ottawa.......... La Salle........ AQ Moria) SSiooN ||) foo lel elec.
Titze, "Henry A baakea sere cise West Salem... Edwards ....... 38730) SSH OO Masscsces al ees
Tolman, Jamies) Wise.--ne- Winnebago | Winnebago....| 4217] 8912} 900|B.T.R
Depot.
INDIANA.
Amndersoneubl.) Elsseccvscsees Rockville....... peice teen sitocet 36 00 | 87 00 | 1,100) N.
PAUUISTAIG IVVie NW Vaseeseslelenee oe se Richmond...... Wily ehes.inc se 39 47} 8447] 9800) T.
Bartlett iilisaac...c.csecme. os WOSAMSPONts CASS eleeescssens 40 45 | 8613); 600) T.R.
Bullocks ie tlyscesccssss cose Shelbyville....| Shelby.......... SO ROOT SU MOUR es eretraas N.
Chappellsmith, John....... New Harmony, Posey........... 38 08 | 87 50 | 320) A.
Dawson, William.......... Cadinzecsccseneres ELENISY foccoss sees SOB) ts) 210) Ibccoscnt oy VEG.
Dayton, James H.........., South Bend....| St. Joseph.....) 41 45 | 86 20 600 | N.
EXAINES; SOU pees noncen eens Richmond...... Wisiymeieescecese Bye) Oey) tsb GE), |oconadan, Baas
Larrabee, William H...... Green Castle...| Putnam......... 39 30 | 86 47 800 | N.
Smith, amiltan =) [fBecadboce Cannelton...... Rennverescnseses 37 57 86 42 450 | A.
Webb, Miss: Gircncecesssnsss Hort \Weaymne...| Allen’ ..ccs.c.0-- 4710) 8500) 761) N.
|
IOWA
Beall Mercier: ncs.cciercossiases | Grove Hill..... Bremer.........- HY ANS I) feht( TIS) bssgorsee Me
Collin, Prof. Alonzo....... Mount Vernon} Linn............. AON eo OON kewcces ss ay
CorseswiohnMMisy.ccc- 20.5... Burlington ..... Des Moines ...| 40,53 | 91 10/ {486 /|T. R.
Doyles Ele s. .csdectsososses Waterloo... ... Black Hawk...| 42 30) 92 31 |......... IN.
Pre EE Bet} |Davenportsssse| Scott asesansseen 41 30| 9038] 555 |N.
Rorety Sohint Gre erecccsscce. Bellevue ........ Jackson ...... .. AP Bon Ook oo wessseren- As Re
HlosterdiSuelipencensssnstecseace Muscatine...... Muscatine...... AMs26 1) (92100) \ere ac ‘onod NTE
Horr, ‘Asa, MOD cs. Dubuque ....... Dubuque ....... 42 30 | 90 52) 666A.
Hudson, A, Alger IES D opr EC ONS enereosee (Ghini@iaY ssabodos: 47 501 90 101 401 |R. T.

* Above low water mark at Quincy.

¢ Above Jow water mark in the Mississippi.

t Above Lake Michigan.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

IOW A—Continued.

91

s = .

Name of observer. Station. County. == = 2 =

Ss < BO te

. iM o n

Z Be ls

Oot Oe eBeet.
McConnel, Townsend....| Pleasant Plain.| Jefferson........ 41 07; 94 54} 950) T. R.
McCoy, Franklin, M. D..| Algona......... Kossuth......... 43 01 | 94 04 |......... ake
McCready, Daniel. ........ Fort Madison.| Lee........ ...... 40 37 | 91 28 )........- Uo lis
McKenzie, John M. ......| Fayette .......+. Haiyette .ocorseee 42 51} 91 51 {1,000 | T.
Tee Pera | Muscatine::....|/ Museatines..... 4125 | 9202| 586) A.
Merde Usatalliiz..c.veecsceseccs Kossuth ........ Des Moines... 41 00 | 91 13 |......... N.
Shatter. Jel, Me D...... Fairfield ........ Jefferson........ Al OL} 91.57) 940) A.
Sheldon, Daniel............. Forestville ..... Delaware....... 425408) Oi 58)+).0.e 0-3. a
\ NVI yea ¥sie TELS 18S Soca cncocers TAGS peteccse-cer Winneshiek...) 43 30 | 91 46) 720} T.

KANSAS.

Berthrouds Baal. deccctec sen. Leavenworth..| Leavenworth..| 39 19 | 94 50] 809/R.
Blackman y Wie die tke feos «0s Lawrence ...... Douglas......... 39 00); 95°12)" 800") "A®
Clarkson, Rev. David..... Fort Riley...... Rileyac..ecse- sees 39 00 | 96 30 \1,300 | N.
Drummond, Rev. J. H....| Celestville...... Ti IGINS -cosoe sess 387 400) 95 TG susccccs N.

F 5 {| Lecompton. ...| Douglas......... SINOSs 9a LONGO) ae
Bills Dr. Win. Pisces: ¢| Mountain City| Arappahoe..... 39 35'| 105 40 |......... abe
Bishiye uclatierecesecceseoesee Buclinca mer el po MAME Ca-ecedes|ssackceence-|aceasncasses(ecesseas: de lee
Goodnow, Isaac T.......... Manhattan ....| Riley .........0.. 39 13 | 96 45 |1,000 | T. R.
Each, |B Ly eee pe ecRO enon Neosho Falls..) Woodson....... SOu03s| (Q5usiluleeseee ab da
McCormick, Wm. A...... Lecompton ....| Douglas......... SOROS) yo LOM RS 2on ede
IMienniami, Gels ccescecccss Ganrdmner::2. 0... Johnson -:..... 38 47} 95 00 800 | T.R.
Mallee Sohn vEtss.ccc.ssceces Wyandot....... Wyandot....... 3908)) 945305) 00 || eR
Preston) WRev. IN. Ov....2- Manhattan..... TRIES? crecconssco: SONS | OOM ON csecsnees INfe

KENTUCKY.
Barbage, Joshua C......... Hardinsburg..| Breckenridge..} 37 40 | 8615 | 500 |N.
Iban Ocescoccscgncgscooceuee Danville .:..°..- IBXOVAG « csooneeeas 37 40} 8430) 900|)B.T.R
(Caste, Wir (5 1D esbaconcuoococs Beech’ Bork...) Washington...) ....500.0s-|oecesceseess|sseresees aS
Mattison, Andrew.......... Paducah......... Mt. Cracken...| 37°00} 87 21,\-......:. N.
Miles, Thomas, H.,S. J.} Bardstown.....) Nelson.......... SN tele Ute} leececore A.
IMltineliig 1B IML orceooeadedoas: Russelville..... TOSAN sec cesses al hasocossese |Keobsactcodellocbae cone N.
Savage, Rev.G.S., M.D.) Millersburg....| Bourbon........ 38 40 | 8427] 804|B.T.R
Swain, John, M. D........ Ballardsville ...| Oldham ......... 38 36 | 35 30] 461) A.
AVVZOO CU Shit Naess aces ses Louisville...... Jefferson........ Stowell) |) tel) is}: leeconanoc A.
Young, Mrs. Lawrence...| Louisville ...... Jefferson........ SSs0d | usa, 24 |) S70) "A.

LOUISIANA.
NTU ONTO SE cesssccs see Grand Coteau.| St. Landry ....}....ccccecce/escecenerseeleeeeereee be
Mankard, Mrs. M. J...... Independence.| Livingston..... 30 30} 90 33 50 | N.
Merrill, Edward, M. D...| Trinity BS ie ie bay 68; T.R

Sileses | Concordia......

MAINE.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

Baie S f
= oe 5
Name of observer. Station. County. = a 3 S
2 i fi ee
. x o n
Z E |e ys
paeceaee ae
: Oo OD heck
ING Eyratsis IG) alate iV epconoccen Portland........ Cumberland...; 43 39} 7000] 180/N.
Bickford.) Calvin's eceeeeere- Wyieirnente. acceso Lemme olmscssseees AAO OM eri OM OM retrersricer N.
Brackett, G. Emerson..... Belifastess «esses il Wiel dObsoesenes Bee AAO hue G9) (OS s|sacccciee RS
IDIMgIS Wis ID nscssssdocdoccen: North Perry...) Washington...| 45 00 | 67 06 | 100) A.
Gardiner, RovEleeesessescc ses Gardiner........ Kennebec...... 44 40:| 69 46 90 | A.
(Growl dea ise eericecstese scsieces N’th Bridgeton) Cumberland ..| 44 03] 70 45} 300|B.T.R.
Gup till Gig Witssssssccuui ess @ornishvalle-.-) York’.........-.. 43 40} 70 44} 800|)T.R.
Johnson, Warren .......... Topsham....... | Sagadahoc.....| 44 00; 7000) 100)8.T.
Tord ahs Guiscccmusicassecsns <4 TMM POM 3 as VOL eee ee ecen ess 43 40 | 70 45} 500)N.
INO ORES PAISHM Lacs .cacccoeesess LATS 6{0) ossunacoe .| Androscoggin.| 4400] 70 04} 130/T.R.
Nichols, Charles L ........ Bangconeecace cee Penobscott..... AAAS TH GSEAi ce ecccees al.
Ramen ple) secs cawerscecses Steuben.........| Washington...) 44 44 | 67 50 50 | A.
Pratt, J. Frank, M. D....| New Sharon..| Franklin........ 44 37 7D) WES) Besocosec N.
Van Blarcom, James....... Vassalboro’...| Kennebec...... AAS 8a | GO RAV al easeceaes a.
Wieraailllly Es Vieng eo concosese Norway........| Oscfond escent. AITO) |) 2D) S355. bsdecoooc aha
VEST. SIESacc.cceieue sscesee: @omnnishes.s-cere We Wiorkccceaceseeeer 43 40} 70 44} 784/T.R.
Wallbur, Beng. Bucs. cccscece Destercecccsess Penobscot...... 4455 | 69 32} 700 |}R.
Wallis SELeniayjersceae-ssreees Portland ....... Cumberland..| 43 39 | 70 15 87 | A.
Willson, Wor ieieceereeree ts Exeter ..........| Penobscot...... Ata Faye) Pate) 438) | Gesocoace ANG 186
(Wayanvainl, PACS Di eesscsssance ae N’th Belgrade.| Kennebec...... AAT SOOO NAON Recemeas IN
MARYLAND.
Baer pVISS gle) Vito ressscses Sykesville...... Carrolle.cs.-<-. Be) BI I ar eh | AAO), | as Le
Bella olplietccsssccccen sess Leitersburg....| Washington...| 39 35] 77 30 |......... ADE Mit
Goodman, Wm. R.......... Annapolis......, Anne Arundel.) 38 59 | 76 29 20 | A.
Hanshew, Henry E....... Frederick ...... Frederick: ...... a8) EY WD |lasccceans A.
Iowndes; Benj. O!.......... Bladensburg...) Prince George.| 38 57 | 76 58 AD) ANS 18s
Stephenson, Rev. Jas...... St. Inigoes.....| St. Mary’s.....) 38 10 | 76 41 45 | A.
Suttony Weve Acare.ccsssse esl Chestertown: e| 4@ents concen. occ 39) ON ODOM eeepc e A.
MASSACHUSETTS.
Astronomical Observatory] Williamstown) Berkshire ...... LOUIE wer(ay ey 78) || gd oIase
IBA CONS VM Allien cceseecenee Richmond...... Berkshire ...... Oy DEV 73) PAU) lla Ui) abrasikte
Brown, Nathan W ......... IID OSISEIGI, socnol| LBISSIE>:<osqnaqs=50 6] ado0o5soGo00 josoaesocbo0|) besodSee Athy IR
Davis, Rev. Emerson...... | Westfield.......! Hampden...... 42 06| 7248) 180) A.
PAO OWN wccsecsvccrescce THAWMENCC <o.ec,|UEUSSEX. scossecees|| 4 4Ou nn armel 133 | A.
Harvard Col. Observatory | Cambridge.....| Middlesex.....| 42 23 | 71 08 80 | A.
Metcalf, Jno. G., M. D...| Mendon........| Worcester.....} 42 06] 71 33 |......... Aa 18
Mitchell, Hon. Wm...... .| Nantucket.....| Nantucket.. 41 17) 70 06 SOP ZAG
Morse, Geo. M., M. D...| Clinton ......... Worcester... ADO Fas mil eAD lect sces Re
Normal School............... Bridgewater ...| Plymouth...... A200) 71 00 |) 150,) A.
Prentiss, Dr. Henry C....) Worcester.....) Worcester...... 42 16 | 71 48 | 528 | A.
Raymond, George.......... Fitchburg...... Worcester... 42°35) (1 505) 464) P.1T.R
Rodman, Samuel........... New Bedford .| Bristol .......... 41 39 | 70 56 90 | A.
Scandlin, Rev. Wm. G...| Grafton ......... WVioncestenacscalesranccseeed|succorectecs|beeeteless Be, ave
SuellseroteeBensresseseese IAUINETS Is cence Hampshire....| 42 22) 72 34]. 267) A.
Wébutcomalys ick epee eeceers OKI. + .c.s 6 Berkshire ...... 42 41 |} 73 02 |2,000 | N.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS, 93

MICHIGAN.

3 oi
Name of observer. Station. County. i= ep =) &
i = “Ep =
. = o n
Z Se
Z Ot OO ie Beet
Blaker, "Dir Gayelesjtssces: Marquette...... Marquette...... 46 32 | 87 41| 630; A.
Bowlsby, Geo. W.......... Monroe......... Monroe......... 4156 | 83 30| 584/B.T.R
Campbell,Wm.M.,M.D.| Battle Creek...) Calhoun........ A220) | 85) 10)" 825 Beak
Coffin, Matthew...........+. OtSeeO) ee esceee: Allegan ......... 42 28 | 85 42) 662 )N.
Crosby, J. Bu... .seeseeeeeee New Buffalo...| Berrien.......... 41 45 | 86 46| 661 |B.T.R
BOER ee coat i ¢ | Bleteant. cee. Wayneseccseses 4224] 8258| 597| A.
Sinitiines Teele Sivas eaeceeenics Mill Point...... Ottawialesecscs- He4de OG) MOG) Wh cecccnse. Re
Stockwell, George A....... Port Eturon:-.|) st. Clalt...-.<- A3) 005) "837 00) vrs. -ne- Abo Rs
Sheet ecules ET Grand Rapids.| Kent............. 43 00 | 86 00| 680|T.R.
7 ce vin fale aC TEIN sotae eid) OWEN EG cocigooded lacoocsodcoanllaacscagaasac sansonged| Kobooosncer
Strong, Edwin A............ Grand Rapids.) Kent ............ ABV AI) | ts03 (0) | | ae Us
Walker, Mrs. Octavia C.| Cooper.......... | Kalamazoo....| 42 40 | 85 30} 690|)T.R.
Whelpley, Miss H.I......} Monroe......... Monroe......... ANS 5G) 83) 2a0 | ooU) lesnkt.
WWiocdard\©IS..cc-cscasoscee Ypsilanti....... Washtenaw ...| 4215] 83 47] 751 |A.
MINNESOTA.
IBAVEIES 5 tis UN leASodocno coosdbces Princeton ...... | Benton......... ale 4 On OomAON|ecermeeas AWS Ie
Clark, Thomas........... ~ 46
ae ‘ Beaver’ Pays >| lakes.) ist 47 12| 9119| 657 os
ee Princeton....... BentoMmesecssese HAS AD BIAS ecnececae elise
Shen ee ps | St. Cloud......4| Steatmes...cssc] 45 45 | 94 23 |occcccceslensecccrssee
iniaioondaeAtpAtrsccceceree see Burlington..... Wialkecvcpsesssass ATA OM) 92530 | nG4on | leek:
ielllleyr5 OL, Tels oscacccenbecoss RtAS Ga) Norio eeles's| PAM OKOr.tscteon ss i NG || BB) SI) teks |) Ee
Lisieroiso late. tied ite gaacuondes Pajutazee....... BEOWMN\.....cecee- ANSS (OW || SEY Ol espocrenc ilvewke
Meine Aly Cis. scwctes taccene ss Forest City....! Meeker ......... AS WAS. FOr OOM eseceses yeah
ihniekstuneels. BY. eseseeeees © ative] diexcseeq|sEMllMt One: s.hceere|seeceatescss|tesccuncases | SBP) | ABS Te,
Wheland, Henry............ Beaver Bay ...| Lake............. AME Male|) al BS) tet) || ake
MISSISSIPPI.
: Monticello ....| Lawrence...... 31 34} 90 00 600 | T.
Cribbs, J. Re .....s0002-. Westville ......| Simpson ....... 32 00 |. 90 00 |... T.
Johnson, Wm. M., M.D.| Hernando...... DelSoto.csese-- 34 45 | 90 15 TAO VAS
Mic C anys ROME... Natchez ....... AMA neecssies: ell Bib] Si Bs 264) Bate R.
Moore, Prof. Albert....... Grenada........ Malobushal.c-|) 33) 45) \SOROOR Rocce. ING
Robinson, Rev. E.8....... Prairie Gane asper. sccce.s-|) o>) LON) SO) 20) tcc... | A.
Swasey, Col.C. B.......... Yazoo City....| Yazoo .......... By Oy) || BO) SHI esaessoc | Ne
MISSOURI.
Balleyppsaiscescessieceosse tcc Dundee ......... Franklin ........ 38 30} 90 10 | 536) Alisskts
Bowles, S. B., M. D...... | Greenfield...... Waderrcessess-: 37 22} 93 41 |1,800/ N.
Christian, John..........0+ | Harrisonville.| Cass........ sings |saudodscowaxlsaeoxtuaness seacennes | N.

* Above La Crosse.
} Above low water mark at Memphis.
94

MISSOURI—Continued.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

3 Z
2 s =
g a 3
Name of observer. Station. County. = = + =
= = B: iS
: " o n
Zi e | ees
Ort O ' | Feet
TD HAllixovits OS) D seseanecoescoonacd Greenville...... Waly sesso ssa] -msctonmcuiene||ssicencatiesins| oe sotitens N.
Dodson, Benjamin D....... Toronto. .......|' Camden... ..:.c. Baa 92 30! tabencase IN
Engelmann,George, M.D.| St. Louis | Siig {LC SG6o500. 38 37 |} 9015] 481) A.
Fendler, Augustus ......... Ste Woulstcsses. St MOuUIs...-| joist) | 90. 16 | 470) ie. eee
Binley: dR Wieoecpsned-speoss Richmond...... LEN Adee ne neo cee 39/167) (94 B0l|e..-.cn- N.
Heaston, David J.......... Bethany........ Harrison....... 40 15} 94 00|......... N.
Fqiornery) Was blisescccceveseses Hornersville...| Dunklin........) 36 03 | 90 00 |......... ui:
IRGHA Dy 75 IDS) Uepooandossecqncca00 Carrollton...... Carroll.........- 3) SiO) |] | SB) Bl Iesocgsa0s 43
Lunemann, John H....... Ste Moulstscee: te TOUTS esses os 38 40 | 90 15 475| A.
IM Fesdeii7c) \WYio8 3 Saanonescsnacoee RariSteccrecsesnte Monroe...... 39 30 | 92 00 ROO aes.
INES paheS\y dl dit ssoqunoscnasesoono Kirksville...... JNG leat ongnocnce 40 38; 92 50/1,000) N.
Sutherland, Norris ......... Boonville ...... (Cooperseacans Brel OS) || BEM ecososose N.
Tidswell, Mary Alice...... Warrenton ....| Warren......... 38/30) | 91 16.4, °7 82a":
Wieck Wirdlscseiovesecawers Baliivar:cteec. eee Rollkeesecesss cece Silo LOD LAO Ml searcher N.
Vogel, Chas. .............0+. Rhineland...... Montgomery .| 38 42 | 91 41 | *300|T.R.
WWieberspehilipiecssccse- cess Hermann....... Gasconade . 38,407) S27 598| N.
Viel = Wintisiccceseosecesas ses Stockton.....:.-| Cedar.......-.+-. 39 36 | 93 48 800| T. R.
Wilson, Geo. W., jr.....- Lexington . ...| Lafayette....... SOON MO SRAoM enesenees N.
WWyal clspIVI lives eessesenes Cassville ....... [SNA BV7bo00s¢0e000 36 41 |, 93 57 13,000) 2. R-
NEBRASKA.
JAMIE Wiis Urb eines) 1225 Gaqncaqoa50c: Omaha City...) Douglas......... A115} 96 10 )1,300) T. R.
Bowen, Miss Anna M. J.| Elkhorn City.) Douglas......... A228) 96) 120 COD) me
Hamilton, Rev. Wm......| Bellevue........ ALP Vierseccsetens ANTM (te): JO SIS) G0) paceeacée AG RY
Bande erwin © \ccecoasmeceece Wo clo Blutisics|(Cassmncsssdnas: 40 54] 95 54 | 1,100) T.
aim ominuGrerccs<seccre'sees @mahiayee-.sees Douglass. ...3.. AN 205) (95 oi |e 400) ire.
Riosseauny in @net.ccceuss css Monee ehh tie s\soqdl podcecsnonsoocsnoodes AATOO|) VOONOO NW Eeeeeese| N.
Smith, Charles B............] Brownville..... INemahates.c.<4) 40) 309) 961000 -e..e. Aik
Wiiiitie sms elalemepetecsiessescieae Kenosha ....... (CASS ycaccdssaGon 40 51} 95 54 |1,050| N.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Bell WOUIS!: coecese Reasons: Farmington ...| Strafford ....... 43 20 | 71 00 300)| Beale
BellSamiuell INiesccccssec ces. | Manchester....| Hillsborough.| 42 59 71 28 300| B. T. R.
Brown. Branch........-./..... Stratford ....... COOsicaceceseee 44 08| 71 34/1,000|T. R.
GhasespArrthwr is acessusecce Claremont...... Sulllivamieseccsus ABS PAW 72) DL RII otg Alig Let
Odell Mletchen,.accttsoseece« Shelburne...... Coosiiasivesceses 44 23 | 71 06 ROO ABA.
Pitmanpi@ hag. Els.tec.c.ss-- North Barn-| Belknap....... INS Bie) Tl RAY liesoqc0cec HA We
stead.
SHIA IMWUROIS Scoonoocodnenoe. | N. Littleton...) Grafton......... AAT0 sete a eecseciees N.
Wiggin, Andrew............ Stratham....... Rockingham..| 43 00} 73 35 100| N.

* Above Missouri river.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

NEW JERSEY.

o :
3 = 2
Lie} 5 =
. = “Ep : S
Name of observer. Station. County. Se S 3 =
3 < ep 5
: : o n
Zi Bar| May | 8
Ore ON ilieeer
Allen, Edwin .........00«. New Bruns-} Middlesex.....| 40 30} 75 31 90
Thompson, Geo. W.... wick.
ElarpenspQroie) lratec-do-+ses Riceville ....... Monmouth....| 40 24] 735 OT
Parry. Valliant <...:c0er-<- Cinnaminson .| Burlington ....) 40 00 | 75 O1 83
Watson, George .......00+ Woodstown. .| Salem .......... 8) Se sy 21s) 30
hitehead, W.A......... Newark......... IDR EE pecteancocd| 20) Zyl Sal) 35
TUS OMI cc nwactees cates os Freehold ...... Mommouth:.:.|" 40) 157) “74 O10 |r ee ae
NEW MEXICO
Wagner, Lieut. O. G. | Santa Fe....... Santa Fé....... 35 04 | 106 02 6,846
Topographical Engi- |
neers.
NEW YORK.
Arden, Thomas B.......... Garrison’s...... IPutnmamecseceees 4] 23 |- 74 02 180 |
Ng oneres, dl Oli sasancreececocee Fordham....... Westchester...) 40 54 |} 73 57 147 |
Bartlett brs Bis. ssccsessscees Vermillion ....| Oswego ......... 43 26 | 77 26 327 |
Beauchamp, W. M......... Skameatles een: |) OMOMmG agate eees|vaecctscices|aseaccsesad|esecicied
Bowman, John...........-+: Baldwinsville..| Onondaga .....; 43 04] 76 41 |.........
Brown, Rev. John J.......) Dansville ... ...) Livingston ....| 42 38 |- 77 44 672 |
1D, Hola [ee Bacaacconesose JRQUIITEN Beosonee | ORAVALER) pcecoace ARNIS) | (AV28N | seenesers
Denning, William H...... Fishkill Land-| Dutchess....... 41 33} 74 18 42
ing.
Pon FD at 7 | Rochester......| Monroe... 43 08| 7751| 516
HirostaCollR. C1...cccses: Havana......... Schuyler ....... 42 30 | 76 31 |1,041
Graham, AGI, ON Nbageceanoccc: WitiGal ewes teen Oneida .......... 43 07 | 75 13 |.........
Se east Spencertown..| Columbia...... 42 18'| 73 32.) 700
CROEST PVE Bin eee scnnsewarnoes Ogdensburg....| St. Lawrence.| 44 43 | 75 37 | 232
leleusiitiie iene 1) pepedseneass BETO adadaneaacen Rensselear.....) 42 44) 73 37 58
Heimstreet, John W....... ALO castes cscs Rensselear..... 42 44 | 73 37 08
Eli b bord yvAM VAN a... .c.ncece Hermitage..... Wyoming...... AQ 09M)” SMa eee eaac-
Evolimes; Dire siz S).c.0e0-: =< } Walsonsis. css | Niagara......... 43 20 | 78 56 | 250
Louse WVOnniG. ccccsccccsieos Waterford.....| Saratoga ....... 42 47 73 39 70
Reon Gl ene anes deans coane INuchols7ocre.. IMO BEI sanooobee A200 Mai Gnaen sccccaact
Uncersoll; in WD nsscercesceecse Thomessse eee Herkimer ...... 43 00 TOUS Tal ooasacc.
AVES Sy WWilllltieiinirs). sce esses sks =: Buttalo ee cecesc IBIAS gopacocecnee 42 50] 78 56 600
Kelsey, Kathalo............. Great Valley..| Cattaraugus...) 42 12 | 78 45 |.........|
Mackie, Matthew.......... Cli ders: Jisseues Wratylelees-- 43 10) 7710) 400
Malcom, Wm. &............| Oswego ......40- Os Wego .....2.. 43 28} 76 30 250 |
Mathews, M. M., M. D..| Rochester...... Monroe......... 43 08 | 77 51 525
Morris, Professor O. W..| New York..... New York ..... 40 43; 74 05 25 |
Potter) DIV Dy sec... Adams Centre.) Jefferson........ AST ASH Vhoy oe 632 |
FUUSSeIRI@ SEN fies. cres. geese Gouverneur....| St. Liaawrence..|.........cc-}eececesececs|ooccoeese LB
Salisbury, Elias O......... =| Buffaloes: .ccee. alll Byes een adeucnboad Bodssceboutd MacBacnacaos |seeeeeese|
Sheerar, H. M............. .| Wellsville... Allegany ....... 42 07 | 78 06 | 1,480) 'T.
Slade; Bredeal ey ees eh i82 New York.....| New York..... 40 45 | 73 59 79) A.
Spooner, Dr. Stillman...... Wampsville...| Madison....... 43 04] 75 50 | 500
96

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

NEW YORK—Continued.

3 :
3 = z
e = &
Name of observer. Station. County. a se 3 I
us x “80 E
5 . o nD
ze = se =
On QE Nae
Sylvester, Dr. E. Ware...| Lyons .......... AWE IZ1@: copactiaod loo d6 osn6us5el beoesocdo ond pceosodoe Bay.
Ebiihos eEveninva WaMlecedesree: Belliportie..ccs. Suffolk ......... 40 44 | 72 54 TSH PAS
Van Kleek, Rev. R. D. ) rans =
Howard, Rev. W. W.. § Flatbush...... O | RESSITIENS malls se sttoetee 40 37 | 74 01 O42) Bepienete
Wadsworth, A.S........0. East Henrietta} Monroe......... AS BOG wna: 600) Bowne
Wakely, Charles C........ New York..... New York.....| 40 44] 73 59 41) A. be
WihniteseAtaronb.-cesc-scese-s- Cazenovia...... Madison ........ 42 55 | 75 46 |1,260/A.
Walley OVWiltere Ds .caccese sees Houseville ....| Lewis ..........+ AZ VAQ)|  WSNB2 |eecesmese ae
Zimmerman, Godfrey..... Pine welll seves sal PMG yeeceeeserae ss 42.45 | 79 06 680) N.
NORTH CAROLINA.
Adams, Prof. EK. W ....... Goldsborough | Wayne ......... ae) 20} Oi il 102)T. R.
Craven), Rev. B)ic..sc.e+0n. TrinityCollege| Randolph ...... 35 45 | 8000} 400/A.
ElamailitommVVienlslcriecwsecees Raleloi cece IWialkt@ sipeescosas 35 40} 78 52 317/N.
McDowell, Rev. A ......... Murfreesboro’| Hertford. ...... aia) SkO) 7a (OI Woacncecce A.
Moore, Geo. F., M. D....| Green Plains..| Northampton.| 3632 | 77 45 |......... Re
Phillips, Prof. James,D.D) Chapel Hill....; Orange.......... Shy BEE |) ZG) IF lleccoondce Bo Dh dis
OHIO.
J Nols 18%, 13) ceAscooonsepsoa0Nds Welshfield ....) Geauga.......... AR235 | SL ION ple 0s hea
INGleysisi5 IDs IP nbsedaccocess 0007 Marietta........) Washington..| 39 25 | 813 630M) wey.
Allen, Frederick D......... Dern eeeewaees Romaliipereseesee: 4120) 82) ho 800] A.
INT ANEID, Y) sorocpogesocosono0K Aino lewjemeeee seen STOW Disses screen eleh eid |} | tsb Bill lescacouce Jeyy dat
Anthony, Newton......... a Mount Union| Starke. ..cseccec 40 54 ell bea bl besosoaue Ae
Attn see aS waeslssiae Madison ....... Talkies @osscaelse ate ANVAQH) “SO MOM reescesst os
Benner, die bsccscteemes acess New Lisbon...| Columbiana...| 40 45 | 80 45 O65 Be Mw
Bowens Wimlrulvcescschasces Sharonville ....| Hamilton....... 39 19 | 84 30 800) N.
Chapman, N.A.............| Twinsburg.....| Sammit........ 49 29 81 28 |1,050) T.
@lamnk:, Witla sacesteouemes ss Medina ......... | Medina ......... A) 07 | 81 47 |1,255) A.
Colbrunn, Edward......... Cleveland ...... Cuyahoga...... 41 30 | 81 40 665 | T.
Cotton, D. Be, Me WDiecec. Portsmouthees.| SClOtol. ese. .ceee 38°45 | 82 50 SOON kve
Crane, George W........... Bethel <....---...| Clermont....... 39 00 | 84 00 S55) | Baas
Davidson; (et. Mi... ..crsee Freedom...... 5) LEON IENES Soogoobes 41 13} 81 08 |1,100|B.T.R.
Willlesslisnaelie..csstsoceseceese INewarls:scsecss. LCIGUNOWeesetscisee 40 07 82 21 ep iagi a
BUST AV Vie) Giicocscorrecien eres EVAN alywes: sscee Washington...) 39 24 | 81 28] 631) T.
Grama] Coes lse Wiseccliceenacisoas Russell’s Sta’n| Highland ...... 39 13 | 83 36 | 1,000) N.
Hammitt, John W ......... College Hill ...} Hamilton....... 39 19 84 26 800) N.
Elamiptons iWin ©i 0-22.60. Mit- Victory <:.| Elandiin:-.c..en. 40 35 | 83 36 }1,050)N.
Harper, George W.......... Cincinnati...... Hamilton....... 39 06 | 84 27 500] A.
Haywood, Prof. John..... Westerville ...| Franklin........ AQROLG|) GomOO Keen cteee A.
UTI Gy Bhey Greece scectsctansincteels = Dallasburg ....| Warren......... 39) 30) 84 31 800 | N.
Hiller, Rev. Spencer L...| Breckville...... Cuyahoga...... 41 15 | 8130); 800) A.
Huntington, George C....| Kelley’s Island| Erie.............. 4] 36 | 82 42 DSi Bs Ly.
Hyde, Gustavus A......... Cleveland ...... Cuyuhoga .....1 41 30 | 81 40 643|B.T.R.
Ingram, John, M. D....... Savannah....... Ashland......... Alea 82) Shae OS 8) cA
King, Mrs. Ardelia C.....) Madison ....... TER) Goncansdead: 41 50} 81 00 620) T.-R.
Lumsden, Rev. Wm....... Wests Wino sc.| PA ams eee aectes lective seecteolesssecesadeelesacdsia> TRA
Prather, > IVs. ssseeaceeed in bbim ital joqsecooee Portage’ s... <n. 4] 20; 81 08 |1,290) T. R.
Mathews, J. McD., D.D.| Hillsborough..| Highland....... 39 13 | 83 30/1,134)A.
McClung, Charles L....... UME oagnneadeoodt Witteman eesetenes 49 03 | 84 06 |1,103|B.T.R

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 97

OHIO—Continued.

| | S) | |
| Ee a | a
| | <S S =
Name of observer. | Station. County. hae | Wels coh 3 =
= S) = | =
{ | = ec 2 | a
| | 2 ne ean eee
lV aOh bl SOnaau sheet
McMillan, 8. B..........+5 , East Fairfield.| Columbiana...) 40 47) 80 44 | 1,152) A.
Peck wWimlaskue Mere ac. | Bowling Green| Wood ........... ATS) | (83) 40) WOO) pB ea
Phillips, R. C. and J. H.| Cincinnati... Hamilton....... 39 06} 84 27 540|B.T.
Rhoades, Dr. John......... | Hocking Port.| Athens ......... SOMO Ee Se SOM eames | N.
haw OSEPlscccsce-ccecen-- | Bellefontaine..| Logan........+.. 40 21} 83 20 |1,040|T. R.
Shields, Rev. Robert....... Bellecentre.....) Logan........... 40 30; 83 45 |1,170|B.T,R.
Spratt, Dr. WVVindies WWilessiscee | Andrews........ Moro wie.cscree 40 45 | 80 45 |1,500| T.
Sperry, Mark............0++ .} Croton), ...2-2--- Wicking. s...+5 AQ AS0 189" 38) e ee hone
Abeyajaerns ENE sooconeaoceoc4| | Cincinnati...... Hamilton....... 39 07 | 84 27) *470) A.
Bromlicys J: Ben Me Dis. (eh oledos.c...cse2 HEucas, cek sees 41 39 |} 8232, 604|/B.T.
Tweedy, David Eb one | Mt. Pleasant .| Jefferson ....... 40 20 | 83) 34 |......... iN.
ANVeuils Wei Ua 184 sescdindos (PAN VIOM! sewseverr oor lelonalnincsses- esas Al 27 | 82 04 800} A.
WiarderspAm Ay. cic.cecs cs. ' Cincinnati...... | Hamilton....... 39 08 | 84 35 800|T. R.
Williams, Prof. M. Geo. UWirbangs.......--| een: 40 06 | 83 43/1015) B. TR.
iWalsons Profs J. El.ceceree- | College Hill...) Hamilton.. 39 19 | 8426); 800|B.T.R.
Young, Prof Ca t | Hudson... Summit... 41 15] 81 24 | eS | Bude Ike
PENNSYLVANIA.
Til Worn
: Tevention eoeces iieehans AD Sth TS) AS SEy0) Ite
ee pe caecocee Freeport’. ...>.. Alleghany. anf Onan AOA D Eee ncecese ibe
Bayona Wis Rut..cds.ccesed. Altoona... pies 28 40 30 | 78 31 11,168|B.T.R
Brewster, Wm., M.D....| Huntingdon. .) Huntingdon...| 40 35 | 7803} 734|B.T.R
Brugger, Samuel............ Fleming........ i@entrectesene-- NBS Hiei ash. |" Veal The dee
Hee Gs. Blastonhivesscstees | Northampton.| 40 43 | 75 16} 320) A.
Cools -t hos Es, doi Sons. Msendersvalleyoss| PAGANS se. cess: [oon acceanee ines ceneserelecasesees NG
Darlington, Fenelon....... Parkersville ...) Chester ......... oe) Gey) We) idl || Patsy | Mike 1k
Dawvissi Charlegicscccsessacse- Cannonsburg . Washington...| 40 17] 8018] 936/ A.
Eggert, HOLE scaoaonasencacane: Ber Wilcke mnee.soc} | Columbia ...... A105) 76 15 | 583] A.
BIE, MEY oc aclcwssntscemrecnes teins Shamokin...... | Northumber’d| 40 15 | 76 30} 700/|T.R.
Eee Hbenezer:.....-...-.- Worrisvilley.--.| Bucks). ..0.426. 40 12| 74 48 SON Bake
Harvey, dig: Chiocendéinscescnse Nazareth....... | | Northampton.| 40 43] 75 21] 530|/B.T.R
Heckerman, Rev. Henry.| Bedford......... | Bedford .....+. AOBOUS 08 30) |e eecesen WS aR.
Heisley, DiaJobn....cwere Harrisburg....| Dauphin ....... AO UG | dGreton|s.ceseaes Beno ky
Heyser, William, jr ....... Chambersburg] Franklin ....... 39,98) || 77 45) GISH IEA.
BIGICOLG RW Ondessecccscesee Harrisburg....| Dauphin ....... 40 20| 76 50 | 320) A.
Hoffer, Dr. Jacob R ...... Mount Joy....! Lancaster...... 40 08 | 76 30 |......... A.
Jacobs, TUG IpegIVIN . saiceiosieweie oe Gettysburg....| Adams.......... S949) ali Worl O24a pes. ie.
James, Prof. Charles S ...| Lewisburg ....| Union........... AQUOS WMOnoGulaessansles A.
Kerlin, Isaac N., M.D...| Media .......... IDET AWAT Os ceric. slanecossnexct| nose aseenet merle mes A
Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A... Philadelphia... Philadelphia...) 39 57 | 75 10 50 | A
Kohler, Edward............. Whitehall St’n| Lehigh.......... ADVAN tome) ts 20h rd.
Miantitiys Kise At Wids st eecisoe oes: Harrisburg... Dauphin sucieaes AOC Re OROOM towcesese Be lions
Martindale, Jos.C.,M.D. Philadelphia... Philadelphia...) 40 05 | 75 09 |........ N
Meehan, Thomas .......... Germantown.. Phnladelipiiia. |. atsconmace tncevosees lnnereeeen N
Mowry, George:.\2.....2...: Somerset....:-.| Somerset....... 40 00 | 79 03 (2,195 | A.
Muller, Prof. Rudolph... A Wiha exempenccdos Westmoreland} 40 27 79 32 985 | B. Tok.
Ralston, Rev. J. Grier ....| Norristown...., Montgomery .| 40 08 | 7519 | 153) A.
Saurman, Sloan! Wid. sates ce lehy Sets oabadee | Philadelphia...| 40 00 | 74 49 |......... BE Lise
Scott, Soi ea a Worthington..| Armstrong ....| 41 50 | 79 31 /1,050 | T. R.
Smith, iin. DE Deo... Cannonsburg .| Washington...) 40 17} 80 10) 936)B.T.R.
Speer, Wiles M., IMIG 1D isa ETS ey bayesiecneae Alleghany ales AQ 32] 80) 02) |) 850) Re Re
Swift, We aU y cane svvne vs W. Haverford) Delaware ... ... 40 00} 75 21; 400/T.R.
‘Traivelis ional jacses.coss: Sewickleyville} Alleghany ..... AQ S84) SOM aa renee. BR Ua oe

* Above low water in the Ohio river at Cincinnati.
98 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

RHODE ISLAND.

| o :
; = 2
| 3 = 5
Namie of observer. Station. | County. 2 a 3 iS
| 3 = "Ep : E
| 2 |e lel
Ory Oy H Feet
Caswell; Prof. Acts deeecses Providence..... Providence....| 41 49} 71 25} 120
Sheldonis Hix C2. .c8s.essecees Providence..... Prowid CCE) ss.cl eeideebacee cal sesaceseezte|soseecess
SOUTH CAROLINA.
Cornish) Rev. John Hi..:.|(Adken .........- Barnwell ....... aoe) Sla34al) 565

Glennie, Rey. Alexander.| Georgetown...| All Saints......). 33 29 | 79 17 20

ag Pre MD. Charleston :...| Charleston... 32 46| 8000] 20
Ravenel, Thomas P........ Black Oak...... Charleston....| 33 00] 80 00 50

Peed

TENNESSEE.

Barney, Chas. R............ University Pl.) Franklin........ 35 12} 86 00 2,000
IBIEU@5 do: 18 poocsasaecnoodnacds LaGrange..... LEECH actionocdel bodacconcacd| sanosonbosc: oooabooss
Dodge, J. W., & Son...... Pomona......... Cumberland..| 36 00} 85 00 |2,200
Dodge, Stephen C.......... Gio xavall eye. ENMOsetstelsaisle eles DO) OO) |e eters 1,000
Houghton, Sem laeseemeceies W inchester....! Franklin........ SOLOW SO) Oeil sweets
Jennings, S. K., M. D....| Austin.......... WallsOmlcesmes sos 36 20 | 86 20 |2,000
Stewart, Prof. Wm. M...| Clarkesville ...; Montgomery..} 36 28) 87 13! 481
Mitchell, R. W., M. D...} Memphis ...... Shelbiviercesseoss 35 08} 9000) 262
TEXAS.
AMIS SWhelivinillinesscccaeoes Gonzales....... Gonzales....... iS) Si) GE al) [sooo
DeWernett: R:, Mi Diy... Greenville...... Lf libtaterasaoasoasnes SS LOM toe Sa eeceeree
ne ace OF mma (Tanrantye.sss..- Fosse emecere ae) ld) Pe ker ul i cocasoa;
Hireeseyi Gi cdeaccceecre scence BOStOnieneesesees Bowileereesstece 33 25 | 94 40 600
Eire dirich | Otto scrvsecsesccss New Braun-| Comal........... eA HN ee ker dls) | sonconsce
fels.
Gaffney, James O........... San Patricio...) San Patricio...; 27 45 | 98 31 |. .......
Gantt Dre Wil Ele cessse-- Winton seccssres Washington..| 30 11/| 96 31) 540
Gibb ssl sce ocvecsecceeteweice Efunatsival lessees VV allceiees sctesteee| cis escteoina| sctsieiesiestenias||seictetanta
(GHEE 5 do IM Lodegnapsoodsceote Gulmer..-.-..-+- Wiashiresc sees 32 46 | 94 51 |1,017
Kaler, Frederick............ Aransas ........ IR@IUERTO)gseseoHee QAI an0S 15
[5Gaya} os, LON eStigssodoodooodoed oon Sisterdale ...... IBlaMCO)sncnes-6s0 29 54 | 98 35 |1,000
Tgcalllkog?., |! Gohonecisreooeenocboods Wheelock...... Robertson...... 30 50} 96 30} 450
Moke, Dr. James E........ Woodboro’....| Grayson....... 33 47 | 96 36 |.........
Palais Wanterevccccsscnsscss AUSTIN eeececen Olravilssesssncnece SOM Da Oia a|Sceninices
Rucker, B: H...............+ Washington...| Washington...| 30 26 | 96 15 |.........
Schumann, Bruno .......... Round Top....| Fayette ......... S30) (OSs GIG: S32 oosescoss
Sias, Prof. Solomon.......) Bonham........| Fannin......... 33 40 | 9613 | 4385
Varn Nostrandydicusescescess JAM GISIIT) donbipeeonea Wraviseesoreoss: 30 20; 97 46 | 650
Wiad (HVA Sietaeesecraceeecs Cross Roads. .| Williamson....| 30 29 | 97 26) 672
Wiest, DrsNee Pease ee Burkeville...... Newton........ Bile (CO) 4h SBI Sue eoceacee
Yellowby, Prof. C. W....| Webberville .| Travis .......... 30 10 | 97°31 ).........
Moalkcumiy Byeailineeccweoees JLENDIRREWadaaosous Cherokee....... ie 2) p> Gee eID a aeseeder

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

UTAH:

99

| s are

| | 3 E =

| 4S) ot a

Name of observer. Station. | County. s = Be S
| Bie |e) 2

| . o na

| A Biv alh as

th Ve : OQ} Ov | Beet:

‘ ie ashington...| Washington...| 37 00 | 114 00 |......... Th Re
Pearce, Harrison......... } | Heberville ..... Washington...| eabadeeseallvata Ste Maes oe ceee ae
Bhelpssmwpaicrssaes- cose eee Great Salt | Salt Lake ...... 40 45 | 111 26 |4,260 | A.

Lake City. | | | |
: Ei. | Lee aaa
VERMONT.
= = a whys ,
Buckland} Davide... | Brandon. ........ Rutlandies. cn te 40743! 73) OOM rece BRA
Chickering, Rev. J. W ...| Springfield ..... Windsor ....... BS) 18 ie toe 33 SO0M Mike bee
Cutting, Hiram A.......... - Lunenburg... HSSeaxaneccse estes 44 28 | 71 41 j1,124)| A.
Fairbanks, Franklin.......| St. Johnsbury | Caledonia ......| 4425} 7200] 540 | B.T.R.
Paddock, James A......... | Craftsbury ....| Orleans ......... 44 40 | 72 29 |1,100 | T. R.
Parker, Joseph ...c.-000.8-0- | West Rupert..| Bennington....| 43 15 | 73 11 |) 750) |/P
PEL Vio V UC Gcreecmenclentearsas | Burlington ..... Chittenden..... 44.27 | 7310} 367/74
|
!
VIRGINIA.
| |
Abella Je Ralls eeccscseeacose Charlottesville] Albemarle......, 38 00 | 7% 31; 521 |T.R.
Appleyard, John............ Richmond...... FRENTE COlssssccres|scccesssieece |,otestereee [seeeeeses ase
Astrep, Cole Bis sc5.0... Crichton’s| Brunswick.....| 36 40 | 77 46; 500 T. R.
Store.
BSI B Mert c cies ob ace ais ce' | Harper’sFerry) Jefferson........|....sececee sce aeons Jeseereees sfede.
Dickinson, George C....... Cobham Depot) Albemarle...... 38 05/ 78 21 | 450/T.R.
Piling DET peek eseetgess cs Wardensville .| Hardy........... 39 37} 78 03 /1,720 | A.
Fraser, James................/ New England.| Wood........... 39 9 | 81 00 j......... N.
TONES SUAS Bserssscosucees Fork Union....! Fluvanna... ... 3740 Gis) ZI Beaches ING
Kendall, James E........... Kanawha C.H! Kanawa........ ¥ 20} 8130) 720)/T.R.
Lockwood, George P...... Wheeling ...... Ohione aise. AL 09 | 80 46 |.......:. T.R.
Meriwether, Charles I. ...) Richmond...... FRCPC sec. celas|/2o*s a 2**|esecnnamomee [rete eees T. R.
Marvin, John W..........-.| Winchester....| Frederick......, 39 15 LSEUD) reases ats yes
Pickett, JONMN\scos<sscessesers | The Plains..... | Fauquier.....,/| 38 50 ZFG. Gl Gop osoree aly
Purdie, John R., M. D...| Smithfield......| Isle of Wigh-| 37 02) 76 37 | 100 |T. R.
Robey, Charles H.......... _Fredericksb’g.| Spottsylvay*-| 38 30) 77 30 600 | N.
Dan Gens we eecesesscneesee | Wellsburg..... | Brook .2./*"** [seeseseeeses ceeeeesenees |seeeeeees ileal ie
Stalnaker, J. W., M.D... Lewisburg...... Greenbri - al 37 49 | 80 28 2,000 | T. R.
Van Doren, Abram........ | Falmouth ...... Staffordss+++++ 38 15 | 17 34) 350 | T. R.
Webster, Prof. N. B...... | Portsmouth....| Norfol + +++ | 36 50) 76 19 | TN SRG ae
! | H |
WISQNSIN.
Weaidiarall Prat et Cliley acacesesclun seamen emalcecenee sees ccene cee abe
Armstrong, S’....s.seneees |_irie. | :
' Pardeeville*::| Columbia ...... AAA SO GG) | sccccceee an
Atwood, Isaac esses | Lake Milf ---| Jefferson ....... 43.00 89 00 |......4., N.
Bell Mageseled sscccactea sieeve: | Kilbourn’ !ty) Columbia....... 43 30 90 00] 945) N.
Clarke, Prof.Ambrose W.| Delafiel#“""""* | Waukesha..... 43 20 88 31 900 | B. T
CurtisSewewissccescsessees | Rock yan: ---| Columbia ...... ASE OGY Oo) 20) nesstcnes Feb 1
h Columbia ...... ABESO) [scons socccadlcwateceee N.

Doyle, L. H

Oe ewww etree esens

Otsegy cece ee teeee

100
WISCONSIN—Continued.

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

| | o
| em | Es
Oo) 4) Sa =
| = | ah | 3
Name of observer. Station. \.Winin@oumty. giv ||, Suen S
| es) eee
| hee ei Re) |=
| NiO a Ou Meets
Ellis, Rdwin, M. D......... Whittlesey....) La Pointe...... | 4633; 9100/] 610|T.R.
Gordon, W. A., M. D....| Wausau........; Marathon...... Was G0) 1789" 30 |.c2 ac: AN ARI
Gridley, Rev. John......... Kenosha........ Kenosha........ | AOWS5 eeu OOM GOON Beart.
Jennines,, J opececerwsesaclonses Madison........ DANG xcccecsevsss | 18}, 5) |) teks) Ay |) TAO LGHSY|| ah 12%
ON SOMA Aw Groneeccesecees Plattevilleiscs-c| Guaiteacseesses: dasa a SONOMA peut. ALR
Lapham, Increase A....... Milwaukie ....| Milwaukie je 43 03 | 8754) 593) A.
Larkin, Prof. EK. P......... Milwaukie ....| Milwaukie ....) 43 02 | 87 55 684 | B. T.
Liips, Jacob ........seeeeeees Manitowoc....| Manitowoc....| 4407 | 87 45] 658/B.T.
Mann, William.............. Superior........ _Douglas........., 46 46) 9203) 680, bot tee
Mason, Prof. R. Z......... Appleton....... | Outagamie .....| 4410) 8835} 800; A.
Mathews, D. andG....... Burlington..... Win cinemesssceecs | ASESOM |: 2 uc mente | 700)N.
Parker, Melzar...........+++ Weyaumega..| Waupaca....... | 4515) 8850), 850) T.
Péase, Dr. Clark G......... Vanesvillemseccs|) HeOCKne.cs-secens | 42 43 89 09 780 | T.
Phelps, Hiland W.......... Racine -sescesees| Racin eyecsecceees | 49 45] 87 48 660 | B. T.
Poiter, Prof. William...... | BYallasigspcesoaneea| ISMOXeKS sagqsodeadoo | 42 30 | 89 04; 750|/B.T.R.
Se toe J: Wem 1) Madison...) Danesssssesee © 43:05, 89.25 1,068) A.
Struthivs RN la csssssecmees Rural...c-..0.e | Waupaca....... | 44 20 | 89 05 |......... a.
Wianklen Cy Wi. D.... cs... | Milwaukie ...., Milwaukie ....) 43 03 | 87 57 | 600|B.T.R
| |
MEXICO.
ee eee z = a . nT ae
ont z
| irl gee | 3
Name of observer. Siatiane Sa apenas =
| BS San se
Stel So eae a
PVA amen = doe Slate Py =
| | |
| ent Oo: | Feet. |
Hieto, J. Acseeeeeseeseseeses | Bones Wiewa- Crmasstb.<os4| ullB p54? cee 2,820 | B.T.R
Laszlo, Charles.........++++ | Minrian, Tehuantepec....... Hideto 9! 94s Oa 60 | A,
Sartorius, Charles.........- | Mirady, Vera Cruz...) 19 15 | 96 25 | 3,600| A.
r
CENTRAL AMERICA.
Canudas, Antonio.......... Guatemala Colley Guatemala, 14 37 90 30 | oes | iA
as a Nile sbk <3 aT | |
WEST lpIKs.
Elliot, Jonathan.........-++. Si. OMIM Ofceseceeccss- eee | 18 28} 6952) 70 | N
Crisson, J. Cesns...- eee | |
Hamilton, Capt. W..... Turk’s Island...... See nots, W AWOMINN TIM OuIe add 1 Beat
Carothers, A. G........+- | . |
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

101

BERMUDA.
nt ute | :
| 2
’ S =
Name of observer. Station. s 5 sit) os
5 he. a | =)
3 ee BED ny || OES
z iS 2 @
a J q Ss
kink eae One aieneer.
Royal Engineers, (in the | Centre Signal Station, St. |........sccjescsssecssee|coeenece iN.
_ Royal Gazette.) George’s.
SOUTH AMERICA.
Hering, Gee Ue cseinnenoodnoanse | Plantation Catharina Sophia, | 5 48 | 56 47 |......... A.
| colony of Surinam, Dutch
| Guiana. : |
Brown, George H.......... le aujamP ecu, cote ieee cera: 12 00S.! 75 15 |10,500| B. T. P.

|

Stations from which telegraphic reports of the weather were received at
the Smithsonian Institution in the year 1860.

Burlington, Vt.
New York, N. Y.
Philadelphia, Pa.
Pittsburg, Pa.
Baltimore, Md.
Frederick, Md.
Hagerstown, Md.
Cumberland, Md.
Richmond, Va.
Petersburg, Va.
Norfolk, Va.
Staunton, Va.
Lynchburg, Va.
Grafton, Va.
Wheeling, Va.

| Parkersburg, Va.
Marietta, Ohio.
Chillicothe, Ohio.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Cleveland, Ohio.

| Cairo, Ill.

| Elgin, Ill.
Ottawa, Ill.

Rock Island, III.

| Dubuque, lowa.
St. Louis, Mo.
Bristol, Tenn.
Knoxville, Tenn.

| Chattanooga, Tenn.

Cedar Rapids, lowa.

Raleigh, N. C.
Wilmington, N. C.
Columbia, S. C.
Charleston, S. C.
Augusta, Ga.
Savannah, Ga.
Macon, Ga.
Columbus, Ga.
Griffin, Ga.
Atlanta, Ga.
Prairie Bluff, Ala.
Montgomery, Ala.
Lower Peach Tree, Ala.
Mobile, Ala.

New Orleans, La.

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL

LAR OBSERVATIONS.

MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE REGU-

Alcott, William P.—Observations (thermometer, winds, and clouds,)
made on an expedition to Greenland, via the Gulf of Newfound-
land and Bon Esperance harbor, Labrador, in the schooner
Nautilus, Captain Charles E. Rantlett, of Thomaston, Maine,
by the Lyceum of Natural History of William’s College, Wil-
liamstown, Mass., from July 1 to September 20, 1860.

Ballou, N. E,—Printed synopsis of observations of temperature, rain,
winds, and clouds, for the year 1860, at Sandwich, Illinois.

Bandelier, A.—Record of auroras seen at Highland, Illinois, from
December, 1859, to November, 1860,
=

102 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

Blewett, Rev. W.—Notes and observations for January, February,
and March, 1860, at Thomasville, Georgia.

Bowen, John S.—Meteorological data from observations made by his
daughter near Elkhorn City, Nebraska, from June, 1858, to
January, 1861, computed with a view to testing the old Ger-
man notion that a cold spell always occurs when the moon is in
Aries or Taurus.

Brooke, Lieutenant J. M., U. S. N.—Barometric and wind observa-
tions during a gale at Simoda, August 10, 1859, with graphic
representations of this and several other storms.

Canudas, Antonio.—Printed summary of meteorological and magnetic
observations, for the year 1860, at Guatemala College, Mexico.

Clarke, Lawrence, Jr.—Temperature and amount of rain at Fort Rae,
Great Slave Lake, Hudson’s Bay Territory, from October, 1859,
to June, 1860. (Forwarded by Mr. Kennicott.)

Dawson, William.—Thermometer observations at Cadiz, Indiana, from
September, 1854, to December, 1856.

Dirmeyer, George William, M. D., Secretary of the Board of Health
of New Orleans.—Report of the Board of Health for 1860, con-
taining full tables of the meteorology of New Orleans for each
month, furnished by Dr. 8. P. Moore, U.S. A.

Du Pont, Captain S. F'., U. S. N.—Printed tables of barometer, ther-
mometer, winds, and weather, from May to November, 1859,
kept on board a boat, by Mr. J. H. Hendry, chief officer of the
Swallow, principally in Chefoo harbor, (lat. 87° 34’ N., long.
121° 27’ H.,) the rendezvous of the French expeditionary forces
in the Gulf of Pecheli, a portion of the Chinese coast hitherto
little frequented by foreigners.

Earle, Silas, M. D.—Register of thermometer kept at Columbia, Tuo-
lumne county, California, 2,200 feet above the level of the sea,
from June 16, 1857, to February 19, 1860.

Fendler, Augustus.—Half-hourly barometric observations from 9 to 11
a.m., and 3 to 6 p.m., made at Colonia Tovar, Venezuela,
from May 17 to December 12, 1857, reduced to 32°. (These are
the same observations that were published in the report for 185
without being corrected for temperature.)

Hourly barometric observations from 5 a. m. to 9 p. m., made at
St. Louis, Missouri, from May 29 to June 30, 1860, reduced to
32°.

Frey, Samuel C.—Newspaper record of barometer and thermometer
at Springfield, Ohio, during the years 1859 and 1860, and to
March, 1861.

Humphreys, Captain A. A., U. S. Top. Eng.—‘‘A lunar tidal wave in
Lake Michigan, demonstrated by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J.
D. Graham, Major U.S. Top. Engs.,’’ with diagrams. (Pamph-
let.)

Jewell, Wilson, M. D.—Report on meteorology and epidemics, read
before the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, February 1,
1860. The meteorological observations are from the record of
Prof. James A. Kirkpatrick, of the Philadelphia High School.
(Pamphlet.)

Kallussowski, Dr. Henry K.—Meteorological observations at the Astro-

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 103

nomical Observatory, Vilna, Russia, from December 29, 1859,
to July 8, 1860. (Manuscript.)

Kennicott, Iobert.—Observations of rain, clouds, and winds during
January and February, 1860, made at Fort Liard, Liard river,
Hudson’s Bay Territory.

Kingston, Professor.—Mean meteorological results at Toronto, Canada
East, for the years 1859 and 1860, and comparisons with pre-
vious years, by Professor Kingston, M. A., Director of the
Provincial Magnetic Observatory at Toronto. (Printed sheets.)

Kron, ’. J—Thermometer record kept at Attaway Hill, in Stanley
county, N. C., during the years 1836 to 1839 and 1846 to 1860,
inclusive.

Lapham, I. A.—Copy of manuscript notes of the weather, made by
his brother, Darius Lapham, (deceased,) at and near Cincinnati, -
Ohio, for the years 1832, 1836, 1837.

Table showing the amount of rain and melted snow at Milwaukie,
Wisconsin, for each month, season, and year, from 1841 to 1859,
inclusive, as measured by Dr. E.S. Marsh, I. A. Lapham, and
Dr. Charles Winkler. (Printed in the Bulletin of the Wiscon-
sin Agricultural and Mechanical Association for August, 1860.)

Newspaper scraps relating to the floods, tornadoes, &c., of the
western States, in April, May, and June, 1860.

Light-House Board.—Registers kept during the year 1860, chiefly
without instruments, at one hundred and sixty-six different
hight stations.

McKenzie, John.—Thermometer observations from September 1, 1857,
to August 31, 1860, and barometer from September 1, 1858, to
August 31, 1860, made at Moose Factory, Hudson’s Bay Ter-
ritory.

Meade, Capt. George, U.S. Top. Engineers.—Register of water level and
meteorological observations under the direction of Capt. G.
Meade, Topographical Engineers, Superintendent Survey of the
North and Northwestern Lakes, as follows:

At Sackett’s Harbor, N. Y., October, 1859, to December, 1860, by
Henry Metcalf.

At Charlotte, N. Y., October, 1859, to December, 1860, by Andrew

Mulligan.

At Fort Niagara, N. Y., October, 1859, to December, 1860, by L.
Leffman.

At Monroe Piers, Mich., October, 1859, to December, 1860, by John
Lane.

At Fort Gratiot, Mich., June, July, and August, 1859, by Lieut.
Charles N. Trumbull, Topographical Engineers.

At Thunder Bay, Mich., October, 1859, to November, 1860, by .I
I. Malden. '

At Ottawa Point, Mich., October, 1859, to December, 1860, by John
Oliver.

At Grand Haven, Mich., December, 1859, to December, 1860, by
Heber Squier.

At Ontanagon, Mich., October, 1859, to December, 1860, by H.
Selby.
104 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

At Michigan City, Ind., October, 1859, to September, 1860, by
Wm. Woodbridge, B. D. Angell, and Howard Blake.
At Superior, Wis., October, 1859, to December, 1860, by George R.
Stuntz, assisted by E. H. Bly.
Morton, Lieutenant J. St. Clair.—Observations made by the United
States Chiriqui Commission at Chiriqui Lagoon, from August
27 to November 14, 1860. Observer, John E. Neill, Third
Ass’t Eng. U.S; N.
Navy Department, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.—Registers kept at:
Philadelphia, 1857, 1858, 1859, and 1860, complete.
Pensacola, 1857, 1858, 1859, and 1860, complete, except January to
May, 1858.
New York, November and December, 1860.
. _ Portsmouth, Va., October, November, and December, 1860.
Pillsbury, M. _A.—Thermometer observations at East Cleveland, Ohio,
taken at 7 a. m., and 9 p. m., from 1840 to 1846, inclusive.
Poole, Henry.—Meteorological observations at Albion Mines, Pictou,
Nova Scotia, latitude 45° 34! 30”, longitude 62° 42’, from 1848 to
1852, inclusive, viz:
Mean barometer readings for months and years, corrected for tem-
perature.
Extremes of barometer for each month and year.
Mean temperature of the months, seasons, and years, with the ex-
tremes of heat and cold.
Mean and extreme temperature for day and night for each month.
Nights of frost, nights below zero, and degrees of frost below zero.
Winds and rain, with the number of nights and days on which rain
or snow fell.
Table of snow storms.
Average amount of rain, divided into two seasons, for the informa-
tion of the working farmer.
Ravenel, Thomas P.—Meteorological journal for the years 1859 and
1860, kept in St. John’s, Berkely parish, 8S. C., for the Black
Oak Agricultural Society, by T. P. Ravenel, secretary. (Pam-
phlets, )
fiiter, #’. G.—Observations of thermometer, rain, clouds, and winds,
made at Fort Union, Upper Missouri, from August to Novem-
ber, 1857, and January, 1858.
Ross, Bernard R.—Meteorological notes at Fort Simpson, Mackenzie’s
river, Hudson’s Bay Territory, from April, 1848, to August,
1859, inclusive; thirty-four sheets ; compiled from the post jour-
nal, &c., by Bernard R. Ross, chief factor, H. H. B. C.S.
Shafer, J. M.—Summary of observations for each month in the year
1859, made, with a full set of instruments, at Fairfield, Lowa,
together with a comparative table of temperature for five years;
and also tables of the time of leafing and flowering of plants
and the arrival of birds, in 1857, 1858, and 1859. (Printed
sheet.) /
Smallwood, Dr. Charles.—Contributions to meteorology, reduced
from observations taken during the year 1859 at St. Martin,
Isle Jesus, Canada East, by CharlesSmallwood, M. D., LL. D.,
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 105

Professor of Meteorology in the University of McGill College,
Montreal. (Pamphlet.)

Taylor, John.—Mean temperature and amount of snow for each month
and year at Connelsville, Penn., from 1843 to 1855, and two
miles east of Connelsville, from 1856 to 1860.

Volger, Ernest, U. S. Consul, Barcelona, Spain.—Observations, with
a full set of instruments, from September 1, 1858, to July 31,
1859, at Barcelona, Spain.

Williams & Haven.—Meteorological journal kept on board the whaling
brig Georgiana, of New London, Conn., 8. O. Buddington,
master, from November, 1858, to June, 1859, in latitude 63° 20/
N., longitude 64° 40’ W. ‘
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Re-
gents the following report of the receipts and expenditures of the
Smithsonian Institution during the year 1860, with estimates for the

year 1861.
RECEIPTS.

The whole amount of Smithson’s bequest deposited in the Treasury
of the United States, is $515,169, from which an annual income,

ainsixomoer Cent, 18, CETIVE, (Ol: nonce. sone seBee see smer sana

The extra fund of unexpended income is invested as

follows, viz:

In $75,000 Indiana 5 per cent. bonds,
WLC OU ae scopic ce denecs teenie sas teste atseses $3,750 00
In $53,500 Virginia 6 six per cent. bonds,
WAC LMM ens... Suteclc tastes ac enegp aon acmesecees sce 3,210 00
In $12,000 Tennessee 6 per ‘cent. bonds,
VAC MMINS Ua recente le weer cet eme ocr ee eae 720 00
In $500 Georgia 6 per cent. bonds,
se Giger. cee ste ome eRe CR Cane aoe one vec lettoel 30 00
In $100 Washington 6 be cent. bonds,
Le GMO ia cals chau canteen ste tones: 6 00
MORAINE OME ore eee c oie be tae cman ee aseeence ses se

Balance in the hands of the Treasurer January 1, 1860,
$19,634 11, less the cost of $5,000 Tennessee bonds,
SLO Bier cei teeter ote Meta tuiee atisecuin Valaawietd cas

Tottall RE CBE ae ano tes sc caise Meesiem ecb aisle toelackeldsialnat
EXPENDITURES.

For building, furniture, and fixtures......... $2,424 76

Horeneral Cxpenses: \.. n.ccse.asite aon eee 13,079 34

For publications, researches, and lectures.... 18,852 99

For library, museum, and gallery of art.... 7,781 21

Potalexmemaihures ) vaz01 44 ccausge tosh. oumea sumone:

Balance in the hands of the treasurer January 11, 1861.

$30,910 14

7,716 00

38,626 14

15,034 11

53,660 25

37,188 30

16,521.95

————.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE. HOT

Statement in detail of the expenditures during the year 1860.

BUILDING, FURNITURE, AND FIXTURES.

SORMlITi oO” TCIM eMUMerE esters. ccrscnsrt ce scadeeseocn ants ss ors + $1,480 55
Wuaenibure anueneapures 1 PeNeral.\..... cee eeeasrace somes 619 85
GMTcure ane aeules 1Or MMISCUML, .. 00%. so... esse inet atte cot 324 36
. 2,424 76
GENERAL EXPENSES.
Meetingsjord¢he! Board... 2. 2205 terse be. vveass $225 35
Dig atanleyomd. ‘eating aoe cl)..todssk Jager sls ose » 987 41
Genes vain. alka scloles daltpisioh ceiaies Soe eke lane bhaeias 537 54
Transportation and exchangeS..............0+8 2,141 86
RIPAILOMOENE. «ronide itis than eibaebiventaaed salébletas Svsine oad S93400
Generale prinbingast.. wide. radepsase des s chide sacs 206 18
IASB) MAR AINAS, ce «Fors oats apclv flees shaalde teeleh odeids hememrod 784 78
ao tatoiyy .2c-chate-. qocteres. dace bs aaahe anaes 150 81
Eweidentalis, .cemeralls « b.:sciggs ae scenes adveiitahd 755 94
Heinaje lerkenlinese.9 seach. doh» dacdasedesseesoden ds 645 97
PIATHCS GSCCT SCAT IV) ovis Aaa ole hatiaramiae stays seers 3,500 00
chief clerk, book-kéeper, messen-
Ser nand laborers. nts scgesbh sateen 2,750 00

EEE 1 150:

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES.

Smithsonian. Contributions. i...) essed. $5,520 59
Smithsonian Reportsy..c. Aen eee TT0 22
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections ...... 1,131 48
Other, publecarwons7A AG «I ase os OM 45 89
Metconoloey. as) Ae teen. Sd. EOS, Ee 4,431 07
Maemetic ODSELWAIOTY 01 li en. ccicsteseenaintass noe 308 00
Researches and investigations...............065 753 00
12) bn ce Ur 8 SO A a Al 892 74

veel 5:4 / BL GROMGE

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART.

Cost'of books ‘and bindime 0)... 800. $2,382 19
Pay or assistants im library:... 2. 0s..c-c- ocr. os 1,100 00
Transportation and exchange for library.... 496 62
imemenitale tor library: te. ee eeeee cose eee > 41 86
IPMS CUP BALAI Y: . 6.0. 0s case comeesetee sable tankless 2,000 00
ransportation for Museum... eee 872 76
Mneidentals for miliseum |). eee 62 92
Replorations formiiseum: |... 2000.00. 476 45
Collections for museum......... Mi tate 5 eee 111. 23
Gralletay OUP be ee, uk eee oe ccs stucco ameeonee’ 237 18

cae 7,781 21

87,138 30

ee

108 REPORT OF COMMITTEE,

The accounts for the year 1860 were made up to the 11th of Janu-
ary, 1861, instead of the first of the same month as heretofore. This
difference in time was occasioned by the delay in obtaining the
appropriation and interest due at the beginning of the year.

The balance in the hands of the treasurer at the commencement of
the year 1860 was $19,634 11; of this, $4,600 were expended in the
purchase of $5,000 Tennessee State bonds, leaving $15,034 11.

The income during the year from the original and extra fund was
$38,626 14. The expenditures during 1860 were $37,138 30; leaving
$1,487 84 to be added to the balance in the hands of the treasurer on
the first of the year, making $16,521 95 immediately available for
paying in cash the expenses of the operations of the Institution as
rapidly as the bills come due.

The foregoing statement is an actual exhibit of the Smithsonian
funds, irrespective of credits and disbursements which have been made
in behalf of other parties. For example: the Institution has fre-
quently advanced money to pay for the transportation of packages for
other establishments, such as the Coast Survey, Patent Office, &c.,
forwarded through the Smithsonian agents; and in all such cases the
money, when refunded, has been credited to the appropriation from
which the expenditure was originally made. Again: the use of the
lecture-room has in many instances been’ granted for charitable pur-
poses, without any other charge than for the gas consumed; and the
money received for this has been credited on the books of the Institu-
tion to the account of ‘‘ lighting and heating.’’

The agricultural department of the Patent Office has for several
years past expended a small portion of its appropriation, for the col-
lection of meteorological statistics in connection with this Institution.
During the past year the assistance from this source has been unex-

_pectedly very much reduced; and hence, the expenditure on mete-
orology from the Smithsonian fund has considerably exceeded the
estimate.

The annual appropriation of $4,000 from Congress, for keeping the
collections of the exploring and surveying expeditions of the United
States, has been expended under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, in assisting to pay the extra expenses of assistants, and the
cost of arranging and preserving the specimens. The aid thus ren-
dered has served to diminish the cost to the Smithsonian fund of the
maintenance and exhibition of the museum, although it has by no
means been sufficient to defray all the expenses of these objects, as will
be seen by reference to the items given under the head of the museum,
in the detailed statement.

The specimens intrusted to the care of the Institution are in good
condition, and the duplicates are in process of being assorted prepara-
tory to a general distribution for scientific and educational pur-

oses.

: The committee respectfully submit the following estimates for the
year 1861.
REPORT OF COMMITTER. 109

Receipts.
Balance in the hands of the Treasurer, January 11, 1861.. $16,521 95
haterest. on oriepimairmnel Conti. eile ce ceecmatee denene state's 30,910 14
iinderest’ on cinekesinmarenind 5552250604550 55200 Lo Soc hoe ko iieereone os 7,716 00
otal seers to scisieiiie Mesatecietss ede ties eee 55,148 09

Estimate of Hxpenditures for 1861.
BUILDING, FURNITURE, AND FIXTURES.

Mimend tact Mos reals ticers sete ae etins us aaicoing ose oe cae mae ese cale Sey neiaint $1,500 00
IBMT UN REUTER. 2 coe 5. ce stirs siccccivobeenn omer ea louetaeeniner arate 800 00

- 2,300 00

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Se TIM Wee DOAK vate tam son cotiee «tes csenseven tens $250 00
divehitime tamd! Wea Gc. crs ea ccisees ce ccse se casas. 1,000 00
SLO artes ee a ae Senet lide vlabalaieraepitactlst 600 00
MPaHSpORtAbiOm, «(PeNEral) |... awe er aciecs setae ceoeveess 1,000 00
BP INES) oh se cai cietcvinh vin ieioe saan wntslemeiigeaerasleciciwes 1,000 00
ROU EU LENE GY ante wetoesscers asia ais. deine ars naisielei he alolateleretetiase'n «ticles 300 00
GG eineried poe eteete cues scan saceeie/asletts etal Rage onic om 300 00
ASO DE EDU ULS ote uctcteteifeistersa tae ic eaares ewe Scie e aise eiestra hiss 800 00
BG eMo nT as iary Nh 55 es scronye YelAda aici Mabe iarcteeclaw w stictviste eran 150 00
Tncidentals; (cemerall).<. genes. scolaire donee dasionees 600 00
Battanclerke Mire eee ee stl. coke else ertas aepltae dade 500 00
Paes. —_SeCrevarwy icaencecesscsenecsatenseas~essedears 3,500 00
Chief clerk, book-keeper, messenger,
labOReRees toca stenedsanvasesamennes ar. 3,000 00

13,000 00

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES.

Simi hsonian, WontributiONs.. <. 2. c.secreene ces ese eenss $6,000 00
DUMULMAOTMAM MC POPS... .coc.<.sccsvagesmo@acssseeseess 500 00
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections ............ 1,000 00
Other publications ..72....06.c0sarcecess festa aera ease 250 00 |
IOI OOP o esd. cs Aaeitinarnaweidr ola saws hen settee eae acer 4,000 00
MG emetie Observatory <<. ...0ae- 6.08 .eceasesgcedns ces 250 00
Rae ENE Sita acy aician'v ciee plo merupias virsislvs asia nleeidiclee rio mags 400 00
DiS Ctipene ter creat cece Gioais sis vetaseaian tasrnesesmeweistesicne vase es 800 00

13,200 00
110 REPORT OF COMMITTEE.

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART.

Library.—Cost of books and binding.............. $2,500 00
Pay of assistants in library............. 1,200 00
Transportation and exchange for li-
IOUELT'Y’ 1.5) sds ansietiencee seen ee er atan seen cis 500 00
hneiden taligs. oauasemcnese see decense tase 50 00
Mingo Salary «2 svanssunen cuca Sacanes cheers canes 2,000 00
Assistants and lapore 42.6 .csae das sues 1,000 00
DPransponemurOms, aoaeesswctiseet sc ebmectiice: 550 00
Tmerdenbalis ees ee etekveaact. docenntes 1,000 00
Hxplorabioness css .bocs. cco ties telcos 400 00
Gaalilery Ob arent: Sse. seinen stor casas v'eje's asi isin vets 300 00
—— $9,500 00
38,000 00

The committee have carefully examined all the books and accounts
of the Institution for the past year, and find them to be correct.

Respectfully submitted.
J. A. PEARCE,
ASD DACEMR:

JOS. Ga TORTEN,
Executive Committee.
.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Wasuineton, January 16, 1861.
In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their
annual session on the third Wednesday of January of each year, the
Board met this day in the Regents’ room.
No quorum being present, the Board adjourned to meet at the call

of the Secretary.

Fresruary 16, 1861.

The Board of Regents met this day, at ten o’clock, a. m., in the
Regents’ room.

Present: Hon. James A. Pearce, Hon. James M. Mason, Hon. S.
A. Douglas, Hon. W. H. English, Hon. Benj. Stanton, Gen: Jos. G.
Totten, Prof. A. D. Bache, and the Secretary.

Mr. Mason was called to the chair.

The Secretary stated that there are at present three vacancies in the
Board of Regents, among the class of citizens at large, namely: the
vacancy occasioned by the expiration of the term of service of Hon.
Gideon Hawley, of Albany, who declines a reélection on account of
inability to attend; that occasioned by the death of Hon. Richard
Rush; and that by the expiration of the term of Dr. C. C. Felton, of
Harvard University: that a resolution was some time since presented
to the Senate of the United States to fill these vacancies, which had
not yet been acted upon.

Mr. Pearce presented the report of the Executive Committee, with
the estimates for the year 1861; which was read and adopted.
Ti PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

A communication addressed to the Secretary, relative to the Wynn
estate, was read.

The Secretary stated that since the death of Hon. Richard Rush, no
communication had been received in regard to the remainder of the
Smithsonian bequest left in England, as the principal of an annuity
to the mother of the nephew of Smithson; whereupon, on motion of
Mr. Bache, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to communicate with
Messrs. Clark, Fynmore & Fladgate, attorneys in London, informing

them of the death of Hon. Mr. Rush, and making inquiry as to thé
present condition of this annuity.

On motion of Mr. English, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be directed to adjust the accounts of
the Regents for traveling and other expenses, at each annual or special
meeting, according to the provisions of the act of organization.

A letter was read relative to the debt of the State of Arkansas,
desiring the Regents to unite with other parties in endeavoring to
recover it.

The Secretary stated that he had rephed, giving as his individual
opinion that the Regents are in no way interested in this matter ; the
United States having assumed the debt originally due from the
State of Arkansas to the Smithsonian fund.

On motion, it was

Resolved, That the Board concur in this opinion.

A communication addressed to the Board, from H. A. Gaston, of
Napa City, California, requesting aid in introducing a new steam
engine, was read.

The Secretary stated that this communication was one of a large
class usually addressed to himself in his official capacity ; that he had
answered these communications by stating that it did not form a part
of the policy of the Institution to give an opinion as to the merits of
any invention, or to render assistance to any enterprise which, though it
might be of importance to the public, was undertaken for the immediate
benefit of an individual ; that the government of the United States had
enacted laws granting an exclusive monopoly to inventors as a reward
for their ingenity, and that they must apply to the Patent Office for
the means of securing a remuneration for their labors. That if, how-
ever, In any case, an individual has made an invention for which he
does not intend to take out a patent, then the Institution would accept ,
on the usual conditions, an account of such invention, and would make
it known, through the Smithsonian publications, to the civilized world,

thus securing to the inventor the reputation which might justly be
his due.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 113

The following memorial was presented from distinguished citizens
of Philadelphia, accompanied by a letter from Mr. Lowe:

To Pror. JosepH HENRY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

The undersigned, citizens of Philadeiphia, have taken a deep interest

in the attempt of Mr. T. 8. C. Lowe to cross the Atlantic by aeronautic

machinery, and have confidence that his extensive preparations to

effect that object will add greatly to scientific knowledge. Mr. Lowe

has individually spent much time and money in the enterprise, and,

in addition, the citizens of Philadelphia have contributed several

thousand dollars to further his efforts in demonstrating the feasibility .

of trans-Atlantic air navigation. With reliance upon Mr. Lowe and

his plans, we cheerfully recommend him to the favorable consideration

of the Smithsonian Institution, and trust such aid and advice will be

furnished him by that distinguished body as may assist in the success

of the attempt, in which we take a deep interest.

JNO. C0. CRESSON.

WILLIAM HAMILTON.

W. H. HARRISON.

HENRY SEYBERT.

J. CHESTON MORRIS, M. D.

ISAAC LEA.

FAIRMAN ROGERS.

JAMES C. FISHER, M. D.

THOS. STEWARDSON, M. D.

JB. LP PINCOmE:

GEO. W. CHILDS.

JOHN GRIGG.

S. 8. HALDEMAN.

JOHN F. FRAZER.

GEORGE HARDING.

M. McMICHAEL.

PHILADELPHIA, December, 1860.

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to give Mr. Lowe any
advice which he may deem fit, as to his experiments ; and to reply to
the memorialists stating the reasons why the Regents do not consider
themselves at liberty to make any appropriation from the Smithsonian
fund for the purpose mentioned in the communication,

Several communications received by the Secretary from David P.
Holton, were read and referred to the Executive Committee.

The following letters also were presented by the Secretary:

[Translation. ]
Bern, November 24, 1860.

Str: I have received the last invoice of publications, which through
your kindness has. been presented to me by your great and liberal

8
lea: PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

Institution. The grammar and dictionary of the Yoruba language,
by Mr. Bowen, have especially interested me.

Expressing my thanks to the honorable directors, I have the pleasure
to send some of my latest publications, with the request that they be
placed in the Smithsonian library. They are the following:

1. Two volumes of my ‘‘ Kénigsbuch,’’ containing the chronological
restitution of the Hgyptian dynasties of Manethon, and the collection
of the hieroglyphical names of all the kings; being, as it were, a sup-
plement to the great work ‘‘On the Monuments of Egypt and Ethi-
opia,’’ prepared by myself at the expense of the State, a copy of which
the King, at my suggestion, has presented to the Smithsonian Library.
Of this you have lately received the last series of plates, and the de-
scriptive teat will be sent as soon as I can finish it.

2. A dissertation, read at our Academy of Sciences, on the ‘‘ Extent
of the Egyptian History after Manethon.”’

3. Another similar one on several points of ‘‘Chronology.”’

4, A volume of thirty-seven plates, representing the pictures exe-
cuted, under my direction, upon the walls of the Egyptian Museum,
in Berlin.

To these I add some pamphlets relating to the introduction of a
general linguistic or standard alphabet for expressing foreign lan-
guages, which have either not been written at all or not in European
characters. They are,:for the present:

5. An English copy of the pamphlet I have published on the stand-
ard alphabet.

6. A German copy of the same.

7. Translation, by Mr. Lechler, of the Gospel of St. Matthew into
Chinese, in the characters of the standard alphabet.

8. Translation, by myself, of the Gospel of St. Mark, into the Nubian
language; printed in types of the standard alphabet. This forms part
of a book which also contains the grammar and dictionary of the Nu-
bian and several other similar languages, the printing of which is
not yet finished.

The two copies of the standard alphabet are of the first edition. We
are just now printing the second, with some slight alterations and
a much more complete collection of alphabets. I shall send it in time,
and would not, at present, have transmitted the first edition, the small
number of copies of which has actually been withdrawn, if it were not
of special interest for a library to follow up the gradual development
of a subject of general importance.

You will see from the pamphlet that most of the missionary societies
have decided to introduce the alphabet, the American Board of Com-
missioners for Foreign Missions included, and that the number of books
printed in these characters is rapidly augmenting. I know of sixty
or more. I do not know whether you have any opportunity of
exercising an influence among the savans of your country in favor
of the adoption of the standard alphabet. At any rate you will
allow me to recommend such a course. Mr. Bowen, from his Yoruba
grammar, seems not to have had any knowledge of it; while Mr.
Crouther, his learned predecessor in the grammar of this language,
has already adopted it in his later publications; and Mr. lL. Grout,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 115

also of the American Board, has made use of and has earnestly recom-
mended it in his excellent grammar of the Zulu-Kaffir.

I should feel very grateful, if you will let me know whether there
has been any attention given to this question with you, and if you
would communicate to me whatever may relate to the subject. The
original languages of America will be found transcribed in much
greater number in the second edition of the standard alphabet; and, if
you know of any scholar who makes the study of these languages his

specially, and who could give me instructions as to the exact pronun-
ciation of the letters of some of them, 1 would be much obliged if
you would make me acquainted with him.

Among your former publications, besides those relating to linguistics
and ethnology, such as the grammar of the Dakotah language,
there are also memoirs relating to the antiquities of different parts of
America, viz: the researches of Squier and Davis on the monuments
of the Mississippi. I received from Mr. Squier himself his memoir
on the monuments of New York, (vl. H, art. 9 ;) and also have most
of the writings of Squier, Pickering, and Morton, in separate publica-
tions ; but of your antiquarian ae I am still in want of the
following : Wol, L- vol. IY, art. 22 11176" 7 Vilo. Mido notwen-
ture to designate other memoirs 5 that De eratify my general in-
terest in American science ; yet I should be highly obliged if you
would continue the transmission of your reports, and add those of the
foregoing volumes which you can most readily spare.

Will you let me know whether you have already the first volume
of my ‘‘ Egyptian Chronology;’’ if not, I shall not fail to send a copy.

I beg your pardon for this long letter, which I fear has taken
too much of your time, occupied by many other hy ae!

Accept the expression of the high consideration with which I am,
sir, your most obedient,

R. LEPSIUS.

Professor JosepH Hunry,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

MELBOURNE BoTANIc AND ZodLOGIC GARDEN,
October 25, 1860.

Honored anpD Duar Sir: I owe you my grateful acknowledgment of
transmitting to me, through the iindness: of Hon. William "Haines,
the valuable reports of the Smithsonian Institution for ae and 1858,
and the celebrated work on the North American algae, furnished by
our common friend Dr. Harvey.

Whilst expressing my warmest thanks for having been deemed
worthy, by your noble Institution, to share in the gifts which, by the
world-famed liberality of the Smithsonian Institution, the men of
science so extensively enjoy, I beg to state that it will be a source of
pleasure to me to endeavor to reciprocate your friendly offers, and
that I hope, through Prof. Asa Gray, within a few months, to lay
several recent publications of mine, including the first volume of the
‘Plants of Victoria,’’ before your Institution and other American scien-
tific associations.
116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

If I can in any way serve the laudable purposes of your excellent
Institution, I hope you will freely command my services.
Most regardfully, dear Professor Henry, yours,
FERD. MUELLER.

The Secretary gave an account of what has been done in relation to
the distribution of duplicate specimens of natural history, and read
several letters acknowledging the receipt of the donations, and ex-
pressing appreciation of the policy adopted by the Institution. Among
these was the following:

University or Toronto,
December 3, 1860.

Dear Sir: In acknowledging the receipt of about 200 species of
shells sent to the University Museum, through the hberality of the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, I beg to express my very high
appreciation of the disposition manitested by the Institution to make
its superfluous stores available in the communication of knowledge in
various places, and even beyond the limits of the United States. The
contribution now made is a very valuable addition to the museum of
the University of Toronto, even those species of which we have already
specimens being interesting from their authentic names and known
habitats....We are deeply obliged by the kindness manifested; and
if we find any way of reciprocating it, I shall personally feel the
greatest pleasure in promoting your views.

Believe me to be, dear sir, very faithfully yours,
WILLIAM HINCKS.
The SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Copies of the several papers and miscellaneous articles published by
the Institution since the last annual session were laid before the Board.

The fact was stated that the Potomac water had been brought by
Government through the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, to
the middle of the south front of the building ; that the Institution was
now supplied with rain water from the cisterns in the towers, but as
the supply from this source was uncertain, it was desirable that the
Potomac water should be introduced ; whereupon it was

Resolved, That the Secretary procure plans and estimates for the
introduction of the Potomac water into the building, and that the
Secretary and the Executive Committee be authorized to make con-
tracts for this purpose.

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the
Institution ; which was read in part.

The Board then adjourned, to meet on Tuesday, February 19, at

8 o’clock p. m.
Turspay, /ebruary 19, 1861.

The Board met at 8 o'clock p. m., in the Regent’s room of the
Smithsonian Institution.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS, They

Present: Hon. James M. Mason, Hon. W. H. English, Hon. B.
Stanton, General Joseph G. Totten, Professor A. D. Bache, and the
Secretary.

Mr. Mason was called to the chair.

The minutes were read and approved.

The report of the Secretary was read and adopted.

The Board then took a recess till Friday evening.

Fripay, february 22, 8 p. m.

Present: Messrs. Pearce, Douglas, English, and Totten.

The Secretary read the appendix to his annual report.

The Secretary presented the following letters, which he had prepared
in accordance with the resolution of the Board, relative to aerial navi-
gation, in answer to the memorial of citizens of Philadelphia, and to
the communication of Mr. Lowe.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, March 8, 1861.

GENTLEMEN: Your communication, addressed to the Smithsonian
Institution, commending Mr. Lowe to the Board of Regents, for
assistance in carrying out his proposed experiment to cross the Atlantic
by means of a balloon, was duly received. It was presented to the
Board of Regents at their meeting of February 16, was respectfully
considered, and, after due deliberation, the following resolution was
adopted :

‘* Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to give Mr. Lowe any
advice which he may deem fit as to his experiments; and to reply to the
memorialists, stating the reasons why the Regents do not consider
themselves at liberty to make any appropriation from the Smithsonian
fund for the purpose mentioned in the communication ”’

In accordance with the above resolution I would state that the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution are responsible to the
Government and to the world for the prudent expenditure of the income
of the Smithson bequest, and inasmuch as the proposed experiment is
one which, in the minds of the majority of considerate and reflective
persons, is of great hazard, the Regents do not think, whatever might
be their individual desire to advanée the art of aerial navigation, that
they would be justified in making an appropriation from the Smith-
sonian income to assist in this enterprise.

Any questions which may be propounded to me in regard to the
experiment of Mr. Lowe will be cheerfully answered, as far as we have
the means of giving the required information.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

To Messrs. Jno. C. Cresson, Issac Lua, and others,
Philadelphia.
118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS.

SMITHSONIAN LystTrruTIon,
Washington, D. C., March 11, 1861.

Dear Siz: In reply to your letter of February 25, requesting that
IT would give you my views in regard to the currents of the atmos-
phere and the possibility of an application of a knowledge of them to
aerial navigation, I present you with the following statement, to be
used as you may think fit.

I have never had faith in any of the plans proposed for navigating
the atmosphere by artificial propulsion, or for steering a balloon ina
direction different from that of the current in which the vehicle is
floating.

The resistance to a current of air offered by several thousand feet of
surface, is far too great to be overcome by any motive power at present
known which can be applied by machinery of sufficient Lightness.

The only method of aerial navigation which in the present state of
knowledge appears to afford any possibility of practical application, is
that of sailing with the currents of the atmosphere. The question,
therefore, occurs as to whether the aerial currents of the earth are of
such a character that they can be rendered subservient to aerial loco-
motion.

In answering this question, I think I hazard little in asserting that
the great cur rents of the atmosphere have been sutticiently studied, to
enable us to say with certainty that they follow definite courses, and
that they may be rendered subservient to aerial navigation, provided
the balloon itself can be so improved as to render it a safe vehicle of
locomotion.

It has been established by observations extending now over two
hundred years, that, at the surface of the earth, within the tropics,
there is a belt along which the wind constantly blows from an easterly
direction; and, from the combined meteorological observations made
in different parts of the world within the last few years, that north
of this belt, between the latitudes of 30° and 60°, around the whole
earth the resultant wind is from a westerly direction.

The primary motive power which gives rise to these currents is the
constant heating of the air in the equatorial, and the cooling of it in
and toward the polar regions; the eastern and western deflections of
these currents being due to the rotation of the earth on its axis.

The easterly current in the equatorial regions is always at the
surface, and has long been known as the trade winds, while the cur-
rent from the west is constantly flowing in the upper portion of the
atmosphere, and only reaches the surface of the earth at intervals
generaily after the occurrence of a storm.

Although the wind, even at the surface, over the United States and
around the whole earth between the same parallels, appears to be
exceedingly fitful; yet when the average movement is accurately re-
corded for a number of years, it is found that a large resultant
remains of a westerly current. This is well established by the fact
that on an average of many years, packet ships sailing from New
York to Great Britain occupy nearly double the time in returning
that they do in going.

It has been fully established by continuous observations collected at
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 119

this Institution for ten years, from every part of the United States,
that, as a general rule, all the meteorological phenomena advance from
west to east, and that the higher clouds always move eastwardly. We
are therefore, from abundant observation, as well as from theoretical
considerations, enabled to state with confidence that on a given day,
whatever may be the direction of the wind at the surface of the earth,
a balloon elevated sufficiently high, would be carried easterly by the
prevailing current in the upper or rather middle region of the atmos-
here.

: I do not hesitate, therefore, to say, that provided a balloon can be
constructed of sufficient size, and of sufficient impermeability to gas,
in order that it may maintain a high elevation for a sufficient length
of time, it would be wafted across the Atlantic. I would not, however,
advise that the first experiment of this character be made across the
ocean, but that the feasibility of the project should be thoroughly
tested, and experience accumulated by voyages over the interior of our
continent. It is true that more eclat might be given to the enterprise,
and more interest excited in the public mind generally, by the imme-
diate attempt of a passage to Europe; but I do not think the sober
sense of the more intelligent part of the community would be in favor
of this plan ; on the contrary, it would be considered a premature and
foolhardy risk of life.

It is not in human sagacity to foresee, prior to experience, what sim-
ple occurrence, or what neglect in an arrangement, may interfere with
the result of an experiment ; and therefore 1 think it will be impossible
for you to secure the full confidence of those who are best able to ren-
der you assistance except by a practical demonstration, in the form of
successful voyages from some of the interior cities of the continent to the
seaboard.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
T. 8. C. Lows, Esq.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
Ne

MU ee
i i‘
Tih

Lares
RBG)

ERAS

Rr
at cape a
pes

mee

By

a
Wa

vk

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

RHEORT POR 1560.

e

The object of this Appendix is to illustrate the operations of the
Institution by the reports of lectures and extracts from correspond-
ence, as well as to furnish information of a character suited especially
to the meteorological observers and other persons interested in the
promotion of knowledge.
LECTURES.

ON ROADS AND BRIDGES.

BY gk AGI SIV AGINis EL Ol Gra Binks)

PROFESSOR OF CIVIL ENGINEERING IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA,

FIRST LECTURE

It is the business of the civil engineer to design and to execute th
public works of a country, and of such works the means of communi-
cation are, perhaps, the most important. In some countries this
branch of the engineer’s profession is taken as a type of the whole
range of his duties; and we find in France the ‘‘Corps des Ponts et
Chaussées’’ is not confined necessarily to the consideration of ‘‘ bridges
and roads’’ only, but extended to the many branches which we include
under the name of ‘‘civil engineering.”’

I shall devote these lectures to an examination of the principles
which govern the location and construction of roads, and of the
br idges, which, under ordinary circumstances, form an important part
of them.

In any country, no matter how new, means of communication be-
tween different settlements of men, or between any points of resort,
are of the first necessity. Where all traveling is done on foot, as was
the case in our country while occupied by the Indians, simple trails
marked by blazed trees to indicate the direction, will be sufficient.
When beasts of burden are introduced, a wider and smoother path is
necessary, and road making on a small scale commences; obstacles
which the hunter on foot easily surmounted must be removed for the
pack horse. In many rough countries, such as Switzerland and Spain,
bridle paths were the only avenues of communication until within a very
recent period, and many of these are in use at the present day. In very
mountainous countries, even the construction of a bridle path requires
a considerable amount of labor and ingenuity, as is shown in most of
1 such as that of the St. Bernard, the Téte Noire, and
particularly the Gemmi.

As sledges or wheeled vehicles, even of the rudest description, come
into use, the roads must be made wider, smoother, and less steep, until
we come to the limits which are now assiened by engineers for roads
of the first class.

It would seem hardly necessary to dilate upon the immense ad¥ant-
ages which spring from ample and economical means of communica-
tion throughout a country. In this age of rapid locomotion, they are

124 LECTURE

strongly set forth in the prospectus of every new railroad project, and
are familiar to all; but, somewhat strangely, while we have covered
our country with these iron ways, we have the doubtful honor of having
the very worst common roads of any civilized country on the globe.
This is probably owing to two reasons: first, that the railroads which
were introduced just at the time when our public improvements were
being projected, naturally absorbed all attention to the exclusion of
other means of communication; and secondly, that there has been a
lamentable deficiency of the information and education necessary to
insure the successful location and construction of common roads among
those to whom they have been intrusted.

In Kurope, where perfect roads were needed long before the iron
way was invented, an amount of money and thought had been ex-
pended in making roads which strikes the American traveler with |
astonishment. He finds that as much labor and care have been be-
stowed upon common roads in the old world as have been by us upon
our railroads.

It is much to be hoped that as the necessary information is diffused
throughout the country, our common roads will improve in condition,
especially since, in many cases, such improvement is attended with
economy in first cost, in working, and in maintenance, and will only
require a little more expenditure of thought and care in the planning
and execution.

The principles involved in the location and construction of roads
are few, simple, and unchangeable; and a little attention paid to them
by road makers would prevent the mistakes which are so painfully
apparent to every traveler.

The subject of road making is divided into two parts: location and
construction; the art of locating a road being that of determining and
tracing on the ground the best line for the road to follow—of construc-
tion, that of preparing the road bed for the traffic which is to pass
over it.

In the very simplest case that can be imagined, that of a foot path
to connect two places situated on a smooth plain, no location would be
necessary beyond marking the path in some way, so that the direction
could be kept by the traveler; but such a very simple case could
rarely occur, and as the difficulties increase we must find means to
overcome them.

As a general rule, a foot path may be led over almost any obstacles,
for an experienced mountaineer can ascend nearly perpendicular cliffs,
especially when aided by even the most simple apphances, such as
ladders, ropes, or notched logs. The famous ‘‘Path of Ladders’’ at
the Baths ‘of Loesche, in Switzerland, is an example of a foot path of
the rudest description. These baths are situated in a deep valley sur-
rounded with perpendicular cliffs, and the only way by which they can
be reached is by passing almost perpendicularly down the chff by
means of ladders fastened to the face of the rock.

Since we rarely find a plain, but usually a surface more or less un-
dulating, we must be able to locate our road to the best advantage
upon it. Although upon the map a straight line between two points
seems to be the shortest, we shall find, when we come to examine it
ON ROADS AND BRIDGES. 125

upon the ground, that it is not always so, for it may pass over so many
elevations and depressions that it is actually longer than a line traced
near it and pe RTs these irregularities.

If we have a hill of a hemispherical form, like half of a globe,
placed upon a ante. the distance from one side to the other over the
top will be precisely the same as the distance around it at its base, and
we should have the disadvantage of going up on one side and down
on the other, instead of keeping a level road around.

Although this principle seems a simple one, we find it continually
disregarded, there being frequent cases where common roads pass
directly over a high point with lower ground within a few feet on
either side of them. In fact, in any country other than a perfectly
level one, a road which keepsa straight direction for mile after mile, as
many of our turnpikes do, must necessarily be badly located, since
advantage has evidently not been taken of the natural features of the
surface.

We must bear in mind the fact that the force required to draw a
well made wagon in good order over a smooth level road is very small
compared with the absolute weight of the wagon and load. ‘On a good
turnpike about one fiftieth of the load,* that is a tractive force of ten
pounds will move a load of five hundred pounds, the only resistance
being from friction of the axles and from the minute obstacles of the

t=)
surface. Under such circumstances, the horse’s power is applied most
economically.

When a horse attempts to move a load up an inclined plane, however,
in addition to overcoming the friction, he has also to raise a part of
the weight of the wagon, according as the inclination is more or less
great. “Now, if the two places connected by the road are on the same
level, all lifting of the load up inclinations only to let it down again
on the other side will be so much power expended uselessly. Increas-
ing the length of a road, therefore, to avoid hills, is in most cases an
economy to the traveler. Of course, the exact amount of increase, or
the equation of grades and distances, as it is called by the engineer,
must be a matter of calculation based upon experiment and observation.

A considerable deviation can be made to the right or left of a straight
line joining two points without materially increasing the length of the
road. For example: if the two points be ten miles apart, we may
deviate a whole mile at the middle of the distance, to either side, with-
out increasing the length of the path traveled the fifth of a mile.

Having these gener ral principles to guide him, the engineer, in
locating a road, should first make a thor ough examination, on foot or
on hor seback, of the whole country lying between the points to be con-
nected. He should collect all the maps of the region that he can find,
and he should gather from the inhabitants information on various
subjects: such as, where low places exist in the ridges; what points
are particularly free from, or filled up with, snow in the winter; what
places are remarkably exposed to the wind; ‘and particularly ascertain
the height and boundaries of all the str eams during the highest freshets
that have been know n, so that no part of the road or bridges may be
exposed to danger fr om a rise of the water, Ina rather small region,

* Poncelet. Morin.
126 LECTURE

with decided leading features, the experienced engineer will often be
enabled, after a thorough reconnoissance of this kind, to determine
within narrow limits upon the location; but in an extended and difficult
or broken country, it will often be necessary to make a survey of several
trial lines before a sufficient amount of information can be collected.

In the United States, where, except along the sea-coast and in Mas-
sachusetts, no regular and reliable general surveys have been made,
the maps will be found quite deficient, and in many cases the engineer
must prepare one more or less extended for his own use. This will be
particularly the case in a rough mountain country, where much time
would be lost in making the surveys of trial lines, many of which would
turn out to be impracticable when nearly completed.

Much information can be gained even from a map which has only
the streams marked upon it. Since the stream. always runs through
the lowest line of the valley, the position of the valleys and the general
inclinations of the country will be indicated by them. A very crooked
stream, with softly rounded bends, will almost always indicate a smooth,
nearly level, alluvial bottom or meadow land through which it flows;
while straight streams, with sharp angles, and with branches running
abruptly into them at large angles, indicate a rocky, hilly country,
with narrow, steep-sided valleys. ‘These indications are, however, so
very general that a map, showing the different heights of the various
points of the country, is absolutely essential. Such a map is called a
topographical map.

There are two methods in use of delineating upon paper the topo-
graphical features of a country—by hachure lines and by contour lines.
The first and older system indicates the inclinations by short lines
drawn in the direction of the slope of the ground, and the amount of
the inclination by the greater or less thickness of the lines, in accord-
ance with some arbitrary standard. In the second system, the relative
heights of the various points are indicated by continuous lines of equal
level, at certain vertical distances apart.. The first originated with,
and is especially adapted to the wants of, the military engineer, since
the inclination of the surface is the matter which most concerns him ;
the disadvantage of it, however, is, that it conveys but a faint idea of
the true features of the surface, even to theexpert. Figs. 1 and 2 show
the two methods applied to the same surface.

\\
|

=>

f G-
WY GZ SLES Lhg
Lea
= A

VO =
UG =

Fig. 1.

ON ROADS AND BRIDGES. be &

The method of contour lines will be readily understood from the fol-
lowing explanation. Let us suppose an island situated in a lake: the
water will wash the base and form a water line, all the points of which
will be in the same horizontal plane—that is, on a level with the sur-
- face of the lake. Now, if we suppose the water to rise one foot, another
water line will be made, all the points of which will be in a horizontal
plane one foot above the first plane, all the points of the surface of the
island between these two lines will be less than one foot above the level
of the lake. By successive stages of the water we shall get a succes-
sion of lines, until the island is entirely submerged. Now, suppose
we place ourselves in a balloon above the island, and look down upon
it as upon a map, we shall see all these horizontal curves projected
upon the level surface, as in Fig. 3.
And if we make a map of the island,
with these lines upon it, our topograph-
ical information regarding it will be
complete. Knowing the vertical dis-
tance between the lines, by measuring
the horizontal distance we can determ-
ine the inclination. The elevation of
any point may be determined by simple
inspection. With a map of this kind
carefully prepared, the engineer can
locate his line in the office, and often
to greater advantage than in the field
—since he can see the whole country
at a glance. Having thus a general Fig. 2.
map of the country, he will be guided i
by a few simple principles. Ifa ridge exists between the points to be
connected, it is usually desirable to cross it at its lowest point. A
stream commonly starts from such a point, and by following it up,
the summit can be reached by a comparatively easy ascent along the
valley. The most difficult countries are those which have no leading
streams or valleys, but which are broken up by rounded hills and
disconnected hollows—since a line which appears practicable for a con-
siderable distance will sometimes end in an impracticable spot. In
such regions, a carefully-constructed topographical map is indis-
pensable to prevent the expenditure of a great deal of time in wild
explorations.

It should be distinctly borne in mind that a reconnoissance sufti-
ciently accurate for the purpose, can be made in a comparatively short
time, by an experienced topographer, with a very small party and
portable instruments; while the running of trial lines is a much more
serious matter. In an ordinarily level country, the attention of the
engineer will be turned to the selection of the best route, without his
ingenuity being taxed to surmount great obstacles; and he will there-
fore aim at making the road as direct as possible, while avoiding any
great ascents or descents.

In an extremely mountainous country like Switzerland, it will some-
times be difficult not only to obtain the best line, but to find any line
which will be practicable, owing to the great difference of level of the

128 LECTURE

points to be connected. And this brings us to the consideration of the
important subject of grade.

I have stated that the force required to move a load on a level bears
but a small proportion to the whole weight; but that on an inclined
plane, the animal drawing the load must lift it vertically through a
distance which depends upon the inclination. Careful experiments
have shown that in a first-class mountain road the grade should not
exceed one in thirteen—that is, a rise of one foot in every thirteen feet
of horizontal distance, and that even this grade should be used only
on short sections, and should be varied by frequent levels on which
teams may rest. Now, if the difference of height between any two
points is more than one thirteenth of the horizontal distance, it will
evidently be impossible to connect them by a straight road, since it
will be too steep. The horizontal distance must be increased while
the vertical distance remains the same. In cases where the points are
at the extremities of a straight, narrow valley with precipitous sides,
as is frequently found in the Alps, considerable difficulty will be en-
countered in getting this increased length, and the ingenuity of the
engineer will be severely taxed.

In Fig. 4., we have two points,
A and B, ten miles apart, horizon-
tally situated in the same straight
valley, and B 5,280 feet above A,
A having an elevation of 1,864
feet above the sea, and B 7,144
feet, a road ten miles long con-
necting them would have a grade
of one in ten, which is too steep.
The length ef the line must, there-
fore, be increased. This may be
done by running up the valley of
the stream to the northwest, as
indicated by the dotted line.........
A CB, or by turning the line upon
itself in a series of zig-zags on the
slope of the hill on the cther side,
as shown by the continuous line A D B. Both of these expedients are
frequently resorted to. Of course, where there is a valley up which the
road can be taken according to the first method, it should be taken
advantage of, since the sharp turns of the zig-zags are thereby avoided.

On the mountain roads of Switzerland, there are many interesting
examples of these zig-zags or lacets, (lacings,) as they are called by the
French engineers. Frequently, on the steep side of a valley there is
no other way of overcoming the ascent, and they must be resorted to.
On the Italian side of the Spliigen Pass, the road winds in this way
down the almost vertical side of the mountain above the little village
of Isella, and the carriage descends rapidly, turning the corners at the
end of the zig-zags and swinging backwards and forwards over the
valley.

On the St. Gothard Pass also, on the Italian side, above the village
of Airolo, the road leaves the main valley and runs in the same way up

ON ROADS AND BRIDGES. 129°

its steep side, crossing in a depression on the top on to a higher ridge,
so that, while the carriage winds slowly up the heavy grade, the nim-
ble pedestrian can scramble up the hill from angle to angle of the road.

and reach the top much sooner.

**O’er the Simplon, o’er the Spliigen winds
A path of pleasure. Like a silver zone,
Hung about carelessly, it shines afar,
Catching the eye in many a broken link,
In many a turn and traverse as it glides;
And oft above and oft’ below appears,
Seen o’er the wall by him who journeys up,
As if it were another, through the wild
Leading along he knows not whence or whither;
Yet, though its fairy course go where it will,
The torrent stops it not; the rugged rock
Opens and lets it in, and on it runs,
Winding its easy way from clime to clime,
Through glens locked up before.’’*

The carriage roads of Switzerland are extremely interesting from the
great difficulties which were frequently met in their location, and from
the ingenuity with which these difficulties have been overcome, to say
nothing of picturesque and in many cases wild scenery by which they
are surrounded.

The Simplon, built by Napoleon in 1800—1806, M. Ceard chief engi-
neer, is the oldest and the most famous of these roads. The length of
the mountain division of it, between Brieg and Domo d’ Ossola, is about
forty-eight miles, and in this distance there are 611 stone bridges, ten
galleries or tunnels, some cut out of the solid rock and others built of
masonry, to protect the road against avalanches, besides the retaining
walls and other necessary structures along the line. It has a width of
twenty-five to thirty feet, a maximum grade of one in twelve, and cost
about $25,000 per mile. At one time more than 30,000 men were
engaged upon it at the same time. Mont Caris, by the Chevalier
Fabbroni; the Spliigen, by Donegani; the St. Gothard, by Miiller;
the Bernadin, by Pocobelli; the Stelvie, by Donegani, are all of the
same class of roads and are highly interesting to the student of’ engi-
neering. Their summits are all more than 6,500 feet above the sea.
In this country a very interesting road is now being constructed up
one of the flanks of Mount Washington, in New Hampshire. I starts.
from the Glen House and keeps a nearly regular grade, with here and
there short levels for resting the horses. It winds up the side of the
mountain without encountering any great difficulties, and will, when
finished, afford an easy carriage route to the sumiit, an elevation of

more than 6,000 feet above the sea.

* Rogers’ Italy.

)
SECOND LECTURE.

CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS.

Having examined briefly the principles which govern the engineer
in determining the general line of a road, we shall now consider the
rules to be followed in the construction.

In the first place a regular cross section of the road bed is import-
ant, with a smooth hard surface, and sufficient width to accommodate
the traffic expected.

In a new, sparsely settled country, the road should be quite narrow,
since it is then much more easily kept in repair; a width of sixteen or
eighteen feet is quite sufficient. Near large cities roads should have
a width of fifty to sixty feet, or even more. The surface must be such
as will remain smooth, and not be easily affected by the weather. If,
as is usually the case in new countries, we make use of the material
found on the spot, for the road, such as clay, gravel, &c., we may
make avery good road by paying strict attention to the drainage.
In fact water or dampness is the great enemy of the engineer; it acts
in the destruction of the road in three ways. In large quantities, as
during heavy rains, it washes the surface of the road into gules, and
undermining the banks causes serious and expensive accidents. In
smaller quantities it percolates into the material, and converts the
earth into a pasty mud, which yields to the horses feet and to the
wheels, and sometimes slips out of place, so that an embankment will
melt away into a shapeless mound. In winter it freezes and throws
up the earth which has been soaked with it to the destruction of the
‘surface of the road.

Drainage is then one of the first objects of the engineer. The sur-
face water must. be carefully and quickly led away ‘by ample ditches
on each side of the road, which turn it into the natural water courses,
or discharge it where it can do no harm.

These same ditches, when properly placed, and sometimes aided by
secondary ones, or by ‘drains, will serve to keep the whole mass of ma-
terial dry, and ‘prevent accident from the two other causes mentioned.

Almost any material will make a good road if it is properly drained ;
all will give trouble if drainage is not attended to. Sand, as we find
it in the neighborhood of the sea, is, to a certain extent, an exception
to this rule.

Every precaution must be taken, therefore, to carry off the water
which falls upon the surface. To effect this the road should be slightly
sloped transversely from the center each way to throw the water into
the ditches.
CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS. L3i

The old method was to crown the roadway ; that is, to give it a
curved section, as shown in Fig. 5, but
this is found to be objectionable from 2
the fact that vehicles, in order to avoid Y =
the sloping sides, keep in the middle of al” uuu i i
the road, and cut it rapidly into ruts; Fig. 5.
it is preferred, therefore, to make the
cross section with two slopes meeting in the middle, as in Fig. 6, the
point being slightly rounded off. In
this way the same difference of level be-
tween the center and sides may be made, =
and the inclination near the side will not Fig. 6.
be as great as by the old method.*

The general cross section is shown by these figures. In Fig. 5 the
ditches or gutters are between the road and the foot paths. There
are two objections to this; if the ditch is at all deep, there is some
danger of overturning a carriage if the wheel is driven into it, and it
is difficult to cross from the foot walk.

A better arrangement is shown in Fig. 6, where the ditches are on
the outside of the fence or hedge, and the water which falls upon the
surface of the road runs into them by drains passing under the foot

ath.
r In a new country where much labor cannot be spent upon the roads
it is sufficient to dig two ditches, about eighteen feet apart, and throw
up the earth between them to make the road, taking care to cut off
the sod and grub up the bushes from the surface, before laying the
earth upon it, so that it may bind well, and not be in danger of slip-
ping into the ditch.

When the road is higher than the land around it, there is no diffi-
culty in draining it, but when it is below the general level, more
provision must be made for carrying off the water ; the excavation must
be made of sufficient width to contain the road and its two ditches, as
shown in Fig. 7; and the road must not be made to serve the purpose
of a ditch itself, as is frequently the case—I'ig. 8.

If the excavation is very deep, the road may be made rather more
narrow at that point. The bottom of the ditches should be at least two
feet below the roadway, may be lined with stone, if convenient, and
should be kept clean.

Stiff clay soils that retain the water, require the most careful drain-
age; gravel and sand are more easily kept in order, since the water
percolates freely through them.

*This slope should be about one fifth of an inch to the foot. It is a mistake to make it
much greater. '
132 LECTURE

On a hillside the road should not be crowned, since the water would
then run down the slope, and cut it away ;
but it should have an inclination towards
the hill, as shown in Fig. 9; the ditch
should be on the inside, and the water
should be led from it by drains wnder the
road, at proper intervals. Where there
is a choice between the north and south
side of a hill or ridge, the south should
be preferred, since the road will then dry more ‘quickly, and ice and
snow will melt away more rapidly.

With the view of exposing the road to the action of the sun, some
engineers have opposed the planting of trees along the sides; but the
difference in the pleasure and comfort of the traveler, especially in
warm climates, is so very great, that a fine row of trees, at least on the
south side of a road, must be considered an important addition to it.

Such planting may be readily and cheaply done when the road is
first built ; and if the proper trees be selected, the expenditure will be
amply repaid. In winter, when the action of the sun is desired, the
leaves will be off, and deciduous trees should therefore be used ; and in
the summer the shade is grateful, and serves to prevent, to some extent,
the formation of dust, by keeping the surface slightly damp and break-
ing the force of the wind.

On all roads footpaths of some kind should be prepared ; and near
large cities and through villages they should be on both sides of the
road, and should be wide, hard, and smooth. Itisa great outrage that
turnpike and plank-road companies should be permitted to occupy
public routes, and not be required to provide suitable accommodation
for pedestrians.

So far we have considered only the way to make a good road of the
natural soil of the place, but sometimes the very bad material, or the
desire to have a superior road, will induce us to resort to additional
means of improvement.

For a road covering, we want something which shall make a firm,
hard, lasting, but not slippery surface. If it is yielding like India
rubber, notwithstanding it may come back to its form after the load
has passed over it, its resistance to traction will be considerable, since
the wheel will be always in a hollow or depression caused by the weight
upon it, out of which it must be lifted. It must be hard, so that it
cannot readily be cut into ruts or displaced, but there must be no
danger that the animals drawing loads will slip upon it.

Loose sand makes one of the worst roads in dry weather ; the wheel
displaces it, and is constantly moving in a deep rut with the sand
closing over it; the horse, too, becomes much fatigued by sinking into
the yielding materi al.

On the sea-beach, where the sand is constantly wet from the rise of
the tide and the capillary rise of the water between the particles, this
same material makes the best road with which we are acquainted, per-
fectly smooth, level, with no obstacle of the size of a pea, so hard that
the wheels and the horses’ feet scarcely make a mark on it, and yet
not in the slightest degree slippery; but such cases are exceptional,
’

ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS. 133

and we must take such roads where we find them; we cannot make
them.

A clay road, although good for certain short seasons, is usually
intolerably dusty in summer and soft and muddy in winter ; conse-
quently objectionable.

There are also certain swampy, soft soils, over which road building
is attended with great difficulties. On the other hand, a road through
a gravely soil, if well drained, generally is sufficiently good; and there
are certain hard clay slates and shales which make roads of the very
best character. When, therefore, weare called upon to improve a road
by covering it with some material, we may select gravel, slate, cinder,
charcoal, or broken stone.

Gravel for this purpose should be neither very clean nor too dirty ; if
the former, it will not pack or bind together, but will remain loose and
incoherent ; if the latter, it will not drain properly, and will be affected
-by moisture and frost. The stone should be angular, rather than
round. Slate, furnace cinder, and charcoal can only be procured: in
‘certain localities, and the last is objectionable from the black dust which
arises from it; they are all, however, admirable materials, and can be
often used with great advantage.

Broken stone, which can be had in nearly all localities, is, however,
the material most commonly in use. It should be hard, so that the
angles of the fragments should not be ground off by the wheels ; the
close-grained limestones and most of the porphyritic rocks being well
adapted to the purpose. Any stone which is disintegrated by exposure
to the weather, should be carefully avoided. The stone should be broken
into pieces of such a size that they will pass through a ring two and a
half inches in diameter, and as nearly of the same dimensions as pos-
sible, uniformity being of great importance.

The road having been properly graded, with a slope to both sides as
before described, the broken stone must be laid upon it to a depth of
from ten to twenty inches, watered a little if the weather is dry, and
the traffic of the road permitted to come upon it.’ It should be kept
lean, the practice of scattering earth over the surface being especially
pernicious, since it prevents the stones from binding well together. .A
better and quicker method of causing the stones to bind together is to
roll the road with a heavy iron roller, but of course it is more trouble-
some and expensive than merely permitting the travel to do it.

In the neighborhood of cities especially, where there is much pleasure
travel, it may sometimes be a good plan to stone the middle of the road
only for a width of about sixteen feet, and leave a soft summer road of
clay on each side.

The preparation of the road bed to receive this coating of broken
stone, has been the subject of discussion between two eminent road-
makers in England—Telford and McAdam—and opinion is still divided
between the two systems proposed by them, although that of the latter,
having the advantage of less first cost, has been most generally adopted.

Telford, the engineer of the Holyhead road, thought that the stone
should be laid upon a rigid foundation, and he therefore paved his road
bed with thin stones set on edge, and laid the covering on that, con-
134 LECTURE

sidering that the stones would not in that case be forced out of place
into a yielding surface below.

McAdam, on the contrary, contended that the road covering thus
placed between the wheels and the unyielding pavement would be
rapidly ground to pieces, and that an elastic substratum is necessary to
prevent such an action ; he, consequently, laid his road covering upon
the natural soil. Experience has not shown any great difference in
practice, although where first cost is no object, the Telford method is
perhaps somewhat preferable.

On all stone roads careful attention must be paid to the repairs. The
usual way in this country of letting a road get into a bad condition,
and then undertaking general repairs, being much to be condemned.
The only proper way of keeping a road in good order is by a system of
constant repairs; the moment that a rut or a depression is observed,
the stones in and around it should be loosened with a pick, and enough
fresh stone should be put into it to bring it slightly above the proper’
level, the traffic soon smoothing it down. It is absurd to attempt to
mend a road by pouring stone into a deep hollow with smooth hard
sides, the stones having nothing to bind to; and when they become
wet, they grind each other under the wheels into round pebbles, which
never can be made to hold together.

No loose stones should be permitted to remain on the surface, where
they are exceedingly mischievous, but they should be either promptly
put back into the holes from which they came, or thrown on the stone
heaps out of the way. Such a supervision and maintenance of the road
will be found far more economical and satisfactory than any spasmodic
method of repairs can possibly be.

A difficult engineering problem has always been to find a good
material for city streets. While macadamized roads are admirably
suited to the country, they are objectionable in town on account of the
dusty or muddy condition into which they invariably fall. Cobble stone
and broken stone pavements, as usually laid, are noisy and apt to get
out of repair. Those of cut stone, generally known in this country as
the Russ pavements, made of cubical blocks, are, perhaps, the worst
that have been yet tried; slippery, expensive, and most difficult to
repair. It is true that the tractile force required upon them is small,
owing to their smooth surface; but this is nearly if not quite counter-.
balanced by the extreme difficulty with which the draught animal moves
upon it. Any horseman who has ridden over such a pavement, must
have noticed that the animal moves as uncomfortably upon it as a
pedestrian upon smooth ice, and great fatigue is the consequence of
his endeavors to keep his footing, to say nothing of the absolute acci-
dents which constantly happen from falls.

* In the cities of Italy, (Florence, for example,) which are paved with
larger blocks of smooth hard stone, no rider thinks of mounting his
horse at his door, but has him led to the city gates to avoid the danger
‘of a fall; and in such streets the carriage horses fall down and get up,
as a matter of course, probably not suffering as much as we might sup-
pose, since they know how to fall gently from long practice.

Iron, cast into various forms, has been tried, but has not come into:
general use, owing partly to its expense.
ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS. 135

Probably a pavement made of small flat cobble stones, carefully
picked and properly set on edge, in a bed of concrete or beton, would
be found to be the most satisfactory pavement, until we get some
arrangement of iron which will serve a better purpose.

Asphalte, a sort of mineral tar, which is found in various localities,
has been used with very great success in Paris and in other European
cities. It has been employed to a small extent with us, but has not
met with so much favor as it deserves, probably owing to the imper-
fect manner in which it has been apphed.

The asphalte should be melted and mixed with about one half its
weight of small clean gravel, and while hot poured upon the surface
prepared to receive it, immediately sprinkled with a little sand, and
smoothed off with a flat wooden patter or paddle. The mistake which
is frequently made in laying it is in providing a hard unyielding sur-
face, such as a cobble-stone or brick pavement, on which it is soon worn
out. A smooth surface of gravel or sand should be prepared to receive
it, or if a more rigid foundation should be required, concrete carefully
rammed and smoothed off may be used. When finished, an asphalte
pavement presents a smooth, partly elastic, surface, almost lke that
of hard India rubber, or of oil cloth, over which the feet of the horses
and the wheels of the carriages move almost noiselessly. It presentsa
continuous surface without openings and cracks, and being waterproof,
is admirably adapted for roadways, or for coverings over stone bridges,
for which purpose it has been extensively used.

In Paris the sidewalks are almost all made of it, and in front of the
Merchants’ Exchange, and several of the theatres, where the noise of
passing vehicles would be objectionable, the middle of the street is
covered with it. It has also been used in France with considerable
success on common roads. Its cost, and a tendency to soften under the
intense heat of the summer sun, are the principal objections to its
general use. For the pavements of court yards and stables it 1s supe-
rior to any other material.

A few years ago it was supposed that plank roads, especially in
wooded countries, would be found to be very cheap and satisfactory.
In many localities they have been used with great success, although
the opinion is gaining ground among engineers that they are inferior
in every way to good gravel roads, provided that that material can be
obtained at any reasonable price. They are usually made by laying
two longitudinal sills of timber about six inches square four feet eight
inches apart, filling up carefully with earth to their upper surfaces,
and then laying three-inch plank of any width upon them. The gen-
eral practice is now to lay them at right angles to the line of the road,
and not to spike them. Every fifth or sixth plank has its end pushed.
out a few inches on alternate sides to make it easy to bring a wagon
back on to the planks if it runs off.
THIRD LECTURE.

BRIDGES—BEAMS.

Bridges are the structures used by the engineer to carry a road over
streams or dry ravines. They are necessarily structures, with open-
ings beneath, of greater or less size, and portions of them at least
myst be adapted to carry a load over a space. The solidity of such
structures depends upon the cohesion of the materials composing them,
or, in other words, upon the strength of the materials, their resistance
to compression or extension. When we extend a piece of any material,
we draw the particles of it further apart than they are in the normal
condition ; and when we crush it, we force them into closer contact.
These are direct strains, and can be readily made the subjects of experi-
ment. To determine the tensile strength of wrought-iron, we have
only to prepare a rod of any known section—say one square inch—and
fastening it by one end in a vertical position, hang weights to the
other end untilit gives way. In this case all the fibres in it are equally
subjected to the strain, and if we double the section, we may double
the weight which it carried before. The strength is directly propor-
tional to the section, and the calculations for any weight are of the
simplest nature. The same remarks apply to the crushing weight
determined by subjecting a cube of the material of known section to
the action of a weight tending to crush it directly.

When, however, we come to the consideration of the strength of
materials in other forms, and in positions where the direction of the
force does not coincide with the axis of symmetry, we shall find that the
investigations become much more complicated, and that direct experi-
ments must be applied through some general law to special cases.

The most natural way to span an opening of moderate width is evi-
dently to throw across it a beam of such length that its extremities
will rest upon the sides of the opening. The rudest bridge is a tree
felled so as to lie across a stream. Now, in a beam in this position,
and of equal size throughout, we shall find that the fracture, from too
great a load distributed over it, will be in the middle; and that if the
section of the fracture be examined, it will give evidence of different
kinds of forces having been in action at that point.

It is, perhaps, simpler in the beginning to consider half of the beam,
and to determine what are the strains which are caused by the appli-
cation of a load.

If we have a beam firmly fixed at one end in
an unyielding wall, and loaded at the other
end as in Fig. 10, we will find it first bend as
in Fig. 11; and then, as the load is increased,
break at or near the point of support A C.

Fig. 10. Galileo, who investigated this, noticed that,

BRIDGES—BEAMS. 13%

in order to change its shape, as in Fig. 11, the
side A B must become longer than C D, and he
supposed that all the fibres above C D were
extended by the action of the weight, and that
the tensile strength of the material was alone
called into action.

Itis evident, upon reflection, however, that
if the material is at all compressible, that the
fibres along C D, in the giving way, will be compressed. Mariotte
first suggested this, but very vaguely. James Bernoulli afterwards
examined the subject, and pointed out the fact clearly, and indicated
the position of the neutral axis.

If in the Figs. 10 and 11 the upper fibres are extended, and the lower
ones compressed, there will evidently be a line along which the parti-
cles will suffer neither extension or compression ; and this line is
called the neutral axis.

If the material is able to resist compression and extension equally
well, the neutral axis will bein the middle. If it is readily extended,
and resists compression, the neutral exis will be near to the compressed
side, and vice versa. As before stated, the beam will bend before it
breaks, and the amount of this bending is important, partly because
in many structures great stiffness is necessary, and we should know
how to attain it, and partly because it is found that any bending after
a certain amount, is injurious to the beam, although the weight applied
may not have been sufficient to break it at the time.

The distance that the point of the beam sinks below the horizontal
line is called the deflection, and it can only be determined by experi-
ment upon the different materials, although we may deduce the general
laws which govern it.

The formula by which the law of deflection is expressed, is as follows:

Fig. 11.

Where D is the deflection, W the weight, 7 the length of the beam,
b the breadth, and d the depth, ¢ is a constant, determined by ex-
periment.

That the deflection should be directly as the weight, that is, that if
we double the weight we will double the deflection, need hardly be
demonstrated.

That the deflection is as the cube of the length is not quite so
obvious. We must remember that the effect of any force or weight
does not depend simply upon its amount, but also upon the distance
of the point of application from the fixed point, upon its leverage, or,
as it is properly called in mechanics, its moment. Now, when we in-
crease the length of the beam, the weight remaining the same, we in-
crease the moment of the weight, and therefore its deflecting power;
the length, therefore, comes into the expression in that way, once.

Again, as the extension of the upper side is due to the increased
distance between the particles with any particular strain, if there are
more particles there will be greater extension, and so/ comes again
into the expression. Lastly, the angle of the deflection being the
138 LECTURE

same, the actual deflection increases with the length, and so it comes
in again, giving us 7°.

In the denominator of the fraction, the deflection with the same
weight will be diminished as the breadth is increased, simply because
there will be more material to resist, disposed in exactly the same
position as before; but when we increase the depth we diminish the
deflection, not only by adding material, (d,) but by adding it at a
greater distance from the neutral axis, so that it acts with a greater
moment to resist the separating action of the weight. Thirdly. The
amount of separation of the particles at the surface being the same,
the deflection will be less as the depth is increased, owing to the angle
of deflection being smaller; therefore, the deflection will be inversely,
as d°. Although we have only considered the upper surface, the same
reasoning will apply to the compressed side.

The strength of the beam will also depend upon its proportions, but
not exactly in the same way. It may be thus expressed :

b d?

Streneth) ——¢
rength =e 7,

It will evidently depend directly upon the breadth or the amount of
material; and if we increase the depth we not only add material, but
we add it at such points, far from the neutral axis, that it will have a
greater moment, and therefore give us that advantage also, whence we
have d?, .

In the denominator, the strength will be inversely as the length,
since increase of length will give the weight additional moment, and
it will be less as the weight increases, obviously.

The angular deflection, which gave us one / and one d, and the in-
creased number of particles, which gave us another J, in the first ex-
pression, do not come into this one at all, as a careful consideration of
the subject will show.

Again, since the tendency to break at any point with a weight, in-
creases with the distance of the weight from that point, such a beam
will break at the wall, and if it is strong enough there, it is unneces-
sarily strong at all other points of its length, and we may econom-
ically taper it off to the end in the forms shown in Figs. 12 and 13,

Fig. 12 Fig. 13.

where Fig. 12 is a beam loaded with a weight uniformly distributed,
and Fig. 13 one loaded at the end, the under side in this case having
the form of a parabola.

In engineering structures, such beams supported only at one end do
not frequently occur, and we must, therefore, consider how our expres-
sions already deduced, must be changed to apply to beams supported at
both ends and loaded in the middle. Such a beam may be considered
as fastened in the middle and acted upon by two forces, acting upwards
at its two ends.
‘ON BRIDGES—BEAMS. 139

In this case the lower side will be extended and the upper side com-
pressed, as in Fig. 14.

Fig. 14.

We found that while, if we added material to a beam, so as to increase
its breadth, we only gained so much strength as was due to the greater
number of particles; if we added to the depth we not only increased
the number of particles, but also their moment, and thus gained a
double advantage.

We should, therefore, in designing a beam, make it’as deep and as
thin as is practically possible, if we wish to economise material. The
importance of this may be tested by comparing the stiffness and strength
of an ordinary joist when laid on its side or on its edge across an
opening.

Now, we cannot in practice reduce the breadth beyond a certain
limit, since our beam would twist and fail from that cause, but, since
the advantage is gained by disposing the material at a distance from
the neutral axis, we may make our beam with a flange at the top and
bottom, which will insure that result and give lateral stiffness at the
same time.

Fig. 15 shows the cross section of a beam so made.
The material in the flanges A B and C D acts with a
moment due to its distance from the neutral axis G,
and the material in the web, as it is called, serves
merely to keep the flanges together.

In a beam made to bear pressure equally from all
sides as a straw, the material may be entirely withdrawn from the
centre and disposed in a circle around the neutral axis, forming a
tube or pipe, which is much stronger than it would be if the same
amount of material composing it were disposed in a solid cylinder.

If the material of the beam resists extension and compression equally
well, the two flanges should be of the same size, but if not, they must
be unequal, to give each the share of the strain which it can bear.

Thus, a cast-iron beam with equal flanges will break always upon
the lower or extended side, since the material resists com-
pression well but extension badly; and Mr. Eaton Hodg-
kinson, who experimented largely on beams, succeeded, by
gradually increasing the lower flange, in making one
which was equally strong at the top and bottom. In this
the bottom flange had six times the area of the upper one,
(see Fig. 16,) and this is the form now adopted for cast-iron
beams. :

On the other hand, wrought iron does not resist a compressive strain
as well as it does one of extension, and in a beam of this material the
He flange should have an area nearly twice that of the bottom

ange.

140 LECTURE

In later examples of wrought iron beams rolled in one piece, the two
flanges are made of the same size, to avoid warping in cooling, but in
beams made of pieces riveted together, this proportion should be
observed.

A wrought-iron beam may be modified in another way.
It is sometimes advisable to divide the web into two plates,
putting one on each side, as in Fig. 17, and then we have
the box form, identical in principle with the usual form,
but in some cases more convenient to manufacture, and
possessing more lateral stiffness.

The flanges themselves may be made of several parts, and made
even tubular, as we shall see in the description of the Britannia bridge
in a succeeding lecture.

So far we have only considered cases in which the web is a solid
plate, but it will frequently be desirable, and often necessary, to make
the web of pieces, or to frame it; if we use wood this can hardly be
avoided.

We must be able to arrange the parts in such a way as to insure
strength and stiffness, with economy of material, for we shall thus not
only save in first cost, but relieve the structure of much dead weight
of material which would only load it to its injury.

In using any material in the form of rods or posts we must endeavor
to direct the strain through the axis of the piece, since all material
bears a direct strain of compression or extension better than any
other.

If a piece of timber projecting from a wall, as A B,
in Fig. 18, is to be strengthened so as to support a
weight, W, we can best do it by putting an inclined
piece under it, with its lower end, C, fastened firmly in
the wall. Now the triangle is the only straight sided
figure, the angles of which cannot be altered without
changing the length of the sides, and the point D can-
Fig. 18. not sink unless A draws out of the wall, or C D be-
comes shorter, since we have supposed the end, C, to be
immovable.

If it should not be convenient to place a brace
under the beam, we may supstitute for it a tie or ten-
sion rod above it, as in Fig. 19; this tie will be sub-
jected to a tensile strain only, and may therefore be
a rod of wrought iron, or even a rope or chain.

If we have, therefore, to construct a simple bridge
over a stream, the width of which is too great to
permit us to use a single beam, which would deflect

‘too much, or perhaps break, we may

w z shorten the actual span of the beam

by introducing braces or struts, as in
Fig. 20, where the clear span of the
y beam is reduced, from A B to C D, the
points Cand D being firmly supported

YA

YL

Y
Oa

tj
Uti

Y

Fig. 20.

by C Eand D F.
If, for any reason, it is not convenient to have such framing wader

«
ON BRIDGES—BEAMS. 141

the bridge, we can put it above by a simple change, as in Fig. 21,
where the point C is firmly fixed by
the braces A C and C B, and there- Cc
fore the centre point of the beam, A
D, may be suspended from C by the
tie rod C D, thus changing the long
span, A B, into two short ones, A D
and D B.

Again, if we find that A C and C B are so long as to be too flexi-
ble, we may support their center points by
additional braces, D E and DF, Fig. 22; Bt i
thus firmly fixing the points E and fF, and et
should A D and D B te too weak they can Na.
be supported from the fixed points H and “ e H e
F by tie rods EK Gand F H. So we arrive
by this simple process at a form which is comparatively complex.

If it is desirable to make use of a material like wrought iron for
stiffening, since it is peculiarly adapted to bear tensile strain, we may
make use of it in a most economical : F

manner. In Fig. 23 we have a beam, :

A B, trussed, as it is termed, by the age, \ T=

iron rod, A DB, which passes under "D

a post or strut, C D; now it will be im- esta
possible, when all the parts are tight, for the point C to sink without
the lines A D and B D becoming longer. Since the strain upon the
tie in this case is a direct tensile strain each fibre will be made to bear
its share of the load, and it will be a very economical mode of using
our material. We may modify this in such a way as to show that
the strain upon such a tie is precisely the same as on the lower edge
of a beam.

Let us suppose, in Fig. 24, that the strut 4 B
is made so short as to disappear, and permit SSS
the rod to touch the beam throughout its Fig. 24.
whole length, it will still act as the tie in
Fig. 23, but with diminished effect, owing to its being nearer to the
neutral axis, and the moment of the resistance of its fibres being
therefore less.

This mode of strengthening a beam issome- [———___]._ _——_ ]
times resorted to in carpentry; but that shown Pig. 25.
in Fig. 23 or Fig. 25 is preferable.

If the distance between A C to C B, in Fig. 28, is so great as to
cause flexure of those parts of the
beam, we may truss them again
by an intermediate strut and tie,
as in Fig. 26, in which the points
EK and I are supported in this
way.

Many roofs are constructed on this plan, and up to very large spans
it is the most simple and economical arrangement of wood and iron
that can be made for the purpose. .

Since, in a roof, the principal rafters are inclined, we shall have the

Fig. 21.

D
Fig. 22.

142 LECTURE

arrangement shown in Fig. 27, in which the tie A C is added, to pre-
vent the roof from spreading and pushing out the walls.

B

Fig. 27.

There are"innumerable forms of roofs, some entirely of wood, others
entirely of iron, others mixed, which take different forms, as the braces
are made either to resist compression or extension, for, as we have seen
in Figs. 18 and 19, we may always substitute for a tensible brace one
which acts as a strut. All well designed roof trusses will, however,
bear the test of an analysis, based on the principles just enunciated.

One more example may be given in which this simple form of truss
is extended to adapt it to the heaviest bridges with great success.

The iron bridges on the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and else-
where, known as Bollman’s bridges, are made, as shown in Fig. 28,
where the struts ed ef g hi, and the tie rods belonging to them, sup-
port the beam A B at these points.

In an improvement by Fink, shown in Fig. 29,the tie rods on each
side of each strut are of the same length, and therefore equally effected
by changes of temperature, which is an important matter, since in
Fig. 28 the struts near the ends are subjected to side strains from the
unequal changes of length of the rods. This arrangement of Fink’s
permits, moreover, the use of much lighter tie rods for the lesser parts
of the system, as indicated in the figure, and no more material is there-
fore used than is absolutely necessary.

“LL

Fig. 29.
ON BRIDGES—BEAMS. 143

FOURTH LECTURE.

BRIDGES AND BEAMS.

[ConTINvED. ]

The forms of triangular framing that we have noticed are not suited
to all cases, and we return to the double-flanged beam, and consider
its application to long spans.

There are certain limits which cannot be passed in making beams
in a single piece, and recourse must be had to some arrangement of
connected pieces, which will be economical and effective. If we use
boiler plate we may make a composite beam of the same
form as the simple ones already described, as in Fig. 30, =zgqyzz
the web being still a thin flat plate, and the flanges being a
formed by riveting angle irons to it. In cast iron this
would be hardly practicable, owing to the difficulty of cast-
ing a thin plate of any great size. In wood it would be |
entirely impracticable with any regard to economy of mate- 22.3
rial.

As stated before, the web may be separated into two plates,
and the flanges made cellular ; but we may go further, and, retaining
the flanges, connect them by an open web, in which the material shall
be so disposed as to resist strains under the best possible conditions.

In a beam thus made, we have atop and bottom chord or flange,
connected by pieces of timber reaching from one to the other. If
these pieces or posts are disposed, as in Fig. 31, they will not serve to

e
Heil
a b

Fig. 31. Fig. 32.

connect the chords properly, since a weight applied will cause the
structure to deflect, as in Fig. 32, the posts merely transmitting a
portion of the strain to the lower chord, and the whole system having
no more strength than it would have possessed had the posts been
omitted, and the beam made of depth equal to the sum of that of the
two chords, while we desire to take advantage of the distance between
the chords to give greatly increased stiffness and strength.

The shape of the spaces or bays is evidently altered by the deflec-
tion in Fig. 32 from rectangles, asin Fig. 31, to rhomboids, the two
diagonals of which are not equal. Now the rectangle a b ¢ d cannot
change into the rhomboid a! b! ¢ d’, without ¢ b becoming shorter, and
adlonger. It, therefore, we can prevent such change of length, we
can preserve the shape of the figure, and prevent the sinking of the
144 LECTURE
point b. To do this we may either introduce a strut, ¢ b, or a tie, a d,as

in Figs. 18 and 19. If we use a strut or wooden brace, we shall have
the arrangement shown in Fig. 33.

AAA NS

Fig. 33.

In this arrangement the beam cannot assume the shape shown in
Fig. 32, without its diagonals becoming shorter; and since the braces
are in the most favorable position for resisting—that is, with the
strain acting in the direction of their length—a small amount of mate-
rial will do a great deal of work. If it is desirable to use an iron tie
instead of a wooden brace, we shall have the form shown in Fig. 34.

NNW

Fig. 34.

For any beam or truss, which is only intended to bear a constant
and quiet weight, this bracing is sufficient, but if the load is variable
and passing, as in the case of a railroad bridge, something more is
needed.

In a structure of considerable length, the effect of the load at any
point between the centre and the end will be to cause a rise of the cor-
responding point on the other side of the centre ; and since the braces
are not calculated to prevent such a rise, oscillations will take place
which may soon destroy the structure. Such arise at any point can
only take place by a change in the shape of the rectangle; and if,
therefore, we introduce another brace in the direction of the other
diagonal, we shall prevent change of figure in either direction.

DDSx

= OE
Fig. Jo.

In Fig. 35 we have such an arrangement. Such braces are called
counter braces, and since the strain upon them is a secondary one, and
always small, they may be made much lighter than the main braces.

A little consideration will show that ties may be substituted for
struts in a variety of ways, and vice versa. For instance, in Fig. 33,
the addition of ties running in the same diagonal as the struts will
counter brace the truss, and in Fig. 34, the counter braces may be
light struts in the same diagonal as the ties. Again, we may do all
the bracing by ties, as in Fig, 35, or we may use struts for both braces,
ON BRIDGES—BEAMS. 145

and put vertical ties in the place of the posts, the resistance of both
sets of braces serving the purpose of the posts.

We must always bear the principle, however, carefully in mind, and
not make the mistake of causing a strut to be exposed to a tensile
strain, or a tie to a strain of compression.

It will be seen in Figs. 33 and 34 that the braces are always dis-
posed to support a weight at the central point of the truss, and it is
evident that if we cut a girder of this sort into two pieces, they will
not serve as two shorter beams, since in each one half of the braces
will be in the wrong diagonal of the rectangles. Although this seems
simple enough, it is sometimes not understood in practice. In the
lecturer’s practice he has seen an iron roof which was in such a posi-
tion that it could only be sloped one way; that is, it was a lean-to
roof, and the builder had copied one half of a very good iron roof truss
for his half span, the consequence being that the tie rods near the
high side of the roof became struts, and being too flexible to resist.a
a compressive strain they gave way under a weight of snow, and the
roof sank in.

The story is also told of a certain double-pitched roof of an English
railway station, that, during the absence of the chief engineer of the
road, some wise man connected with the management proposed to
strengthen it by putting a row of columns under it down the centre.
His advice was adopted, and in the act of wedging the columns up to
sustain the weight the roof fell in, much to the astonishment of the
sagacious designer.

It is evident that by means of the braces and ties we have consid-
erable control over the form of the beam, even after it is up, and it is
usual to give a bridge a shght cumber or curvature upwards, to insure
that it shall not settle in time or under a passing load below the hori-
zontal line. For this reason iron ties in at least one direction are
convenient, since the screws and nuts by which they are fastened pro-
vide a simple means of adjustment, while the wedges that must be
used in a structure entirely of wood are less easily managed.

Care must be taken in designing a beam that there is no more
material used than is necessary, such excess being worse than a waste,
since it increases the load which the beam has to bear.

Dr. Young called attention to the fact that, besides the tensional
strain below the neutral surface and the compressive strain above it,
there was a vertical strain existing near the ends, and diminishing
towards the middle, which he called the shearing strain. The weight
of the beam tends to shear off the fibres immediately over the point of
support just aS a bar of metal is cut ina shearing machine. Before
this was understood, engineers were astonished to find that bridges,
the parts of which had been carefully calculated, sometimes failed near
the abutments while retaining their form towards the centre, and now
the posts and braces are made stronger near the abutments, or addi-
tional struts, called arch braces, are inserted. In cast-iron beams
with a plate web, it is proper to thicken the web near the points of
support to resist this strain.

Care must be taken in deciding upon the proportions of the posts
and braces that their section is not only great enough to enable them

10
146 LECTURE

to resist the direct crushing strain, but that it is sufficiently great,
compared with their length, to avoid a sidewise flexure and conse-
quent failure. Hodgkinson, in his elaborate experiments, has shown
that, in practice, when the length of a post is less than thirty times
its diameter it is not apt to break without it is absolutely crushed; but
in such cases the ends should be square and well fitted, and the strain
should be central, and not on one side. Posts with rounded ends are
much weaker than those with flat ones.

When a post, subjected to an axial crushing strain, is inclined, as
in the case of a main brace in a bridge truss, we must bear in mind
that its deflection from its own weight will tend to weaken it as a
strut, since it commences the flexure to the side which is the ultimate
cause of the failure of a strut. For this reason, if the cross section of
such a strut is not a square, and if the length is at all great, the
sreatest side of the cross section should be vertical, as in the case of a
beam or joist. Ifa timber strut seems to be too flexible it may be
much stiffened without adding much to its weight by spiking to the
upper or-lower side a jim of narrow plank, deep in the middle and
tapering off towards the ends.

Cast-iron struts should either be tubular or have a cruciform
section, as in Fig. 36, so that the material being disposed at
the greatest distance from the neutral axis may act with the
greatest effect in preventing what we may call the initial

flexure. Wrought iron may be used in both these forms with great
economy of material, a piece of ordinary gas pipe forming the best of
struts, and the cruciform section being readily got in the rolls of the
mill. In fact these remarks apply to all pieces subjected to a com-
pressive strain, such as posts, struts, and the upper chords of framed
beams or bridges, the tubular or the cruciform section being necessary
where economy of material and lightness of the structure are desired.

Since, in practice, it is not always convenient or possible to span a
chasm by one single beam, intermediate supports (piers) must be made
use of, and, in an iron structure at least, advantage may be taken of
them to assist in relieving the strain at other points of the beam
beside those immediately over them. If the spaces are spanned by
unconnected beams, as in Fig. 37, each one will act independently, as

Fig. 36.

A B C - D
A a. :
Zi 2 Y), TZ

Fig. 37.

there shown, but if the whole beam is continuous, as in Fig. 38, it
will behave differently.

Vy
x

WW
N

YS
W
\S

Hy

Fig. 38.

If, by any means, in Fig. 37, we were to raise the middle points of
the deflecting beams into a straight line the triangular spaces between
ON BRIDGES—DEAMS, 147

their ends would close up, and the upper edges would touch. Now if,
when in this condition, we unite in any firm way these upper edges,
when we take away the support from below, the beams cannot sink to
their original position, since the triangular spaces cannot open, and
the tensional strain thus brought upon the upper edge over the pier
will tend to neutralize the compressive strain always. existing on the
upper edge ofa beam. In a wrought-iron structure this may be very
easily done by raising the ends A and C until the gap at B is closed,
and then riveting the upper plates together. Upon letting the ends
A and C down again the deflection between them is diminished.
This was most successfully done in the case of the great Britannia
‘Bridget (:

Professor Gillespie has determined that with a flexible beam on
three supports, each support bears the portion of a uniformly distrib-
uted load indicated by the fractions in Fig. 39, and on four supports
as in Vig. 40.

Fig. 40.

It is evident that a flexible beam with a uniformly distributed load
may be so placed on four supports that two of them will not bear any
part of the weight, as in Vig. 41.

Fig. 41.

A few words upon the practical considerations involved in the use
of iron in engineering structures, will not, perhaps, be amiss. In
this country where timber is abundant, and labor and carriage dear,
wood has been used to a great extent for bridges, and when iron has
been resorted to, wrought has usually been preferred. In England,
however, where the engineering taste is decidedly for the ponderous,
cast iron has been used to a considerable extent, and ample opportu-
nity has been afforded for a comparison of its merits with those of
wrought iron.

Cast iron is crystalline, hard, brittle, and non-elastic ; it bears a
crushing strain up to from 80,000 to 100,000 pounds per square inch,
and a tensile strain of about 15,000 pounds.*

Its principle advantage is the ease with which it can be cast into
‘any required form, and for heavy masses, or for pieces of nearly equal

*Eaton Hodgkinson.
148 LECTURE

dimensions each way, or for posts subjected only to a statical strain, it
is admirably adapted. For beams, or portions of beams, especially
where it will be subjected to varying strains, to vibrations, ‘and to the
action of intense cold, it should be used with extreme caution.

When a single casting has some portions much thicker than others,
most dangerous strains are induced by unequal cooling and contrac-
tion; parts being in this way subjected to tensions, which a small
added load will render sufficient to cause total destruction of the cast-
ing. Square corners and square openings in a casting are peculiarly
dangerous in this respect, and should be most carefully avoided.
Again, i in a casting which is somewhat irregular, bubbles of air are
apt to be entangled, and they cause holes or flaws, which frequently
cannot be detected on the outside, even by the aid of the hammer.
The iron being deficient at these points in the cross section, weakness
is the result. ,

Under a sharp sudden blow cast iron breaks instead of bending,
and great cold seems to render it brittle.

Wrought iron, either hammered or rolled, is tough, elastic, and
homogeneous, and resists sudden blows and vibrations much better
than cast. It bears a crushing strain up to 60,000 pounds per square
inch, and a tensile strain of about the same.

In practice it has been found necessary to give the upper flange about
twice the area of the lower one, since a thin wrought-iron flange, being
soft, yields by buckling, although its resistance. to compr ession per
square inch of section, is nearly “equal to, or, perhaps, a little greater
than its resistance to extension. As I have elsewhere stated, “beams
are now rolled in this country in one piece, with the two flanges of equal
areas, and with care in proportioning them, this is an economical
form.

Since wrought iron is brought to its form by hammering or rolling,
there can be no flaws in it from air bubbles or similar causes, except
in the very rare case of some foreign matter being inclosed by accident
in the mass. For the same streneth as a beam it has less than half
the weight of cast iron, an important consideration in very large struc-
tures, of the foundations of which the slightest suspicions are enter-
tained.

Its superior elasticity enables it to resist sudden shocks, or the
strains caused by the unequal settling of adjacent parts, and its tough-
ness, enables us to make fastenings to resist a tensional strain with
great facility.

Fairbairn has shown that, at English prices, a wrought-iron beam,
to sustain a given weight, can be made for nearly the same price as
one of cast iron, with the advantage of much less weight. His state-
ment is as follows:

Cast-iron beam, 31 feet 6 inches long, 22 inches deep, weighs 4,480

POMING Saree Hee 250. EE Pe Meas ae ne a te $65 00
Wrought-iron beams, 31 feet 6 inches long, 22 inches deep,
weighs 1,834 pounds A Ma 1 PERNA Meal $65 50

To bear a weight of 25.5 tons in middle, or 55 tons distributed uni-
ON BRIDGES—BEAMS. 149

formly over it. Ifa great number of such beams were to be raised to
a considerable height, the small difference would probably be in favor
of the wrought iron.

In cases therefore where a portion of the structure is much elevated,
where it is desirable to reduce the load on the foundations, and espe-
cially where wrought iron, in its simpler forms, as in tubes, bars, rods,
and plates, can be used, this material is entitled to a decided prefer-
ence over cast metal, and it will undoubtedly come gradually in gen-
eral use.

The most interesting case of a large wrought-iron beam, in a scien-
tific point of view, which we have on record, is that of the Britannia
Tubular Bridge, built over the Menai straits, for the Chester and
Holyhead railway, in 1849, by Robert Stephenson, C. E.

Certain restrictions imposed by the Admiralty upon the construc-
tion of a bridge over this strait, induced Mr. Stephenson to decide
upon some form of beam which could be built on the shore, and then
raised into its place at an elevation of over one hundred feet—an ope-
ration which will be referred to in a succeeding lecture. The span of
the longest beam was to be 460 feet.

At that time Mr. Stephenson, in common with the rest of the pro-
fession in England, considered the suspension bridge as a structure
entirely unsuited for railway purposes, and he was therefore required
to devise a bridge necessarily different from any existing examples.
After having abandoned the idea of a cast-iron arched bridge of pecu-
lar construction, he supposed that a wrought-iron hollow beam or
tube might be made, supported by chains at the central point, and he
called to his aid Mr..William Fairbairn, an engineer already much
distinguished for his various experiments on materials of construction.

Mr. Fairbairn undertook at once an extended series of experimental
investigations, beginning with the circular and elliptical tubes sug-
gested by Mr. Stephenson.

Although direct experiment on small pieces had shown, as already
stated, that the resistance of wrought iron to compression was about
the same as to extension, these experiments soon showed that the
upper surface of the beams failed first, from a buckling or crimping of
the iron, owing to its flexibility, and pointed out the necessity for an
increase of material in the top.

In short, a large number of experiments induced
Mr. Fairbairn to recommend the form of beam af-
terwards adopted ; a section of which is shown in
Fig. 42, where the material in the upper side bears
to that in the lower the proportion of 565 to 500,
and is so disposed to resist the crushing strain to
the best advantage. The cells or divisions shown
in the figure are made by introducing vertical iron
plates, and riveting to the horizontal plates through
angle irons in the corners, thus forming an upper
flange; which, as shown by the experiments, would
bear, without buckling, a strain approaching to the
experimental crushing strain of wrought iron.

The bottom of the bridge, since it resists only a

150 LECTURE ON BRIDGES—BEAMS.

direct tensile strain, or acts as a chain, need not be cellular ; and, ina
later example, by the same engineer—the Victoria bridge over the St.
Lawrence river—the bottom is composed of plates riveted closely upon
each other without cells, and the cells of the top are replaced by ver-
tical fins, which serve the same purpose.

In the Britannia beam the sides are quite thin, serving only to con-
nect the upper and lower flanges, and they are stiffened by fins of T
iron riveted vertically over the joints. Near the ends of the beam the
sides are additionally strengthened to provide against the shearing
strain.

To avoid change of figure laterally by the action of the wind, tri-
angular plates are fixed at the top and bottom, as shown in the figure.
Further details in regard to this beam, and the description of the man-
ner of raising it, will be given in the next lecture.

[The remainder of the lectures of this course will be given in the
appendix to the next annual report. |
LECTURES

ON

MOLLUSCA; OR “SHELL-FISH” AND THEIR ALLIES.

PREPARED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
BY PHILIP P. CARPENTER, B. A., Ph. D.,

OF WARRINGTON, ENGLAND.

Who has not admired the beauty of shells?—the rich luster of the
Cowries; the glossy polish of the Olives; the brilliant painting of the
Cones; the varied layers of the Cameos; the exquisite nacre of Mother-
of-pearl? Who has not listened to the mysterious ‘‘sound of the sea’’
in the Whelks and Helmets, or wondered at the many chambers of the
Nautilus? What child ever went to the sea shore without picking up
shells; or what lady ever spurned them as ornaments of her parlor?
Shells are at once the attraction of the untutored savage, the delight
of the refined artist, the wonder of the philosophic zoologist, and the
most valued treasures of the geologist. They adorn the sands of sea-
girt isles and continents now; and they form the earliest ‘‘ footprints
of the sands of time’ in the history of our globe. The astronomer,
wandering through boundless space with the grandest researches of his
intellect, and the most subtle workings of his analysis, may imagine,
indeed, the history of past time and speculate on the formation of
globes; but his science presents us with no records of the past. But
the geologist, after watching the ebb of the ocean tide, examines into
the soil on the surface of the earth and finds in it a book of chronicles,
the letters of which are not unknown hieroglyphics, but familiar shells.
He writes the history of each species, antedating by millions of years
the first appearance of man upon this planet, the abrasion of the Mis-
sissippi Valley, or the roar of the Niagara at Queenston Heights. He
searches deeper and deeper into the rocky crust of the globe, still find-
ing the same types in older characters. As he climbs the rocks of
Trenton or Montmorenci, he treads on the tide-ripples, the rain drops,
the trails of living creatures in the ancient Silurian sea, which he in-
terprets by the Rosetta Stone of Chelsea Beach or Charleston Harbor ;
and as he reverently unlocks the dark recesses which contain the tradi-
tions of the early ages, between the dead igneous rocks and the oceanic
deposits which entomb the remains of life, the first objects which meet
his gaze are the remains of a thin, horny shell, so like those now
living in the Atlantic and Pacific waters, that the ‘‘footprint’’ enables
him to reconstruct a Brachiopod with delicate ciliated arms and com-
152 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

plex organization, such as is figured in the beautiful works of Owen
and Davidson, from dissections of the existing species.

For be it observed that shells are not things without life, as they are
often taken to be by thoughtless admirers. Nor are they simply the
habitations of ‘‘shell fish,’’ as ordinary observers consider them. It
is common to regard the snail-shell as the house which the creature has
made and carries on its back, having a relation to the animal inhabit-
ant analagous to that of the coccoon to the chrysalis or the nest to the
bird. Even viewed in this light, shells would be most interesting ob-
jects of study; representing the different styles of architecture invented
by these insignificant mechanics. Such appears to have been the way
in which the great Linneus regarded them; for he described the ani-
mals under other names than those of the shells. Indeed, he appears
to have considered the houses of far more importance than their inhab-
itants ; for, while he divided the shells into genera and species, he was
content to group all the living inhabitants under five names, saying
in the description of each genus ‘‘ Animal a Clio,”’ &c.* Even in his
error, however, the great Father of Natural History showed his close
discernment; for these five divisions correspond almost exactly to the
classes afterwards prepared by Cuvier, and now generally adopted.

Let it be distinctly understood, therefore, at the outset, that shells
are truly organic structures, part and parcel of the living animal, as
truly as the nails of man, the plumage of birds, the armor of arma-
dilloes and crocodiles, the scales and cartilage of fishes, or the shell of
the sea urchin. They are more truly part of the living inhabitant
than the skin of caterpillars or the shell of crabs, inasmuch as they
are not periodically cast off, but remain, as the hardened skin of the
creature, during its whole period of existence. To collect and arrange
shells, therefore, bears the same relation to science as to collect and
arrange stuffed birds and beasts; in either case we know only a part
of the peculiarities of the animal. The mere museum-student would
not know the porpoise to be a mammal; nor discriminate the manatee
as being an abnormal pachyderm; nor observe the wide separation be-
tween the horse and the hoofed ruminants. So the mere conchologist
would associate the Wendletrap with the top-shells, the nerites with
the Naticas, the Cerithiums with the whelks, &c., not knowing that
the animals are structurally as much unlike as the mammals just
mentioned. It is absurd, therefore, to study shells without examina-
tion of the soft parts of the animals; while, to study the soft parts
alone, without regard to the differences in the shells, would be like
endeavoring to classify the cat-tribe from examination of tigers, pan-
thers, &c., which had been previously skinned.

No one despises a collection of stuffed birds because so few of the
creatures have been dissected; so we ought not to despise the study of
shells because we know so little of their inhabitants. But the bird
skin tells us much more about the bird than does the shell about the
“<shell-fish ;’’? because the shell is the hardened skin only of a portion

*The Linnean Molluscs are Sepia, Limax, Clio, Anomia, and Ascidia. The animal of
Terebratula was not then known.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 153

of the animal, (called the mantle,) the head and foot, and other im-
portant members, not leaving any impress on their unpliant covering.

It is only of late years that enquirers have even attempted to gain
information about the animals of shells. The very beauty of the shell
has contributed to this result. Every sailor could collect shells, and
every lady could lay them on cotton in a drawer; the animal was a
nuisance, liable to rot if not carefully extracted, only to be preserved
in bottles of spirit, and then presenting nothing but a shriveled or
shapeless mass, fit only for the dissector’s knife. Even the figures of
living animals in the works of scientific voyagers are by no means in-
fallible, it being not uncommon to find voracious proboscids figured
with a vegetarian snout, or to see the shell turned the wrong way on
the back of the crawler. When it is remembered that a large pro-
portion of ‘‘shell-fish’’ live in deep water; that even those which
surround our coasts can be but seldom examined in their natural con-
dition ; that very few will breed in confinement, and that travelers are
very seldom able to dissect and examine microscopically, or even to
draw correctly while on their expeditions; we must be content to wait
many years before this branch of natural history is as satisfactorily
established as other branches of popular science.

Let not this, however, deter any one from its pursuit. If we only
collect, arrange, and study shells, we are doing something. We at
least prepare a store of materials for future use. And every one can
examine alive and report upon the shells of his own locality, whether
land, fresh water, or marine. There is not a schoolboy, or a western
farmer, but what may be not merely a learner of what others have
done, but a gainer and teacher of fresh knowledge: while to those who
can engage in scientific travel, there is open a field of original research,
such as but few branches of science have left untrodden. At the present
moment, we cannot agree upon the main divisions of our classification
of shell-fish, for want of knowledge of the animals, habits and food of
some of the commonest shells, which are annually collected by the hun-
dred or the thousand merely for the purposes of trade.

In old days, when every one followed Linnzeus, it was easy to count
whether a shell had one, two, or many valves, and name it, with con-
fidence that its place would not have to be disturbed. In the second
epoch of study, after Cuvier had introduced an approximation to a
natural system, all the world laid aside the artificial method, and
arranged their books and shells according to the system of Lamarck.
But now that we are as much in advance of Lamarck as he was of
Linnzus ; and every fresh animal that is examined may alter our clas-
sification ; we must be content to alter and amend our books with every
succeeding edition, and not allow ourselves to consider anything as
fixed. The arrangement proposed in these pages may serve as an
approximation to the truth, or as a starting point to begin from ;
neither ignoring recent discoveries, nor departing from recognized
facts without better authority than hasty observations.

Another difficulty is much more serious. Most of the early natu-
ralists, and many in our own day, have been in the habit of naming
shells without describing them ; or have described them so loosely that
it is a matter of opinion only what they meant by their words ; or have
154 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

taken no steps to make their works known in other countries. In real,
and even necessary, ignorance of their labors, or in despair of under-
standing them, or purposely ignoring the existence of what was care-
lessly done, the same shells have been named over and over again,
thereby burdening the memory and confusing the young student with
a mass of unnecessary, meaningless, or even barbarous terms. Even
this evil could be borne; for the synonymy could be made out, and
henceforth all but the right name disregarded; if naturalists were
agreed as to the right principles of selection. The absolute law of
priority is followed by some as the most convenient. Others think
that to discard names universally accepted, merely because some ob-
scure amateur published a tract a few years earlier, or some Curator of
a museum wrote his fancy names on the specimens a year in advance,
or an auctioneer named his wares to effect a sale, is to strain a prin-
ciple contrary to the law of use. The British Association for the
advancement of Science issued a series of regulations which were gen-
erally approved, and which were republished by the American Asso-
ciation. But Science is a republic in which the minority refuses to be
ruled by the majority ; and it so happens that the newest authors have
set the Scientific Associations at defiance. Those who have no access
to books naturally follow the newest authorities, especially when these
have deserved well of science by their discoveries. Hence we must
hold our names in abeyance, and wait till better times; taking care
at any rate not to add to the confusion. The limitations of the law of
priority laid down by the British and American Associations appear
however to be sound. A naturalist ought not to want his own name
to appear, even though the first given, if the wide use of another makes
it more convenient for science. Personal considerations ought always
to give way to utility: because the knowledge is the end; the helpers
to the acquisition of that knowledge are only means to that end. And
what of honor the Christian naturalist would not claim for himself,
against the uses of science, he is not bound, for the mere semblance of
Justice, to reserve for others. According to the laws of all civilized
nations, possession of property for a given term of years confers legal
right. A similar statute of limitations for scientific nomenclature
would save a vast amount of time from being frittered away on merely
archeological research, or worse than empty recrimination.

Those who are not deterred by the above statement of difficulties
from the study of shells are recommended to possess themselves of the
following works: ‘* Woodward’s Manual of the Mollusca: London,
John Weale.’’—“ Philippi’s Handbuch der Conchyliologie und Mala-
cozoologie. Halle, 1853.’’—‘‘ Genera of Recent Mollusca by H. & A.
Adams: London, Van Voorst.’’—Dr. J. E. Gray’s ‘‘ Guide to the Sys-
tematic Distribution of Mollusca in the British Museum, London.’’—
Chénu’s ‘‘ Manuel de Conchyliologie et de Paléontologie Conchyliol-
ogique: Paris.”’ These are all cheap books. Woodward’s contains
by far the greatest amount of information in the smallest compass, and
is well illustrated. The work of Philippi has no plates, nor has that
of Gray. The Adams’ figure the animals when known; but, with
Gray, disregard the British Association rules, and upset the familiar
Lamarckian names. Chénu’s work (which, with Gray’s, is still un-
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 155

finished) is for the most part a reproduction of Adams’ Genera with
the addition of fossils ; and is chiefly valuable for its copious and accu-
rate figures of shells illustrating the subgenera. The following pages
are intended simply as an introduction to any of the above works.
Books of older date are necessarily so full of errors that they should
not be studied till after the student has become familiar with the present
means of knowledge.

Shell-making animals have been so little known, that we have no
English word to express them. They are commonly called ‘‘ shell-
Jish,’’ because most of them live in the sea. ‘‘ Fish’’ are, properly
speaking, cold-blooded vertebrates breathing by gills. Itis a strange
assemblage which groups with these the warm-blooded whales ; the
oysters and whelks ; the jointed craw-fish ; and the radiated star-fish.
Just as we have been obliged to import the Latin word mammal, to
include men, whales, bats and tigers, which are all warm-blooded, and
suckle their young; so we must import the word mollusk, to include
snails and slugs, oysters and clams, cuttles and tunicaries ; all of which
agree in having soft bodies without jointed limbs ; the nervous system
being irregularly distributed in knots, or ganglia, the principal of
which surrounds the throat like a collar.

In general shape, they are very dissimilar from each other. Some
have a large head with staring eyes; others are blind and headless.
Some have many feet, others one, while whole classes have no organ
of locomotion whatever. Some are so highly organized that many true
fishes have to confess their inferiority : while some have special organs
so little developed that it is doubtful whether they should be called
degraded mollusks or superior zoophytes.

It is by no means a necessary condition of a mollusk to be shell-
bearing. The lowest tribes have none; in the highest they are only
occasional or rudimentary, or are altogether absent ; the land and sea
slugs are destitute of hard parts; and some even of the bivalves are
almost entirely horny. The name ‘‘shell-fish’”’ therefore, as applied
to the whole group, will have to be given up; because myriads of species
live on land and breathe air, and even the water species are not true
fish ; and because a large proportion of them have no shells.

Mollusks form one of the five great primary divisions of the Animal
Kingdom. They rank side by side with the Articulata, or Jointed
Animals, which include Spiders, Insects, Crabs, Worms, &c. The
Sea-Worms, which have calcareous shells; and the Barnacles which
formed part of the ‘‘ multivalve shells’”’ of Linnzus, but which are now
known to be degraded crabs, used to be considered mollusks, and are
still seen in collections of shells.* Strange as it may seem, these
apathetic creatures have much closer relationship with spiders and
butterflies. The mollusks are specially designed for eating ; the artic-

* The Cirripedes were thought by early naturalists to be the fry of Barnacle Geese. Very
learned descriptions are on record, illustrated by figures accurately representing the author’s
imaginations, showing how the barnacles grew upon trees in the water, and at last came forth
from their shelly eggs as full-flown birds. The reality is scarcely less surprising than the
story: for it is now known that these creatures begin life as an active little crab, with legs,
head and eyes all complete, swimming about in the open sea. Instead of developing how-
156 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

ulates for locomotion. The highest mollusks are superior animals to
the highest articulates ; in both cases the lowest are inferior to many
radiates. It is usual to rank them in parallel groups, thus :—

VERTEBRATA.
MOLLUSCA. ARTICULATA.
« RavIiata.
PROTOZOA.

The Verteprates include Mammals, Birds, Reptiles, Amphibians,
and Fishes,

The Raprates include Sea-Urchins, Jelly-fish, Coral-insects, &c.

The Protozoa include the simplest forms of animal life, such as
sponges, animalcules, and Rhizopods or Foraminifera. These last
were till lately ranked with the highest mollusks, because they make
chambered shells.

The principal classes of articulates have already been pointed out:
those of the mollusks are as follows.

I. CepHaropops, or Head-footed Animals.
II. GastEropops, or Crawlers.
III. Preropops, or Wing-footed Animals.
IV. LAMeELiiprancus, or Bivalves.
V. Patiioprancus, or Lamp Shells.
VI. Tunicates, or Cloaked Animals.
VII. Potyzoa, or Molluscan Zoophytes.

We propose to give a general description of each of these classes,
which are as different from each other as are beasts, birds, and fishes;
and to furnish some account of the families and more important genera.
The typical mollusks are the Gasteropods, of which Snails, Limpets,
Whelks, and Cowries are familiar examples. In the same way the
typical Articulates are not the highly organized Spiders, but the widely
diffused Insects. We shall begin, however, with the less known and
aberrant Cephalopods, which hold undisputed rank at the head of all
invertebrate animals.

CLASS CEPHALOPODA.
(Cuttlefish and their Allies.)

Imagine a creature with two staring eyes, which he carries under
his arms, and which are more complex in structure than those of many

ever into something more perfect as do the caterpillars, tadpoles, &c., they lose not only their
feet but their eyes and their very heads; adhere to rocks and sea-weed or floating timber;
become almost shapeless lumps enclosed in an acorn or barnacle shell, only betraying their
articulated origin by the delicate groups of feathery jointed cirri, by waving which they
induce the tiny ocean currents which bring them their food. There was nothing but the
resemblance of these cirri to the feathers of birds to form a groundwork for the goose story.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSGA. 157

fishes. His nose is a long snout, or rather a pipe, which he wears under
and between his eyes, as it were on his breast. He carries his mouth at
the very top of his head, and could soon make one feel the bite of his
powerful horny jaws, which are hooked, and work up and down like an
eagle’s. Although he has no legs, he is better off for arms than a
monkey, having always eight or ten, sometimes a much larger number.
These he elegantly arranges in a circle round his mouth; forming a
crown—more dangerous than the fabled hair of serpents—round his
head. His body appears only of secondary importance, and is inclosed
in an oval or conical mantle, ending often in a tail like a fish, or adorned
with fins, one on each side. Imagine this creature walking on his head,
with his tail upwards, staring at you with both his eyes. As you
watch him, he rapidly changes color, like a chameleon, by means of
thousands of contractile pigment-cells all over his skin. He may
change from yellow to red or brown, sometimes casting over himself a
bluish tinge; the colored spots and waves appearing and disappearing
with the greatest velocity. Though nota literary character, he always
carries an ink-bottle, and generally a pen, along with him; and, should
you chance to disturb him, he will instantly discharge a copious black
stream before you, under cover of which he will dart off before you
have time to follow his retreat.

The Cuttles have very acute senses. They have an approach toa
brain, inclosed in a cartilaginous skull. “They can hear sounds, and
evidently enjoy the taste of their food. They have a large, fleshy
tongue, armed with recurved prickles, like that of the lion. They
either crawl on their head, tail upwards, or swim, tail foremost, by
striking their arms; or squirt themselves backwards by forcing water
forward, through their breathing funnels.

They are ferocious creatures, the tyrants of the lower orders, and do
not scruple to attack and devour even fishes. The larger kinds are
deservedly dreaded by man. Their weapons consist in their powerful
arms, which are abundantly furnished with rows of cup-like suckers,
each of which fastens on to its prey or its foe like a limpet to the rock.
Often these are accompanied with sharp curved teeth, strong enough
to be preserved even in the fossil species. ‘‘It must be a fearful
thing,’’ says Dr. Johnston, ‘‘for any living creature to come within
their compass, or within their leap, for, captured by a sudden spring
of several feet, made with the rapidity of lightning, entangled in the
slimy, serpentine grasp of eight or ten arms, and held by the pressure
of some hundreds of exhausted cups, escape is hopeless.’? With such
strength do they clutch the object of their desire that it is often easier
to tear off the limb than induce them to relax their hold.

They are the largest of all animals that are not supported by a
jointed skeleton. One was seen in the equatorial Atlantic, which
must have weighed two hundred weight. Another was seen in the
Pacific, which must have been six feet long. Asit is almost impossible
to capture these great creatures alive, we remain in great ignorance
about them. Montfort, one of the early conchologists, represented a
‘‘kraken octopod”’ in the act of scuttling a three-master; but he told
his friend that, if this were ‘‘swallowed,’’ he would in his next
158 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

edition represent him as embracing the Straits of Gibraltar, or capsizing
a whole squadron of ships.

The shell, in the typical Cuttle-fish, 1s not the hardened outside
skin, as in ordinary mollusks; but, if present at all, is (with one
exception) an internal appendage, answering the purpose of a skeleton,
_ but having nothing to do with protecting the nervous centres.

All the true cuttles and their allies have eight or ten arms, provided
with suckers; two gills, with superadded branchial hearts ; and a
body shaped for an active, predatory existence. They form the

ORDER I. DIBRANCHIATA,

or two-gilled Cuttles of Prof. Owen. The first group are content with
eight arms only ; the rest have, in addition, two long arms or ‘ ten-
tacles,’’ which serve to seize the prey at a greater distance.

Grove I. Octopopa. (ightSooted Cuttles.)
Most aberrant among these aberrant animals are the

Family ARGONAUTIDA,

2?

or ‘‘ Paper-Sailors,’’ so called from the delicate, white, boat-shaped
shell, in which they were fabled to sail on the surface of the waters.
The Argonaut was known to the ancients, one species being common
in the Mediterranean. It was the /vrst Nautilus of Aristotle, who,
though generally so accurate, here invented or perpetuated a very
pleasing ‘fable. ‘He described the Argonaut as sitting in its elegantly-
keeled white and almost paper-like boat, holding up its two broader
arms to catch the breeze, and using its other six as oars. In this posi-
tion it is figured in all the older works on natural history: for either
the authority of Aristotle, or the beauty of the story, caused it to be
repeated from author to author, like the fable of the ‘‘ Barnacle Geese.’’
Even the naturalists of the present generation have gravely doubted
whether the cuttle always found in the Paper Nautilus were the real
former of the shell. A very similar shell, the Carinaria, or glassy
nautilus, was known to be formed on a very different animal, a true
Gasteropod. It was supposed that the greedy Octopod, having de-
voured the Argonaut, possessed himself of the shell, after the fashion
of the hermit crabs, which may be seen crawling, tail foremost, into
shell after shell, till they find one to fit them. It was reserved for a
lady to set these doubts at rest. Madame Power, finding the Argo-
nauts common in the Mediterranean, inclosed a space with net work
to allow free ingress to the water, and there established her colony.

She found that the Octopod was the true inhabitant of the shell,

although not fastened to it by muscular attachment. She performed
many experiments on her captives, the results of which have been
either confirmed or corrected by succeeding naturalists. The Argo-
naut generally crawls on the ground with her six sucker-covered teet,
carrying her shell on her back, like a snail, enveloped in the two sails,
or broader arms. When she chooses to swim, she does not float above
the surface of the sea; but darts through the water backwards, in the
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 159

direction of the nucleus of the shell, her sail arms still enveloping the
frail bark. She generally folds her ‘‘ oars’’ together, at arm’s length,
though she uses them occasionally to direct or assist her movements.
What then is her propelling power? She simply breathes herself on,
or rather blows herself backwards, forcing out the water from her long
‘ gill-funnel, and so is carried forward in a contrary direction. She
never turns her back on her enemy ; but, on the other hand, she can-
not help looking back, wherever she is going. We say ‘‘she;’’ for
strange to say, all the paper-sailors turn out to be females. Fora
long time the lords of the Argonaut creation eluded the anxious search
of their brethren of the human species. At last they were found in
the form of little stunted octopods, without any shell or sail-arms,
not more than an inch long. Let tyrannical husbands see what
becomes of their sex in the very highest of the invertebrate animals.
The male Argonaut is not known to hold any communication with
his (to him) giant mate, who lives by herself in her palatial shell.
The little fellow sends one of his arms, by itself, on the courting
errand ; and the lady receives her spouse in the form of what was at
first regarded as a parasitic leech. M. Koelliker found that what
Cuvier had described as the Hectocotylus octopodis, was simply the
contents of the left arm ofthe third pair on the male Argonaut, which
is developed abnormally as a colored bag, and periodically gives birth
to a Hectocotyle. This having been filled with spermatozoa from the
body of the little Argonaut, goes forth on its independent existence,
looking like an arm of an octopod ending in a thread. It lays hold on
the female Argonaut with its suckers, as though it had a life of its
own. It is found on her arms, clinging to her nose, or even inside
the gill cavity. It clasps with such strength that it is difficult to
detach it ; and yet it has no mouth or other organs for maintaining life.
After it has communicated the fecundating influences to the ova, it
perishes. It follows that the beautiful paper nautilus is not a true
shell, but simply a female appendage to deposit and mature the eggs,
and at the same time protect the parent. The newly hatched Argo-
naut has no shell; and is ‘said to be shaped like a worm with suckers.
This beautiful group belongs only to the existing conditions of our
globe. One species alone is found fossil, in the Subappenine tertiaries
of Piedmont. It is now living, but not in the Mediterranean, where
it is displaced by another species: it has itself migrated to the present
China seas.

Family Octopopipm.

The naked octopods resemble the male Argonaut; and some (but
not all) of them have the same singular degradation of the lordly sex.
They generally have small, round bodies without fins, the head and
arms being the principal part of the creature. They are seldom gre-
garious, bat crawl in the neighborhood of the shore, the small species
inhabiting pools between tide marks. Here they escape detection by
coloring themselves to suit the bottom, and moor themselves to crevices
in the rocks awaiting their prey. They are more or less webbed
between the arms, like an inverted umbrella ; and progress by flap-
160 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

ping the whole at once. They can crawl at the rate of seven feet a
minute; and when wishing to go quicker, they blow themselves out
like a bladder, and roll over and over with great speed. They
were called polypes by the Greeks; and some species bear a strong
general resemblance to what are now called polypes, the jelly-fish, and
their allies. The cuttles may be said to represent the radiates among
the mollusks, but in their organization they are as different as birds
and butterflies. The genera are Octopus, Oistopus, Pinnoctopus, Lle-
done, and Cirroteuthis. They differ in the arrangement of the suckers,
and in the presence or absence of aquiferous pores in the skin and
fins. on the body. The Hledone moschata emits a strong smell of
musk. The Cirroteuthis mullert has its slender arms ciliated, with a
web extending to their extremity. It inhabits the shores of Green-
land. The

4 Family PHILONEXIDA

differ from the typical octopods in being gregarious, living in the open
sea. ‘They hide themselves by day ; but towards evening come up in
great shoals, to prey upon swimming mollusks and zoophy tes, The
genera are Philonewis and Tremoctopus.

Group lil. Dercapropa. (TLen-footed Cutiles.)

These differ from the Octopods in having an additional pair of arms,
much longer than the others, called tentacles. They are generally
club- shaped at the end, and armed with a horny ring round the
suckers, or sometimes with claws. They are within the “circle of the
eight arms, between the third and fourth pairs; and are (for the most
part) capable of being drawn in to pouches behind the eyes. The body
is long, always finned, and strengthened by an internal appendage ;
which is a horny pen in the squids, a ‘‘ bone’’ in the true cuttles; a
spiral, chambered shell in Spirula; a complex organ with a cham-
bered shell inside in the Belemnite tribe. The eyes are movable
in their orbits; the breathing funnel is generally provided with a
valve; and the mantle is supported by internal fleshy bands.

family CRANCHIAD A.

The Cranchia is a pot-bellied little creature, with very small head
and eyes. These are covered by the skin; the mantle is supported by
two internal fleshy bands; and the breathing-pipe has a valve.

family Loticorsipz. (Calamaries.)

In Loligopsis, which is a very ioe) animal with a small head, the
eyes are large and beautiful, and the “preathing-pipe i is without valve.

Family Curroreutaipa®. (Hand-Calimaries.)

The body of the Hand-calamary, (Chiroteuthis,) seems only like a
fulcrum, from which to move its powerful head organs. Though only
two inches long, the arms are eight inches, and the tentacles extend
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 161

three feet. It must be remembered that these are not mere feelers, like
the antennz of insects, but strong muscular threads beaded with
suckers, and armed with four rows of pedunculated claws on the ex-
panded ends. How easily these will encircle any unhappy creature
floating at a distance, and carry it to the mouth, to be torn up by the
horny bills, is at once evident. How so small a body can work the
muscles at such a tremendous leverage, without any support but a
loose horny pen, is indeed a marvel.

The Vetled-calamaries, (Histioteuthis,) have six of their arms webbed
together, leaving the other arms and tentacles loose. It resembles
half an expanded umbrella. One of the species ‘‘rivals in color the
brilliancy of the butterflies of tropical suns. The large membrane
which unites its arms is of a rich purple, and the suckers are sapphire,
the under surface being studded with blue and yellow spots on a
reddish ground, sprinkled with purple spots.”’

Family Onycuotnutaipm. (Sea-Arrows.)

These creatures have the mantle supported by three internal car-
tilages. The eyes are exposed, and furnished with a slit above. The
breathing-pipe has a valve, as in Cranchia. They are very numer-
ous, and have been divided into the following genera: Hnoploteuthis
(Armed-calamary), Ancistrocheirus, Abralia, Verania, Acanthoteuthis,
(Spiny-calamary); Onychoteuthis (Hooked-calamary); Ancistroteuthis,
Onychia; Ommastrephes (Sea- Arrows, or Flying-squids); and T'hysano-
teuthis (Fringed-calamary).

Among the active cephalopods, perhaps the most vigorous swim-
mers are the Armed calamaries. They are the dread of the shell
divers of the Pacific Islands; for the arms have, beside the suckers,
double rows of horny hooks concealed by retractile webs. A cat’s
paw is quite sufficiently disagreeable, with her five claws; but for a
bather to feel his naked body embraced with eight snake-like arms,
with cat’s-paw weapons on the whole length, and leech-like suckers
in addition, to say nothing of the long tentacles still more powerfully
armed,* and directed by two great staring eyes, much more service-
able than a man’s in the water, the possessor of which can instantly
hide himself by a discharge of ink, is not pleasant even from a crea-
ture the size of a cat: but when it is remembered that some of them
are six feet across, and that they do not kill quickly like the shark,
but tear their prey piecemeal, we feel thankful to live in safer lati-
tudes. In the Hooked calamaries, besides the hook-armed cups, there
is a group of ordinary suckers, at the beginning of the expanded part
of the tentacles. When these touch each other, they resemble the
hinge of a pair of pliers, and the unfortunate beast hooked in between
the flaps is drawn by the united strength of both arms to be torn to
death at the top of the cuttle’s head. It is a merciful provision that
his great eyes, so necessary for him in locomotion and attack, are
spared the sight of the tortures he inflicts upon his prey. ‘The hooks

*The tentacle suckers of the calamary suggested the obstetric forceps of Prof. Simpson.

il
162 LECTURES GN MOLLUSCA.

found fossil in the German Jurassic strata, with the traces of the cut-
tle itself, prove that the Spiny calamaries were equally the tyrants of
the ancient seas. ‘The Sea-arrows live in large groups in the open
sea. They are themselves the prey of whales and birds. In order to
avoid the attacks of their pursuers, they dart out of the water like the
flying fish, often to such a height that they fall down on the decks of
vessels. The eyes of these creatures have a deep lachrymal groove at
the upper edge, and the ears are furnished with a longitudinal crest.

Family Tsurnipm. (Squids.)

In the Squids the eyes are without lids, and covered with the skin,
as in Oranchia; but the mantle is strengthened with internal cartil-
ages, as in the Sea-arrows. The genera are Gonatus, Loligo, Teuthis,
Sepioteuthis, Rossia, Sepiola, and Fidenas; with the fossil remains of
Leptoteuthis, Teucdopsis, Beloteuthis, and Geoteuthis.

The Squids form an important element in the North Atlantic fish-
eries. The common oligo is the favorite food of the Cod, and is
therefore itself fished for bait. One half of all the cod taken on the
banks of Newfoundland are said to be caught by it. ‘‘ When the vast
shoals of this mollusk approach the coast, hundreds of vessels are
ready to capture them, forming an extensive cuttle fishery, engaging
five hundred sail of French, English, and American ships. During
violent gales of wind, hundreds of tons of them are often thrown up
together in beds on the flat beaches, the decay of which spreads an
intolerable effluvium around.’’ They must themselves be consumed
in enormous numbers; for it has been estimated that a single squid
will lay in one season forty thousand eggs. The pens of the squid
tribe are loose supports in a pouch along the back. In old individuals,
sometimes two or three are found laid together. They are analogous
to the ‘‘bones’’ or steel plates in ladies’ stays—an instrument which
ought not to be needed by a vertebrated animal.

The Sepiolas are pretty little creatures, with round purse-like
bodies, and a wing-like fin on each side. They live near shore, and
may often be seen darting about in rocky pools. They are considered
a delicacy in the South of France, where they are called supieta.

The squids first make their appearance in the world’s history during
the epoch of the Lias and Oxford Clay. The octopods may, indeed,
have existed, but their bodies have no hard parts that would be hkely
to leave traces on the ancient rocks. Of the squids, not only the
horny pens and claws have been preserved, but even the muscular
mantle, the bottoms of the arms, and the ink bag filled with sepia
which an artist might envy. They must have died a very peaceful
death, as they always spill their ink under the shghtest provocation.
Some of the ink bags of the Lias are nearly a foot long, with a brilliant
pearly coat. They probably formed part of the food of the formida-
ble Ichthyosaurians of that epoch. .

Family Septapm. (True Cuttles.)

The Cuttle-fish proper are furnished with a ‘‘bone,’’ which consists,
on the back, of a hard, shelly dish, covered with membrane and end-
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. roe

ing in a knob, and built up within with layer upon layer of very deli-
cate wafer-like shelly plates, supported by numerous vertical pillars.*
It is, therefore, very light and porous, at the same time that the shape
and texture of the back give it great power of support. The cuttles
are the least elegant of the tribe, having a large, flatish body, finned
along the whole of each side. The knob, doubtless, protects the
creature’s tail from blows as it swims backward near the shore. The
Chinese cuttle bones are sometimes eighteen inches long.

Most persons have seen the delicate Spirula, transparent and white,
shaped like a ram’s horn divided across by pearly chambers. A mere
conchologist would never suspect any close resemblance between this
and the cuttle-bone. They are, however, so closely connected by in-
termediate fossil forms, that, without a knowledge of their animal, it
is difficult to say to which family these belong. No less different at
first sight are the ‘‘thunderbolt stones,’’ socommon in the Jurassic
and cretaceous rocks of Europe. In the world’s history, they begin
and end with these rocks. They were suddenly poured, in incalcula-
ble abundance, on our planet; and as suddenly they became entirely
extinct. The

Family BELeMNitip”

consisted of cuttles whose body was strengthened by a long pen, join-
ing on, at the tail end, to a conical chambered shell, the air-cells of
which were connected by a siphuncle at the side. This conical shell
(formerly called the alveolus of the belemnite, and now known as the
phragmocone,) was invested, at the tail end, with a longer cone or
guard. This is fibrous, consisting of long prismatic cells, like the
shell of the recent pinnas or the great cretaceous Inocerami, with
which it entirely agrees in specific gravity. This guard is the ‘‘thun-
derbolt stone’’ of the common people,-and is generally preserved
entire, while the chambers are often destroyed, and the pen has
almost always perished. The most perfect specimens were found in
the Oxford Clay, and are preserved in the British museum and in the
cabinet of Dr. Mantell. Fragments of the chambered part, in the
Lias and Oolite, are very like the then-extinct orthoceratites, though
the animal is widely different. The last chamber alone sometimes
measures Six inches by two and a half; so that its cuttle must have
been nearly three feet long. A fortunate breakage, in a specimen in
the British museum, displays an ink-bag near the siphuncle, at once
showing that it was an active swimmer, like the cuttles. The length
of the guard is very variable in the same species, sometimes attaining
to two feet. The septa frequently perish, leaving the chambers,
which have been filled with calcareous spar, lying loosely on each
other like a pile of watch glasses.

The Belemnites were gregarious, and probably lived in a moderate
depth of water. The classical writers before Pliny gravely supposed
that they were the hardened contents of the bladder of the lynx;

*This substance, when reduced to powder, is caller pounce. Among other uses, when
rubbed on paper after ‘scratching out,”’ it prevents the ini from running.
164 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

whence they bore the name lyncurium. The writers of the middle
ages called them ‘ghosts’ candles,”’ ‘“‘devil’s fingers,’’ ‘‘night mare’s
arrows,’ &c. The more learned supposed they might be petrified
amber, fossil dates, stalactites, or spines of sea urchins, It was not
till the beginning of the present century that their true nature was
understood. The grooved Belemnitella mucronata, which 1s charac-
teristic of the chalk and Upper Green Sand, is found on both sides of
the Atlantic.

Although the Belemnite itself has not been found preserved, its
next door neighbor, the Belemnoteuthis, has been discovered at Chip-
penham, (Hngland,) with its shell, muscular mantle, fins, ink-bag,
funnel, eyes, arms, and horny hooks, all complete, as if thrown by
the tide upon our present shore. The hooks are formidable weapons,
from twenty to forty pairs appearing on each arm. In this creature
the guard is very thin. In Conotenthis, an active swimmer of the
Neocomian age, we have a very long pen terminating in a phragmo-
cone shaped like a paper funnel; forn ming an exact transition from the
Squids to the Belemuites.

Family SrrruLipz.

The shells of Spirula are as common in tropical seas now, as were
the Belemnites in those of the middle ages. Their resemblance to the
pearly nautilus and other allied chambered shells, and especially to
the fossil Gyroceras, or Crioceras, is very striking. Here is a loosely-
coiled spiral shell, regularly divided by concave septa, like the Nauti-
lus, each one pier ced by a tubular siphuncle. But the resemblance is
superficial only. The last chamber of the nautilus tribe is always
large, and contains the animal, which is fastened to it by powerful
muscles. Whereas the last septm of the Spirula is almost close to
the margin, indicating that it is an internal shell, enveloped in the
mantle of the cuttle-fish like the bone of the Sepia. Although the
shell always forms part of the fancy collections from the Bahama
Islands, and it is scattered by thousands on the shores of New Zealand,
a perfect specimen of the animal has not yet been seen. It is, how-
ever, formed on the usual decapodous type; only the fins and arm-cups
are very small. The ink-bag lies against the last. chamber of the shell.
Beautiful as the Spirula is, ‘it is still more so when the otter coat on
one side has been removed, by allowing it to float on dilute muriatic
acid, so as to display the siphuncled septa.

Among recent shells, the Bee ula stands by itself; but it is connected
with the Belemnites and Squids by fossil forms. In Spirulirostra
from the Miocene of Turin, we have a very loose spiral siphunculated
shell immersed in a kind of cuttle bone of irregular shape. In Bellop-
tera, a fossil of the Nummulite age, the chambered part is nearly
straight, and surrounded by a “bone” formed by two inverted cones
with “winged processes between. In Belemnosis, a unique fossil of the
London Cl ay, the bone is not winged. In Helicer us, a fossil described
by Professor Dana from the slate rocks of Cape Horn, there is a guard,
as in the Belemnites, inclosing a chambered shell somewhat spiral at
the nucleus.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 165

ORDER II. TETRABRANCHIATA,

or four-gilled cephalopods, of Professor Owen. It might be thought
a matter of little importance whether a cephalopod had one or two
pairs of gills; but it happens that this difference is codrdinate with
others that run through the whole form and structure of the animals.
The two-gilled cuttles, we have seen, are adapted for an active and
predacious life. As they could not dart after their prey carrying a
heavy shell, they are naked, but furnished with powerful arms and
ink-bag for their protection. The four-gilled tribes, on the other hand,
are destined for a quieter life, crawling on the ground like common
Gasteropods. Instead of eight or ten arms with suckers and hooks,
they have a multitude of small retractile feelers, something like the
Sea Anemone. On these they can creep, and draw their prey to their
mouths; but they are not able to pursue it in the open sea. Instead
of a strong breathing tube with a valve, answering the purpose of a
forcing pump and propeller, they have only an open gutter made bya
fold in the mantle, like the siphons of the Gasteropods. The eyes,
which in the cuttles have optic ganglia much larger than the central
brain, (Alcock,) are here less conspicuous, and mounted on peduncles.
The head and tentacles, instead of being the principal part of the
creature, to which the body might appear subor dinate, are here scarcely
separated from it, and retractile within the general mass. They are
always furnished with a chambered shell, the last cavity of which
contains the animal. When disturbed, instead of squirting Ink and
darting off, it shrivels up into its cavity and takes its chance. If it
sees a delicate crab at a distance, instead of pouncing on it, it must
crawl, not, indeed, on ‘‘all fours,’ but on ‘‘all dozens;’’ or wait until
the creature comes within seizing distance, when it will be entangled
in the arms and be broken up by the jaws or gizzard.

Only one animal formed after this type is now known to be living
on the earth; the pearly or true Nautilus, whose many-chambered
shell has been an object of admiring speculation from early times.
This is the last strageler belonging toa race which performed import-
ant functions in the early ages of our globe. The Nawtilc themselves
are among the few genera which have existed at every period of the
world’s history. Our knowledge begins with one species from the
upper silurian rocks of Bohemia. It has not culminated at any par-
ticular period; not more than seven species appearing in any forma-
tion; but it has never been without its representatives, and two or
three species are now crawling on the sea bottoms in the Hast Indian
archipelago. Before them, however, lived the great Orthoceratites of
the palozoic seas; and as they died out, the gr eat family of the Am-
monites developed themselves, and held possession of the seas till the
close of the cretaceous period, when they suddenly disappeared; leaving
not even a distant relation to grace the tertiary formations, Coorde
nate with the prevalence of four- cilled Cephalopods, we find a general
absence of the predacious Gasteropods which are now so numerous and
highly developed. We may suppose, therefore, that they played the
same part in the economy of nature; and tha at the Ort inetie atttes and
166 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

Ammonites did the work of destruction in ancient times, which is now
performed by murices, strombs, whelks, and their allies.

The chambered shell is always pearly within, but with an external
porcellanous layer. The Chinese are fond of leaving patterns carved
‘on the Nautilus while the body of the shell is uncoated, to show the
nacre. In fossils sometimes the outer coat has perished, sometimes the
inner, and sometimes both. The chambers are always connected by a
siphuncle, through which the animal maintains a connection with the
deserted chambers. These are lined with a very thin hving membrane
in the Nautilus; in the Orthoceratites they show the marks of blood-
vessels, &c., which prove that they played some unknown part in the
economy of the animals. That these air-chambers serve as a float, to
balance the weight of the shell and enable the creature to swim if
needful, cannot be doubted; but the stories of their filling the cells
with air or water at pleasure, and so sailing at the top or descending
to the bottom, appear to be fables, like the classical legends of the
Argonaut. The living Nautilus only comes to the surface occasionally,
when the sea bottom has been agitated by storms; and it is believed
that the fossil species inhabited depths not greater than thirty fathoms.
The chambers are filled with nitrogen gas, without oxygen or carbonic
acid. The animal is attached to the shell by powerful adductor mus-
cles. As these grow onwards, the animal gradually deserts the last
chamber; and, at periodic periods of rest, a fresh septum is formed.*

If a diving bell had explored what is now called New York and

*The following lines have the rare merit of not losing truth at the same time that they are
highly poetical. They are copied from the ‘‘Atlantic Monthly.”’ Let the reader take in his
hand a pearly Nautilus cut through the middle, and say—

This is the Ship of Pearl, which, poets feign,
Sails the unshadowed main;
The venturous bark, that flings
On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings,
In gulfs enchanted, where the siren sings,
And coral reefs lie bare;
Where cold sea-maids rise, to sun their streaming hair.

Its web of living gauze no more unfurl ;
Wrecked is the ship of pearl!
And every chambered cell,

Where its dim, dreaming life was wont to dwell,

As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell,
Before thee lies revealed;

Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!

Year after year behold the silent toil
That spread his Justrous coil;
Sul, as the spiral grew,
He left his past year’s dwelling for the new;
Stole, with soft step, its shining archway through;
Built up its idle door,
Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 167

Canada when they lay at the Heo of the paleeozoic seas, it would
have encountered multitudes of long pointed shelly cones, floating
upright in the water, some of them adorned with beautiful colors and
sculpture, and slowly moving among the corals, sea-weeds, and stone-
lilies which then adorned the gardens of the great deep. They be-
longed to the

Family ORTHOCERATID A,

or Straight-horns. Some of them carried on their backs the largest
shells that ever lived. A specimen belonging to Col. Jewett, of Albany,
now measures twelve feet, and when perfect must have been fifteen feet
in length. And yet, from the buoyancy of its contained air, the com-
paratively feeble cephalopod could maintain its enormous leverage, and
crawl on its slender tentacles. The aperture of the Orthoceratites is
generally contracted, and the head was perhaps always exposed. The
siphuncle is very large, and in some of the genera very curiously formed,

indicating much more vitality than in the corresponding part of the
Spiral Nautilus. This was necessar y in order to maintain a living con-
nection at such a distance from the body. All the orthoceratites have
simple, concave chambers, with a central opening. They disappear at
the beginning of the secondary rocks, leaving their work to be per-
formed by the huge Ammonites of the Lias. In Gonioceras, the shell is
flattened, and the septa waved. In Actinoceras, Hormoceras and Hu-
ronia, the siphuncular processes are enormously developed arcund the
central tube, according, to different patterns. In Z'horacoceras and
- Cameroceras, the siphuncle is marginal, and generally small. The
strange fossils called Endoceras by Prof. Hall have very long slender
shells, with a large cylindrical siphuncle, somewhat lateral. This is
thickened internally by separate layers of shell, or funnel tubes one
inside the ether, called ‘‘ embryo tubes’’ by the author, contrary how-
ever to allanalogy, Their use may have been to give increased strength
in consequence of the great elongation of the shell. Some of the species
appear to have been constituted from the accident of a young shell being
lodged in the siphuncular cavity : others from the monstrous formation
of a second siphuncle.

Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee,
Child of the wandering sea,
Cast from her lap forlorn!
From thy dead lips a clearer note is borne
Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn!
While on mine ear it rings,
Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings:—

** Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul,
As the swift seasons roll!
Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from heaven, with a dome more vast;
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell, by life’s unresting sea!
168 LECTURES ON MOLLUSGA,

The Phragmoceras and Oncoceras form a sub-family, in which the
shell is pear-shaped and contracted at each end.

The bent forms constitute another sub-family, and were perhaps more
nearly related to the Nautilus. Cyrtoceras is slightly curved, and
shaped like a gigantic Cecum.* Gyroceras developes a shape like
Spirula ; and Ascoceras displays a shell bent upon itself, like Ptycho-
ceras among the Ammonites.

Farily Nauta.

In the living Nautilus, the only interpreter of the great group of
Tentacular Cephalopods (as D’Orbigny calls the order) the horny beaks
are surrounded with shelly matter, civing them great crushing power
over the shells of crustaceans. Similar beaks have been found fossil
in various strata, associated with Nautili. In the Muschelkalk of Ba-
varia, where there is only one species of Nautilus, the upper beak has
been described as I2hyncolites hirundo, and the under beak as ‘‘ Con-
chorhyncus avirostris.’’ D’Orbigny has turned these mandibles into
cuttle bones, under the names of Lhyncoteuthis and Palewoteuthis ; one
out of the many instances in which a knowledge of comparative anat-
omy is shown to be essential to the study of organic remains. Round
the mandibles is a circular fleshy lip; round which again are about
four dozen labial tentacles, answering to the ‘‘ buccal membrane’’ of
the cuttles, and serving to bring the prey tothe mouth. Beyond these
are a double series of tentacles, thirty-six in number, answering to the
ordinary arms of the cuttles. When the creature is expanded for
crawling or seizing prey, these would project somewhat in the form of .
a figure 8, the mouth being between the two groups of tentacles.
When the creature retires into its shell, it protects the opening with a
hood, which answers to the back pair of arms, united together and
developed for that purpose, as are one pair in the female Argonaut to
envelop the shell. The tentacles shut up in bunches into sheaths,
which correspond to the eight common arms of the cuttles. Besides
these there are four tentacles, one on each side of each eye: these appear
to be feelers as in the Gasteropods. It is easy to see how much more
highly organized and active is the paper, than its distant relative the
Pearly Nautilus. In each case, all the animals examined have been
females. It has been supposed that the shell-forms with a wide open-
ing at the axis of the spire, belong to the males, which, as in the other
Cephalopods, are few in number. Similar differences are found in
almost all thle Ammonites.

The Fossil Nautili present several sections, differing more or less in
type from the recent species. In Cryptoceras, the siphuncle is nearly
external, as in the Ammonites, which it resembles in external form.
In Temnocheilus, the shell is carinated. In Discites all the whirls are
exposed and flattened. These sections are from the paleozoic rocks.
The ‘* Ellipsolithes’’ were simply Nautili and Ammonites which had
been accidentally compressed into an oval shape.

The Corniculina figured by Munster as a chambered shell, is probably only a badly
observed Ceecid.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSGA. 169

In the Lniuites of the ancient seas, we have a Nautilus, which, on
coming to maturity, produced its tube in astraight line. The Hortolus
‘resembles it, but with the whirls separate asin Spirula. In Trochoceras,
we find the spire more or less elevated, ag in snails.

The sub-family CLYMENID& consists of forms in which the chambers
are more or less waved or indented, forming a slight approach to the
Ammonites. They are all paleozoic forms, except Atwria, which makes
its appearance unexpectedly in the London Clay. This has a very large
internal siphon, ike a number of funnels interwrapping each other,
and reminding us somewhat of Hndoceras among the Orthoceratites.

Family AMMonitipz. (ftam’s-Horn Shells.)

This group, so abundant in the middle ages both in species and in
individuals, suddenly passed out of existence at the close of the creta-
ceous age. The body ot the Ammonites was long in proportion: the
opening of the shell was guarded by curiously -shaped processes, and
closed by a double operculum. In the beautiful flat Ammonites of the
Oxford Clay, the shell makes two long forceps-shaped beaks, one on
each side of the mouth. In another species, these beaks arch over the
mouth and meet in the middle, leaving one hole for the head to crawl
out at, and the other for the opercle-bearing arms. In other species,
the aperture is almost closed up, as in many snails.

In the keeled species, the operculum was of one horny piece, as in
Gasteropods: but in the round-backed groups, it was shelly, and divided
into two plates. Forty-five kinds have been described, one being from
the palezeozoic rocks. They were called Trigonellites by the old writers,
and doctors still disagree as to their nature. D’Orbigny thought them
cirripedes: Meyer, bivalve shells: Sowerby, fish palates: Deshay es,
gizzards of Ammonites: Coquand (followed by Chénu) cuttle bones.
They have however sometimes been found in situ, exactly answering
to the hood of the Nautilus.

But the most remarkable character of the Ammonites is the sutures,
or edges of the chambers. When an Ammonite is sliced down the
middle, the septa simply appear waved as in Clymene. But when the
outer shell is removed, and the cast of the edges is displayed, we find
a beautiful leafy structure, often of very intricate pattern, but constant
in each species. The siphuncle is always external. The outside is
almost always very beautifully ornamented, with ribs, knobs, spines, or
delicate striz. The under layer is always ‘pearly, as in Nautilus ; ; and
beautiful objects they must indeed have been, when painted with vari-
ous colors and patterns, to those who could have seen them with
oolitic or cretaceous eyes. Some of them are of enormous size, meas-
uring occasionally two feet in diameter. These are found in the Lias,
and in the neighborhood of Bristol (England) may often be seen built
into the walls ‘by the road side. More than five hundred and thirty
species are already known. They are rare in America, but very com-
mon in Europe. Species, similar to those of the English oolite, have
been found in the high passes of the Himalaya, more than 16, 000 feet
above the level of the sea.

The most ancient of the tribe are the Goniatites, of the Upper Silu-
170 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

rian and Carboniferous seas. In these, the sutures are not foliated,
but simply lobed, often at sharp angles. In the ceratites of the Mus-
chelkalk series, the alternate lobes are denticulated. The Gonvatite,
when the spire is unrolled into astraight cone, like the Orthoceratites,
becomes a Bactrite; and the Ceratite, similarly unrolled, becomes a
Baculina.

‘The true Ammonites, with minutely lobed septa, present all varieties
of shape ; from the compressed forms, with the whirls scarcely touch-
ing, to the involute species, with round backs, narrow chambers, and
very small umbilicus. They have been variously divided into groups
by different authors ; but they pass into each other by very slight dis-
tinctions. Often a shell, which in its earlier stages would belong to
one group, develops into a different one as it approaches maturity.

The Ammonites present various aberrant forms, some corresponding
to those already mentioned among the Nautili, some peculiar to them-
selves. In Crioceras the whirls are separate, as in Spirula. In
Scaphites, the shell begins like an Ammonite, the mouthis next pro-
duced at a tangent, and then bent back uponitself. It would be curi-
ous to know how such creatures got their living. Ancyloceras com-
bines the characters of the two last genera, beginning as Spirula, and
ending as Scaphites. Anisoceras has the same form, but drawn out of
the plane into an irregular spiral, like Vermetus. Towxoceras presents
a simple cycloidal curve. In Hamites, the shell begins quite straight,
then bends and returns again parallel to itself, and so on, like a Spi-
rula drawn out and flattened on its two sides. In the section Hamu-
lina, the shell only makes one bend, the two parallel limbs having
different sculptures, and the body-chamber occupying one limb and the
elbow. The Ptychoceras is like a Hamulina, with the two limbs
joined together ; still with different sculptures, so that fragments
might easily be described as distinct species. In Baculites, the shell
is quite straight, like a walking stick. It isso common in the Nor-
mandy chalk as to give it the name of Baculite ‘Limestone.

In the Yerrilite group, we have an approach to the ordinary shape
of the univalve spiral shells. They are mostly reversed, and are sup-
posed by Woodward to have had one pair of gills atrophied. In
Heteroceras, after beginning as a Turrilite, the shell becomes separate,
as in the adolescent Vermetus, and makes an irregular spire eveloping,
but not touching, the spire. The Helicoceras is as it werea Turrilite,
with all the whirls drawn out into a corkscrew.

We have now enumerated the principal known forms of Cephalo-
pods, both extinct and living. While they are the most highly
organized of invertebrates, they cannot be considered as typical mol-
lusks; that is, they do not represent the idea of molluscan life, as do
the ordinary Gasteropods which we have next to consider. Now those
classes which go off from the standard idea are generally pretty well
defined ; while those in which the normal idea culminates are more
variable in structure. We have seen that the cephalopods are all
formed on two well-marked but distinct types; and however much the
shell of the Baculite may differ from the Nautilus, or the Argonaut’s
egg-case from the cuttle-bone, a beginner even could never doubt con-
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. Likh

cerning the class of acephalopod if he saw it alive: for though star-
fish and polypes, as well as Bryozoa, have a central mouth surrounded
by arms or feelers, the great eyes and funnel, as well as the soft but
muscular body, would at once assign its position. It is not so with
the Gasteropods. - To say nothing of the different shapes of the shell,
ase. g. in Chiton, Dentalium, Patella, Trochus, Vermetus, Cyprea,
Murex, and Carinaria, the shapes of the animals are so very unlike
that even now naturalists are not agreed as to the limits of the
class ; still less on the arrangement of its fundamental divisions ; least
of all, on the position of particular families and genera. This should
by no means discourage the student ; but on the contrary fill him
with zeal to prosecute a study in which so many unworked materials
are within his own reach; and in which, therefore, instead of merely
following at a remote distance in the steps of the learned, he may,
without neglecting the main duties of his life, add materially to the
stores of human knowledge, and even throw important light on the
dark places of our planet’s ancient history.

CLASS GASTEROPODA ;

that is, belly-footed animals, or crawlers: comprising snails, periwin-
kles, whelks, limpets, and ‘‘ univalve shell-fish’’ generally.

These creatures form three-fourths of the whole number of mollusks.
They inhabit sea-shores, and the sea-bottoms, down to the lowest
depths of ordinary animal life: they are found swimming in the open
seas, or accompanying the floating gulf. weed: or they live in fresh
waters, crawling on stones or aquatic plants. Lastly, they are found
on dry land, in all kinds of situations where lime exists; either in
damp and marshy places, or in rocky deserts ; either burrowing in
earth or crevices, or creeping on the vegetation of forests, herbage, or
lichen-covered stones, One cannot live anywhere, therefore, where
crawling mollusks are not within our reach. The following classifi-
cation may aid us in understanding these many-shaped creatures :

Class. Sub-classes. Orders. Examples.

(¢ ( Pecrrniprancus...Whelks, Cones, Strombs, Cowries, Peri-
; q NTIS j winkles.

ral ical ~)
| TOS OTIS 1 ScUTIBRANCHS...... Limpets, Chivons, Sea-cars, Topshells.

| CIRROBRANCHS..... Tooth Shells.
GASTEROPODS: { puLMONATES .......c..0cceeeeereeeeenees Snails.
re canoe § TECTIBRANCHS.. ..Bullas, Sea Hares, Umbrellas.

| OPISTHOBRANCHS. } NvpiIsR4ANCHS. .... Doris, Eolis, &c.
| NUCLEOBRANCHB...........see cece eeeeee Carinaria , Janthina.

In the Progoprancus, the breathing cavity is at the back of the
head, in advance of the heart. There is always a distinct shell, which
generally covers the animal. They form two principal groups, (1)
the Pectinibranchs, in which the gill is comb-shaped, and the animal
unisexual: and (2) the Scutibranchs, in which the gills are in plates,
like the bivalves, and the animal has the sexes united. The Cirro-
branchs are a small and very aberrant group.

In the Oprsruoprancus, the gills are behind the heart, and: very
variable in position and structure. There is no shell, except in a few
families of the Tectibranchs, in which the gills are covered by the
FR LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

mantle. In the Nudibranchs, they form ornamental excrescences,
more or less diffused over the body. The sexes are always united.

In all the water shell-fish, the animal after birth undergoes a meta-
morphosis, as in the insect tribe, before it assumes its normal condi-
tion ; but in the intermediate tribe of Snains, the creature is born into
its proper shape. The sexes are united, as in the Opisthobranchs.

‘The Nucieoprancus have the gills in a tuft at the lower part of the
back, sometimes protected by a shell. They do not crawl like true
Gasteropods, but are an aberrant group passing over to the Pteropods.
They swim in the open sea ; and while they devour the jelly-fish, are
themselves the prey of true fishes and cuttles.

ORDER PECTINIBRANCHIATA. (Comb-gilled Crawlers.)

All these creatures have a spiral body, guarded by a shell. When
they walk about, the liver and other viscera remain in the upper por-
tion of the shell: but a large fleshy foot is protruded, on which the
animal crawls; as also the head, with a distinct neck. On the head
are a pair of tentacles, (commonly called ‘“‘ horns,’’ from their similar-
ity of position with the cow’s horns,) which are extremely delicate
organs of sense. The eyes are on these, or at their base ; or, some-
times, on little eye-stalks near. In front is the snout, which is either
short, as in the periwinkles, or produced into a long trunk, as in the
carrion-feeding Strombs. Sometimes it appears very short and inno-
cent; but really it has swallowed, and can at any moment dart out,
an enormous proboscis, armed with powerful rows of teeth. The bot-
tom of the shell is in reality its front; for there the animal breathes ;
there being either a pipe or a hole to let the water-current in to the
gills. The alimentary canal is doubled back over itself, terminating
near the gills, so as to be able to act, when the creature is at rest in
his shell. There are seldom any differences observable in the shells
of the two sexes. The intromittent organ is near the head, and gene-
rally very long; varying considerably in shape in the different genera.
At the end of the foot is a horny operculum or toe nail ; which is drawn
in last of all into the shell, and serves to close its aperture, like a
trap-door.

Remembering that the shell is part and parcel of the living animal
a secretion from its muscular skin or mantle—of truly organized struc-
ture, though not endowed with feeling; we shall naturally expect to
find differences in the shell corresponding with those in the sentient
inhabitant. This is generally, but not always, the case. Lamarck
thought that all creatures with a round-mouthed shell were herbivor-
ous, and all those with a notched mouth carnivorous; but now it is
known that some round-mouthed groups are very fierce, as Natica and
Scalaria, while some that were thought predacious, as Cerithium, are
vegetarians. In MJelania and fo, Bulimus and Achatina, we have both
forms of shell in one family. So Clark imagined that all creatures
with many-whirled opercula were hermaphrodites; all with tew whirls
unisexual. But the hermaphrodite Nerites have few whirls; while
Modulus among the Periwinkles, and Cerithidea among the Cerites,
differ trom the other members of their unisexual families in having

LECTURES ON MOLLUSGA. iste

many whirls. The study of mollusks is calculated to warn any stu-
dent against hasty generalizations. He is continually finding char-
acters important in one family, which prove of little moment in
another: marks which he has long rightfully considered codrdinate
with special distinctions, appearing again in quite different connec-
tions, as well as essential differences of animal appearing, where there
was nothing in the shell to lead to their suspicion. An artificial clas-
sification, therefore, however convenient as an index to characters and
species, does not convey that knowledge of the whole relationships of
the animal, which we ought at least to seek to express. It 1s to be
regretted that some of the most learned of modern writers have gone
on this artificial plan; and, from a determination to be guided by cer-
tain special characters as fundamental, have grouped together very
unlike creatures, and separated others with natural affinities, to the
great perplexing of beginners. Thus, in the arrangement followed
at the British Museum, the Gasteropods and bivalves are grouped
together, simply because they have a foot; and the Lamp-shells, Ptero-
pods, and Cephalopods together, because they have none: the noble
Cuttles being degraded to the lowest rank among mollusks; and two
closely allied classes of bivalve shells, as well as the nearly related
Gasteropods and Pteropods being separated in the primary division,
simply because they have or have not a foot—a character which varies
to the greatest extent within each separate class; for many of the
Heteropods among the crawlers have not so much of foot as the cut-
tles, and the oysters among the bivalves have none at all. The same
grouping, according to individual characters, prevails throughout the
subordinate divisions. But there is a difference between a classijica-
tion and an index. The Linnean grouping of plants is an admirable
index; by consulting which an unknown flower may be at once
put into its proper place; but it tells very little, and that little often
erroneously, of the true relationships of plants. The ‘‘ Natural Sys-
tem’’ is much harder to learn, and requires constant alterations; but,
so far as it is ascertained, it is a compendium of the existing state of
science. So the British Museum method is an admirable index; for a
student, having a fresh animal under examination, can at once ar-
range it under its appropriate ‘‘Suborder, Tribe, A, a,*, f,”’ &c.; but
whether he is showing, or upsetting its true relationships by this pro-
cess, is yet to be seen. It was thought in the days of Lamarck that
animals, if fully known, might be arranged in a straight line, gradu-
ally ascending from the monad to man. EHvery progress in our dis-
coveries impinges upon this idea, and shows that we cannot even
arrange by radiations or circles in one plane. We have to branch off
into space, like the suns in the universe: the attractions of each, with
its attendants in orbits of différent planes, being to every other. To
express this in a superficial way on paper must needs only give us
partial impressions, which nothing but patient study can devélop into
even an approximation to the truth.

The comb-gilled crawlers very naturally divide themselves into
those with a long retractile proboscis, which can be drawn into the
mouth or extended at pleasure; and those with an external muzzle,
more or less produced into a snout. The first group are all preda-
174 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

cious, rasping the flesh or sucking the juices of other mollusks, crus-
taceans, or zoophytes. The second group are variously organized,
according as they scour the shores for carrion, browse on the sea
weed, or are satisfied, like the bivalves, with the organic matter that
the sea wafts to their mouths. In each group we find creatures of
equally high organization, as e. g., the whelks and strombs; in each,
some very low, as Magilus and Vermetus. As a general rule, the
operculum in the predacious group is in concentric layers; in the vege-
table-feeders, more or less spiral in its growth.

Group PRoBOSCIDIFERA. (Crawlers, with Retractile Proboscis.)

All these creatures are able to swallow their snouts and their tongues.
They have sharp tentacles, with the eyes generally placed on knobs,
part way up their sides. They have thin necks; and, when not hun-
ery, appear very innocent, as well as graceful creatures, the dangerous
organs being quite concealed. Their foot is large, flat, and spread-
ing, more separate from the body than in the snails. But when their
hungry or ferocious instincts are aroused, they dart out a long trunk,
sometimes even longer than their shell, at the end of which are vari-
ous drilling teeth, so arranged that they can bore a hole, even in the
strongest shells, and suck out the unfortunate inhabitant. Hvery one
must have observed these accurately turned holes, especially near the
hinge of bivalve shells. Besides this drfll-bearing trunk, they have
a long horny tongue, or ‘‘lingual ribbon,’’ armed with hundreds of
teeth, arranged in various patterns, which differ in the various fami-
lies. These tongues, when at rest, lie coiled up in a cavity near the
stomach. They do not make such quick work with their prey as do
the cuttles. Fancy the condition of an unfortunate clam or mussel,
resting peaceably in his bivalve shield, as he hears a grating noise,
outside his liver, going on hour after hour, he knows not why. At
last he feels the drill, and then the horny tongue, entering his vitals,
and he is sucked out of existence without possibility of defense!

The shell of the Trunk-bearers may almost always be known by a
notch or canal at the base; the object of which is to protect, or at any
rate allow the egress of the breathing pipe, which, as in the Nautilus,
is an open gutter formed by a lengthening and folding of the mantle.
In most of the tribe the trunk is drawn in base foremost; but in the
aberrant group of Cowries, Dr. Stimpson has observed that the tip is
first swallowed. In another group, of which the Cones are the type,
there is said to be no separate tongue; but the teeth are inserted, in
two rows of organs like the sting of a bee, in the substance of the
trunk itself. The predacious Pectinibranchs are arranged according
to the form of teeth on the tongue-ribbon.

Foremost in rank and beauty among the Gasteropods, stands the

family Muricipz,

or Rock-shells, in which the lingual ribbon is long and narrow, with
a multitude of very small teeth arranged in rows of three, (I'1:!,) each
of them with several spikes. The middle row only is fixed. In Murea
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. eS

proper, the animal, as it increases in size, periodically produces beau-
tiful foliations or varices from its mantle, at least three on each whirl.
In the typical species these are thin, light, and armed with numerous,
often very long spines; and the canal which holds the br eathing
siphon is ereatly pr oduced , hearly closed, and also armed with spines.
One would think the animal would be as much incommoded by its
splendid dress as a fashionable lady in a crowded ball-room. As the
the animal grows, it eats away the last year’s varix, which would
otherwise close up the aperture. It often happens that old mollusks,
either to ighten the weight they have to carry on their backs, or from
becoming more portly inside, eat out part or the whole of the interior
partitions in the same way. If the spire is long, or they are attacked
by borers in the upper region, where the liver works, they,also have
the power of partitioning off the unused or diseased part by septa,
which, however, are not regular or perforated as in the Nautil.

When the shells are strong, and the varices numerous and foliated,
they are called Phyllonotus. They are very numerous and beautiful
on the west coasts of tropical America and Africa. The shells of
Pteronotus have a few wing-like varices. When these are feebly
developed, as in JMuricidea, they pass into the next genus, Zrophon,
where the varices have degenerated’ into mere raised lamine. This is
an arctic form, both of the northern and southern seas. The Typhis,
which appears first in the older Tertiaries, is a Murex with a single
open spine between the varices. This is supposed to perform the
function of an excurrent canal, like the slit in Plewrotoma, or the hole
in Vissurella. Another group, of which the Spindle- shells are the
type, has no varices at all; but both the spire and canal are greatly
elongated. The true Fusus is a tropical form; but an intermediate
group, with moderate canal, (Chrysodonvws,) abounds in the arctic seas.
The Chrysodomus antiquus, still common in the British seas, and found
in the whole circumpolar region of the North, was equally common in
the various tertiary epochs of the English Crag. A reversed variety
(‘‘ fusus contrarius’’) was the characteristic species of the Red Crag,
and is now found living, beyond the limits of the normal form, in the
Mediterranean and on the cost of Spain. The Scotch call it the
‘‘roaring buckie,’’ from the ‘‘ sound of the sea’’ which the air makes
along the spiral passages when held to the ear. The Zetlanders hang
it flat, put a wick in the canal and oil in the body whirl, and make a
lamp of it. It is now fashionable to suspend the great Turbo in the
same way asa flower vase. The Clavellas have curiously deformed
mouths, and abounded in the Hocene age.

Lamarck, knowing little of the animals, divided his families accord-
ing to the leng th of the canal; but this is no index to the length of the
siphon, In the Pisania croup, the canal is very short, but the siphon
is moderately long and curled back over the shell in walking. A tooth
on the body wh irl, marking off the top end of the mouth, shows the
position of the excurrent canal. The Hnginas are little shells with
wry mouths, about which very little is known, though they are very
commen on both shores of tropical America.

As Pisania represents in this family Lamarck’s Purpurids, so Comi-
nella and Metula represent his Buccinids. They are in fact Buceinums
176 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

with a Muricoid operculum. Their favorite haunts are the rocky
shores of South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand; JMetula being an
American and Hast Indian group.

In the same way Anachis represents the Columbellas; from which
the shell is known simply by having a more elevated spine and trans-
verse ribs.

Family Bucernpa. (Whelks.)

The genus Buccinum of Linneeus contained all the shells with a
notched base: a heterogeneous group, most of which have been moved
of, step by step, to other families and genera; leaving only a few
species, mostly from the boreal seas in each hemisphere, to keep up
the ancient amily name. The Whelks are very closely related to the
Murices, fom which they differ chiefly in having a thin, oval opercu-
lum, with the nucleus a little out of the centre. The true Buccinum
has a notch for the breathing tube, and Strombella (a shell common in
the Norwegian seas, but still so rare near England that good specimens
sell for ten dollars) a short canal. The Columbelle, which are very
pretty little shells, extremely abundant in both oceans of tropical
America, are still but little known in their economy, but belong by
operculum to this family. They have their mouths so twisted by
teeth, that the foot and operculum has to go in and out sideways.
Perhaps this accounts for the operculum being so often broken and
abnormally repaired. It is a curious fact that whatever be the form
of the operculum in the different tribes of predacious mollusks, when-
ever it has been broken and has to be repaired by the animal, it always
takes a simple oval shape with concentric layers, the nucleus being in
the middle. In one place on the English coast there is found a race of
Buccinum undatum (the common whelk of the English and American
coasts) which perpetuates a very abnormal condition. They have two
small opercula of more or less irregular shapes, but each of concentric
elements. Probably their remote ancestor met with an accident, and
has transmitted her mode of repairing the fracture to her descendants.

Family Pyrvutiz.

The shells.of this group run into those of /usus by insensible gra-
dations; but the animals present a well-marked difference. The neck
(not the snout, as in the Strombs) is very long, the proboscis being
still further extensile. The head and tentacles are small in proportion.
Many of these shells are very large. The Pyrula melongena and P.
patula, inhabiting respectively the Atlantic and Pacific shores of
tropical America, are eaten by the natives. In the genus Hemfusus
are two of the largest living Gasteropods, the H. colosseus and probos-
cidalis of the Hast Indies.

family PURPURIDA.

The animal of Purpura differs very little from that of Buccinum and
Murex ; but the operculum is formed ona very peculiar plan. Outside
ss LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA,. 177

it looks shapeless, like a chip of rosewood; within, however, it is seen
that it has been formed on the usual concentric plan, but with the
nucleus elongated, and turned towards the outer lip of the shell. The
name of the principal genus is derived from a crimson dye which many
of the species exude when pressed. It was not, however, from these,
but from the Murex brandaris and A. trunculus of the Mediterranean,
that the ancients obtained their celebrated Tyrian purple. Cavities in
the rocks, with heaps of the broken shells, where the mollusks were
sacrificed to dye the robes of the nobles, are still seen on the shores of
the Morea and Levant.

The shells of this group reproduce many of the forms of the Muri-
cids, but with the chip, instead of the claw-shaped operculum. Thus
Cerastoma has regular varices like Murex and Vitularia; irregular
ones like Zrophon. Rhizocheilus has generally been confounded with
Muricidea, Chorus presents the shape of Chrysodomus, and Rapana
of Pyrula. fopas takes the place of Prsania; the wry-mouthed Lici-
nula of Engina; and Nitidella represents Anachis and the Columbellas.
The true Purpura has a peculiar scooping out of the pillar-lip. This,
when exaggerated, and at the same time the body whirl greatly
enlarged at the expense of the spire, produces the common Concholepas
of the Peruvian coast, which at first sight might be taken for a limpet.
In Monoceros, a genus almost peculiar to the west coast of America,
and ranging from California to Cape Horn, a sharp spine is developed
at the base of the outer lip. The same is seen in Chorus, Cerastoma,
and Concholepas; and may be looked upon as a west American pecu-
liarity.

In the Lapana group, Melapium represents the Pyrula melongena,
and the delicate Rapa shells the Ficulas. The Pseudoliva is clothed
with a coarse epidermis, and has a channel running spirally outside
the base of the shell, the use of which is not known. In the angular
Cuma tectum and in Purpura columellaris, there is a hump which runs
along the middle of the pillar lip.

The purple-shells frequent rocky shores all round the globe, and are
generally very prolific. They feast on bivalves, periwinkles and other
shell-fish. Some of them are very sedentary in their habits, especially
the Lhizocheils, which clasp round the stems of corals and prey upon
the Polypes. These often have the breathing canal almost rudimentary.

The Magilus, which used to be considered an Annelid, and afterwards
a Vermetid, is perhaps a degraded member of this group. When young
it has a white, globular shell, shaped like Natica. It establishes itself
among the Red Sea Polypes; and as the corals grow upwards, so does
the Magilus, forming a solid, irregular tube, with a keel to represent
the canal. Leptoconchus resembles its young state, but with a slight
notch, and no operculum. The Magilus, having plenty of lime to eat,
fills up its spire and the forsaken part of its tube with solid shelly
matter.

family Nassim. (Dog-whelks.)
The Nassas have small, compact, highly sculptured shells, with a

sharply twisted notch, through which the long curly siphon protrudes.
There is generally a strong lump on the inner lip. The animal has

12
178 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

two slender tails at the end of its foot, and a very thin, horny, triangular
operculum, very finely serrated on each side. When the operculum is
reproduced after injury, very few serrations are formed. In the Phos
group, there is only one tail, the eyes are very near the tips of the ten-
tacles, and the operculum is claw-shaped, without serrations. The
animal and even the operculum is as yet unknown in many of the
genera and most of the species of this group: and it is probable that
the family will need considerable revision.

In Bullia, a genus which delights in southern peninsulas, the foot
is extremely large, giving a glossy coat to the shell, and the animal is
blind. It probably plows the wet sand for bivalves, like Natica. The
Pseudostrombs form a transition between these and the ordinary forms,
not having any gloss on the spire. The true Nassas are active bur-
rowers, curling their nose-pipe up through the twisted notch, while
they search the sand for bivalves. They are extremely abundant in
tropical seas, both in species and individuals. In Desmoulea the shell
is rolled up almost into a ball ; and in Cyclops, it is curiously distorted
and flattened like a Nerite. Several of the shells called Nassas, as the
common ‘‘ Buccinum obsoletum’’ of the west Atlantic, and Nassa pana-
mensis of the east Pacific, have a Pisanoid operculum. They perhaps
belong, with Northia, to the Phos group. The Phos shells are very
beautifully cancellated: they have a sharp plait near the breathing
notch, and a wave at the base of the outer lip. Nassaria represents
the Tritons in this family, and Cyllene the Volutes.

The Hburnas are very beautifully spotted shells, strong, solid, and
more or less shining. ‘They are always smooth, and rarely display any
epidermis. They form a transition to the Harps.

Family PustoNELLIDA.

This little group has shells like Fusus, but the operculum is sub-
triangular, with the nucleus on the inner margin.

Family TurricuLips,

These creatures would be taken for Mitras from the shell alone. Indeed
the only characters by which the shells can be distinguished are the
trifling ones that they are externally ribbed transversely, and the outer
lip furrowed within; characters which in other groups would only
amount to specific difference. Here, however, they are coordinate (so
far as yet observed) with important characters in the dentition ; the
true Mitres being toothed like Fasciolaria, which will be presently
described ; while the Zurricule agree with Murex.

In the remaining family of this group, the foot is greatly developed,
causing a more or less glossy secretion over the whole shell.

Family Ourvipm. (Olives and Harps.)

When the foot is very large, we often find the operculum very small
or absent. In the Harps and Olives, the foot is deeply chiseled on each
side of the front ; so as to make lappels, which may be doubled up over
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 179

the head to protect it as it burrows in the sand. There are three
divisions in the family, of which the types are Oliva, Ancillaand Harpa,
and are thus characterized :

Ontvina. Shell compressed, smooth: pillar plaited: suture chan-
neled: a tail from the side of the mantle occupying the groove.

Ancittina®. Without shell channel and mantle tail.

Harpina. Shell ventricose, with varices pointed at the suture.

The Olives are among the best known and most beautiful of shells.
They are found plentifully in all tropical seas, especially in the islands
of the Indian and Pacific oceans. They are fond of burrowing in wet
sand in quest of bivalves ; and can dart through the water with toler-
able rapidity, by expanding and flapping their fleshy foot. They are
very rapacious ; and the larger kinds are fished by hooks baited with
flesh. The shells are heavy, painted in beautiful patterns and highly
polished. The colors are often very variable in the same species ; and
as the shape of the shells is generally pretty uniform, there is great
difficulty in discriminating several of the kinds. The pillar-lip is not
plaited, as in the Volutes and Mitres; but there are numerous spiral
folds, of which the foremost unite and travel round the base of the spire,
forming a band of different color.

In the Olivellas, which are all small shells, living in vast shoals on
each side of tropical America, the spire is elevated and the mouth ex-
panded at the base. The foot is not so large; and the typical species
have a very small operculum, which is however wanting in Lampro-
doma. In Agaronia the shell is even wider, and very thin. The back
is destitute of polish, and is therefore not so much immersed in the foot.
It frequents the west coasts of America and Africa, and is found in the
Kocene strata. In Scaphula the shell is distorted by an enormous lump
at the suture.

The Ancillas are polished shells, generally of a uniform white, fawn,
or brown color, without pattern. They are particularly plentiful in
Africa, and in the Hocene strata. In Dipsaccus which has, and San-
della which has not, a winding umbilicus, the spire is elevated, and the
spiral band round the base of the shell ends in a rudimentary tooth.
In Anaulax the shell is not polished outside, and the shell is thin and
wide-mouthed, like Agaronia in the last group.

The Harps form a small but well-marked group; of which the species
are so like each other that even the Messrs. Adams did not attempt to
subdivide them. They all have ventricose shells, with varicose ribs at
regular intervals, which may be sharp or flattened on the same speci-
men. ‘They are painted brown in beautifully penciled patterns, with
shades of pink and white ; and on the pillar is a large callosity, formed
by the olive-like foot of the animal. It is said that the creature will
part with its tail, rather than be caught; after the manner of the
Italian lizards. In the London Clay is a curious fossil, the ‘‘ Buccinwm
stromboides’’ of authors, which forms an interesting transition between
the Harps and the Ancillas. It has only rudimentary varices; but
their pointed tops remain. The general shape, and the lump on the
pillar, formed by the animal’s foot, which is too large to enter the shell,
show close relations with the true Harps.
180 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

The teeth in all the families thus far enumerated are formed on the
Whelk type, in rows of three each ; of which the central one is broad
and fixed, while the side ones are movable. All three are armed with
variously shaped hooks. In the next group of families, the lateral as
well as the central teeth are fixed; and the shell always has folds on

the pillar.
Family Fasctouartavm. (Lulip-shells and Mitres.)

This family embraces two very different looking groups of shells, of
which Fasciolaria and Mitra are the types. They agree however in a
very peculiar dentition. The central teeth in each row are very small ;
but the lateral ones are long, narrow, and armed with points like a saw.
The tulip-shells are not very strong, generally knobbed outside, with
the breathing canal a little curved. They are known from Fusus by a
few very slight and slanting folds on the pillar, close to the breathing
pipe. The fasciolaria gigantea of the South Carolina seas is sometimes
two feet in length, rivaling in size the great Hemifusi of the Hast
Indies. Small specimens greatly resemble the £”. princeps of the west
coast, but are at once distinguished by the sculpture on the operculum
of the latter. The group called Mulgur, which abounds on the Atlantic
shores of North America, with the East Indian group Zudicla, were
formerly reckoned with the Pyrulas. Whether they have a whelk-
like dentition, or whether they are Fasciolarias with undeveloped plaits,
cannot be told till their animals have been dissected. Whether it
speaks well for the zeal of American naturalists that these large species,
which can be so easily examined, should be abundant in collections, as
far as the shell is concerned, but as yet undescribed from the living
animals, must be for others to determine.

In Latirus, the shell is shaped like Fusus or Pisania, but with a
few parallel plaits. In Peristernia these evanesce, as in FMulgur; and
some species can hardly be known from Pisania. In Leucozonia,
there is a spine in the outer hp, as in Monoceros. The stout claw-
shaped operculum, which characterizes this tribe as well as the Muri-
cids, at once distinguishes the shell: but Lamarck’s error has been
repeated by many authors, and even by Chénu.

The genus Fastigiella is known only by its shell; which seems to
represent the Cerites among the Fasciolarias. The plaits are obsolete.

The Mitra group have always been great favorites. They generally
have slender, pointed shells, with elegant sculpture and particularly
brilliant painting. There are a great multitude of species, but most
of them are rare. They have a love for an insular life; being found
in great abundance in the islands of the Indian and Pacific oceans,
while the shores of the neighboring continents have only a few, and
those plain species. The Atlantic ocean is not their favorite: even
the choice islands of the West Indies only boasting of a few dull
species. The pillar lip is always strongly plaited, the top plaits being
the strongest. They are remarkable for doubling up their little foot
longitudinally, when they draw themselves in. The operculum is
generally absent. They have the power of emitting a very nauseous
odor when disturbed. ‘Their proboscis is enormously long, out of all
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 181

proportion to the size of the animal. It is difficult to say where they
find room to deposit it when swallowed. Swainson, who, with many
fancies, devoted much time to pointing out the analogies among vari-
ous groups of mollusks, paid particular attention to the Mitres. It
has already been shown that one group passes into the Muricid.
Another possesses the dentition of the Volutes. In the restricted
eroup, the Sérigatellas have the aspect of Columbella. They are found
under stones at low water, and are generally covered with an epider-
mis. Even when living, they are often coated over with nullipore,
an evidence of their sluggish habits. The Jmbricarias are, as it were,
plaited cones, and Cylindra has the shape of the Olives. They live in
the sheltered sands of the coral lagoons, and even in the black mud of
mangrove swamps. Lastly, the fossil genus Volvaria has close rela-
tionship with JJarginella.

Family Turpinettipe. (‘‘false Volutes.’’)

The Turbinelles are known from the last family by the lateral teeth
of the lingual ribbon; which, instead of being saw-shaped, have only
one strong horn on each to tear with. The middle tooth, however, is
very long and trident-shaped. The shell always has strong, trans-
verse plaits in the middle of the pillar lip. The true Zurbinellr are
pear-shaped, with a long canal. The ‘$shank-shell’’ is carved by the
Cingalese; and when found reversed is considered sacred. The priests
make use of it to administer their medicines. The group Cynodonta,
of which the two finest species inhabit the tropical shores of Atlantic
and Pacific America, are compact, and somewhat triangular in form.
The shell looks as if it bid defiance to all enemies, being extremely
strong and heavy, armed with stout knobs, and closed with a thick
twisted operculum. ‘The animal, however, is said to be timid and
inactive, shrinking quickly within its shell at the slightest alarm.

In the next section there is only one row of teeth on the lingual
ribbon, the lateral series being obsolete. The central teeth have gen-
erally three lobes, but sometimes they end in a single spike.

Family Vouutps. (Volutes.)

The Volutes are large, showy shells; most of them rare, and highly
prized by collectors. They have a very short spire, with a mamil-
lated nucleus, which is sometimes disproportionately large. The bot-
tom of the pillar lip is always plaited, with a notch for the breathing
pipe, which is short, turned back, and often furnished with little flaps
at the base. The foot is generally large, sometimes with a slit on
each side near the head, as in the Olives. The tentacles are small,
far apart, and joined by a veil. The eyes are on lumps behind the
tentacles.

The Boat-shells and Melons are large and thin, with very expanded.
mouth, and a few sharply-cut pillar-plaits. They are, as it were,
Marsupial animals, the eggs being hatched within the mother’s body,
and the young ones living there till they are more than an inch
long. The Cymbas are almost exclusively West African shells. They
were called Yet by Adanson, who tells us that the high winds some-
182 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

times drive shoals of them on shore, where they are eaten for food.
They have a very large, irregular apex, surrounded by a keeled chan-
nel, and a twisted pillar. The Melos are brightly painted shells from
the East Indies, often with a pretty crown of spines around the short,
smooth spire. In Volutella (a tropical American shell) the expanded
mantle deposits a coat of enamel over the spire, which is often pro-
duced into along horn. Voluta (proper) has a small operculum, and
numerous secondary plaits. The typical species, from the West In-
dies, is beautifully painted with a pattern resembling the staves of
music. ‘The commoner species belong to the group Aulica, in which
the shell is generally tuberculated, with a sharp outer lip. In Sca-
phella, a southern form, also found fossil in the Enghsh Crag, the
shell is narrow and elongated. In Mulguraria, the shell is striated,
and the foot is comparatively small. In Callipara, the shell is like a
young cowry, with very small plaits. In Lyria, the shell is shaped
like Marginella, with very small plaits, and ribbed exterior. It is the
only form of volute found on the west Coast*of America.

The family of the Volutes make their first appearance in the creta-
ceous epoch, but very sparingly. In the tertiary groups, particu-
larly the Eocene of the London and Paris basins, a peculiar form
abounds, called Volutilites, in which the spire is sharp, as in Mitra,
and the plaits are often very faint. A single recent specimen of this
group was dredged in 132 f&thoms of water, off the Cape of Good
Hope, during the voyage of the Samarang.

Another group differ remarkably from the true Volutes in the shape
of the central teeth. Instead of having two large lobes on each side
of the small central one, they have only one central spike ; which rises
up so sharply from its arched support, that when arranged over each
other on the tooth-ribbon, they present the appearance of a keel.
There is no character in the shell by which the Amoria can be safely
separated from the ordinary Volutes. In the few specimens examined,
the surface is polished, and there are five oblique pillar-plaits.

The same lingual detition is found in the little Volutomitra gren-
landica ; remarkable as representing an essentially tropical type on a
boreal shore. The animal and shell are shaped for the most part as
in Mitra, from which the teeth are essentially different: so that it may
be either considered the representation of the Volutes among the
Mitres; or, as placed by Dr. Gray, the mitred element among the
Volutes.

Family MARGINELLIDA. :

The Marginellas are a numerous group of very pretty little shells,
great favorites with collectors from their high polish, and beautiful
colors. They are almost all from the tropical seas, and the largest
number of finest species are from Africa. If we judge by the shells
alone, they form an exact transition from the Volutes to the Cowries ;
in their plaited pillar and general shape resembling the former, in
their glossy coat and thickened lip the latter family. Indeed the tran-
sition-genus rato is placed by systematists sometimes in one, some-
times the other group. But so far as the animals are yet known,
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 183

they are widely dissimilar. In dentition, they are nearly related to
the Volutes, having only a central row of teeth. But these, instead
of having three lobes, or a spike, are very broad, with nine small
serrations. The proboscis is short, I think; the siphon without auri-
cles ; and the foot is folded up longitudinally, asin the Mitres. They
further differ from most of the Volutes in their high polish, caused
by the sides of the mantle folding over the shell. Sometimes it deposits
a large callosity on each side of the mouth.

In the typical Marginellas, the spire is distinct ; the siphonal notch
is not sharply cut out as in the Volutes; and there are five distinct
plaits on the pillar. They inhabit clear sands, in somewhat shallow
water, and glide along with great rapidity. In Persicula, the spire
is concealed ; the pillar has numerous plaits; and the outer lip has
an excretory notch, and is generally grooved within. In Volvarina
the shell is very thin, scarcely thickened at the lip, and with very
small plaits on the pillar. Several small species of this group are
common in the West Indies. A group of small shells, called Closia
by Dr. Gray, are extremely like Cypreovula in shape. The outer lip
is toothed, and the inner has two large and two small plaits.

In the next group of families, the teeth are arranged in rows of
seven each ; the central an inner lateral teeth being fixed, as in Las-
ciolaria ; but the two outer teeth on each side being movable. The
inner teeth have numerous serrations on the edges. They are gene-
rally very small and transparent ; but the animal makes up for their
minuteness by having a strong prehensile collar at the end of the
trunk. In this are inserted a number of horny plates, armed with
numerous rows of conical teeth.

Family Casstom. (Helmet Shells.)

The true Helmets are large, handsome shells, somewhat triangular
in form, with very short spire, narrow mouth, toothed on each side,
and the canal suddenly twisted backward. Like the Murices, they
leave a varix outside the shell at every period of growth; which, in
this genus, occurs at every two-thirds of a revolution. The animal
has a large strong foot; and the mantle deposits a very thick pillar-
lip, the edge of which projects so as partially to conceal the spire. As
the shell grows, the twisted canal is covered over by the advancing
pillar lip, leaving a cavity behind. The creatures are active and vora-
cious ; crawling, with their stout helmet behind their heads, (a fashion
which ladies have sometimes imitated,) and their nose-pipe bent back
over it, along the sandy flats where the unconscious bivalves quietly
wait to be eaten. The inner lip consists of various plates of enamel,
which lie in alternate colors. Artists have taken advantage of this to
carve cameos; whichare produced by cutting the figure in one of the
layers, and leaving the groundwork in the next. The large cameo-
shell, called by Lamarck Cassis madagascarensis, is a native of the
Bahama Islands, whence large quantities are brought to the Liver-
pool market. Dead shells have been dredged by Dr. Stimpson off the
coast of North Carolina. The colors of the cameos difier according to
184 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

the species of the shell. The operculum of Cassis is very long and
narrow, like that of the Buccinum drawn out; but in the swollen hel-
mets (Bezoardica) it is shaped like an expanded fan, with the nucleus
onthe inner margin. ‘The shells of this group seldom make a varix
except when mature; and the pillar lip is thin, seldom plaited. In
Levena (peculiar to west tropical America) the outer lip is sharp,
but thickened within; the operculum being very small, to suit the
contracted aperture. In Cyprecassis, there is no operculum; the
mouth is narrow and toothed on each side like the Cowries; and the
inner lip is very thick, but not projecting as in the true helmets. In
Cassidaria, (a genus almost confined to the Mediterranean,) the shell
is like Bezoardica, but the canal is only partially bent back: in Sconsia
itis not bent back at all. In Oniscia, the canal is straight, and the
inner lip wrinkled: while Pachybathron is even more like a Cowry
than Cyprecassis, having the mouth toothed as in Zrivia with a notch
at each end. The Helmets first appear in the Hocene tertiaries ; but
their maximum development, as in most other predacious Gasteropods,
is in the existing age.

Family Dowtapm. (Lun Shells.)

The Tuns are nearly related to the Helmets, both in animal and
shell. The latter is always very thin and ventricose, with spiral ribs,
and a sharply notched aperture. The animal is large, with a very
capacious foot, truncated in front, which it swells out with water when
swimming. The head is thick, with the eyes on little stalks at
the base of the tentacles. The proboscis is stout and long, and armed
with a powerful prehensile collar at the end. The breathing canal is
turned back, as in the Helmets. In Doliwm, the mouth of the shell,
is very wide and open: in JMalea, it is curiously contracted, with ribs
on each side. The Malea ringens is a very characteristic shell of
Pacific tropical America. Its fossil remains, discovered by Dr. New-
bery on the Atlantic coast, prove that the two oceans have been sepa-
rated since the creation of the species. The Tuns make their appear-
ance in the Miocene age.

Family 'Trirontipm. (Trumpet Conchs.)

The Zritons were naturally associated with the Murices by concholo-
gists; the only differences observed in the shells being purely arti-
ficial, viz: that in Murex the varices (or old mouths) are any number
from three to thirteen ; while in this family they are two or one and
ahalf. This trifling distinction, however, is found to be codrdinate
with an essential difference in the dentition ; the Zritons being in that
respect closely related to the Helmets and the Naticas. They differ
from the previous families in having but a small foot, and a ‘nearly
straight siphon, inclosed in the canal of the shell. They are almost
confined to tropical seas, and have a much greater love for the old
world than the new. All the shells of the family have the outer lip
toothed within, and most of them have the pillar hp similarly orna-
mented. The operculum is generally as in the Muricids.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSGA. 185

The large Triton Tritonis of the Pacific ocean is a great favorite with
the South-Sea islanders, who make a hole near the. tip, and then use
it as a speaking trumpet. A very similar species (Z. nodiferus) in-
habits the Mediterranean, and has been know to crawl to the confines
of the British seas. One of them was kindly given by the ancients to
the Sea God, to make his commands better heard: and the poet sings
of the old Romans,

** Buccina jam priscos cogebant ad arma Quirites.”’

The varices appear on every three En of a whirl, giving the
shell a somewhat distorted appearance. In the subgenus Gutternium,
the canal is very long and straight, as in Murex proper. It is gene-

rally of moderate size, and somewhat twisted. In the fusiform species

with a long spire, the canal is very short. Sometimes there are no
varices till the shell approaches maturity. There is one group (Argo-
buecinum) in which the shell is thin and whelk-shaped, and the varices
irregular or absent. It is characteristic of the west coast of America ;
the 4. nodosum being found in the tropics, the A. scabrum along the
foot of the Andes, the A. cancellatum in the extreme south, and the
very similar A. oregonense in the northern districts. These, with a
large proportion of the true Tritons, are covered with a very thick,
loose, and generally hairy epidermis.

The Persone, or Mask-shells, are Tritons with a broad thin inner
lip, and curiously twisted mouth; being to Triton what Malea is to
Dolium. The Huthrice are regarded by Dr. Gray as Tritons without
varix. The shell appears related to Clavella or Per isternia ; Bae the
teeth of the animal have not yet been examined.

The Lanella group are very pretty shells, having a row of ornamen-
tal varices running up each side of the spire. In the typical species,
the operculum is shaped as in Murex or Pisania. But in &. crumena
it is formed asin Pusionella. This caused Dr. Gray to remove it to the
Cassis family, supposing that all the shells with round varices had the
usual operculum, and all those with sharp-edged ones (Huplewra) the
abnormal one. Having examined however a number of specimens of
the sharp-ridged Hupleura nitida, collected by Professor Adams, at
Panama, with the opercula in situ, I find that they belong to the
Buccinoid type, being oval and annular, with the nucleus near the
anterior end of the outer lip. This family appears sparingly, like its
congeners, in the Hocene strata. A curious fossil genus, Spinigera,
from the Inferior Oolite, is intermediate in characters between the
spiny-variced Lanellas and fostellaria, and may have belonged to
either family.

Family Cerirutorsipa. (False Cerites.)

A group of very small shells were separated from the Cerites, by
Professor Forbes, on finding that they had a retractile proboscis, and
a muricoid operculum. They inhabit all seas which have been pro-
perly searched ; living in sheltered places near the shore among sea-
weeds and zoophytes. The largest of them scarcely exceeds an inch
in length, and one-eighth in breadth. They are all highly sculptured,
186 LECTURES ON MOLLUSGA.

with stout knobs or keels, and are very beautiful objects under the
microscope. The teeth of Cerithiopsis are said to resemble Triton;
but the tentacles are more like those of Tornatella. The siphon-pipe is
extremely short, not protruding beyond the notch of the shell. In
Triforis, the whirls turn the wrong way, and the lip of the shell is
often twisted into pipes for the reception of the breathing and excur-
rent ducts. The third pipe behind, which gave the name to the genus,
is simply the relic of a former mouth. The shells in each group are
sometimes so like each other that they can scarcely be distinguished,
except by the direction of the whirls. Yet the animal of Z7riforis is
said to belong to the true Cerites.

2? Family CANCELLARTADA.

The true position of this family is not yet ascertained. The Cancel-
larias are singularly beautiful shells, always elegantly sculptured,
with a few small plaits on the pillar, which are sometimes obsolete.
Often the pillar is hollow; and instead of a notch or short canal for
the breathing tube, there is only an angular pinch in the shell. The
siphon pipe is extremely short; but as to the important characters of
the head, the learned differ. Messrs. Adams say that it has neither
tongue, teeth, nor proboscis; and Deshayes states that it is a vegetable
feeder. Dr. Gray, however, places it near the Muricids. The genus
is confined to tropical seas and rather deep water; but an allied form,
Admete, lives in Greenland, and visits the New England shores. In
the boreal group Trichotropis, so called from the beautiful hairy fringes
on the epidermis; there are no plaits on the pillar. The animal has
been described by some authors as having a retractile proboscis; by
others as having a muzzle. Whether widely different animals have
been grouped together, or whether great mistakes have been made,
remains to be seen.

In the foregoing families, when the shell has been partially covered,
it has been not by the mantle (as often stated) but by the broad and
fleshy foot. In the aberrant family of Fig-shells, however, the foot,
though widely extended, is very thin; and the shell is partly enveloped
by two flaps of the mantle, as in the Cowries.

Family Ficuripa. (Lig-Shells.)

The shells of this group are singularly elegant; very thin, pear-
shaped, finely cancellated outside, with a long wide canal, which
protects the still longer breathing pipe. The animals are beautifully
painted, with markings of various colors. They stretch out their long
white necks, with flat heads, and large black eyes, and crawl very
rapidly over the sands. There are very few species; one inhabiting the
Pacific shores of tropical America, another the Atlantic, and the rest
the East Indian seas,

We now come to animals having a very different appearance, and
furnished with shells having no similarity in shape with those hitherto
described. The shells were associated by the conchologists with the
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 187

Nerites, with which they really have scarcely even an external affinity.
The creatures are very voracious, armed with a retractile proboscis,
and furnished with teeth constructed like those of Cassis and Triton.
They have, however, no breathing pipe, the water being conveyed to
the gills by a foldin the mantle. The shell consequently has no notch
at the pillar, and the operculum (when present) is spiral.

Family VELUTINIDA.

This is a little group of creatures chiefly from the northern seas,
with very thin, slightly spiral shells, ending in large round mouths.
The mantle of the animal partly covers the shell, as in Ficula. The
Velutine live in deep water in the Eastern Atlantic; Morvillia in the
West. In Marsenina the shell is ear-shaped, (as in Lamellaria;) and
in Onchidiopsis it is simply a horny layer.

Family Navicw2.

The Naticas are very queer creatures; exceedingly voracious, and
yet generally blind; armed with the usual carnivorous appendage of
retractile proboscis and horny jaws; and yet, as they walk, looking
more like a lump of fleshy sand than a predacious Gasteropod. Their
shells are strong, beautifully formed, and very innocent looking ;
having ashort spire, hollow pillar, and round mouth. The operculum
is slightly spiral, and is generally horny; but sometimes has a shelly
coat outside. The great peculiarity of the animal is its enormous foot,
which not only envelops the shell, like a mantle, but is doubled up in
front so as to form a wedge-shaped digger, with which it plows up the
wet sand. The head is hidden behind the plow, and thus protected
from the sand; and as the eyes would be hidden also, they are dis-
pensed with. The two largest species of the group are found, one in
New England, the other on the Oregon shores. No sooner does the
tide go down than they may be seen plowing just below the surface,
in the region where bivalves love to hide, a small portion of the shell
just protruding over the moving sand. No sooner do they come in
contact with an unhappy Zéllen, than the plow and the broad foot
envelop it, the head stretches out, the trunk is darted out, and the
drilling process commences, which ends in the suction of the unfortu-
nate bivalve.

Those who examine the objects on the sea shore in summer time can
hardly fail to have noticed some curious sandy, ribbon-shaped, frail
substances, curled like a horseshoe. Naturalists have often taken
them for zoophytes ; and they have been variously described as Flustra
arenosa, Eschara lutosa, Alcyonium arenosum, and Discopora crebrum.
It is however nothing but the nest which Mother Natica makes for the
protection of her eggs. If held to the light when wet, it will be found
to consist of sand, glued together, and filled with little cells arranged
in quincunx, each one of which has contained an egg. The Naticas
are found in all parts of the world, and have existed in all ages, be-
ginning with the paleozoic.

In Natica proper, the operculum has a shelly coat, which is often
188 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

spirally grooved. The umbilicus (or pierced pillar) is generally spiral,
leaving a lump on which the apex of the operculum lies when open.
The remaining genera have horny opercula. The northern species
mostly belong to the group Lunatia, with straight umbilicus and
small pillar-lump. In Neverita, which is found in subtropical regions,
the spire is flattened, the mouth wide, and the umbilicus winds round
a lump which more or less fills it up. This lump is sometimes grooved.
The shells of Polinices have the spire conical, and the umbilicus nearly
covered by a very large flattened lump: they are white, or only
slightly tinted. Ampullina, of which only one species is living, the
rest abounding in the Hocene, has a ventricose shell, with the axis not
perforated. It is polished by the very large foot, and there is a large
lump on the pillar. Naticella has a thin, open shell with very small
umbilicus, almost covered by a narrow, dark colored deposit. In the
form of the shell, it passes into Sigaretus, in which the shell is flat-
tened, sometimes ear-shaped, and partially concealed by the animal.
The outside, however, is striated, not polished as in ordinary Naticas.
The operculum is very small, and the animal sluggish and timid.
Naticina is intermediate between Naticella and Sigaretus, having an
umbilicus but no lump. Amaura is a boreal form, with raised spire
and solid pillar.

In the families which follow, the teeth are arranged in different and
peculiar patterns. The shells are of very dissimilar shapes; but the
animals all agree in having a retractile proboscis.

Family LAMELLARTADA.

In this family the foot is enormously large, completely enveloping
the shell. There is a slit in the mantle to convey water to the gills.
The shell is flat, transparent, or horny. The teeth are in rows of
three, as in the Muricids; but the side teeth are very large and trape-
zoidal. The Coriocella is a large black animal, inhabiting the tropical
seas. Lamellaria and Hrmea are principally from temperate regions.
In Ermea there appear to be additional lateral teeth.

Family Scauarrapa. (Wentle Traps.)

The Dutch called these shells Winding-Stairs, from the beautiful
step-like rings ascending in a spiral. The spire is more or less eleva-
ted, with a round mouth and reflexed lip, which leaves a varix at each
period of increase. Sometimes the whirls are separated from each
other, only adhering by the edge of the rings. This is beautifully
seen in the famous Scalaria pretiosa, for which the Dutch used to give
two hundred dollars, but which may now be bought for one. The
animal has a fold in the mantle to convey water to the gills, being the
foreshadowing of the siphon-pipe in the canaliculated shells. The foot
is extended in front, grooved behind, with a thin, spiral operculum.
The head is crescent-shaped, and armed with a strong, fleshy trunk.
When disturbed, the creature emits a purple dye. It is very vora-
cious, eagerly devouring putrid meat. The teeth are quite different
from those of all other prosobranchiate mollusks, resembling most
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 189

those of Bulla and Janthina. There are no central hooks. The lateral
teeth are very numerous and regular, arranged in lines forming an
obtuse angle.

The Scalarias are rare, inhabiting deep waters. They are, however,
found in all parts of the world, even in the boreal seas. The species
are generally very much like one another, and white. The Spaniards
at St. Blas wear them as ear-rings, calling them Caracoles jinos. The
shells with irregular varices are called Cirsotrema. Sometimes they
are almost evanescent; in which case the shell can hardly be distin-
guished from Aclis. Fossil forms, which may or may not belong to
this group, are found as early as the oolitic rocks; but true Scalarias
do not appear till the later cretaceous periods.

The remaining families of this tribe differ from all the previous
ones, and indeed from all other known Gasteropods, in having no
teeth on the lingual ribbon. In fact the existence of a tongue at all
has to be confirmed. They have, however, a retractile proboscis, and
probably live by suction. It is said by some careful observers that
the Cancellarias belong to this section.

Family Kutiapa, cc.

The feet in this family are very short behind, but enormously pro-
duced in front; and are used not merely for crawling, but for explor-
ing in advance. The tentacles are slender, with small eyes immersed
in their base. Hulima has a pointed shell, with flat, glossy whirls,
and is generally white. The mouth is like Melania, with a very thin
spiral operculum. Leiostraca is very slender and elongated, with
periodic thickenings every half whirl. Niso is umbilicated, and often
highly painted. Many of the Lulime have the axis twisted, especially
near the apex. This is very much the case in the group Stylifer, the
animals of which live as parasites immersed in star-fish, or on the
spines of sea-urchins. They do not appear to have an operculum.
The Entoconcha has been found living in Synapta digitata.

Family PYRAMIDELLIDA.

These creatures differ from the Hulimas in having the. tentacles
short, broad, and folded together. The foot is not prolonged in front.
The operculum has few whirls, and is very thin, generally wrinkled.
There is a rudimentary breathing fold in the mantle. All the animals
of this family are born with a reversed spire; but no sooner do they
commence their independent life than they twist themselves round,
and continue their growth in the usual right-handed manner. The
reversed nuclear shell is generally found at the tip of the apex, more
or less immersed in the first regular whirl, and giving the spire a
somewhat truncated appearance: in some species it even projects be-
yond the sides of the spire. In the typical group, Pyramidella, the
shell is sculptured with transverse ribs, and the pillar is armed with
strong plaits. The mouth is pinched up in the region of the rudi-
mentary breathing hole. The operculum is narrow and notched, to
suit the long contracted aperture. In Obeliscus, the shell is smooth
190 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

outside, and the lip periodically thickened within. The plaits are
very strong, often projecting beyond the mouth. Sometimes there is
only one stout fold. In Odostomia, the sinistral apex is very small,
the shell Rissoa-shaped, with one tooth on the columella, which some-
times (as in Auriculina) becomes obsolete. In Monoptygma, the fold
is slanting.* In Chrysallida, the shell is strongly sculptured, and the
shell contracted at each end. The outer lip in the adult is extremely
thin in front, but thickened behind. The species are very numerous
on the west coast of America, where they are found in the crevices of
dead shells. All these creatures are very minute. The Chemnitzias
are somewhat larger, a few species actually reaching an inch in length.
They are very much turretted shells, with large sinistral apex and
melanoid mouth, without plait. Most of the species have flattened
whirls with transverse plaits; but in Hulimella and Menestho, they are
smooth. In Aeclis, the whirls are tumid; and the mouth is sometimes
round, like a Scalaria without rings.

Large shells are found in the paleozoic and oolitic rocks, which are
referred provisionally to this family ; but the characteristic apex can
seldom be examined, and their true position is doubtful. In the ter-
tiary strata, we find representatives of most of the living forms.

Very few species in this family abound in individuals, and from their
minuteness and rarity they are seldom seen in collections: but very few
families boast of so many specific forms. They are more numerous
even than /zssoas, both in the British seas and in the Gulf of Califor-
nia. Shell sand, especially from deep water, should always be care-
fully searched for them; and the sinistral apex carefully examined, to
distinguish them from fissoids, &c.

Family Souartapm. (Perspective Shells.)

The shells grouped together in the Zrochus family by Lamarck, are
found to belong to five very widely separated groups. The true Trochus
is a Scutibranch, allied to the Har-shells and Limpets. The Zrochita
is a Rostriferous Pectinibranch, allied to the Slipper-limpets. The
ftisella belongs to the Periwinkles, in the typical portion of the same
group. The Phorus, or Carrier-trochus, belongs to the further extreme
of the same group, being a scrambler, allied to the Strombs. While
the Perspective Top-shells are found to possess a retractile proboscis,
and to have many points of resemblance with the very differently shaped
Pyramidellids. The shell of Solarium is known by the wide open
umbilicus, which has always a crenulated keel within, ending in a
notch at the base of the mouth. The shell is top-shaped, with a flat
base, and is always beautifully sculptured. The point of the spire is
rather flattened, and there may always be noticed a minute hole, even
in perfect specimens. This is caused by the nucleus of the shell, which
is reversed and globular as in the Pyramidellids, being turned upside

*This genus was constituted from very different shells. The supposed original type is
an abnormal Aneillaria. The name is here kept, as by Woodward, for shining, sculptured
Kast Indian shells, intermediate in form between Odostomia and Tornatella. As the animal
has not yet been observed, their true position is uncertain.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 191

down, and inserted, bottom upwards, in the succeeding whirl. The
animal has a large foot, with flat, paucispiral operculum, and short
tentacles folded sideways. In Yorinia, the base is rounded, and the
operculum is very singular, being conical, with many whirls. Bifrontia
is, as it were, a Zora rolled out flat. Sometimes the whirls scarcely
touch. The mouth is square, as in Solarium. The genus was consti-
tuted from French fossils; but Mr. McAndrew has found it living in
very deep water, near Teneriffe, with an operculum and sinistral apex
exactly like Zorinia. The genus Philippia consists of smooth Torinie,
with flat operculum. It is said by Philippi to have an animal like
Trochus ; but this is probably a mistake, as the apex is sinistral. Dis-
cohelix is smooth and flat like Planorbis: it is doubtful whether its rela-
tions are with Bifrontia or with Vitrinella. It is found fossil in the
American Kocene strata, and living in the Mediterranean.

A large number of fossil genera are referred to this family by Chénu,
but their true place is doubtful. Many Trochids have a large crenu-
lated umbilicus, and the characteristic reversed apex can scarcely be
observed in the older fossils.

Three families, differing from each other very mucli in the shape of
their shells, but still having many points in common to distinguish
them from the ordinary siphon-bearing univalves, have been*separated
from the rest of the predacious Gasteropods by Dr. Gray, under the
name

TOXIPFERA.

They have a retractile proboscis: but instead of a separate lingual
ribbon, the tube of the trunk is turned in upon itself, and armed with
two rows of long barbed teeth, implanted singly in the skin of the
fleshy tube. The teeth are curiously formed, resembling the sting of
a bee when seen in the microscope ; and probably have more vitality
than those of the ordinary type. In some species, the end of the tube
is large enough to admit the little finger; and the creature is able to
inflict a decided bite.

Family Contpz. (Cones.)

The Cone-shells are great favorites with collectors, in consequence of
their brilliant painting and regular patterns. The Conus gloria-maris
has more than once sold for $250. Almost all the species, however,
are formed on one plan; and in the living state, the colors are hidden
by a skin, which is often very rough and thick. The animal has a
short, strong foot, square in front, and with a large hole underneath,
through which water is sponged up. It bears a long narrow opercu-
lum, of concentric layers beginning from the point: but if it is mended
after fracture, the nucleus is in the centre, as in other tribes. The
siphon-pipe is long, extended through the notch of the shell. There
is always a notch at the other end of the mouth also. The head has
two long slender tentacles, with the eyes along their sides. When the
proboscis is drawn in, it leaves a funnel-shaped expansion, or veil, in
front of the head. This veil is fringed at the end in Tuliparia ; and
192 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

probably also in Rollus geographicus, which differs from the rest in
having no operculum. The Cones are found in all tropical seas ; but
abound most in the Indian Ocean and Eastern Archipelago. Some of
the species are very widely distributed, reaching from the Red Sea to
Easter Island and the Gallapagos. They prowl in the holes and fissures
of rocks, and the winding passages of coral reefs; where they crawl
slowly in depths ranging from low-water mark to forty fathoms. The
shells are generally heavy : and as the animal grows stouter, he absorbs
the inner whirls of the shell, leaving only a very thin partition, At
the same time he preserves his weight by depositing thick coats in the
region of the spire. Shells therefore which a ‘‘ collector’ would throw
away, may be valuable to grind down and show the inner structure.

The Dibaphus is a puzzling shell, intermediate between Conus, Mitra,
and Terebellum. Its true position cannot be stated without a knowledge
of the animal. Fossil Cones first appear in the chalk: and are toler-
ably common in the tertiary strata. The Conorbis of the London Clay
is lozenge-shaped, closely approaching in form some members of the
next family.

family PLEUROTOMIDA.

In this family the head is truncate, without a funnel. The shells
are generally turrited, and are only known from Fusus by a slit in the
outer lip, near the suture, corresponding with a slit in the mantle of
the animal. ‘The typical genus, Plewrotoma, has along canal, and the
slit separated from the suture. The operculum is flat, somewhat trian-
gular, with the nucleus near the canal. Drillia differs in having a
short canal. ‘These forms are peculiar to tropical regions. They are
represented in Northern seas by Bela, which has a somewhat similar
operculum; but the slit is nearly obsolete, and the pillar is flattened.
Lachesis has a Mamilated spire, and a Buccinoid shape.

Another group is characterized by the nucleus of the operculum being
in the centre of the long side, as in Pusionella and Bezoardica. In
Clavatula, the canal is short; the shell resembling Drillia. In To-
mella, the spire is short and the canal produced ; the shell resembling
a Clavella, with a wave near the middle of the outer lip. There isa
thick deposit near the suture, as in that genus.

A third group has no operculumat all. The Clathurelle, (Defrancia
of Millet ; the true Defrancia being a Polyzoon,) are among the most
beautiful of small shells. They are likea Drillia, with a deep posterior
notch close to the suture ; and the whirls are swollen and delicately
cancellated. They are found in temperate as well as in tropical cli-
mates. In Mangelia, the notch is very slight, and the shell plain ;
being in fact a Bela without an operculum. The Cithare are a group
of beautiful little shells, like flattened Harps. They have regular trans-
verse ribs, notched at the suture: the mouth is narrow and straight,
toothed or wrinkled within, like Oniscia. Dr. Gray places them witlr
Cassis, their true position being of course uncertain till the animal has
been examined. In Daphnella the shell is thin and ventricose, very
finely sculptured, and with the family notch almost obsolete. The
shell is closely related to Metula, which has probably a Muricoid
animal,
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 193

The known species in this family amount to at least five hundred.
First appearing in the later cretaceous age, they very rapidly became
plentiful in the tertiary strata, three hundred species having been
already described. But although so plentiful in forms, they are gen-
erally, like the Pyramidellide, rare in individuals ; and collections may
often be seen entirely destitute of them. They are generally found in
deep water, ranging however from low water to a hundred fathoms ;
and culminate in the China seas and in west tropical America.

Family Treresrip&. (Augur-shells.)

The Augur-shells form an aberrant family, in general easily recog-
nized by the very slender and produced spire, with flattened whirls and
a deeply-notched aperture. Although several of the species are toler-
ably large, and very common in the Pacific islands, their anatomy is
as yet but little known. This group, like the other Toxifers, has only
appeared late in the history of our planet. About thirty species have
been found in the tertiaries; but in the existing seas, fully two hun-
dred species have been discovered. They live in deep water, almost
always in tropical climates. So far as known, the teeth and proboscis
are like those of other Toxifers, but the foot and head of the animal are
very small. The tentacles are close to the mouth, exceedingly minute,
and with mere specks of eyes at their summits. Sometimes the eyes
and even the tentacles are not to be seen; and the head is little more
than a mouth, as in the shell-bearing Pteropods. The nose-pipe how-
ever is very long, and reflected through the sharp notch. The intro-
mittent organ is longer still, like a living thread proceeding from the
nape of the neck. There is a small, horny operculum, not filling the
mouth, and shaped somewhat as in Pleuwrotoma. The shells are gen-
erally glossy, heavy, and prettily painted and sculptured. The upper
whirls of the shell are often of chalcedonic texture, the inner cavity
having been filled up with glossy shelly matter. In this respect there
is a striking contrast between the Augurs and the Screws, which latter
group partition off the upper whirls with thin septa. The Screw-shells
therefore are often found broken ; while the Augurs are generally per-
fect. The Augurs are so slender that sometiines as many as thirty
whirls may be counted on a shell three inches long but not a quarter
of an inch across at the broadest part. It can hardly be believed that
the creature can balance his heavy pole, crawling like an ordinary Gas-
teropod, and supporting his weight on so short a foot at an enormous
leverage against him. It is not improbable that he lives in the midst
of sandy mud, through which he can easily push his needle and twist
round; leaving the top of his long nose in the water. In such an
abode, eyes would be of no service.

It is not yet known how far the differences in the shells are codrdi-
nate with those in the animals. Dr. Gray divides the family into
those with, and those without tentacles and eyes. Krom the former
he separates a genus Leiodomus, in which the suture is callous, like
Bullia; but the toot is small, not bulky, as in that group. For the
present, it is convenient to separate the non-sculptured species as
Subula; keeping Zerebra for those with a band near the suture. The

13
194 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

beautiful group Myurella has the band nodulous. Huryta is a curious
group in which the spire is shorter, and the canal so twisted that the
pillar appears pierced. The form of these shells offers a transition to
Buccinum; while a few other species present the aspect of Cerithiwm.

We have now passed under review all the Gasteropods which are
known to possess a retractile proboscis. It is not certain that all of
these are strictly carnivorous; and it is almost certain that some tribes
which have a permanently elongated muzzle are not vegetarians.
Between these two great leading divisions of the comb-gilled crawlers,
there is asomewhat anomalous group, the true position of which is not
‘yet ascertained. It is strange, (and not, perhaps, very creditable to
naturalists and collectors,) that Cowries have been among the com-
monest shells from the earliest times; abound not only in species, but
in individuals; form a regular staple of trade; are found in all warm
seas; and yet a reliable account of the anatomy of the animal is still a
desideratum. Scientific observers have frequently given accounts of
them, and the creatures are figured in many of the great voyages; and
yet Dr. Gray asserts that it has a short muzzle, grouping it with the
land and sea Periwinkles, while the whole army of ordinary naturalists
declare that it has the retractile proboscis of the Whelks. At my re-
quest, Dr. Stimpson examined the animal of the large and typical
Oypreea testudinaria, which had been brought home by the United
States Exploring Expedition; and to our surprise it did not accord
with either the one or the other type, but, on the contrary, furnished
us with an example of a retractile muzzle. The snout, contracted in
alcohol, was about half the length of the shell. Instead of being
drawn in from the base, as in Whelks, it was drawn in from the tip;
The tongue-ribbon was coiled up in a cavity near the stomach.
Probably the end of the muzzle protruding in tront of the tentacles
has been mistaken for the ordinary rostrum.

The teeth of Cyprea helvola are very like those of the land and sea
Periwinkles; but those of Zrivia europea have no small resemblance
to those of Natica. The teeth of Ovulum are altogether peculiar;
whether, therefore, the egg shells are rightly classed with the Cowries,
remains to be seen.

Family Cypreipm. (Cowries.)

The Cowry shells, when adult, are nearly globular, not showing any
spire, with a narrow mouth, toothed on each side, nearly in the middle
of the base; with a deep notch at each end. They are almost always
smooth and polished. When young, however, they present a very
different shape; being then very thin, with an open mouth, sharp lip,
and short spire. At that period they have the general aspect of Olives
without the plaits; and, as they never display the same shape or pat-
tern that they do in mature life, they have sometimes been described
as different species. The adolescent Cowry curls-round the sharp edge
of his mouth, and then begins to make teeth on each of the lips. At
the same time, the mantle spreads out, forming two great flaps, one of
which envelops each side of the shell, and deposits layer over layer of
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 195

enamel, till the proper pattern has been given. A line is generally
seen on the back of the shell, where the two flaps met. The Cowries
are very pretty animals, with the mantle-lobes generally adorned with
fringes or ornamental painting. The breathing pipe is very short, and
often fringed also. They have long, slender tentacles, with eyes mid-
way up. The foot is very large, but can be withdrawn, with the
mantle lobes, into the shell. The Cowries are shy, and crawl slowly.
They hide themselves in coral reefs and under crevices of rocks. They
are found in all tropical regions, but there are very few on the Ameri-
can coasts. The difference in this respect between the Pacific shores
of America and the Pacific Islands, is very remarkable. On the east
coast of South America no species has yet been found.

The Cowries form no inconsiderable an item in trade; the larger
species being brought to port in great numbers, for sale as ornaments;
while one of the smaller species, Cyprceea moneta, is collected (as gold)
for money. It passes current in Africa, as the medium of exchange.
Many tons are annually brought over from the Hast Indies and the
Pacific Islands, to transport again to the negroes of the Senegambian
region. In 1848, sixty tons were brought into Liverpool alone.
Cowries were found by Dr. Layard in the ruins of Nimroud. The
typical species have a singular excavation near the notch under the
pillar hp.

In the pear-shaped Cowries, Luponia, this part is irregularly plaited.
In Aricia, the base is flattened by thick masses of shell, which project
over the sides.

In the Trivia group, the foot is short in front, but greatly length-
ened behind: the breathing canal is long also. The shell is ribbed or
covered with pustules ; the ribs are carried round the lips, instead of
separate teeth ; and the pillar is scarcely excavated. All the very
small Cowries belong to this group. Cypreovula is intermediate in
form between this and the next family; while Erato has a shell
shaped like Marginella, with minutely crenulated lps and polished
back. The Cowries first appear in the later cretaceous beds, and are
now at the maximum of development.

Family Ovuttpm. (Egg and Shuttle Shells.)

As far as the shells are concerned, the Ovula may be described as
unpainted Cowries without teeth on the pillar hp. The animal also
is sufficiently like the Cowry, in general appearance. The teeth how-
ever in the only species examined (Ovulum ovum) are so unlike that or
any other known type, that their habits have probably some great
peculiarity to correspond. On each side of the short central tooth, is
a tall hooked lateral with jagged edges; and on each side of that, a
very large fan-shaped tooth, bordered by a deeply-cut, curly fringe.
In Ovulum, the outer lip is turned in and toothed: in Calpurnus, the
shell is hunch-backed, with a curious wart at each end. In Carinea
there is a ridge across the back, and the lip is not toothed.

But the most singular shell belonging to this group is the Weaver's
Shuttle, (Radius volva,) in which each end of the lip is produced into
a very slender canal, longer than the body of the shell itself. The
196 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

creature folds its foot round the Gorgonias on which it lives, carrying
its shuttle gracefully over its head, the edges of the lp and canal being
elegantly adorned with tufts. In other species the canals become
shorter and shorter till they are only a prolonged notch. The smaller
forms are colored differently, in the same species, according to the
coral on which they feed. In Simnia, the outer lip is quite sharp,
and the animal has a long foot and breathing pipe, as in 7rivia. None
of the Cowry or Shuttle tribe have any operculum.

Sus-orpeR ROSTRIFERA. (Muzzle Bearers.)

The remainder of the Comb-gilled Crawlers have a longer or shorter
snout which is not retractile, and is technically called a rostrum. In
the Strombs and their allies, the snout is very long, and the teeth are
adapted for tearing carrion, on which they live; but in most of the
families, they browseupon the herbage. The proboscis-bearing shells
are all from the seas or estuaries; but the vegetarian tribes are also
found in fresh waters or on land. In the latter case, the gill cavity is
changed into a lung. The teeth of the Rostrifers are always in seven
series, 3°1°3: but in the first group the lateral teeth are claw shaped,
as in Cassis and Natica: while in the Periwinkle group they simply
have serrated edges, adapted for rasping plants. The Rostrifers are
arranged by Dr. Gray according (1) to the shape of the foot, (2) to the
position of the eyes, and (3) the shape of the gills. The dentition has
not been regarded by him of primary importance, as in the trunk-
bearers. It is impossible to group them in a straight line so as to
show all their known affinities ; a few families, as the Strombs, Worm-
shells and Apple-snails, appearing to disturb every natural order of
succession.

First Group. Teeth arranged as for animal food.

Family Strompipm. (Wing Shells.)

The Strombs and their allies are very strange creatures. They are
rather leapers than crawlers, and jump about. the shore, using their
foot as a leaping pole, searching for dead fish and other refuse, of
which they are “the useful scavengers. The shape of their body is
altered to suit their change of habits. As they stretch themselves out
of the shell, the body seems made up of scraggy limbs, like a dead tree
partially deprived of its branches. The foot, which is a stout, muscu-
lar lever, is the trunk of the tree: from this branches off the head, if
indeed you can say that there is any distinct head or neck ; for it con-
sists, first of a stout truncated branch, which is the long muzzle with
the mouth at the end; next of two smaller branches, also truncated at
the end; these appear to be tentacles, but are really stout pillars for
the eyes to rest in; lastly, of the true tentacles, which are little pointed
twigs growing out of the eye-stalks. The second great branch is an
arm going off at right angles to carry the operculum, This is long,
claw- -shaped, and toothed at the edge, only attached to the animal by
LECTURES ON MOLLUSGA. 197

asmall scar. It serves therefore as a shield when the animal is in
motion, as well as a door when it is at rest.

The eyes in the Strombs are remarkably well formed, being (like
those of the Cephalopods) more highly organized than in many fishes,
They have a distinct crystalline lens, with an iris differently colored
in different species.

The shell also is very peculiar. When young, it resembles a cone,
with the spire more or less elevated, and a very thin lip. But as it
approaches maturity, it spreads out a great wing, which is gradually
-thickened with layer upon layer from the mantle, till the shell is very
strong and heavy, and able to tumble over without injury, as the ani-
mal scrambles on the rocky shore. The pillar has a twisted canal for
the breathing pipe; and near it is a very deep notch in the outer lip,
where the animal can save his head from a blow as the shell falls over.
The wing is further notched at the suture.

The Strombus gigas, or ‘‘ Fountain-shell’’ of the West Indies, fills
up the earlier whirls with solid matter, and sometimes weighs five
pounds. It is a favorite ornament in consequence of the delicate pink
color of the mouth ; and is used for cameo-cutting like the Helmets.
It is alas! ground to powder wholesale, for the manufacture of the
finer kinds of porcelain; three hundred thousand having been imported
into Liverpool in one year, from the Bahama islands.

The Scorpion-shells (Pteroceras) are like the Strombs when young:
but when mature, they develop six or more long claws, variously
twisted. In Lostellaria, the head-notch is close to the breathing canal,
and the spire is long. Anexcurrent canal generally ascends the spire,
and is sometimes long enough to twist over at the apex and come
down on the other side. In the aberrant group Zerebellum, of which
only one species is now living, the shell is glossy, sharply truncated
at the base, without canal or notch, and with a sharp outer lip. The
operculum is very singular, having the appearance of a bird’s foot
with claws. Thecreature, when taken from the water, will leap sev-
eral inches. In one of the Eocene species, the spire is rolled in and
hidden; in another, a canal ascends the spire as in the Spindle-
Strombs.

The fossil forms belonging either to this group or to Aporrhais
appear first in the Oolites. Nature might seem to have amused her-
self in the strange and varied shapes which many of them assume,
especially in the Spindle and Scorpion tribes. The trueStrombs how-
ever barely appear in the tertiary age; at present they culminate,
while the other forms are dying out.

Family Puoripm. (Carrier Top Shells.)

Very different in the form of shell, but agreeing in the peculiar
shape of the animal, are the Carrier Shells. They live on banks of
stones and dead shells, chiefly in the East Indies, over which they
scramble, stretching out their foot-pole, with the opercular arm and
the long muzzle, like the Strombs. Their eyes however are very inte-
rior, and are placed at the bottom of slender tentacles. They have no
breathing tube, the shell being top-shaped. Contrary to the habit of
198 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

the Strombs, they all make their shells with a wide rim; but they
have the propensity to stick pieces of stone and broken shell to their
backs, so as often to hide what they have made themselves. By this
means they probably escape detection. In Phorus, the pillar is solid,
and the operculum thin, concentric, with the nucleus at the side. In
Onustus, the pillar is open, and the layers of the triangular operculum
are piled one upon another.

Family Aporryaip®. (Spout Shells.)

These creatures may be regarded as Spindle-strombs, passing back
to the ordinary type, with the common eyes and crawling foot. The
wing of the shell is always enormously dilated, and often clawed ; but
no mark has yet been found out by which the numerous fossils of the
secondary rocks can be referred to one or to the other group. The two
British species, A. pes-pelicant and A. pes-carbonis have, as their name
implies, very wide claws. The New England species has a broad palm
without fingers. The breathing canal in all the members of this family
is simply a fold in the mantle entirely covered by the shell. The
operculum is like that of the Whelks, but the animal is widely different.
The Struthiolarie have a simple varix instead of a wide ip. They are
peculiar to the Australian seas. <A very curious shell, Halia, like a
marine Achatina, has been referred to this group; as also has Tricho-
tropis; but we must wait for a knowledge of their anatomy.

Family PEDICULARIADZ.

The Pedicularia is a curious little shell, living as a parasite on coral
in the Mediterranean. When young it is spiral, when adult flat and
open lke Concholepas. The most singular point about it is the den-
tition, which is like that of Strombus and Aporrhais exaggerated. The
outside teeth are produced into enormous claws, like the fingers of a
bat’s wing folded together. In this respect it resembles Carinaria.
This and the following families are of sedentary habits, either crawling
about in crypts and chinks, or remaining absolutely fixed for life.
They are very degraded animals, as compared with the noble Strombs;
yet their dentition is more allied to them than to the Periwinkles.
The fixed shells must of course live on what the water vouchsafes to
bring them; why therefore their tongues should be armed with weapons
of war it is difficult to say, as the bivalves, which live in the same
way, are entirely destitute of them. How much our ignorance is
revealed to us by the little knowledge which we possess !

Family CALypTRAIDA.

The Shpper-limpets and their allies have the gills in long, slender
plates, forming an oblique line across the cavity. They may be de-
scribed as Carrier Shells, which have become tired of a jumping life,
and have gone into retirement. In shape of shell, Zrochita has avery
close resemblance to Phorus. But instead of a leaping foot, retractile
into the shell, and closed with operculum, its foot occupies the base of
the ‘‘top;’’ and the operculum is the rock or shell to which it adheres.
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 199

In Galerus, we have simply a spiral plate running round inside a
conical shell. In the ‘‘cup and saucer limpets,’’ (Crucibulum,) the
conical shell has a cup-like process within, more or less attached to the
side of the saucer. In Crepidula, the cone is flattened into a boat, and
the cup into a deck, producing the ‘‘Slipper-limpet.’’ In all these
forms, which (though differing in the types) are closely connected by
intermediate shapes, the animal presents the same appearance. There
is a small flat foot, and a little head, with eyes on slender tentacles,
and a short muzzle with lips. The mantle scarcely extends to the
edge of the shell. The tongue is armed with teeth, as ferocious as
those of Natica and Cassis, and yet they seldom walk about, adapting
themselves to the shape of the object to which they adhere, and growing
very finely under circumstances in which locomotion is impossible.
Indeed, in the genus Calyptrea, in which the ‘‘cup”’ is cut across,
the animal exudes a shelly support from its foot, by which it is abso-
lutely cemented to the rock. The remarkable changes of form which
these creatures assume according to the circumstances of their growth,
were detailed in the Smithsonian report for 1859, pp. 197-205. In
their early stage however they are very similar; having a regular, spiral,
globular shell, from the pillar of which the deck or cup is afterwards
developed.

Family Carutipz. (Bonnet Limpets.)

The animals in this family closely resemble the Slipper-limpets, but
the adductor muscle is not fixed to any shelly support in the form of
cup or deck. The shell is simply an irregular cone, twisted more or
less into a spiral at the apex. Some of the living species of Capulus
greatly resemble the Velutinas in form; but they are heavier shells.
The Amaltheea eats a deep hole into the shells on which it rests, with
a horseshoe ridge in the centre. Hipponyx deposits so thick a shelly
layer under its foot (like Calyptrea) that the fossil species were long
thought to be bivalve shells. The horseshoe muscular scar, formed
by the attachment of the adductor, is very conspicuous in this family.

-It equally exists however in the spiral shells.

Even in the Paleozoic rocks appear forms which cannot be dis-
tinguished from the members of this family. They have been described
as Metoptoma, Platyceras, Acroculia, &c.

Family Naricipm,

The Navice are a group of shells, looking like cancellated Natica, but
made by a very differentanimal. They are, as it were, Bonnet-limpets.
rolled into a true spiral shell. Their habits are sluggish, but they move.
about somewhat, and are provided with a very thin, sub-spiral oper-
culum. As in the last families, the creatures are ovoviviparous,
keeping their eggs under a fold in the mantle till they are ready to
hatch. The shells were first called Vanicoro by the French naturalists,
but it is scarcely fair to call a race of creatures by the proper name of
aplace. It is probable that the curious shells called Neritopsis, with a
scooped out pillar lip, belong to this family. Only one species is now
living, but many are found fossil in the newer rocks, Without a
200 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

knowledge of the animal, however, it is impossible to say whether its
relationships are not rather with Nervita, or even with Natica. The
teeth in this family are not properly known.

Family AMPULLARIADA. (Apple-Snails.)

The Apple-Snails form a very natural and peculiar group, standing
by themselves, and only presenting an external similarity to the other
fresh-water shells with which they are generally associated. They
inhabit the marshes of the tropical regions, both in the Old World and
the New, and are particularly fine and plentiful in Africa and South
America. They have a large globular shell, in some fossil species so
like Natica that it is hard to distinguish them. In general the shell
is thin, with a strong glossy skin and a horny operculum of concentric
elements. Although there is no notch in the shell, the creature has
almost always a long breathing pipe, like that of the Whelks; but
with this difference, that it is shit along the upper not the under side.

The Apple-snails are truly amphibious, having, as it were, a gill in
the corner of a lung. This arrangement is necessary to enable them
to survive the long summer droughts, when they bury themselves deep
in the mud and wait for better times. They have been known to live
many years out ot the water. Their eyes are of respectable dimen-
sions, planted on little pillars like the Strombs, with a pair of very
long. slender tentacles in front. There appears to be a second pair of
shorter tentacles in front of these, but they are really the two halves
of the muzzle which is split and lengthened out. The teeth are formed
on the tearing type of Natica, &c. The creatures are eaten in vast
numbers by marsh birds, who, if they cannot get at their prey through
the operculum, carry them up to the branch of a tree and break the
shell by the fall.

In the true Ampullarias, which are peculiar to tropical America,
and are called ‘‘Idol-shells’’ by the Indians, the pipe is long and the
operculum horny. The group Pomella have thick, heavy shells, with
very wide mouth. In Marisa, which is found in the Kast Indies as
well as in America, the shell is flattened down till it resembles a Pla-
norbis. Lanistes, from the African rivers, has a flattened, reversed
shell. In Meladomus, also an African form, the spire is turreted,
looking like a reversed Paludina. In Pachystoma, which includes
most of the old-world Apple-snails, the breathing pipe is short, and
there is a thickened ledge round the mouth, to support a somewhat
shelly operculum. In Asolene, which frequents the marshes of the
La Plata, there is no breathing pipe visible. The estuary species are
often found mixed with marine shells, both on existing shores and in
the tertiary beds.

Second Group. Teeth arranged as for vegetable food.

Among the land snails, there are some very beautiful tribes, almost
confined to the tropics and the warmer temperate regions, which can-
not be properly reckoned with the true pulmonate Gasteropods. In-
stead of a real lung, they have (so to speak) a gill-cavity formed for
air-breathing, left open by the mantle which is free from the nape of
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 201

the neck. Any one who will compare a living Cyclostoma with a
Snail or a Periwinkle, (or their pictures,) will observe how unlike the
general shape of the body is to its air-breathing ally, and how similar
it is to the Sea-snail. The general resemblance is fully borne out by
the details. The Cyclostoma has the eyes at the base of the tentacles,
a long snout, a spiral operculum, and teeth arranged in seven series,
3:1°3, after the rasping fashion of the true herbivorous Rostrifers.
Moreover, the sexes are distinct, exhibiting a far higher type of
structure than in the hermaphrodite snails.

The Cyclostoma family are known, among land shells, by their
graceful shape, varying however from that of a Planorbis to a Turri-
tella, the whirls often scarcely touching, and ending in a round mouth.
They are very numerous, both in sectional forms and in species. Dr.
Gray divides them into thirty genera, principally on differences in the
form of the operculum and mouth. The following are the principal
groups.

Cyclostoma proper has a shelly, ovate operculum, of few whirls as
in Litorina. Tropidophora has the whirls somewhat flattened and
keeled. Otopoma has a ear-shaped excrescence partially covering the
umbilicus. In Zudora (a West Indian group) the mouth is pinched
at the top. Chondropoma has the operculum nearly horny. Choano-
poma is a singularly beautiful group, abounding in Jamaica, with a
spreading, generally frilled, lip, and a raised operculum. Jealia is a
small Zztorina-shaped group from the islands of the Old World and
the Pacific, with thin horny operculum; and Bouwrciera is a singular
shell from Ecuador, shaped like Helicina. In this group the sole of the
foot is grooved, and the animal progresses on each side alternately.

In the Cyclophorus group, the shell is depressed, the epidermis
thick, and the operculum horny and many whirled. The tentacles
are long and pointed, and the foot broad, without groove. In Aulo-
poma, the operculum has a grooved border, fitting over the lip of the
shell. Leptopoma has the lip not complete, as in the snails. Diplom-
matina 1s pupifornm’; and Alyceeus has the last whirl curiously dis-
torted. So the fossil form Lerrussina has the mouth leaving the reg-
ular spiral, and turning upside down.

In Craspedopoma, the operculum has two rims, one of which fits
within, the other outside the contracted mouth. Cyclotus has a flat-
tened shell ; and the operculum has a shelly layer outside the horny
one. In Pterocyclus, the operculum is turretted, as in Torinia; and the
lip is produced into a roof-shaped beak at the suture. The form is
found in the Hast Indian Archipelago; as also Opisthoporus, in which
a little tube comes out behind, as in Typhis. Megaloma has a cylin-
drical shell and horny operculum; and Cataulus has the base keeled
round the pillar, with a horny, many-whirled operculum, which can
be drawn down out like a cork-screw.

The Pupine are a group of beautiful little glossy shells from the
East Indian Archipelago. The lip is notched, in front and at the
suture; and the operculum is thin, horny, and many-whirled. In
Pupineila, there is a rudimentary canal, twisted back. Rhegostoma
has the axis bent, as in Streptaxis; and in Callia there is a shining
deposit over the spire, as in the Marginelle.
202 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

Family Heviciniw.

This group consists of very pretty compact little shells, which most
abound in tropical America, but are also found in the Pacific and East
Indian islands. They have half-oval mouths, with an operculum of
concentric elements. The teeth are 3°1°3, asin Litorina. Theani-
mal has a propensity to eat away the inner layers of its shell, like
Nerita. Helicina has a plain mouth, with a lump on the pillar lip.
In the West Indian group Alcadia, there is a slit on the basal lip,
and the shelly operculum has a projecting tooth, to correspond with
it. In Zrochatella, the shell is top-shaped, and there is no lump on
the pillar. In Lucidella, the lip is distorted with teeth. Stoastoma
has a twisted notch, reflected as in Pupinella.

Family Actcutip a.

A family of very small, turreted shells connects the land with the
sea Periwinkles. They have the eyes on the back of the head, behind
the Periwinkles, and a very thin operculum, with few whirls. Acicula

has the outer lip of the shell plain; in Geomelania it is produced into
a tongue.

Family TRuNcATELLIDE. (Looping Snails.)

These little creatures have a very short, round foot, and a muzzle
prolonged into two lappets. They loop on these, like the geometric
caterpillers. 'They have highly organized eyes, behind the tentacles.
A peculiarity in Zruncatella is that on reaching maturity it drops off
its long, slender spire, fastening up the broken part. A little Rissoid
shell, called Tonichia, is said to have similar peculiarities.

Lamily JuFEREYSIAD.

Among the vast group of tiny shore shells commonly called Rissoa,
Mr. Alder found some, small among the small, who never draw their
eyes outside their houses. They are placed far back behind the tenta-
cles, and look through the transparent shells, which float among
seaweeds in rocky pools. In Jeffreysia, the muzzle is cleft into false
tentacles, as in Ampullaria. In Hyala, it is plain, and the creature
has relations with Pyramidellids. ‘Che operculum in Jeffreysia is of
concentric elements, with a bolt standing from it inside at right
angles.

Family Rissorp&.

Almost on every coast where there are any stones for sea-weed to
grow from, there will be found, living among the alge, or dead in
multitudes among the sand, a great many species of shells like very
tiny Periwinkles, but much prettier in their shape, sculpture, and
coloring. They generally have a short, slightly cleft muzzle, joined
on to the front of the foot, which is pointed behind. There is a curi-
ous little tail under the operculum. The lateral teeth are more claw-
LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA. 203

shaped than is usual in the rasping tribes, and furnished with very
minute serrations.

Already several differences have been pointed out among the animals
of this tribe, which may or may not be confirmed. Some of the groups
may hereafter be removed to other families. The principal genera are
as follows: The true Fissow are somewhat pupiform in shape, with a
thickened lip, slightly pinched at the pillar, and a thin, slightly-
spiral operculum. In Cingula, the mouth is sharp and melanoid,
with flattened whirls. Alvania has the whirls round and is generally
sculptured ; the mouth also is round, with thickened lip. In Mis-
soina, which pretty much takes the place of /?issoa in tropical climates,
the shell is generally ridged, and the mouth thickened, produced in
front, with a strong pinch at the pillar: the operculum has a tooth at
the side, as in Nerita. Barleia has the shape of Rissoa, with an
annular operculum armed with an internal stump. Skeneq is flat like
a Planorbis, with a round mouth and many-whirled operculum. Some
forms go to the opposite extreme, and are shaped like Twrritella. They
have been supposed till lately to belong to Aclis. The shells of this
group may always be known from the Pyramidellids by the point of
the spire being regular, not reversed. The Hydrobias live in brackish
water, in immense multitudes. The Nematuras, which float under
dead leaves in the rivers of the East, are like Hydrobia with a curi-
ously contracted aperture. The relations of Amnicola have not yet
been clearly_made out, though the creatures swarm in the fresh waters
of North America. In shape they are intermediate between Bithinia
and Valvata; but are known from both by the operculum, which is
spiral, with few whirls.

Family Lirtorripz. (Periwinkles.)

The Periwinkles are formed for sea-shore life, and are destined to
scrape off and consume the various kinds of marine vegetation. They
abound everywhere except on sandy beaches, and each species has its
appropriate level in relation to the tide. Some are found at extreme
low water; some at the ordinary high tide; some where only the
spring tides reach them; and a few where they are never covered with
water except in storms. Some crawl up the mangroves on the shore,
and some have been found walking on trees half a mile from the sea.
The ordinary Periwinkles have one very large gill in numerous plates
lying across the inner surface of the mantle. They have horny jaws,
and a thin spiral operculum, generally of few whirls. In shape some
of the shells resemble Yurbos, and some Trochuses: but they may
always be distinguished by their want of pearly lustre. The Litorina
litoria is a favorite article of food with poor people in English cities ;
but the Z. rudis, which inhabits a higher zone and brings forth its
young with a hard formed shell, is left to enjoy its native rocks. The
tongue is two inches long; and the creature walks first on one side
of the foot, then on the other. There isa fold in the mantle pre-
senting an approach to the breathing pipe of the Whelks. There are
some river species, of Naticoid shape, which live on stones below water
in the Danube and La Plata. They are called Lithoglyphus. The
204 LECTURES ON MOLLUSCA.

Australian Periwinkles are top-shaped and ash-colored: they were
first named /isella. Some species, living in marshes of brackish
water both in England and the East Indies, “instead of having the eyes
on the base of the tentacles, as in all others of the tribe, have them
on the tips; or rather perhaps on eye stalks joined to the tentacles.
They are called Assiminea. In Tectarius, the shell is top-shaped,
strong, and rudely knobbed outside. Hchinella is intermediate between
this form and the true Periwinkles; with knobbed exterior, often a
lump on the pillar, and a many-whirled operculum. Modulus has
also a many- -whirled operculum: it is flatly top-shaped, with a deeply-
cut tooth at the pillar. ossarus differs from the Periwinkles in hav-
ing little frontal lobes between the tentacles. The habits of the ani-
mal, as well as the shell, greatly resemble Narica, A few species
from the west coast of America have a lump on the pillar, and are
called Isapis. Shells closely allied to Periwinkles have been found in
the Oolitic rocks. In the newer tertiaries, the present species are
found, even with color bands; and with shells curiously distorted (as
now in the Baltic) from the too lar ge admixture of fresh water.

Family Lacunipa.

This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no iaws. Tr Grav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Gdrav even assions ta them a.
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,
(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in

the nillar.) in eae no jaws. Te Grav even agssions tn them a
This little tribe of northern shells differs from the Periwinkles,

(which the shells greatly resemble, except that they have a chink in
yee raetng Gh ah rk Sou, SaGN Ps ene tet taal AED SNe este eee
